EUROPEAN BODY for NATIONAL VALUE
for ECONOMIC IMPACT
for SOCIAL JUSTICE
You can... Bring the Change
EUROPEAN... your SOLUTION
our proposal
With the EUROPEAN SOLUTION OF CYPRUS we demand that the rights and freedoms that all EU citizens have in their home countries be applied throughout Cyprus.
With the EUROPEAN SOLUTION we will achieve that every Cypriot will be able to move, reside, work and own property freely throughout the territory of Cyprus, as he/she can do today throughout the EU.
With the EUROPEAN SOLUTION we will create a free homeland
without dividing zones, racist discrimination, occupation troops and settlers.
In order to achieve the EUROPEAN SOLUTION, we must, alongside the UN, make use of the institutions and bodies of the EU and the new geo-strategic and energy data in our region.
With the Proposal for a New Strategy submitted by the EUROPEAN GROUP to the NATIONAL COUNCIL, we propose actions and actions to be taken in parallel with the negotiations in order to create political costs for Turkey in order to force it to abandon its intransigence on the Cyprus problem.
In the second half of 2012 Cyprus will hold the presidency of the EU, it will be a paradox that Turkey, which wants to join the Union, will continue not to recognise the presiding Republic of Cyprus.
the truth
The NATIONAL COUNCIL on 18 September 2009 agreed on the Fundamental Principles for the Cyprus problem, which are contained in our proposal for a EUROPEAN SOLUTION.
Those who claim that the EUROPEAN SOLUTION is just a slogan are LYING, because its content was VOTED in the NATIONAL COUNCIL.
PRINCIPLES OF THE EUROPEAN SOLUTION DECISION OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL 18/9/2009
Dissolving European Principles and Values: The solution must be consistent with international law, European principles and values, Community law, and international human rights conventions
Withdrawal of troops and settlers: the solution must provide for the withdrawal of Turkish occupation troops and settlers
Restoration of freedoms and rights: the restoration of basic freedoms and human rights of all Cypriots, including the right of refugees to return to their homes and property, is an essential precondition for the solution
E Respect for and restoration of the four freedoms must be enshrined.
Permanent derogations from the European Acquis are ruled out.The danger
Today in the negotiations there is a risk of a TRICKLAND CONFEDERATION with the settlers.
The next catastrophic development for our country and our people is for Turkey to accept the "GIFTED" CHRISTOPHIES and the PROPOSALS OF ANASTASIADIAS.
change now
On 22 May we must all together give a resounding message of REVERSE to the old parties of polarization.
With your vote, demand with us CHANGE NOW.
For more than three decades, the effort to solve the Cyprus problem was based on the Bi-zonal Bicommunal Federation and the only result it brought was the Annan Plan, which the Cypriot people REJECTED.
Demetris Christofias' new attempt for a TIRF brought more concessions, deadlocks and risks. This failed course must not be continued for another year.
Demand with us CHANGE NOW.
On May 22, he voted for the EUROPEAN GROUP to continue to have a strong political voice in Cyprus.
This is the only way we can send a clear message to the home and abroad that our militancy, our assertiveness and our dignity have not been bent.
This is the only way we can claim together the development of a new strategy on the Cyprus problem, which takes advantage of equal participation in the EU and the new geostrategic and energy data in our region.
Only in this way we will demand together that in a few months' time Cyprus' EU Presidency will be used and that the European acquis and the EU's security mechanisms will be used to force Ankara to accept a EUROPEAN SOLUTION of the Cyprus problem.
Economy. your DEVELOPMENT
our proposal
Growth, prosperity, employment are the pillars of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC BODY's proposal for the Economy to bring back the economic power and the quality of life of all citizens of our Homeland.
EUROPEAN COMMITTEE actively supports with realistic proposals that only development actions will bring the Cypriot economy out of stagnation.
Major development projects, the
strengthening of small and medium-sized enterprises, the
fall in interest rates,
the reduction of government spending, the
reform of the state,
Public-private partnership,
extroversion with actions abroad
will help the Cypriot economy to recover and generate jobs
and profits for small and medium-sized enterprises,
incomes for workers
and revenues for the state.
our recommendations
Interest rates can be reduced to 3% by using part of the Social Security Fund. This will provide citizens and SMEs with low-interest loans for first homes, for women's and youth entrepreneurship and for new forms of development.
Refugees and the construction sector can be supported by transferring development rights from the occupied to the free areas in the form of a Building Factor.
Attracting investment through extroversion,
planned actions abroad
and cutting red tape.
Cyprus' energy potential makes it a centre in the region.
Exploiting the deposits in the EEZ with Israel will strengthen us economically and politically.
Reducing the operating costs of the state by reforming the public sector.
The unemployed can be professionally rehabilitated in jobs that can be created through the development of new forms of business activity, especially in the energy, health, tourism and environment sectors.
Modernising the tourism product by withdrawing beds, reducing airport charges and developing alternative tourism such as medical and sports tourism.
the risk
The serious problems of the Cypriot economy cannot be solved either by the State-Business mentality of the rulers or by the
theories of an unfettered FREE MARKET.
DEPRESSION threatens the economy. The ongoing downgrades by international agencies, the restriction of state development spending, the inability to collect the 1 billion euros owed to the state by tax evaders increase the risk of bankruptcy.
UNEMPLOYMENT and UNEMPLOYMENT are destroying the Small and Medium Class.
The government's inaction and timidity have resulted in:Unemployment reaching 30,000,1 in 5 postgraduates not returning to Cyprus,Inflation has more than doubled to close to 4%,The purchasing power of citizens has been dangerously reduced, Household over-borrowing and accuracy are squeezing family budgets.
The government's NUMBERS prosper but the citizens suffer.
Public debt will rise from 58.0% of GDP in 2009 to over 62% in 2011. Public debt today, including interest, is the black hole of the economy.
Despite the Government's assurances of a recovery of the Cypriot economy, citizens continue to suffer.
change now
On 22 May we must all together give a resounding message of REVERSE to the old parties of polarization.
With your vote, demand with us CHANGE NOW.
He voted for the EUROPEAN COMMITTEE to continue to have a strong political voice in the economy.
Only in this way can we send a clear message that we will no longer tolerate the deterioration of our economy
and the impoverishment of the vulnerable groups in our society.
Only in this way can we together claim the growth that will create new jobs to reduce unemployment
and save the middle class.
Only in this way will we demand together that accuracy be hit,
high interest rates be frozen, the
state be cleaned up
and the citizen be protected.
Only in this way can we hope to develop new ideas,
new entrepreneurial, viable sectors,
with an economy less dependent on imports,
with a more productive economy.
Only in this way can we bring back economic strength and quality of life for all citizens of the Republic of Cyprus.
TRANSIT... your PATRIDGE
the situation
The government's immigration policy contains gaps, mistakes, omissions and anchors, which has turned Cyprus into a closed vineyard and a magnet for illegal immigrants.
Today in our country foreigners from third countries and EU countries amount to 26.14% of the population and 36% of the workforce.
our recommendations
Strict examination of applications for political asylum and subsidiary protection.
A radical overhaul of the benefit policy for asylum seekers and political refugees.
Strict implementation of the strategy for the employment of third-country nationals.
Securing jobs for Cypriots.
Control the terms and conditions of employment of Community workers to avoid unfair competition.
Combating slave trade and prostitution.
Learning Greek by foreigners.
Upgrading of admission checkpoints.
Increased penalties for those who employ or smuggle or traffic illegal immigrants.
Avoiding mass regularisations of migrants.
Conduct a demographic change study.
Repatriation of rejected asylum seekers and all illegal immigrants.
the risk
There is now a real danger of disturbing the social peace and cohesion of our country and the problem of demographic change of the elderly population is visible, resulting in us becoming a minority in our own country.
The limits of our endurance and infrastructure have already been dangerously exceeded. The uncontrolled influx of foreigners has had a devastating impact on the political, social and economic life of our country.
It has sharply increased the insecurity and discontent of our compatriots, regardless of their party or ideological-political background.
change now
On 22 May we must all together give a resounding message of REVERSE. With your vote, demand with us CHANGE NOW.
Vote EUROPEAN COMMITTEE to continue to have a strong political voice on immigration control.
This is the only way we can send a strong and clear message that we will not tolerate that they continue to turn our country into an open vineyard for migrants.
Only in this way can we defend together our right to be masters in our country.
Only in this way can we prevent together the danger of becoming a minority in our own country.
TRANSFORMATION... your life
our proposal
Reform, transparency and meritocracy are the pillars of the EUROPEAN GROUP's proposal in order to eliminate the partisanship, bureaucracy, corruption and interconnection that plague our country.
The EUROPEAN BODY aims to modernize our country, so that the Republic of Cyprus becomes a MODERN, MODEL, EUROPEAN STATE.
our recommendations
1.   Reforming the state apparatus to make it flexible, less costly, efficient and effective.
2.  Transferring resources and executive powers to the municipalities and communities so that the administration is closer to the citizen.
3.  Abolish partisanship in the NPS and the NPS to restore meritocracy in recruitment, promotions and transfers.
4.  Development of e-Government and e-Administration systems, using information technology.
5.  Freeing the public sector from partisan dependencies so that it is neutral and impartial.
6.  Transparency, good administration and control everywhere with the imposition of sanctions.
the risk
The progress and development of our country is hindered by a wasteful state that is inadequate, characterised by partisanship, inefficiency and inefficiency.
In this atmosphere of tolerance and indifference, Cypriot society is in danger of being trapped in the tentacles of the current decline.
So we will all suffer from the continuing crisis of values,
lack of quality and low efficiency, unable to meet the challenges, demands and opportunities of the times.
change now
On 22 May we must all together give a resounding message of REVOLUTION to the old parties of decadence. With your vote demand with us CHANGE NOW.
He voted for the EUROPEAN COMMITTEE to continue to have a strong political voice for reform, meritocracy and transparency.
Only in this way can we send a clear message together that we will no longer tolerate the recycling of corruption, the serving of the bureaucracy and the rewarding of unworthiness.
Only in this way can we together demand state reform,
meritocracy and transparency everywhere.
We claim our own future... in a European Homeland
education and culture
The attempted educational reform distorts the Greek-centric character of education and aims at a Cypriot education as President Christofias admitted.
Our EDUCATION must remain people-centred and Greek-centred. Committed to the Greek language, history, culture, tradition, people, equality, justice, democracy and freedom.
Learning should promote initiative, breadth of knowledge and cultivate skills, competences, values and civic virtues.
The modernisation of our education is necessary. The autonomy of school units, the restructuring of the School Boards, the abolition of partisanship in the School Board, the training of teachers, the creation of appropriate infrastructure, the use of technology, the modernization of the list of appointees, meritocracy in appointments, transfers and promotions are necessary elements for a modern education.
Our CULTURE is our roots. We consider it necessary to create a "Unified Body for Cultural Development"that will undertake to support, strengthen and promote Cypriot artistic and intellectual creation at all levels,
to embalm education with culture
and to contribute as a conduit for the spread of cultural creation at all levels of society.
health and welfare
HEALTH, CARE and WELFARE are social goods to which every citizen is entitled.
The existing health and welfare system is outdated with problematic structures and organisation.
Cyprus is the only one in the EU without a Unified Health System.
Despite all the problems, Cyprus has prospects. The excellent medical potential and modern medical facilities that our country has can make Cyprus a regional medical centre of high quality. For this to happen, the reorganisation of the Ministry of Health and the integration of the General Health System are essential first and foremost.
State-run hospitals need to be relieved of primary care that may go to the private sector and become self-sufficient to develop tertiary care medical services that will attract patients from abroad.
In our country, Welfare benefits do not ensure a decent living for citizens who are lagging behind.
The unhindered and equal participation of these people in both social life and the labour market is necessary.
The state must stop treating large families, refugees, pensioners, people with special needs, single parents and those with needs as beggars and help them effectively.
We claim our own vision... for the Cyprus of the 21st century
woman and parity
The Cypriot woman is the hidden force of development of the country.
Today, however, it feels unprotected against the challenges of the new era and claims its equal status.
She lives inequality in her daily life, she works two 8-hour days (work, home) for low wages and her participation in public or political life is a luxury.
Equality at work and equal pay are necessary to establish gender equality in our country.
Boosting female entrepreneurship will help the economy.
Making it easier for working mothers to have access and time for their children will help productivity.
Protecting women from social exclusion, violence and sexual exploitation is an obligation of any state that wants to be called socially just.
The extension of the age limit (beyond 40) for women eligible for free IVF medication will help to increase the number of births in our country.
Greater support for women raising their own families will reduce inequalities.
Relieving a divorced woman of legal or financial obligations created by her ex-husband will redress a gross injustice.
Recognition of refugee status for matrilineal migrants will restore a long-standing distinction.
youth and the future
The young people of Cyprus are the power to implement the reforms and visions of our society. Their passion for life, their thirst for renewal, freedom, justice and solidarity can guide our society in an attitude of militant resistance against decadence.
The young people of Cyprus today face the harsh reality of unemployment, inequalities, delinquency and drugs.
To give hope and perspective to our youth, we must use our economy, education and culture to reshape the environment that creates insecurity and aversion among young people and pushes them into delinquent behaviour.
The modernisation of education will reduce competition and tutorials.
It will create free time for children.
The introduction of innovations in student life such as all-day school, experiential education and technology will develop sociability in learning communities.
Ensuring that the National Guardsmen, through the "Open University", can take courses from their studies during their service will be beneficial.
Boosting youth entrepreneurship,
tackling bureaucracy and distrust,
creating jobs
will lift young people out of underemployment, unemployment and underemployment.
21 strategy proposals for the reform and development of Cyprus in the 21st century
Reform of the State
To build a functional, flexible, less costly, fair, just, impartial, honest, and effective European state.
Modernisation of Society
To restore citizens' trust in institutions and politics and to put an end to the phenomena of social tolerance, detachment and apathy.
Supporting the real economy
The major development projects,
public-private partnership,
strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises,
lowering interest rates and encouraging domestic investment will boost the real economy in our country.
Decentralisation - Subsidiarity
To decentralise our dysfunctional state, implementing the EU's goal of subsidiarity and decision-making close to citizens, to transfer further resources and responsibilities to local government.
Development of e-Administration
To reduce the suffering of citizens
and reduce corruption and opacity in the public sector.
Strengthening the Construction Sector
The revival of construction can be achieved by transferring the Building Tax from the occupied territories, by reducing the scales of transfer fees and by reducing the capital gains tax for properties purchased before 1990.
Strengthening entrepreneurship
To tackle rising unemployment, the Women and Youth Entrepreneurship Programmes need to be strengthened and expanded.
Support for the Rural Sector
To reduce urbanisation and create incentives for people to return to rural communities, agri-tourism and alternative crops need to be strengthened.
Food and Environment Agency
To improve the quality of life and health of citizens, a Single Body should be created to oversee the Food and Environment sectors.
Autonomous Energy Entity
To exploit the new energy data in the region and to develop a comprehensive Strategic Energy Plan that will exploit the geostrategic advantages we have for the benefit of the people and the country.
Euro-Mediterranean Secretariat
To promote political and economic relations between the EU and the Mediterranean countries.
Upgrading the Investment Promotion Agency
To enable the Agency (CIPA) to seek investors abroad in a targeted manner, bringing them to Cyprus and serving them with priority and without bureaucracy.
Support for Cyprus Shipping
Provide incentives to companies to cover the costs of banning ships from docking in Turkish ports.
Require EU funds to cover these costs.
European Funds Management Agency
To manage the European funds available for development actions.
This will make for better and faster implementation of programmes, free of problems and complexities.
Transfer of Building Factor
For the financial support of refugees, stranded and suffering people. Beneficiaries will be given development rights in the occupied territories based on their property in the free areas, which they can sell or use for building.
Utilisation of the Social Security Fund
The State already borrows from the Social Security Fund at an interest rate of 1.5%.  In a secure way the State can contribute to the provision by the Social Security Fund of low-interest loans for citizens and small businesses.
Development of Medical Services
To make Cyprus a centre for tertiary care medical services for medical tourism with the involvement of the public and private medical sector.
Human-centred Hellenocentric Education and Culture
For the formation and formation of virtuous and law-abiding citizens and the development of a democratic and humane state.
Migration Policy Review
To control immigration based on European directives.
To eliminate the risk of altering the demographic character of Cyprus
Integrated Traffic Control Centre
To tackle traffic chaos in cities. To help people get to their destinations.
Crime Prevention Council
To tackle the crime and offending behaviour that has been on the rise in recent years.
On 22 May you can overthrow the establishment of old parties with your vote you can bring CHANGE NOW
Give strength to the NEW, to the MODERN, to the EUROPEAN BODY
Our country needs CHANGE NOW
CHANGE of strategy on the Cyprus problem for a European solution
CHANGE of economic policy for a strong economy and prosperity
CHANGE of immigration policy so that we do not become a minority in our country
CHANGE in the functioning of the state so that meritocracy and transparency prevail
On May 22 he voted EUROPEAN COMMONWEALTH
Every vote to the EUROPEAN MAM, arms it with POWER to continue
to have a STRONG POLITICAL REASON in the Parliament and the NATIONAL COUNCIL
to serve the CHANGE of our Cyprus
