INTRODUCTION
We belong to the largest political family in the world, the family of Socialist and Social Democratic parties.
Our principles and values are translated into political action in Europe and in every corner of our planet.
At the heart of our policy is the human being, as a distinct personality, with the right to freedom, democracy and economic prosperity, but also as a member of a society that respects institutions, meritocracy, the environment and future generations.
Our primary goal is the liberation of our country from occupation.
We are fighting for a solution that ensures conditions of freedom for the citizen,
without racist or other divisions
that violate the human rights and basic freedoms of all citizens of the Republic of Cyprus.
In the economy, we believe in the efficiency of the free market, but with state intervention to prevent imbalances,
social injustices
or environmental destruction.
The state maintains an executive role by guiding private initiative in directions that are socially and nationally beneficial.
It ensures the fair distribution of income, the
protection of the underprivileged, the
creation of conditions for the advancement of all and their participation in the social product and cultural development.
The accession of Cyprus to the large European family of 25 member states and 450 million citizens strengthens our national, economic and social goals.
We look forward to a welfare state that strengthens those in real need
and effectively integrates all citizens into the productive process.
We are in favour of any initiative that enhances the active participation of citizens in public life,
the decentralisation of power
and individual freedom
and that promotes social justice.
We are working for a better tomorrow by reforming our education system to meet the needs of the 21st century.
We believe that we must provide young people with the cultural and intellectual skills required by the needs of today's international environment.
We believe in the need to preserve our national and cultural identity,
with full respect for the national and cultural identity of other communities.
The programmatic positions that we present to the Cypriot society are the product of long and systematic collective work of the Thematic Committees of the Movement and have been approved by the Party's Programmatic Conference.
These positions are the compass that guides our activities.
The people know that for our Movement there is no distance between words and deeds.
He knows that we mean what we say and that we keep our promises.
THE NATIONAL ISSUE
Freedom and Peace
Freedom and peace are supreme goods for all peoples.
Peace does not simply mean no war.
Real and lasting peace requires respect for the self-determination, human rights and culture of all peoples, without political oppression and economic exploitation.
It requires the coexistence of peoples in security conditions without the threat of violence.
Real peace and freedom exist only when they coexist.
Our country faces the consequences of the Turkish invasion and occupation on a daily basis.
All Cypriots are victims of Turkish expansionism.
Greek Cypriots live under the constant threat of national annihilation
and Turkish Cypriots under an illiberal militaristic colonial regime that forces them to flee en masse.
We live neither in peace nor is our freedom complete.
The Cyprus problem after EU accession
The new scenario is shaped and differentiated by the accession of Cyprus to the EU on 1 May 2004 and the opening of Turkey-EU accession negotiations on 3 October 2004.
We wish the Cyprus problem to remain in the UN.
And we look forward to a new initiative without arbitration, suffocating timetables and a referendum without prior agreement.
But such an initiative requires adequate preparation, a clear framework and a serious chance of success.
If these conditions are not met, a new initiative will lead to an even greater impasse.
Today, the risk is that a new initiative could take the form of a simple reintroduction of the Annan Plan.
There is still the risk of a degenerative temporality, of a possible negotiation process that would serve Turkey's objectives of a smooth and unimpeded progress of its accession negotiations.
It is therefore imperative that we make clear to both the UN Secretary General and the third parties presenting themselves as stakeholders in the solution that firstly there should be adequate preparation to ensure a serious chance of success in a future negotiation
and secondly that the basis for the talks should be clarified.
The Annan Plan has been rejected by Cypriot Hellenism.
Therefore, it cannot be reintroduced either as it stands or with marginal changes.
To avoid this risk, we should make it clear that the basis of the negotiations should be: The Security Council Resolutions on Cyprus
The 1977 and 1979 High Level Agreements
The European Court of Justice judgments in the individual and transnational cases of Cyprus against Turkey
The European Convention on Human Rights.
UN plans, proposals and ideas submitted to the negotiating table from time to time can be taken into account in new talks within the above framework.
Solution principles
A solution outline with the basic positions of the Greek Cypriot side can and should be formulated as a basic tool in our action and initiatives for the solution.
For us, in such an outline it is necessary to include the following as capital issues to be addressed in any solution proposal:
An end to the Turkish and any other foreign military presence.
Termination of invasive Third Country Guarantees.
Settlement, including the existence of a reliable mechanism for both removing and stopping the continuous flow of settlers.
Ensuring the functionality of the state by guaranteeing the separation of the co-ordinated powers and excluding the exercise of political functions by the judiciary.
Safeguarding the individual rights of Cypriot-European citizens before the European Court of Human Rights.
Ensuring the economic unity of the country.
Any international treaties attached to the settlement agreement must respect the sovereignty of the State of Cyprus.
To ensure the uninterrupted participation of Cyprus in the European Collective Security System.
Effective guarantees for the implementation of the solution.
Respect for the European Convention on Human Rights
Strategy for the use of the European Union in the solution of the Cyprus problem
It has been widely said that the Cyprus problem is an international problem of invasion and occupation and is therefore within the jurisdiction and competence of the UN.
The UN has the primary responsibility under the Charter for its resolution.
This is, after all, what the General Assembly resolutions and the Security Council resolutions from 1974 to the present day stipulate.
However, since the early 1990s, when the reorientation of our national strategy was decided in consultation with Greece, the goal was set, with the accession of Cyprus to the EU, to use the European factor in the efforts and initiatives for its solution.
To make the Cyprus problem European.
A problem linked to the security, stability, cooperation and effectiveness of EU plans and policies towards the Middle East and Africa and even the Balkans.
The objective of Cyprus' accession to the Union has been achieved. Cyprus has been a member of the EU since 1 May 2004.
We should therefore proceed without further delay, away from vague and sloganeering references, to a comprehensive planning and implementation of concrete steps and initiatives in order to actively achieve the 'Europeanisation' of the Cyprus problem.
The aim should be for the EU to be more actively involved in the processes, moves and initiatives towards a solution.
This more active involvement and engagement should be in the form of a decisive complementary assistance to UN efforts.
Through the EU and the relevant collective institutions, the following specific actions can be pursued: the
Appoint a high-ranking European politician, e.g. a former Prime Minister, who will have the responsibility vis-à-vis the European Council to monitor the Cyprus problem, to make recommendations and proposals and to express views related to the basic parameters of the solution in order to make it compatible with the Union's value system and the rules of law that make up the European acquis and the European Conventions and Treaties.
To seek, through proper preparation and bilateral and multilateral contacts at a forthcoming European Council, to adopt a set of principles that must govern the Cyprus settlement in order to enable Cyprus to function within the Union on the basis of the fundamental principles on which the EU was built and operates.
To facilitate the achievement of the above objectives, we should seek full participation in the European institutions and the main pillars of the Union.
To apply for membership of the "Partnership for Peace" which will enable us to participate fully in the European Collective Security System as defined by the Maastricht Treaty of 1993.
Our full participation in the European Defence and Security Policy (ESDP) will enhance the geostrategic and thus the political importance of Cyprus as the eastern border of Europe.
We must also remain steadfast to the goal of Cyprus' accession to the Eurozone (EMU) on 1 January 2008.
Any wavering and hesitation will undermine the credibility and prestige of Cyprus.
On the contrary, joining EMU on the date set for the 10 new countries will strengthen not only the economic but also the political prestige of our country.
To make effective use of the European framework, we need to put forward a commonly agreed outline of the basic principles of a Cyprus settlement.
Principles based on UN resolutions, the European Convention on Human Rights and the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in Cyprus' individual and inter-state appeals against Turkey.
In this way, the Annan Plan, which remains suspended and threatening as a burden on the solution processes, will be definitively sidelined.
The time we have entered is an ideal time to make the most of European opportunities and for an additional reason. In 2006, on the basis of the negotiating framework of the Turkey-EU accession negotiations, we will be able to use the opportunity of the EU's accession to the European Union. EU accession negotiations framework adopted on 3 October 2005, Turkey will come under the microscope of the Union's scrutiny in relation to the obligations it has been entrusted with vis-à-vis Cyprus.
A comprehensive plan for a new European approach to the Cyprus problem is absolutely necessary.
The positive impact of the new European environment can only take shape on the basis of actions, moves and initiatives with specific planning.
The risks are visible and immediate. It is our duty to prevent them. With a clear and consistent strategy. With an assertive spirit. With determination. By making use of the new European environment, not by sidelining and dismantling it.
By criticising Turkish behaviour.
Adhering to the basic principles of a solution as defined by International and European Law.
The Hellenic Socialist Party's Central Committee calls on everyone to rally and mobilise.
We can and must pave the way for vindication.
For the entire Cypriot people, Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots, Maronites and Latins.
MISSION
As long as the possession continues, the defence must be upgraded.
The Defence and Security of our semi-inherited homeland remains as a primary and non-negotiable issue.
The need for the existence of a modern and technologically upgraded deterrent force will continue to exist as long as there is occupation and presence of Turkish occupation troops in Cyprus.
A strong National Guard, capable and ready to fight, is without a doubt: A sure negotiating weapon in the hands of the Government and the political leadership.
An element necessary for the Turkish side to move from its intransigent positions.
An indispensable factor for the consolidation of the sense of security among the Cypriot People, which will positively affect the development and prosperity of our Homeland.
We declare unreservedly that we will continue to monitor with great sensitivity the Government's policy in the field of Defence and will vigorously defend any efforts to upgrade it.
At the same time, we will be an obstacle to the visions of the "pretenders" to disband the armed forces or to turn them into a mercenary army.
The fate of Cyprus, and that of future generations of Greek Cypriots, will depend on proper defence.
And proper defence is our business. It is not transferable to anyone.
We judge the works, we demand action
We are looking forward to the implementation of the strengthening of our defence in practice and with projects. In this pursuit and being fully aware of its seriousness and necessity for the survival of the Cypriot Hellenism, we demand
the maintenance and strengthening of the close defence cooperation between Cyprus and Greece, implemented under the doctrine of the Common Defence Area.
The allocation of the necessary appropriations for the maintenance of the Army's means and weapon systems to keep them in full readiness.
The implementation of the necessary armament programmes that will make the National Guard a modern, flexible and deterrent force.
The involvement of the whole People in defence planning, in order to put into practice the doctrine of Palaean Defence.
At the same time we note and emphasize that we agree with the measures taken and announced by the Government concerning the National Guard.
In particular, we welcome the implementation of a computerised system for the transfer of soldiers, which ensures absolute meritocracy and transparency
The operation of a Soldier's Office in the Ministry of Defence.
European Defence and Security Policy
Cyprus as a regional, and now strategic, centre can be an asset not only for the European Union but also for the wider Middle East region.
Taking into account the already declared objectives of the European Union for a substantial intervention in the wider Mediterranean region within the framework of Euro-Mediterranean cooperation, Cyprus can play a positive role and be used accordingly.
The creation of the European Defence Force (Euroforce) with the participation and contribution of Cyprus increases and strengthens its security
and limits Turkey's expansionist ambitions since it too wishes to join the European Union.
At the same time, Cyprus becomes worthy and calculable by European standards, and the defence, training, education and modernisation sectors are expanded with new weapons systems.
It takes part in the European Inter-Allied Headquarters and is present in the decision-making centres.
The Republic of Cyprus should apply for our country's participation in the Partnership for Peace, in order to enable Cyprus' full participation in the European Collective Security System.
ECONOMY
On May 1, 2004, with its full accession to the EU, Cyprus finally entered a new political environment defined by stable principles and values
and a new economic environment that is highly competitive and from which protectionism is essentially absent.
The Cypriot economy needs to respond adequately to the new challenges, to prove its dynamism and its ability to adapt successfully to new structures.
After the successful completion of Cyprus' accession process to the EU, the Hellenic Socialist Party considers that the next major strategic goal is the accession to the EMU and the adoption of the euro.
The Hellenic People's Party of Cyprus will put all its efforts into this effort as well. It has put forward and will put forward positive and constructive proposals to contribute to its completion.
The state of the Cyprus economy
Joining the EMU requires the Cypriot economy to meet certain criteria set by the EU, referred to as the "Maastricht economic indicators".
The Cypriot economy, as a result of one-dimensional growth and chronic structural problems, is in trouble, with the fiscal deficit being the most serious, and public debt exceeding 72% of GDP.
Against this background, additional effective measures should be taken to make the EMU accession path feasible in order not to endanger the government's social policy with direct and serious consequences for the lower and middle income strata.
At the same time, the adoption of these measures will reverse the implementation of strict fiscal discipline policies (austerity measures), with the consequent further increase in unemployment.
The responsibility of the Hellenic Socialist Party's Central Committee
As a socialist party, which has at the centre of its social policy the defence of the lower middle classes of the people and the underprivileged in general, the C.S.E.P.E.C. takes the initiative and the political responsibility to propose positive and feasible solutions to address their problems.
As a party that participates in the government, it claims a role in the co-design of economic policy, because it is interested in pursuing an effective yet targeted social policy that serves those in real need.
The aim of the Hellenic Socialist Party is to strengthen social cohesion
and to reintegrate into the social fabric the low-income strata that are below the poverty line.
This is also one of the main reasons that led the EPP C.C. to participate in the current governmental scheme.
The Hellenic People's Party of Greece believes that the big problems of the country should not only concern the government or one party. They concern the whole people and therefore the greatest possible social consensus should exist for their solution.
The Hellenic Socialist Party believes in the necessity of promoting social dialogue to address them.
That is why he proposed to the Minister of Finance to take the initiative to convene an economic forum, in which, apart from the government and the political parties, economic and scientific institutions, as well as representatives of the productive classes, should be invited to participate.
Consensus and convergence on common objectives, as well as on tactical and procedural issues for the implementation of these objectives, is a national necessity.
The proposals of the Hellenic Socialist Party's Central Committee
In this context, the C.C. Hellenic Democracy Party considers as an immediate priority the formulation of a strict fiscal and deflationary policy, so that within three years Cyprus will meet all the Maastricht criteria in terms of:
the budget deficit, which must be less than 3% of GDP
the public debt, which must not exceed 60% of GDP
the interest rates, which must not deviate more than 2% compared to those of the best performing countries
the inflation rate, which must not deviate more than 1.5 points from the average of the EU Member States, and
The Hellenic People's Party's Central Committee sets as immediate strategic objectives for the Cypriot economy:The accession of Cyprus to the EMU,
and The effective management of the fiscal deficit.
Accession of Cyprus to the EMU
The accession of Cyprus to the EMU and the adoption of the common currency (euro) is an essential necessity for the Cypriot economy. Therefore, the accession path should not be left to move without planning and targeting.
The JPC believes that both the time horizon for accession (01/01/2008) and the staging of this path should be defined, so that the convergence path can be directly monitored.
At the same time, this will give credibility and strengthen the confidence of the investment community, so that on the one hand there will be no capital outflow and on the other hand it will be possible to attract capital.
Tackling the Fiscal Deficit
The current state of the economy and developments in the budget deficit undoubtedly lead to the conclusion that the forecasts are optimistic provided there are no deviations.
It should also be pointed out that the problem with the budget deficit becomes more serious because the structure of public expenditure is such that it is largely inelastic.
Based on the current fiscal situation of the Cypriot economy, the government should proceed with the preparation of a long-term, ambitious and feasible fiscal consolidation programme.
Furthermore, it should be pointed out that due to the limited economic growth, it would not be appropriate for the government to seek to increase revenues by imposing new taxes or increasing VAT, as this would act as a disincentive to investment and cause a further reduction in economic activity.
The JPC believes that the following proposed measures can contribute to the normalization of the fiscal situation by increasing revenues in the immediate and/or long term and at the same time reducing public expenditure.
Proposals to increase government revenues:
Partial privatisation of semi-governmental organisations (ATHK, AHK etc.). The gradual transfer of part of their share capital to the private sector will reduce the public debt, without making them private organisations as more than 50% of the shares will remain with the state, which will also exercise control.
At the same time as the privatisations, a plan should be implemented for the use of the revenues that will be generated and the rights of all workers in these organisations should be guaranteed.
Sale of the State's shares in various loss-making organisations, Development Bank, Forest Industries, Bakeries.
Improve the tax collection capacity of the State (communication of the computerised systems of VAT, the Internal Revenue Department and the Social Security Department).
Maximising absorption of Community funds for development projects.
Immediate promotion of the special tax regime (hidden accounts, repatriation of funds).
Regulation of minor urban planning infringements.
Taxation of capital gains resulting from the change of urban zoning and the granting of urban relaxations.
Taxing the business activity of the church.
Proposals for cost containment:
Public Wages and salaries
Establishment of independent bodies to determine increases in the wider public sector (Pay Reform Bodies).
Linking increases in the civil service to departmental and individual productivity.
Widespread use of interchangeability to limit recruitment in the civil service.
Outsourcing public sector activities to the private sector, where costs are lower (e.g. Government Printing Office).
Transforming hospitals into autonomous administrative, scientific and financial organisations to reduce unnecessary expenditure in the field of medical services.
Other cost containment measures:
Financing, construction, management and maintenance by the private sector of new public buildings (e.g. new schools) and promoting the institution of public hire purchase (PFI).
Implementation of the BOT system in ports and marinas.
Replace universal benefits with targeted benefits and new forms of benefits for those in real need.
Measures to stimulate the economy (with an indirect effect on reducing the budget deficit):
Proposal to the EU for the creation of a Euro-Mediterranean Cooperation Bank in Cyprus.
Favourable regime for the registration of international mutual and other funds in Cyprus
Favourable tax regime for mutual funds.
Application of tax immunity for undeclared funds.
Emphasis on projects to support youth entrepreneurship.
Making Cyprus a regional centre for medical services.
Attracting foreign investment
With the aim of attracting foreign investment to Cyprus, the Hellenic Democracy Committee proposes the creation of an independent body, as this task cannot be covered by government agencies.
This independent body will participate in the respective international organisations IPA (Investment Promotion Agency) and WAIPA (World Association), which will contribute significantly to its objectives.
At the same time, given the favourable tax regime in Cyprus for foreign companies, it is proposed to establish a "management company" of foreign interests in Cyprus, the operation of which will benefit both foreign investors and the Cypriot economy.
BIOMHXANIA, TRADE, TOURISM, ENERGY
TRADE
The current situation
With the accession of our country to the European Union, the conditions have been created for the Cypriot consumer to benefit significantly from the removal of import restrictions, the increase in the choices offered and the improvement of local and foreign products and services that he can buy.
But there are still serious problems in two important areas: The market is often dominated by oligopolistic situations to the detriment of the consumer.
In addition, there is not enough consumer protection, as there should be in a developed country.
The development of healthy competition, away from monopolistic and oligopolistic situations, remains high on our priorities.
To this end, the Competition Commission must be strengthened to the extent that it can safeguard conditions of full competition for the benefit of citizens and commercial activity itself.
Consumer protection
Within the current legal framework for consumer protection, the competent service must be strengthened to be able to effectively enforce the laws.
The establishment of a Consumer Protection Commissioner will make a major contribution in this direction, which is why the CPPS has long ago submitted to the House of Representatives a proposal for a law aimed at ensuring a high level of protection of the safety, health and economic interests of consumers.
In addition, the state should make a practical contribution to strengthening the Consumer Associations, so that they can continue the important work they do.
Charter of Citizens' Rights
Several Public Organisations have proceeded to develop their own Citizens' Charter of Rights.
This institution should cover every state department and every public organisation, so that they can draw up a charter that explicitly defines the minimum level of services offered, the rights of the citizen, and the compensation in case of violation of these rights.
BIOMHXANIA
The situation today
Today, after the completion of our accession to the EU, almost all sectors of Cypriot industry are facing a problem of survival.
Competition from foreign products is very fierce, both in the internal market and abroad.
Cypriot industry is still characterised by low productivity and many plants still rely on cheap labour.
Unfortunately, while those in power at the time knew (or should have known) the effects of European harmonisation, they did nothing substantial to mitigate them.
Instead, they pursued a knee-jerk and patchwork policy towards the manufacturing industry, without strategy and priorities.
What we recommend
Our priority will be the effort to establish and implement a policy to support and develop Cyprus Industry.
Within this framework, the strengthening of modern flexible industries based on new technologies, scientific organisation of production and marketing, and the attraction of foreign high-tech companies employing local scientific personnel should be promoted.
We must also strengthen areas in which Cyprus can gain a comparative advantage, such as solar energy.
Selective subsidies and assistance
These priorities will be implemented through a system of selective state subsidies and other assistance to industry.
In addition, emphasis should be placed on supporting environmentally friendly industries and technologies.
We do not agree with artificial maintenance in the life of industries with no future. On the contrary, all plans to help industries should be examined in detail to assess their effectiveness.
Subsidies, grants and other benefits to businesses without viable prospects perpetuate unprofitable activities at the expense of the development of more productive sectors and, where found, should be eliminated.
Investment in infrastructure projects
Instead of such counterproductive benefits, we must promote investment in infrastructure projects in transport, communications, education, laboratory infrastructure for product quality control and assurance and other utilities.
We can also promote technological upgrading through tax reforms and other incentives, as well as
other measures to increase productivity and competitiveness.
Help from the European Union
Our ability to use financial assistance from the EU is one of the key conditions for supporting our industry.
Immediate priority should be given to maximising the absorption of European resources and expertise through Community programmes.
To this end, a special group of experts should be set up to exploit the full potential of each sector of commercial and industrial activity.
Particular emphasis should be placed on small crafts and industries which should be helped financially and in other ways.
To this end, the creation of cooperatives should be encouraged at various stages of the production or marketing of their products.
Cooperation between Academic Institutions and Industry
We reiterate our recommendation for the creation of an academic centre to support industry, along the lines of European countries.
At this centre, academics will offer assistance in technology, production organisation and product promotion.
TOURISM
The current situation
Tourism, the most important source of income in Cyprus, has been facing serious problems in recent years. The scope for its numerical growth is running out.
The negative effects on the environment caused by the excessive increase in the number of tourists are obvious.
At the same time, the model of mass tourism, for sun and sea, is no longer popular among Europeans, many of whom are turning to other forms of tourism.
What we recommend
Our tourism policy should aim to attract visitors of higher living standards
and increase per capita expenditure, as well as
to increase hotel occupancy and mitigate the phenomenon of seasonality.
Our policy must also exploit the comparative advantages of our country, namely the Mediterranean climate, the hospitality of Cypriots, the natural environment and our historical and cultural heritage.
Study of current trends in the international tourism market
A thorough study is needed to record new trends in tourism demand internationally, so that our tourism policy stops following developments, but anticipates them and shapes itself accordingly.
Review of subsidy policy
The policy of satisfying claims, with tax exemptions and other subsidies, needs to be reviewed.
Subsidies and tax measures must be selective and effective because society has no obligation to indiscriminately subsidise any group of the population.
Any state aid should encourage those sectors of the tourism industry which have a future and which meet the government's policy priorities.
Ending the legalisation of illegal beds
The legalisation of illegal beds degrades the overall tourism product and has led tourism in the wrong direction of mass attraction of tourists with low purchasing power.
Pressures for such legalisation should be resisted and emphasis should be placed on the development of new, more lucrative types of thematic tourism (e.g. sports, nautical, conference, agrotourism, ecotourism).
Investing in human resources
Programmes need to be introduced to foster tourism awareness and a professional approach in all tourism professions.
Continuous training and education of those involved in the sector will help to increase productivity, reduce costs and improve the level of services provided.
Priority to the environment
Mass tourism harms the environment, degrades our quality of life and, if we take into account its social costs, leaves less money than it seems.
When tourism development places a significant burden on the environment, our decisions must be in favour of the quality of our lives, not of any tourist interests.
ENERGY
The failure to complete the development and implementation of a comprehensive national energy policy has negative economic and environmental consequences for our country.
Such a policy should reflect the needs of the place, respect the environment and fully exploit our potential for significant decarbonisation from fossil fuels.
In this direction, the use of Renewable Energy Sources (RES) should be a matter of national energy and environmental priority and not just a matter of meeting EU targets and indicators.
Expanding the use of RES will have a number of beneficial effects for our country.
It will contribute to the decoupling of the country from its total dependence on fossil fuels and the consequent reduction of its economic drain on foreign exchange.
It will bring significant environmental benefits
and strengthen the domestic labour market.
Attention should be paid to all forms of RES, which to one degree or another are offered for exploitation in Cyprus (solar, wind, biomass, etc.).
Within the framework of promoting the use of RES, there should be a further increase in subsidies and incentives for their use.
It is also necessary to simplify procedures and minimise bureaucracy in the process of promoting proposals for the use of renewable energy sources.
One of the main components of an integrated energy policy should be energy saving.
This can be promoted through the reorganization of existing infrastructure (transport networks, urban planning, energy architecture), the cultivation of energy awareness through education of citizens, but also the introduction of appropriate incentives for saving and disincentives for waste (fiscal and other).
Use of natural gas for energy production
The political decision to promote the use of natural gas for electricity generation in Cyprus is the right one, both from an environmental point of view and for the purpose of reducing the high dependence on oil.
This decision will largely determine the energy future of our country. For this reason, all its aspects must be studied thoroughly, carefully and seriously, in order to provide the most appropriate solutions and find the most suitable procedures for the implementation of the infrastructure projects required for the arrival and use of natural gas.
In particular, the necessary gas purchases should be secured in a timely manner at the most competitive prices possible.
The method of transporting the gas (probably in liquefied form) should be considered, as well as the creation of the necessary dehydration facilities.
Based on the concretization of all these data, the required decisions for the installation and operation of the respective power plants should be promoted through valid and reliable studies.
For the implementation of all the above projects, which should be done in full transparency, the involvement and support of the European Union should be sought.
EDUCATION
THE VISION
We socialists are identified with change.
We have identified our existence with the certainty that man can change society, the world as a whole.
We believe that the greatest change can come through education.
It is no coincidence that the greatest social achievement in 20th century Europe was the public school, education for all.
This educational success is a supreme conquest of the peoples, the offspring of Socialist ideas and struggles.
For us socialists in Cyprus, our vision is the creation of a happy, democratic, creative school, which will cultivate and develop creativity, critical thinking, self-respect and understanding, respect for the rights of others, respect for diversity.
We envision a human-centered school that will cultivate both MIND and HEART, that will create active citizens with democratic ideals, social sensitivities and love for the country.
We envision a quality, autonomous and participatory school where all students, teachers and parents are equal partners.
We envision a teacher, an ideological and sensitive teacher, a teacher who feels and functions as a free reformer and not as a reproduction of existing social structures.
We believe that the present government has taken the first important step towards the qualitative upgrading of education.
For the first time, a comprehensive proposal for educational reform has been submitted, aiming at the immediate qualitative upgrading and modernisation of all levels of our educational system.
The proposal is based on a progressive philosophical background and takes into account, on the one hand, modern scientific theories and, on the other hand, the most important findings that have been made so far about our educational system (UNESCO Report, etc.).
The new school proposed by the Education Reform Commission, and which we adopt, is people-centred and seeks the education of the citizen-citizen and not his education-training.
This new man, while preserving his national-cultural and religious characteristics, will at the same time respect the diversity and pluralism (cultural, linguistic, religious) of all others.
This general education will be achieved by renewing the content of education, but also the curricula and the pedagogical-teaching process.
The combination of humanistic, scientific and technological knowledge will ultimately lead to the cultivation of critical thinking and the formation of the autonomous and creative human being.
The new school will take into account local specificities and will also provide for the creative participation of educational institutions, which promotes the decentralisation of our education system, which is a priority for us.
The need for teacher training is considered essential for the promotion and implementation of any reform proposals, whether in the structure or in the curricula or in the pedagogical educational process.
Our educational hope is to reform the structure of our educational system from kindergarten to university, and the Ministry itself, both at the central and regional level.
Basic compulsory education
We consider Basic Education (pre-primary, primary, primary, secondary school) as the foundation of our education system.
Any investment in this education is an investment in the future.
Our entry into the 21st century, our integration into Europe and the new socio-economic conditions prevailing in the world require modernisation and qualitative upgrading of basic education.
Our positions:
The state, through the Ministry of Education and Culture, must take full responsibility and control of Early Childhood Education (three years to five years and eight months).
Take measures for the autonomy of pre-primary education,
for the operation of a full-day kindergarten,
for improving the material and technical infrastructure,
for reducing the number of pupils per class (no more than 25)
and finally for the publication and distribution of aids and other educational material for kindergartens.
Develop new Curricula for all stages of basic education that respond to the observed explosion of knowledge, cultural complexity and the humanistic dimension of education.
Diversification of classroom teaching and the use of collaborative, group, cooperative, exploratory methods to foster self-action, critical thinking, creativity and skills for lifelong learning.
Enrichment of the curricula in the Pedagogical Departments of the University, in order to have multi-purpose teachers with specialization in subjects of the Curriculum.
Continuous and planned in-service training of teachers and incentives for teachers to attend postgraduate programmes.
Implementation of a new Evaluation Plan aimed at improving education and teachers.
Administrative, financial and educational autonomy in school units and school-community-parent cooperation with clear roles and responsibilities.
Reducing the number of pupils per class (no more than 25),
appointing secretarial staff in primary education
and improving the way the School Boards operate for faster and cheaper service to schools.
Institutionalise and strengthen educational innovations and give teachers the necessary time in the programme so that innovations are not made in "stolen time".
Such useful innovations include intercultural education, environmental education, new technologies, media education, museum education, health education, etc. ) .
Provide equal rights,
equal treatment for people with disabilities
and provide appropriate support and education so that our fellow human beings can reach a level of education that allows them to live happily in society.
It is for this reason that we consider Special Education as an important part of the whole of Education.
Full Day School
The organization and operation of the all-day school should be done in such a way as to highlight its pedagogical and social role.
All-day school should not be just an extension of morning school.
We treat the new institution of the all-day school with responsibility and we support that it should be built on solid foundations, so that it responds to :
the need for a new way of organising the school unit
the substantial and broader contribution of the teacher
the need to create a culture of creative activity among children
the need for remedial teaching, where and when needed, in order to bridge the gaps and smooth the way for the next steps of children with specific school weaknesses
offering opportunities for gifted children to develop their skills
the need to support the public character of education through the cooperation of the entire educational community
but also the involvement of the local community , in order to connect the school with society and to achieve what we call "opening the school to society"
the need for educational, pedagogical, emotional support for children (preparation for the next day), so that the school can help working parents.
Secondary Education
While basic education must be common to all children, secondary education must provide the student with the opportunity to choose courses according to his or her aptitudes, interests and goals.
Unfortunately, the attempted change by the previous government with the Unified Lyceum failed.
The changes were made hastily, without planning, without the necessary monitoring and support, without adequate training of teachers and without the necessary technological equipment.
Consequently, instead of solving problems, many more were created. In this direction, the proposal of the Committee of Experts on Education Reform offers several solutions.
Great emphasis must be placed on the substantial upgrading of Technical Education.
In the age of technology, Technical Education cannot be considered the "offspring" of General Education.
We, as the Socialist Party , defenders of the popular strata, which, for the most part, are covered by Technical Education, demand that measures be taken for its real upgrading.
This can be achieved, in our opinion, either by bringing it into line with General Secondary Education or by radically reforming it.
Key educational issues Evaluation Plan
The existing Teachers' Evaluation System is bankrupt, with very negative results in terms of improving the quality of our teachers themselves and, by extension, our education.
Inspection is currently governed by a logic of 'checking' teachers and often has little or nothing to do with the role that Counsellors should play.
All contemporary views point to the need for a new Evaluation System which is not limited to the teacher alone, but which simultaneously evaluates the work carried out in each school unit and education in general.
School autonomy
The autonomy of the school unit is considered today, educationally and socially necessary.
This autonomy will allow the school, always moving within the general objectives of the Ministry of Education and Culture, to develop those actions that will serve its specific objectives, based on its own characteristics.
This autonomy, on the one hand, will allow the partial, even partial, "liberation" of the school unit from the bureaucratic mechanisms of the Ministry and, on the other hand, will bring the school closer to the problems and processes of each Community.
Paraeducation
The problem of Parapadeia is a very serious distortion of our educational system with profound social implications.
That is why we believe that it must be addressed by measures that negate the causes that have given rise to this "universal culture".
These measures include upgrading the quality of public schools,
a substantial increase in the number of places in Cyprus' higher education institutions
and the introduction of all-day schooling, which will meet the needs of pupils for additional education.
Logics that are limited exclusively to police repression of the phenomenon are not helpful.
List of Appointments
The continuation of the "selection" of teachers from a list of appointments (yearbook) that has been in place for years in secondary education and now seems to be extended to primary education, only causes damage to the public school.
Selecting the best among all candidates will improve the quality of education provided and lead to better educational outcomes.
It is high time to apply the principle of meritocracy, which is vital for education itself.
We believe that there is a need to achieve an education system that bases the selection and development of teachers on merit and professional competence rather than on age and years of service.
What is needed is the use of new people and the introduction of new ideas that contribute to a healthy relationship between teachers and pupils, pupils and parents, thus giving new life to the school.
We propose a new system of teacher recruitment based on all the qualifications and experience of candidates and an examination in the pedagogy of the subject (all measurable criteria) by a commonly accepted body (e.g. the University of Cyprus) or by a commonly accepted group of experts.
The percentage of credits to be given to the examination as well as other social criteria will be subject to discussion and consensus.
It is understood that there will be a transitional period of 5-7 years during which recruitment will be done by a decreasing percentage from the yearbook and by an increasing percentage from the new system (e.g. 80%-20% in the first year, 70%-30% in the second, and so on).
Examinations
The issue of student assessment and examinations must be reconsidered in the context of the philosophy of the Educational Reform which envisages a different role and mission for education.
In any case, the current situation has locked our education system into a regime of extreme examination-centricity that does not allow for the development of mechanisms for change.
Parents and students perceive school as a place of competition for the "higher degree" and high school as an antechamber to university. These perceptions negate the role of the "pedagogical school".
Therefore, it is imperative that the Ministry of Education and Culture decides on measures to deal with this phenomenon, such as the recommendations of the Commission for Educational Reform, which, if implemented, will restore the pedagogical role of the school.
We recommend
Establishing a new streamlined and expanded system of student assessment.
Immediate unification of the Single and Entrance Examinations.
Higher and higher education
We believe that Higher and Higher Education is of strategic importance for the economic, social and political development of our country and therefore it should be made comparable to other advanced countries.
We support a drastic expansion of Higher and Higher Education in Cyprus with the ultimate goal that all Cypriots who wish and are able to do so can study in their own country.
This will be achieved by providing more substantial support to the University of Cyprus (establishment of new Faculties, such as the Medical School), by the operation of the Cyprus University of Technology (CUT) and the Open University, as well as by supporting and developing Private Universities.
The implementation of this policy will contribute substantially to the reduction of our student migration on the one hand and to the attraction of foreign students on the other hand, with significant economic and political benefits for Cyprus.
Academic Freedom
It goes without saying that the academic freedom of universities must be protected.
Without it, it is not possible to ensure the validity of academic discourse, which in the maelstrom of conflicting interests of the modern era, constitutes a constant benchmark and a bright sign of direction and orientation.
Economic Independence
The University of Cyprus has become administratively autonomous. However, it remains financially dependent on the state, which may also have an impact on academic freedom, because it creates the impression for the powers that be that they have the right to intervene in the operation of the University.
In order to eliminate this possibility, it is necessary to establish a flat-rate grant, the amount of which will be determined both by the needs of the University, as reflected in the budget, and by its results: research and teaching.
Linking the level of sponsorship to efficiency is part of the spirit that should govern all publicly funded organisations and services and is a basic practice of the concept of productivity.
The same practice should be followed at the Cyprus University of Technology.
Apart from these quantitative criteria, which will be agreed with the University of Cyprus and the other public universities in operation, the state should not interfere in the internal allocation and distribution of funds.
In this way, the public universities will be able to devote themselves freely to their teaching and research work, as required and as our country needs.
The Council of the University of Cyprus and its President
The appointment of the President of the Council of the University of Cyprus by the Council of Ministers gives the impression of direct government intervention in the autonomy of the University and creates unnecessary negative impressions.
We propose that the President of the Council be elected by the members from among its non-academic members.
If the State wishes to participate more effectively in the process of exercising social control, the composition of the Council could be revised to increase the proportion of its members appointed by the Council of Ministers, as was the original proposal of the Preparatory Committee.
Similar arrangements should be made in other public universities.
Expansion and Development - Medical School
Without the possibility of expansion to cover other important disciplines, public universities are not fulfilling their mission.
That is why we will support the effort to further expand and develop public universities in every way possible, as we have assisted in the establishment of the Faculty of Engineering at the University of Cyprus.
In recent years the state budget has been burdened with over £10 million for sending our patients abroad.
Without a medical school, it is impossible to upgrade medicine in Cyprus and to systematically and continuously train our doctors.
We therefore support the establishment of a Medical School at the University of Cyprus.
The operation of the Medical School can be served in the first stages by the new Nicosia General Hospital.
Cyprus University of Technology
We welcome and support the establishment and operation of the Cyprus University of Technology based in Limassol.
The operation of a second public University, with Faculties and Departments complementing those of the University of Cyprus, serves the objective of offering more public university places and meeting the relevant demand.
Open University
The operation of an open university will help thousands of people who for many reasons have not been able to attend university education and fulfil some visions.
The Hellenic Democratic Union of Cyprus supports in every way the operation of the Open University of Cyprus.
Equal opportunities for education
In order to ensure equal opportunities in Higher and Higher Education for all those who are interested and qualified, we support the substantial annual endowment and merit-based operation of the Cyprus State Scholarship Foundation, in order to support financially the excellent and needy students.
The construction of student halls of residence to house students who do not have accommodation,
and tax relief for working students.
Private Higher Education
Private higher education plays an important role in vocational training,
is a source of foreign exchange
and helps repatriate Cypriot scientists from abroad.
We support its development, with an emphasis on quality rather than quantity.
Those colleges that meet the necessary requirements of the law to be able to become universities.
OTHER EDUCATIONAL ISSUES
Harmonisation with European policy
In order to be in line with the European Educational events we support the acceleration of the introduction of the Bologna policy in Cyprus Higher Education.
Creation of an appropriate infrastructure in the Schools of Higher Education, i.e. services dealing exclusively with the European and Research Programmes.
Promoting foreign language learning in Higher Education Schools.
The right for the TEs to offer programmes in a foreign language, alongside Greek, but in which the teaching of Greek is compulsory.
Recognition of PE degrees and diplomas, in line with EU policy and guidelines.
Research and Technology
We are in the age of the technological revolution.
A modern country is not only importing knowledge and technology, but also contributing to knowledge creation.
It is not possible to move towards Europe with a research and development budget of 0.23% of GDP, when Europe spends 1.8% of its own GDP.
A striking phenomenon in science today is the simplification of the research effort, precisely through its complexity.
This allows even small countries, with proper planning, to take the lead in research directions that result in major technological achievements.
Cyprus should choose its own strategic sectors, which could be mathematics and computers, economics and management, solar energy, biotechnology and others, where we have a comparative natural advantage or the right human resources.
To realise this vision, we support the establishment of a special committee of university professors and other experts to draw up a strategic plan.
On the basis of this plan, a target should be set to increase annual public investment in research and technology to 1% of GDP over the next three years.
Tax and other measures should also be introduced to support research in the private sector
and to attract foreign companies to set up research centres or research consortia.
Our path towards the European Union makes it imperative to upgrade the research sector.
Commissioner for the child
We support the creation of an Independent Office of the Commissioner for Children, an Independent and Autonomous institution, which notes the political will to upgrade the position of the Child in Cypriot society.
The Commissioner for Children has a multidimensional role in terms of his involvement in a wide range of issues concerning:He is the politician representing childrenHe is the advisor (children - parents - institutions)He is an advocate for children's interests and rightsHe is a coordinator of the institutions dealing with childrenHe is a mediatorHe is a visionary and innovator
As regards the tasks and responsibilities
It is responsible for ensuring that the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child to which Cyprus is a signatory and any other relevant treaty that exists or will exist are applied.
Promotes campaigns, creates programmes for enlightenment and information, authorises programmes for research and statistics, participates in international bodies, monitors developments, always on issues concerning children.
Informs and directly informs the public opinion (Agenda), promoting information and data for its formation on issues concerning the child
Promotes and encourages children's free expression and participation in the community
Oversee and evaluate the policies and practices of agencies working with children
Cooperates with all relevant bodies, organizations, associations, municipalities, public and private sector organizations
Accepts and invites members of the public to listen, advise, inform, inform, inform about anything related to children, their well-being and normal development
Participates in all processes concerning the child as a representative of the child's interests and aware of the child's needs, whether these relate to the legal aspect, or to the social, political, economic or any other aspect related to the child and everything that concerns the child
It refers the case to the competent bodies of the State where the case requires it
It is accountable to the President of the Republic and to Parliament.
Media training
We believe that today the need for media literacy is more urgent.
The integration of the course "Media Education" in our schools, from the first to the last grade, is neither a luxury nor an additional unnecessary burden for children.
The new European citizen must be able to "read" the infinite messages that reach him today from a multitude of sources, often uncontrolled, to recognise their form, their type and their components - and whatever lies behind them - in order to be able to judge them and to choose or reject them.
Inside mediator
If we want to implement an innovative programme to combat violence in our schools, we have to understand the causes of the problem and have the will to fight them.
If and when the will is there, the willingness to explore the landscape and enrich our knowledge through the experiences of other countries is also activated.
The "Mediation from Within" project consists of a series of approaches under different titles but with a single objective, to combat violence and delinquency in schools.
It involves first the children themselves and then teachers and parents.
Mediation programmes help both students and teachers to deepen their understanding of concepts and values, bring them closer together and equip them with the social skills they need to be able to cooperate and act as a team with common goals.
The transfer of responsibility to young people and the recognition of their ability to solve problems that concern them change the way they communicate with adults, especially teachers.
At the same time, it develops interest in the direction of conscious participation in the community - an element that is lacking in our youth classes.
CULTURE AND CULTURAL HERITAGE
Culture and cultural heritage have the same value and importance as other areas of our political and social life.
Therefore any form of development will be meaningless if it is not carried out in the context of a wider cultural development.
Culture adds depth and quality to the way of life, as well as the specificity that makes a people a unique entity.
In the modern world order, in which globalisation tends to erode and flatten the cultural identity of peoples, cultural development must be a matter of the highest priority.
Cyprus is obliged to preserve its unique character,
respecting the identity of other peoples operating in the multicultural society of the European Union.
Culture must first and foremost have a vision.
We need to move away from piecemeal solutions and approach culture holistically, with a cultural reform, just as the education reform was addressed.
The link between Education and Culture is direct and two-way.
The invasion of culture into schools in various ways is enforced.
Establishing specific time in the curriculum for subjects related to Art, in all its forms and dimensions, will be an important development.
The emphasis on the educational role of culture and its use in our educational programmes in a meaningful way must be the front line of both our cultural and educational policy.
Single Cultural Authority
The establishment of a Single Authority for Culture is considered necessary in order to safeguard and develop culture away from a managerial view of things.
With vision and clear guidelines, the Single Authority should ensure pluralism and the representation of all currents of all arts.
Multidimensional development
Cultural development must be multi-dimensional and multi-level, so that culture can become the property of the people.
In this context, as the C.S.EDEK, we propose Emphasis and promotion of incentives for domestic and not only foreign cultural tourism.
Developing culture within the spaces where children move.
Creating exhibition and expression spaces that are managed by the children.
Artworks become part of our everyday life.
To move with simplicity among the citizens.
The "signposting" of urban places with works of great Cypriot artists is a start.
The presence of art in public spaces must be designed on purely artistic criteria.
Helping young people, the elderly and people with disabilities to participate in cultural events, by introducing special tickets
and ensuring that there is easy access to the venues.
Creating appropriate spaces in large rural centres for cultural activities.
Active involvement of local authorities.
Promotion of the cultural heritage and creativity of the other communities of the island (Maronites, Armenians, Pontians, Turkish Cypriots).
A unified and coherent aesthetic policy.
Use of all modern methods to upgrade the aesthetics of buildings.
Strict application of aesthetic rules for pavilions, lighting pillars, billboards, signs.
Formulation of a special programme of cultural expression and creation for immigrants living in our country.
Increase the artists' honorary pension to double (now £1500 per year). This action is a substantial recognition of their contribution to the production of culture, which is what is required.
Infrastructure projects
Infrastructure projects are considered a prerequisite for the development of cultural creativity.
We recommend a State Theatre with a modern stage for better performances.
State Gallery, in order to protect but also to showcase creation in an effective way.
State Library, to preserve old publications and add new ones from contemporary creation.
A museum that can house and showcase in a more effective way the treasures of our island and that will be a mirror of our historical and cultural continuity.
Concert Hall, for better musical events.
State Conservatory, for the upgrading of music education and the development of talented young people.
A children's museum and a children's exhibition space of the artistic creation of the place, both old and modern, so that culture can become a tool and an objective of education.
Artistic and intellectual creation
There is a complete absence of an official book policy.
A state library is considered necessary and could be a start.
A state library which will function as a place to gather information, preserve records, create.
A state library that will serve as a source of data for the development of research
and at the same time as a venue for events and presentations of new publications.
THEATRE
TH. O.O.K. should be divided into three.
We recommend that the following operate separately: Theatre Stage, Theatre Education and Developmental Theatre.
We consider the following to be absolutely necessary: Modernization of the legislation governing the operation of the IOC. The legislation governing the legislation governing the operation of the THOC.
The subject of theatrical development should not be the subject of the Th. O.O.K. but the Ministry of Education and Culture.
Strengthening free professional and amateur theatre.
Strengthen playwriting by including theatre in state awards.
Supporting the activities of the Cyprus Theatre and the International Theatre Institute.
Official introduction of theatrical education in the curricula of schools.
The subject should be taught by experts and not by philologists.
Establishment of a state drama school.
Redefining the composition and operating conditions of the Committee for Actors' Grants.
LITERATURE
We recommend
Increase in the publications grant.
Encourage with financial incentives the translation of books into different languages.
Promotion of local literary production in libraries, universities and other intellectual institutions abroad.
Support for publishing institutions to enable them to continue and expand their publishing activities.
Development of a programme of events to promote the book.
Organising and creating a network of libraries accessible to the local community.
MUSIC
Financial support for the State Symphony Orchestra and other musical groups to enable them to operate more effectively.
Study of our folk music tradition and our folk dances.
Establishment of a committee to evaluate traditional music publications, so that financial support can be given to such publications.
VISUAL ARTS
The creation of the announced School of Fine Arts is imperative as soon as possible.
CINEMA
We propose increasing the financial resources given to filmmakers so that they can realise visions of global reach
and properly develop on-site film production.
Protecting our cultural heritage
Apart from the importance that should be given to the creation of a Museum, State Gallery and Library, the conservation of archaeological and historical monuments should be upgraded.
Related to this issue is the restoration and protection of buildings in towns and villages that are examples of our traditional architecture and way of life.
The protection of archaeological sites and historical monuments in the occupied territories is of the utmost importance.
It is time to record and archive all archaeological sites and historical monuments
and to comment scientifically on their value and significance as elements of the world's cultural heritage.
At the same time, an awareness campaign must be undertaken and representations made to international organisations and governments for their rescue and protection.
For all this, provision must be made for increased resources, modernisation of old or new legislation and restructuring of cultural institutions such as the Department of Antiquities, the Centre for Scientific Research, etc., and their reinforcement with appropriate staff, so that they can function properly and effectively in this direction.
The University of Cyprus should also play a primary role.
Financial resources
In addition to state sponsorship, culture should get its fair share of the OPAP games.
It is also necessary to participate and make use of the possibilities offered through the programmes of the European Union and UNESCO.
NEW GENERATION
The safeguarding and promotion of the rights of young Cypriots in a human-centred and meritocratic society is the basis of the policy of the Hellenic Youth Union.
Dignity
The violation of human dignity, through bureaucracy and anarchy, is a scourge for Cypriot society that must be addressed effectively and efficiently.
We recommend
Appoint external auditors from the state to control the procedures for recruitment, promotion, registration of offers and transfers in the civil service and the army.
There should be transparency in examinations and free access to the results of written tests and interviews (where the post requires them).
To promote the upgrading of the Academy of Public Administration
To create Executive Selection Centres with the main responsibility of selecting the best people to fill managerial positions in all sectors of the Public Service.
Revise, under the responsibility of the executive, the law criminalising bribery so that its provisions become practicable.
Participation in decision-making
Without a doubt, the Youth Organisation, the Municipal Youth Councils and the Cyprus Youth Council have an important role to play both as advisors to the state on youth issues and as institutions for youth policy making.
It is therefore necessary to further and more substantially involve these institutions in the decision-making processes.
This can be done through institutional or informal consultation between the state and youth organisations, so that decisions taken are subject to co-decision with the participation of youth representatives.
Unemployment
Unemployment remains one of the most serious social problems.
The underemployment or underemployment of young scientists de facto leads a large proportion of young people to despair, insecurity and social marginalisation.
In order to reduce the problem of youth unemployment and long-term unemployment, we propose that
the state intensify efforts to develop a preventive strategy, focusing on the possibility of vocational training based on the early identification of individual needs and competences.
Vocational guidance in secondary education should be modernised in terms of its objectives and methods and the relevant Service should be staffed with qualified and specialised personnel.
Continuing and strengthening training and lifelong learning.
Particular attention should be paid to women and older workers, who usually face discrimination.
Consider incentives for early retirement.
The state should consider introducing the 35-hour working week.
The state to promote training and development of entrepreneurship, the use of technology, and the provision of specific support services for entrepreneurs of small and medium-sized enterprises.
The state to promote the replacement of unemployment benefits with incentives to find and take up work in the form of theoretical training, apprenticeships, work experience or any other measure capable of promoting the professional integration or reintegration of the worker.
Leisure, entertainment
Young people should be entertained and enjoy life and youth.
At the same time, however, the use of leisure time and recreation in creative ways is of crucial importance in shaping the youthful character and personality of our young people.
We recommend
A special programme to support and enrich the activities of Youth Centres, particularly in rural areas (music, dance, literature, theatre, sport).
Creating multi-purpose Youth Centres, especially in urban centres, so that our young people can find healthy activities in their free time.
Youth cultural policy for the mass media (television, radio).
Strengthening amateur cultural groups (theatre, music, sports).
Strengthening cultural activities in schools.
Creating sports centres, especially in the countryside, and strengthening existing mass sports programmes.
Support the institution of Municipal Youth Councils to encourage young people to participate in the community.
Use of addictive substances - Drugs
The suffocating contexts created by distorted social and economic conditions contribute to the development of addictive substances, especially drugs.
The conditions that create the problem are expanding instead of being limited, and the phenomenon is taking on explosive proportions.
The extent of the problem is determined by the dramatic increase in the number of drug users, drug addicts and drug-related deaths.
The policy of generalised criminalisation and repression has not brought the desired results.
Existing repressive action plans need to be replaced by the adoption of other policies.
We recommend
Drug users should not be the responsibility of the police, courts and prisons, but of social services for prevention and treatment.
Directly separating the punishment of the trafficker from the user from the severe punishment of drug traffickers.
Creating an infrastructure for the support and treatment of drug addicts in public hospitals.
Controlled administration of drugs to users who cannot choose other means of treatment.
Strengthening information and prevention programmes integrated into the educational process.
Establishment of social reintegration structures and services.
Designing policies and programmes for vocational training and social reintegration for addicted people.
Establish positive discrimination recruitment policies in the public and private sectors to support addicts and prevent them from returning to their previous situation.
Inclusion in the Cypriot police of social professions (sociologists, social workers, psychologists) who will deal with the user with social policies and not with violence.
Decriminalising the user and guaranteeing his rights as required by a law-abiding society.
Strengthening, upgrading and modernising the Anti-Drug Council.
Army and conscripted youth
The priority of the state must be an integrated Defence and Security policy that will fruitfully combine the political and social reality and national priorities, as they arise from the international and local geopolitical and geostrategic situation.
Military service should be transformed into a platform for a fruitful and productive period in young people's lives that does not cut them off from the social fabric.
We recommend
The introduction of social contribution at all levels of social action, of which service is a part.
The use of service for vocational training, work experience, technological training, so that the time of service is a productive parameter in the lives of our young people.
Contribution of National Defence to the scientific research and development of the country.
Taking effective measures to prevent, treat and combat drug use in the military.
The state should consider changing the current system of compulsory military service at 18 so that a young person would be obliged to serve until the age of 30.
The provision of e-learning to all conscripts, as a form of social reciprocity and in order not to interrupt the educational progress of the young person and to cover his free time fruitfully.
Training of officers in subjects of their choice and attainment at the end of the training of a certificate useful for their professional or educational career.
Provision of financial support, equivalent to unemployment benefit, extending up to and at least as long as the period of service, to young people who are dismissed and are demonstrably unemployed.
New Couples
The reality of the rising cost of living with the simultaneous stabilisation and/or reduction of wages, places young newly married couples in tragic financial limbo.
The financial cost of acquiring a home is prohibitive for the vast majority of young couples and youth in general.
We propose the provision of low-interest mortgage loans or state subsidies for mortgage interest rates not only for the weaker social strata
but also for all newly married couples who are demonstrably unable to acquire a first home on their own.
Student welfare
It is generally accepted that there are many weaknesses in the field of student welfare in our country.
Most of our young people are forced to study abroad
and the family bears almost all the necessary costs.
We recommend
Maintaining and expanding student sponsorship
Linking the student card to more benefits, such as subsidised food, housing and public transport
SPORT
Sport is a key factor in education, health, cultural upliftment, healthy recreation, leisure time and a means of fellowship, cooperation and communication between people.
It is also a social function in which everyone must have the time, means and conditions to participate.
Cypriot sport has not been immune to the deep crisis that is pervading Cypriot society.
The policy that downgrades sport to a marginal part of the social body must go along with yesterday, so that the ideals of sport (participation, effort, meritocracy) can finally become the basis of the constantly tested "arena" of society.
Sport as a component of our life and culture needs to create and transform critical and fighting consciousnesses.
It should highlight democratic models and autonomous relations of participation, not alter consciences, erode values and stifle aspirations.
The impact of the sporting idea, especially on youth, makes the need for the independence and de-partisanship of sport urgent.
It is imperative to formulate and pass a framework law that will: regulate the issues of sport;
establish democracy, transparency and social control;
free sport from the embrace of party and economic circuits;
ensure the conditions of sport for all by establishing sports and sports education at all levels of education;
affirm the independence of sport and limit the role of the state in monitoring compliance with the legal framework and ensuring resources to support sport.
The creation of a sports museum and sports library for the promotion of our modern sports history and the study of the evolution of sport by collecting Greek and foreign literature will help to reconnect sport and football with citizens and society.
Sport in our education system
It is our conviction that the ideals of fair play, fair play, participation in teamwork, solidarity, cooperation and a friendly spirit should be an integral part of the educational process.
We recommend
The qualitative and quantitative upgrading of Physical Education and sports activities in general at all levels of education.
Upgrading of the sports afternoon within the framework of the operation of the all-day school.
Reforming school championships in secondary education and establishing incentives, both moral and material, for schools and students who excel.
Operation of sports facilities departments in secondary education to support student-athletes.
Ensure mechanisms for cooperation between school and extracurricular sports.
Mass sports
Implementation of an Action Plan for the development of sports programmes under the responsibility of the state, to promote "lifelong exercise" for all citizens.
We recommend
Creating small sports and recreational facilities in all municipalities and communities to create equal opportunities for all.
Development of new "Sport for All" programmes by the CTO, in cooperation with the Local Authorities, and improvement of existing programmes to make them attractive to citizens.
Promotion of these programmes and a campaign to increase citizen participation
Promotion of the Sport for All programme in special categories, such as the National Guard, Security Forces, Prisons, Rehabilitation Units, Nursing Homes, Schools for the Disabled.
Competitive sport
Without competitive grassroots sport, a country cannot have a top sport with high expectations of international distinction.
The state should support an action plan, based on scientific data and analysis and with long-term planning.
The creation of new, modern and functional training facilities and the improvement of existing ones are prerequisites for quality upgrading and success.
Furthermore, given that the athlete must be at the centre of attention, we propose the compulsory insurance of all athletes of competitive level.
Reconfigure the incentives for rewarding athletes, including a plan for the professional rehabilitation of high-level athletes, based on objective criteria.
Implement a national plan to support talented athletes from the grassroots level to the top.
Implementation of a premium scheme for student-athletes in Olympic sports for their admission to higher education.
Continuous training and support of Cypriot coaches
Ensuring the necessary facilities for our champions serving in the National Guard.
Increase the participation of athletes of competitive level in specialized preparation programs at home and abroad with support from the state.
Further upgrading of the institution of the athletes' health card and modernization of the procedures for its issuance.
Sports infrastructure
For the construction of new sports facilities, a new national plan should be developed and take into account the following:Balanced geographical distributionPopulation sizesCosts of construction and maintenanceNeeds of the different sports, based on their competitive level and the massiveness of the sportProgramme of use and exploitation by sports bodies and for sports tourism purposes.
The football
Cypriot football is sick.
Undoubted confirmation of the unreliability that prevails in the minds of fans and the reduction in the number of tickets.
Cypriot football drives fans away from the stadiums, as it is played where quality is absent and injustices abound, where the rules of the game are altered accordingly, where the championships are contested.
Cypriot football is not always played in the stadiums.
Meeting the fans' demand for clean and spectacular football is an essential prerequisite to refill the stands and restore faith in the value of the sport in the public's mind.
The finances of the clubs must come under the strict control of the state and any discrepancies must be borne personally by the managers.
Violence is a scourge in our stadiums and a curse for sport.
In order to combat this anti-social phenomenon, we need to study and make use of the accumulated experience in Europe
and allocate resources for upgrading stadiums and installing the necessary technical equipment.
The enlightenment of our fans must play a dominant role, with the aim of cultivating sports ethics and the fan spirit.
LABOUR-SOCIAL POLICY
Investing in our rich human capital
and building a welfare state with solidarity, justice and equality of opportunity at its core is at the heart of our policy.
Our social policy, as fully linked to the broader economic and labour policy, moves towards the realisation of the following objectives:
the creation of decent living conditions.
Improving financial performance.
Ensuring high quality goods and services.
Our proposals aim to creatively address challenges and seize opportunities in relation to the present and the future.
Proper planning will create the conditions for: Improving the quality of life.
Promoting equality and equal treatment.
Full-time employment opportunities.
Access to social benefits and rights.
Access to education, further education and lifelong learning.
Fighting poverty and social exclusion.
Social dialogue and stakeholder participation are crucial in shaping policy and addressing problems in the adjustment process due to Cyprus' accession to the European Union.
Employment
The creation of full employment conditions is the basic philosophy of the policy of the C.S.E.P.C.
In the context of the implementation of this objective, the immediate implementation of the National Action Plan for Employment is essential.
Unemployment
Unemployment in Cyprus is still at low levels. However, the situation can be seen as worrying by the fact that unemployment is due to structural problems in the economy.
We recommend
Creating new jobs with qualitative characteristics in the context of the growth path of the economy.
These jobs will be the result of investments in research and technology and upgrading the supply of services in education, IT and medicine.
Strengthening social service organisations (nurseries, shelters for the elderly, etc.) to create new jobs, especially for the inactive female workforce.
Youth entrepreneurship
Creating conditions to promote and support entrepreneurship, especially for young people, is at the heart of our policy.
The development of individual initiative for the creation of new modern enterprises will be promoted through specific programmes and criteria.
We recommend
Definition of the economic activities and initiatives to be included in the programmes, within the framework of the National Action Programme and the broader Strategic Economic Development Programme.
Technical and financial support for accounting and legal consultancy services.
Sensitive Groups
No citizen should be left out of economic and social activity.
Marginalisation can be the tragic result of an employment policy that is indifferent to vulnerable groups.
 Such groups include people with disabilities, older people, women, young children seeking to enter the labour market, people with AIDS, foreign workers and economic migrants.
We recommend
Establishment of an Equal Opportunities Observatory along the lines of similar initiatives in other EU member countries.
The Observatory should be staffed with highly qualified scientific personnel of various specialties, in order to monitor, record, study and design programmes and interventions for the competent Ministries and to prevent phenomena of marginalization, economic or social, of these vulnerable groups.
People with Disabilities
The particular sensitivity of our policy for people with disabilities will be expressed through the priority treatment of the problems they face, with the aim of their participation and integration in the social and economic environment of the country.
Recent statistics show that of all people of working age only 14% are in employment.
We propose to promote an integrated Action Plan and in particular:1. Employment with support in the open labour market
Support from a qualified work mentor to ensure the full integration of the person into the workplace.
Real work in a real workplace, specific hours and real pay, based on hours worked and performance.
Support given to the worker, employer and colleagues by qualified staff.
2. Self-employment in social enterprises
Self-employment in social enterprises of mixed skills, within the community, ensuring their sustainability, based also on the qualification acquired by the individuals through training programmes.
3. Protected working environment
Community employment environment.
Intermediary centres for guided work experience for prospective employers.
4. Incentives for employers - Making use of the European Social Fund
Premium salary schemes for individuals.
Workplace adaptation plans.
Reduced productivity subsidy schemes.
5. Sheltered workshops
Strengthening and expanding existing sheltered workshops in order to employ those who cannot be employed in the open labour market.
Foreign workers - Economic migrants
The employment of foreigners, legally or illegally, is a reality today.
The principles and values of our own policy address the situation through the anthropocentric lens of our ideological political identity and the socio-economic model of development that seeks equality of opportunity, equal treatment and the fair distribution of income and burden among all participants in the productive process.
We recommend
Immediate research/study by the competent Ministries to determine the needs of the Cypriot economy and the degree of resistance, proper reception and support of temporary foreign workers or economic migrants, including expatriates from Pontus and the former Soviet Union.
A strategic coordination programme to regulate many of the problems that already exist in this area.
Foreign workers, economic migrants and their families to be treated equally,
protected socially and economically
and assisted to ensure their smooth presence and functioning in Cypriot social reality.
Their human, labour, cultural and civil rights will be fully respected and protected.
Lifelong learning - training
New forms of employment, the ever-increasing demand for flexibility in employment and fierce economic competition at European and international level call for the greatest possible upgrading of the knowledge, skills and competences of all economically active citizens, especially employers.
Performance and productivity conditions have been greatly upgraded, so it is necessary to ensure the continued employment of the individual.
We recommend
Establishment of new institutions (legal framework) and implementation of measures and programmes involving not only the productive classes but also other social actors in the education and training sector.
Creation of schools and institutions, public or controlled private initiative, to develop and upgrade vocational training, retraining and retraining programmes for employers, entrepreneurs, managers, unemployed people of all categories, women who have been inactivated or have never been able to enter the labour market and people from vulnerable groups.
Establishment of an Agency for the Accreditation of Institutions and Diplomas of Vocational Training in line with the standards and with the financial support of similar programmes funded by the European Commission.
Promote institutional professional recognition and income graduation of professional diplomas awarded to those who successfully complete recognised programmes.
Schools of Vocational Education
Programmes to promote lifelong learning should also include people with disabilities through the establishment of Vocational Education Schools with the following main orientations:
Developing and acquiring social, vocational knowledge and skills to seek, find and maintain a profession and demonstrate appropriate work behaviour, cooperation and hierarchy.
Sensory exercises with space and materials, exercises of attention, rhythm and work routine, as well as exercises of assembly, positioning and machining of objects.
Specialty training and work experience required by the routine work of the recognized specialty.
Special workplace talents to promote career opportunities in workplaces and integrated approaches to job creation.
National Commission for Employment.
Government employment policy, in addition to the initiative and priority responsibility of the Ministry of Employment and Social Affairs, must be discussed, agreed and promoted for implementation and enforcement with the participation of all social actors.
We recommend
Strengthen the National Commission for Employment, which should be supported by staff with experience and scientific training in the field of employment.
The establishment of the Commission in 2004 is a first positive step.
But it needs to give policy direction and results for employment growth soon.
Public Employment Services Decentralisation
State employment services are characterised by inefficiency, sluggishness and understaffing.
These findings were also confirmed by a recent report of experts of the European Commission who studied the services and structures of the services of the Ministry of Employment and Social Affairs.
The harmonisation and integration of Cyprus into the EU requires modernisation, institutional, organisational and administrative reorganisation and upgrading of the human resources of the employment services.
It requires adequate staffing with new qualified personnel and continuous education and training of all staff in the obligations, management methods and tasks resulting from the employment policy harmonised legally and institutionally with the European acquis.
The primary objectives of the state employment services for every citizen concerned should be: Guidance of employers and employers on employment issues of special individual interest.
Placement in a job or training programme.
Improving people's opportunities in the labour market.
Integration into employment in other ways.
Offer benefits and support to the unemployed.
Specialised services for Community and foreign workers.
For people with disabilities:
Staffing with qualified vocational guidance counsellors for vocational information of technical knowledge in relation to simple forms of work.
Structured professional counseling research evidence for career choices.
Providing support for the acquisition of social, vocational, work skills and attitudes, as well as pre-vocational training activities in a recognised speciality.
Industrial relations - Tripartite cooperation
The economic, political and social changes that have taken place in Cyprus in the recent period and which are being completed with the accession to the EU have to a large extent affected the overall framework of industrial relations, which was based on free collective bargaining and respect for collective agreements.
Working conditions, employment, collective agreements and labour and social rights are going through a phase of critical change.
They are characterised mainly by the attempt to introduce flexible forms of employment, the deterioration of institutions, the violation of collective agreements, the suppression of workers' labour and social rights and the dismantling of the overall framework of labour relations.
We recommend
Safeguarding the institution of full-time employment
and limiting as much as possible flexible forms of employment in order to ensure adequate family income.
Implementation in practice of the relevant European Directive on the establishment of Works Councils.
Adoption of European practice for legal regulation and universal application of a minimum level of employment conditions through existing collective agreements.
Safeguarding and protecting the institution of free collective bargaining and collective agreements.
Strengthening existing Tripartite Cooperation institutions.
Safety and Health at Work
Occupational Safety and Health, the effective protection of the worker from occupational diseases and accidents, and the working environment in general, is a matter of utmost importance for the C.S.E.E.C. and is permanently at the centre of its attention and political action.
The loss of human lives and the loss of the ability to work due to disability, apart from the pain and suffering that accompany them, are also phenomena of social injustice that cannot be accepted by any civilised society.
We recommend
Immediate implementation of the EU Commission's Report on the staffing of the Inspection Department with a sufficient number of inspectors, occupational doctors and other scientific personnel for the effective promotion of occupational safety and health conditions.
Creating the appropriate infrastructure for the implementation of the new European legislation.
Labour Inspectorates should be placed under the supervision and control of a central authority with an autonomous character, so that inspectors are not used for other tasks that interfere with their work.
Establish in-house disease and accident prevention services.
Members of Safety and Health Committees and Safety Officers to be given real powers by law to be effective.
Systematic monitoring of the working conditions and health of workers through preventive medical examinations under the responsibility of the employer.
Immediately elect Safety and Health Committees and extend the institution to all sectors of economic activity.
Recruit Occupational Physicians immediately and join the competent authority for occupational safety and health.
Continuous information, education and training of workers and employers should be carried out under the responsibility of the state and with the involvement of all parties.
To integrate the issue of Health and Safety in Technical Schools, the Apprenticeship System, etc.
Develop incentive programmes for companies to provide logistical support for improving health and safety conditions.
General (National) Minimum Wage
Ensuring a minimum social wage is aimed at eliminating poverty wages, a phenomenon that is mainly observed among workers in retail, office, etc.
The rationale for establishing such a wage is to protect those categories of workers who, for various reasons, have no legal or trade union protection and there is always the risk of injustice in their pay.
We recommend
The Minimum Social Wage to be set taking into account the poverty line, as defined in the EU, which is 60% of the average.
Our proposal for the establishment of a National Minimum Wage:
(a) It recognises that our society cannot be divided into a prosperous majority and an impoverished minority, which is constantly marginalised.
(b) Supports the real need of tens of thousands of our fellow human beings for social protection and equal opportunities in living, medical care, education, housing, etc.
(c) It ensures for every wage-earner in every branch of economic activity a minimum wage sufficient to meet his real needs in life.
Democracy and Transparency
Our proposal and political will is to promote the establishment and operation of the Workers' Councils as soon as possible.
We believe in participatory, transparent and democratic processes between employers and employees in production and the economy.
The quality human resources available in the country must operate in such a positive climate, environment and conditions, which will be the result of the creation of the Labour Councils.
Employees have several rights, enshrined in law. For example, they have the right to inform and express their opinion to the employer on matters directly related to their work.
We will promote the creation of institutional supervisory mechanisms so that workers can in practice:
Demand to be informed of the impact that technological upgrading may have on their work,
Have access to the employer's personal file,
Receive explanations for their evaluation.
They are informed about how their payment is calculated.
File a complaint in case of unfair treatment or discrimination against them,
Call for help to the Labour Council, which will be able to represent their interests in dealing with the employer.
SOCIAL WELFARE AND EYHMEPIA
Modern Cypriot society and the family are facing a serious crisis.
If we do not act proactively, traditional family principles will be lost and the social fabric will be disrupted.
Social Welfare Services follow the problem and intervene therapeutically. They need to change their philosophy and turn their energies to prevention.
We recommend
Upgrading the Social Welfare and Welfare Services and changing the name of the Ministry to the Ministry of Labour, Welfare and Social Insurance.
Integration of all pensions, allowances, disability benefits, public assistance, etc. into the Social Security Department, without affecting the acquired rights of citizens.
 Social Welfare Services to retain the benefits for families/individual with socio-economic problems, the cases of elderly/disabled persons in need of care, as well as other special cases such as single parent families, person with special needs, etc.
Modernization of Social Welfare Services,
prioritization of contemporary social problems
and the operation of new programmes (AIDS, drugs, foreign workers, economic migrants, single-parent families), while terminating the old programmes.
Independence of Social Welfare Services from secondary obligations to other Services and Voluntary Organisations (Student Certificates, Housing Funding Agency, etc.)
Prevention of social problems to support the institution of the family, with the intervention of education.
This will largely be achieved by introducing social education courses in secondary school
and informing/educating young people on the basic roles of parent and spouse,
implementing all-day schooling
and promoting children's clubs.
Simplifying adoption procedures.
Decentralization and operation of community programs, through Multipurpose Counseling Centers by Municipalities and regionally by clusters of Communities.
Increase the funds for government grants to Voluntary Organisations.
These can be drawn from the Social Cohesion Fund (2% of the employers' contribution).
People with Disabilities
One in ten Cypriots is a person with a disability.
For these people, with permanent or temporary impairments, disabilities, incapacities, weaknesses, handicaps or a combination of the above, resulting from physical, mental or intellectual deficiencies, a new social policy is needed, combining economic competitiveness with social solidarity and providing real integration of these people into society with equal rights and obligations.
In July 1996, the European Commission adopted a Communication: "Equal opportunities for people with disabilities", which laid the foundations for a new European strategy.
In order for the above mentioned Communication to be implemented in Cyprus, on a practical level, the creation of a National Support Structure as a Social Welfare Institution, which will cover the national strategy of Cyprus in the following areas, should be pursued:
Timely multidisciplinary intervention to individuals and their families
and empowering them to participate in the Social Care Action Plan.
Raising public awareness through practical participation in the design of social care that addresses equal opportunities for all people.
Adapting education, training and rehabilitation systems for people and those involved in them.
A people-centred approach to smooth access for people to new technology
and safe movement in transport, buildings and the environment.
SOCIAL SECURITY
The social security scheme is one of the most important institutions in the field of social protection, which should be protected and strengthened by
ensuring its long-term sustainability.
Support for its universality and proportionality, which ensure solidarity between low and high incomes, between young and old, between healthy and sick people.
Adapting it to respond to modern socio-economic problems.
We recommend
The design of a long-term funding strategy for the Social Security Fund to maintain its balance sheet, despite the problems that threaten its long-term sustainability (ageing population, maturing plan).
The review of the level of pensions and the coordination of state schemes that pay benefits to the elderly to boost their income above the poverty line and make them more accessible.
Equal treatment of men and women in widow's pensions.
The payment of benefits for accidents at work and for certain classes of self-employed workers.
The extension of the payment of unemployment benefit beyond six months and the parallel inclusion of the unemployed in vocational training programmes.
Faster and better service to policyholders.
Setting up small offices in various urban areas and in large rural centres.
The payment of contributions and the payment of benefits through the Co-operative Institutions and private banks.
Simplifying the language in forms and correspondence with citizens. Keeping the information requested in them to a minimum.
Information on rights and obligations in the social security plan with simple information material.
Informing and sending appropriate forms to citizens before they reach pensionable age, after a death is registered, when someone enters the labour market, etc.
Provident Funds/Occupational Pension Schemes
In parallel with the Social Security Plan, measures should be taken to protect Occupational Pension Plans and Provident Funds by
ensuring their proper management.
Control of their investment policy.
Protection of occupational pensions and provident funds in the event of employer bankruptcy.
RACIAL EQUALITY
Promoting gender equality in Cypriot society is one of our primary objectives, which will be achieved with the right planning and upgraded action.
Achieving equal treatment of men and women and equal opportunities requires innovative and dynamic actions.
It requires equality policies to be developed at all levels of society.
The position of women depends both on their quality of life in the workplace and on the creation of an appropriate infrastructure with facilities for working parents.
It also depends on developing the right mindset on gender equality issues.
Equal Opportunities Committee
Our primary objective is to create an Equal Opportunities Commission with executive powers and the participation of women's organisations and the equality sections of trade unions.
The Commission should be an independent and non-partisan body with the following responsibilities: Eliminate all forms of discrimination against women.
Creating equal opportunities in general between men and women.
Monitor the implementation and functioning of equality legislation and intervene to make corrections where needed.
Investigate complaints from women or men about discrimination against them on the grounds of their gender and mediate between the parties concerned.
Providing legal assistance and advice.
This Commission should replace the Equal Opportunities Advisory Committee of the Ministry of Labour and Social Insurance and suspend the decision of the Council of Ministers to appoint the Commissioner for Administration and as Equality Commissioner.
Woman and Work
The full and immediate practical implementation of legislation on gender equality will be pursued, in particular: The law on equal treatment of men and women in employment and vocational training and the law on equal pay for equal work or work of equal value.
This requires: a) Permanent and adequate staffing of the Ministry of Labour and Social Insurance as the competent ministry for their practical implementation;
b) Organisation of training seminars on the content, scope, implementation mechanisms of the legislation on equality and the broad participation of the social partners.
c) Establishment of a system and mechanism for informing workers,
training and retraining programmes for women in new sectors of the economy and technology.
Woman and Prejudice
Alongside institutional and other practical measures to promote equality, social prejudice must also be combated:
organise training/awareness-raising seminars for men and women in key positions on equality issues.
In the context of the educational reform that is taking place in education, equality policies should be immediately developed within our educational system, e.g. the introduction of sex education, parental care, and
seminars on gender equality in schools by experts.
Introducing positive actions that will accelerate the promotion of equality.
Positive actions that will target the root of the problem, the productive process and the need for women to participate in quality positions in the labour market.
The root of the problem is largely a combination of work and family responsibilities.
Legislative promotion of equality
We consider it necessary for the Government to take initiatives, with the cooperation of women's and trade union organisations, to inform women both on legislation and on the assertion of their rights.
To also proceed with the development of various media communication policy strategies and practices
and the publication of printed material in plain language and its distribution to all households.
Facilities for working parents
The state to allocate funds from the state budget to provide incentives for companies to develop employment plans that are friendly to working parents and especially to women.
The State should also promote the following measures:
Establishment of adequate public nurseries with operating hours compatible with those of private sector workers.
Expansion of the institution of all-day schooling to all primary and secondary schools.
Increase maternity leave from 16 weeks to 22 weeks.
HEALTH
The health sector is undoubtedly the cutting edge of social policy in any state and the 'well-being of the people' indicator can be largely determined by the level of health care provided and health indicators.
Health policy is the set of efforts aimed at achieving full physical, mental and social well-being, according to the World Health Organization's (WHO) definition of health.
It is part of social policies and is part of the public policies of each country, and depends both on the general political structures and the economic situation of a country and on parameters such as the pre-existing general health status of the population, living conditions, individual habits, etc.
The situation today
Cyprus, a country with a relatively strong economy, which is a member of the EU, despite the fact that it has health indicators that are not inferior to the rest of the European countries, has not yet introduced a General Health Plan (GHP) for its citizens.
The very large increase in recent years in health care expenditure, but also the ever-increasing costs of various operations, specialised examinations and treatments, make it problematic for a large part of the population to adequately meet the corresponding financial requirements.
The already existing discrimination on health issues between the wealthy classes of our people and the economically disadvantaged will increase even more in the coming years, with obvious risks of social inequality and destabilisation.
The EPP C.C. was one of the pioneers in supporting the introduction of such a plan.
The Committee is therefore concerned about the delay, which is gradually leading to the anchoring and degradation of services and a rapid increase in costs, without this being translated into a corresponding improvement in healthcare.
What we seek
Implementation of a modern and effective health care system, which will meet the real needs and expectations of the Cypriot citizen, for decent and high quality prevention, care and treatment services.
Establishment of a Medical School.
Transforming Cyprus into a regional service centre.
Objectives
The implementation of health policy with emphasis on prevention and health promotion and the improvement of the health level of the Cypriot population.
Ensuring equal access to the health system and dignified treatment of Cypriot citizens.
The new organisation of the Ministry of Health.
The reorganisation of the Administration and Operation of Hospitals.
Making Primary Health Care and Public Health the key pillars of the new system.
Upgrading the role of health workers.
The continuous improvement of the quality of public and private health services.
The rational allocation and effective management of the human and financial resources of the system.
Effective controls on the provision of public and private health services.
Our key policy pillars General Health Plan
Its implementation should essentially be based on the following key principles: It should be universal, i.e. it should cover the entire population and give everyone the same opportunities to use it.
To make use of the entire medical and paramedical world and to offer high quality health care.
Provide the possibility of free choice of doctor and hospital.
The financial contribution should be proportional, with an increased rate for people with higher incomes.
In the case of groups with special financial needs (e.g. pensioners, large families, low-income earners, etc.), provision could be made for a special contribution from the state or special tax relief for those who pay income tax.
Ensure harmonious cooperation between the public and private sectors in the context of cooperation and mutual disclosure rather than rivalry.
The Ministry of Health should have a strong supervisory and monitoring role to ensure that the above principles are implemented.
Immediate Measures
Taking into account the ever-increasing problems in the health sector, but also the overall plan that will be required for the full implementation of the GESY, the Hellenic Socialist Party considers it necessary to recommend the adoption of immediate measures that will improve the existing situation on the one hand and will assist the introduction and implementation of the Plan on the other hand:
1. Transfer of part of primary and secondary medical care to the private sector, in order to
decongest the outpatient clinics of hospitals.
To improve the working conditions of medical staff
and upgrade the care offered.
Reduce waiting lists.
Provide better and faster service to patients.
In the areas of clinical and paraclinical or diagnostic tests, where there is congestion and long delays in processing, purchase services from the private sector to alleviate the problem and reduce costs.
Hospitals under the supervision of the state should be reorganized and transformed into autonomous administrative, financial and scientific organizations, so that they can respond adequately to the new competitive conditions, without running financial deficits that will burden the state budget and, by extension, the taxpaying citizens.
4.To regulate on a new basis the procedure for the import, registration and distribution of medicines.
To review the financial criteria for free or reduced participation beneficiaries in hospitals, in order to stop the phenomenon of the actual beneficiaries not being served, while at the same time there is congestion which actually degrades the services offered.
Set the prices of services offered by hospitals based on actual costs for the purpose of billing insurance companies and foreigners.
The rapid growth in health services and needs has led not only to an increase in expenditure, but also, in part, to an irrational allocation of expenditure.
Medical boards convened to send patients abroad should become more humane, more objective, more flexible and faster in their decisions.
Also these medical councils should be controlled internally to eliminate the phenomenon of corruption.
Patients who voluntarily go abroad, forced to seek superior or different medical care, should receive some kind of humane treatment from the state, either financial or medical assistance.
Today, unfortunately, this category of patients are considered as displaced persons and do not have any support or care from the state services.
Also, the patients themselves are forced to sell their property to pay for their hospital fees abroad. The state should not get its share as tax in this case, since it is already not helping them financially.
It is therefore necessary to proceed as soon as possible with the reassessment of priorities and their rational allocation in order to improve and expand the services provided to citizens.
Human Resources
The role of all employees in the GHS is crucial to the effectiveness of the system and the quality of the services provided.
The new environment, created by the new organisation, should favour the promotion of the human factor through new rules, principles and functions in the system.
A climate of meritocracy, transparency and recognition, with parallel safeguards, must be established to avoid distortions, to enhance the prestige of health professionals and to highlight their role as health workers.
The options to be adopted for the terms and conditions of employment in the system for doctors, nurses, paramedical, administrative and other staff should be based on those that have been in force for years in European countries, adapted to the Cypriot reality.
Charter of Patients' Rights
We welcome the adoption of the law that guarantees patients' rights. It has always been a key demand of the Hellenic Parliamentary Assembly, and we will therefore support in every way possible the efforts for its effective implementation.
Health Map
The health map will record the actual health needs of the Cypriot population (morbidity), measure the needs of specific population groups and reflect the actual needs for the development of health services at primary, secondary and tertiary levels, as well as health prevention and health promotion services.
In this way, proper staffing of all hospitals will be achieved, ensuring better patient care and avoiding unnecessary travel for the benefit of patients.
Policy on Medicines
In addition to the implementation of the new drug pricing system, which needs further improvements, the Ministry of Health should develop mechanisms aimed at combating polypharmacy, proper prescribing and a rational pharmacotherapeutic approach.
Implement the use of clinical and economic criteria for the inclusion of medicines in the prescription list in order to limit pharmaceutical expenditure without depriving any patient of the medicines they need.
Ministry of Health
We believe that the current operating structure of the Ministry of Health is not able to meet the current challenges and to carry out the reforms that need to be made.
The JPC recommends the radical reform of the Ministry and its transformation into an executive body for strategic planning and policy making, health and welfare needs assessment, planning and control of the public and private health sector.
We also point out the fact that any major policy needs to rely on new skilled or existing but well-trained human resources, otherwise it has no chance of succeeding, overcoming entrenched inertia.
School of Medicine
The Y.S.Y. and the School of Medicine are the two main pillars for upgrading the level of care offered to our people.
The Hellenic People's Party supports that the operation of the Medical School will: Improve the scientific level of the medical world.
It contributes to the strengthening of research programmes.
Assist in the transformation of Cyprus into a Regional Medical Centre.
Restrict study abroad, resulting in foreign exchange savings, while attracting students from abroad will increase foreign exchange inflow.
It promotes Cyprus in the international arena with all the attendant benefits.
The cost of establishing and operating the School of Medicine should not be an inhibiting factor, taking into account the scientific and economic benefits that will accrue in the long term.
Cyprus regional medical centre
The climatic conditions, the geographical location and the high level of medical personnel available in Cyprus can be exploited to make Cyprus a modern regional centre offering reliable services to the nationals of neighbouring countries.
The low cost of hospitalisation will also attract nationals from EU countries.
ENVIRONMENT
The degradation and destruction of the environment is a global problem that affects everyone every day, and tackling it is everyone's responsibility.
The main cause of the problem is the rapid development of industrialised countries, the copying of the model by developing countries, but also the underdevelopment itself, which leads to the compulsory indiscriminate use of natural resources.
Cyprus is facing the same dilemmas and deadlocks of this development model, having already paid part of the price.
The need to recover the economy after the invasion brought about an unprecedented disorderly growth, with negative consequences for the environment.
The main feature of that period was the uncontrolled expansion of cities to meet the needs caused by the refugee population of 200 000 of our compatriots.
While the primary objective, after 1974, should have been to base our development policy on a scientific Strategic Plan, none of the plans that have been prepared have been used, except in a piecemeal fashion.
The implications today are alarming:
The characteristics of Cyprus and its natural beauty are being dangerously altered.
Rare and rich varieties of fauna and flora are threatened and habitats of great importance for the island's ecosystem are degraded.
Water resources are diminished and polluted by the indiscriminate use of chemicals.
Agricultural land is being degraded and eroded.
Cultural wealth, archaeological sites and monuments, traditional settlements and churches are deteriorating or even disappearing.
The built environment is being degraded for the sake of quantity and reckless profit.
The structure of towns and traditional settlements is being altered and their historical continuity interrupted, creating a gap in the cultural development of the place.
There is a discontinuity in the urban fabric, due to the opportunistic development of areas around cities, based solely on the interests of landowners.
The lack of infrastructure affects the quality of life in these areas.
The inadequacy of public transport and the consequent increase in the use of private vehicles has resulted in traffic congestion and air pollution.
The uncontrolled development of tourism, at a rate disproportionate to the size of the island, without adequate planning and environmental studies, has a significant share of responsibility in the degradation of the environment.
The basic principles of the environmental policy of the C.E.P.C. are respect for man and his ecosystem and the application of the criterion of sustainability in the management of natural resources.
This implies getting rid of the neoliberal approach to economic development and adopting a social and people-centred approach to sustainability.
More specifically, the environmental policy of the CS EDEK proposes: the preparation of Regional Development Plans, based on the principles and decisions of the Intergovernmental Conferences of the European Union.
The extension of Local Plans with the information and participation of the citizen, taking into account local specificities and needs and environmental conditions.
The mandatory preparation of environmental studies for all major infrastructure projects and interventions in sensitive areas.
The upgrading of the aesthetic value and functionality of the built environment.
The creation of ecological awareness in the new generation, through education and wider environmental education, with the use of environmental, scientific and social stakeholders.
The EDEK C.C. points out three main points of concern and objectives regarding its policy on the issue of environmental protection:
the promotion of environmental policy through a redesign of economic policy.
The strengthening of institutions at the local level by giving more powers to local government
and greater participation and involvement of citizens in decisions concerning and affecting the protection of the environment.
The creation of ecological and environmental awareness which should start from the first level of education, wider environmental education and the use of environmental scientific and social actors.
We believe that integrating economic policy with environmental policy will have significant and multi-faceted benefits.
The Hellenic Socialist Party considers environmental protection to be inherent and understandable. Socialism acts in a unity of nature and human society, therefore it believes and strives for the harmonious development and coexistence of the environment with societies and man.
Use of asbestos:
Completion and modernisation of existing legislation to fully align with the EU acquis.
Prohibition of new uses of asbestos and effective control of existing uses.
Inventory of all existing asbestos uses in Cyprus and preparation of a comprehensive programme for the gradual replacement of asbestos with other safe materials.
Creation of a suitable site for the safe disposal of asbestos waste materials for the whole of Cyprus.
Prepare a monitoring programme for the implementation of the above measures and strengthen the competent authorities to ensure effective implementation of the legislation.
To record all cases of people whose health has been affected by asbestos exposure, and to prepare a record for the better care and assistance of these people, and for the implementation of the most appropriate and correct policy in this matter.
Toxic and hazardous waste
Completion and modernisation of existing legislation to fully align with the EU acquis.
Inventory all toxic waste in Cyprus and prepare a record, with a view to implementing a policy to replace, where feasible, these materials with other less toxic or hazardous materials and to effectively implement legislation to control them.
Creating a suitable site for the safe disposal, disposal and treatment of toxic and hazardous waste for the whole of Cyprus.
Prepare a comprehensive monitoring programme for the implementation of the above measures and strengthen the competent authorities for the effective enforcement of the legislation.
Prohibit the use of any chemical material unless it has been previously tested for the risks it may pose to humans and the environment because of its hazardous properties or the risks posed by waste resulting from its use.
Informing all stakeholders and the public about the risks posed by toxic and hazardous materials and their wastes
Preparing and implementing programmes to encourage the collection and safe disposal of toxic and hazardous waste and materials.
Municipal waste
Completion and modernisation of existing legislation to fully align with the EU acquis.
Study, encourage and support ways to reduce the amount of municipal waste generated, and to separate and recycle useful products from it.
Establishment of appropriate facilities and sites for the treatment or safe disposal and disposal of municipal waste throughout Cyprus, without serious degradation of the areas where such facilities or disposal sites are established.
Prepare a comprehensive monitoring programme for the implementation of the above measures and strengthen the competent authorities for the effective enforcement of the legislation.
Educate and inform all stakeholders and the public on the issue with the aim of reducing, separating and properly disposing of municipal waste, starting from school age.
Strengthening of local authorities by the central government, for effective participation in the above effort,
and strengthening of cooperation between all stakeholders, for more efficient implementation of the above policy and more effective protection of the health of the population and the environment.
AGRICULTURE, NATURAL RESOURCES
The peasant class is sending out a picture of income bankruptcy.
The agricultural sector is declining and the future of primary production is bleak.
The rural population is moving to cities and traditional agricultural areas are being abandoned.
The aim of the policy of the Hellenic Social Democratic Party is the social and economic emancipation of the peasant class through the guarantee of a decent income and the creation of prospects for professional competence.
European Union-Common Agricultural Policy
The Hellenic People's Party Central Committee recommends the following practices:
Exploiting the opportunities and possibilities offered by the EU. This will be achieved by keeping farmers fully informed.
To absorb EU funds to the maximum extent possible, through the design of rural development measures and policies that are in line with the European acquis.
Ensuring a special derogation from the European acquis to support agricultural sectors with state funds in cases of substantial crisis.
Countryside
The countryside needs broader rural development measures, such as improved roads, adequately equipped and staffed health centres, healthy creative recreation areas and substantial incentives for the secondary sector of agricultural production in manufacturing.
The Hellenic People's Party considers the countryside to be the basic characteristic of our national identity, which includes our folk heritage and the protection of the natural environment.
For the revitalization and constitution of local communities we propose
Family Allowance for Mountain Areas. The additional transport costs, low income, the need to reduce traffic licence fees, etc. will be taken into account in determining the amount of the allowance.
Student Allowance. Its introduction will be an encouraging measure to retain residents and help to stem the demographic problem.
Greater Government Contribution to the Social Security system for farmers and farmers' wives.
For the EDEK this is an economic necessity but also a practical recognition of the multidimensional role of the peasant class.
Accidents at work
The increasing mechanisation of agriculture, apart from the fact that it creates positive conditions for the practice of the profession, unfortunately increases the risk of industrial accidents and therefore the relevant law needs to be amended so that farmers are also entitled to accident benefits.
Register of Farmers
The operation of a register of farmers will contribute to their better professional representation and strengthen the consolidation of the agricultural profession.
Agricultural Debt
Agricultural debts threaten the survival of thousands of farming families.
The state must make satisfactory arrangements for this thorny social problem, which is an obstacle to the development of the rural economy.
The settlement of agricultural debts is a key priority for the C.S.EDEK.
Oil
The dryness of our climate makes oil a fundamental factor in the formation of production costs and its ever-increasing base price exposes our agricultural products to unfair competition and certainly makes the economic viability of farms more difficult.
A mechanism is needed to stabilise the basic price of agricultural oil at acceptable levels.
Agritourism
Within the framework of our tourism policy, special emphasis should be placed on the development of rural tourism as a means of supplementing the reduced rural income and exploiting the tourism potential of rural areas.
Reduction of Production Costs
We propose an effective review of the Co-operative Central Bank's trade policy.
In the context of its non-profit character, it is necessary to contribute to the reduction of production costs as a due offer of the Co-operative Movement to the farmer.
Improving quality, hygiene and standardisation
Quality upgrading helps to protect consumers, but it is also a necessary condition for dealing with increased competition, especially after the liberalisation of imports.
An acceleration of crop rehabilitation is needed to enable the exploitation of Cyprus' comparative advantage in a number of products.
Food hygiene is a fundamental pillar of successful competitiveness and consumer protection.
Agricultural research and technology
Investment of resources for agricultural research and technology is at a very low level compared to other European countries.
Strengthening research is essential to the prospects for improving the agricultural economy and in this direction the Institute of Agricultural Research should be strengthened and cooperation with the University should be encouraged.
Environmentally friendly agriculture
Organic farming is part of a sustainable agricultural system
and a viable business solution to traditional farming methods.
In 1985 there were 6 300 organic farms in the EU and 100 000 in 1998, which shows the rapid growth of organic production.
The JPC will promote the request for an increase in the relevant budget for adequate staffing of the relevant department, in order to be more effective in promoting environmentally friendly programs.
At the same time, increased incentives should be given to contracted farmers.
Strengthening the Agricultural Safety Agency
The Agency should be strengthened so that it can provide full insurance cover for agricultural and livestock production against all natural and animal risks.
The government should fully cover the administrative costs of the OGA officials by integrating them into the government machine.
WATER RESOURCES
The current situation
Due to our dry and hot climate and the frequent oligombria and drought, water shortage is one of the biggest problems of the country.
In addition, urbanisation of the population, rapid growth of tourism, absence of sewerage systems in many areas, over-pumping and generally sluggish policies of the governments of the day for environmental protection have contributed to the deterioration of water quality.
Water resources are one of the most important components of national wealth and their strict control and rational short- and long-term management is essential.
Their development must be based not only on techno-economic but also on social criteria.
Legislative and administrative measures
Strict legislation on the protection of water resources, within the framework of a single and modern law for the protection and sustainability of the environment should include:
The consolidation of all government departments dealing with water resources development and allocation and drainage into an autonomous Water Authority, in order to eliminate administrative and executive fragmentation of responsibilities, personnel and equipment, and related bureaucracy.
The implementation of a rational and uniform pricing policy on a nationwide basis, both for water supply and for agriculture and livestock farming, which will take into account the type of use and quantities and will provide for deterrent penalties for waste.
Construction of water barriers taking into account the environmental impact.
Water consciousness
Cultivating proper water environmental awareness among all the people is essential and should be encouraged through permanent information in schools and more widely.
Marine and fisheries wealth
The marine and fishery wealth is a common heritage of all Cypriots, therefore the Hellenic Democracy Party is determined to take all actions necessary for its protection.
The exploitation of fisheries wealth must be rational and must be done with a view to preserving it for future generations.
The current problems of overfishing, pollution of the sea from sewage, sewage and fertilizers, pollution from oil products, can only be addressed by the adoption and strict implementation of appropriate legislation.
The C.C.E.P.C. is sympathetic to the problems of our fishermen who are struggling to survive in this difficult profession.
For this reason, we stand by them, providing them with every support in solving any problem they face.
In order to facilitate their docking, we recommend the construction of fishing shelters in the areas of Pissouri and Zygios.
We also support them in their efforts to effectively address the damage caused by dolphins.
To this end, we propose that the State provide dolphin repelling devices free of charge and that the relevant bodies continue to investigate the issue.
It is also necessary to regulate the right of every citizen to enjoy the sea, either through recreational fishing or other water sports, so that this is balanced with both the fishing wealth and the environment.
Rural Youth
Rural youth constitute 0.7% of the agricultural workforce and are therefore alarmingly absent from the production process.
The Hellenic People's Party believes that if this depressing reality is not reversed, negative parameters for the agricultural sector will be created.
Therefore, we propose additional fiscal economic and social measures to attract young people to the agricultural profession.
Briefly, the proposals of the rural policy of the Hellenic Democracy Party aim at reducing the economic and social gap between the urban and rural population,
upgrading the rural fabric of society
and upgrading the role of the agricultural sector in the Cypriot economy.
INTERNAL MANAGEMENT
After the invasion of 1974 and the repatriation of 200 000 people, the development of Cyprus took an anarchic course with serious contradictions and problems in relation to the urban centres and the periphery.
In particular, it has been caused by: Depopulation of rural areas, both in terms of population and labour force, resulting in the inactivation of natural resources and investments.
Concentration of population in urban areas which were not able, mainly due to lack of infrastructure, to accommodate large numbers of inhabitants.
Rural development
A broader reform of rural policy will make a positive contribution to rural development and to reversing the climate of urbanisation.
In addition, and in addition, it is necessary to: promote Regional Development Plans in the framework of European Union policies.
Provide incentives for job creation in productive sectors of rural development.
Urban development
The decongestion of urban centres is essential for proper urban development, which must be based on the promotion and completion of basic infrastructure projects (sewerage, roads, etc.).
Creating conditions for a high quality of life must be put at the top of the priority list.
The neighbourhood must be the core of our society, so it must be strengthened by creating green spaces, sports, entertainment and social gatherings.
Spatial planning - Urban planning policy
The anarchic model of development was largely the result of the needs created after the Turkish invasion.
Unfortunately, these needs have led to fragmented decisions and policies, resulting in 68% of the population being concentrated in urban areas, which cover only 11% of Cyprus.
The preparation of a General Spatial Plan and Regional Development Plans, through which the solution of spatial development problems will be promoted.
Urban planning policy, in addition to building cities, must also focus on solving the problems facing built-up areas and planning the expansion of cities.
Further, there is now a need to prepare development regulation plans for the villages as well.
In some villages such a process has started, but it needs to be intensified, with priority given to villages with traditional character and architectural heritage.
In this context, we propose the extension of Local Development Plans to cover the whole country, with the participation of citizens throughout the process of their preparation and finalization.
Consolidation of the legislation on urban management (building and planning legislation) and reduction of the time and cost of implementation.
Establish the principles for granting waivers and relaxations from development plans and legislation, respectively, to be exercised:
Discretionary regional policy (e.g. addressing development problems in backward, declining or degraded areas, bordering or close to the occupation line).
National development policy (e.g. projects whose scope extends beyond the spatial area of the preferred development).
General economic policy (e.g. smoothing of cyclical fluctuations and expansionary or restrictive economic policies, both generally and regionally).
Social policy (e.g. solving the housing problems of the lower income classes and regions).
Transparency in decisions on deviations from the Development Plan.
Imposition of an environmental remediation fee from relaxations and deviations.
Defining general principles for the modification of Development Plans, with the aim of efficiency, equity and urban and regional development.
Involvement, in the first stage, of municipal authorities and, later, of all Local Authorities in planning decisions.
Consolidation of planning authorities and urban or regional clusters
Differentiation of the building factor of planning zones C for the benefit of permanent residents of the countryside, i.e. those who were born and want to stay in the countryside for the purpose of owner-occupation (and not generally for the exploitation of land).
Revision of the framework of mandatory road construction versus construction of housing for owner-occupation in the countryside, with the local administration and the state assuming responsibility for this, rather than the citizens themselves.
Local Government
The decentralisation of powers, the weakening of the central administration for the benefit of local communities and the granting of powers to their local elected bodies is an essential element of democracy and popular sovereignty.
The upgrading of local government must aim at transforming it into a place of effective popular participation and active involvement of the citizen in the affairs that concern him.
Local Government should not be one of the mechanisms of the state, exercising public administration by state concession, but a self-acting power of the inhabitants over everyday problems.
Alongside the goal of administrative self-reliance, the financial autonomy of elected local authorities is also necessary, so that they can carry out their institutional role unhindered and without dependencies.
Through the financial weakness of the authorities and the meagre state sponsorship, a network of state patronage is in fact perpetuated, which prevents local government from becoming independent of the central administration and from having an integrated and effective action.
For the good and prosperity of the cities and the countryside, the Municipalities and Communities must be in correspondence and connection with the other popular bodies, the cultural associations, the sports clubs, the Parents' Associations, the student movement and the trade unionism.
This is because the alignment of all popular forces and their commitment to the development of local societies is a fundamental prerequisite for the realization of the goals of an effective self-managed Local Government.
Already on our European course, it is time for the state to take initiatives to harmonize local government with European events.
The time has come to seriously address the Second Level of Local Government, not by blindly copying other systems, but by taking into account Cypriot specificities and needs.
Now is the time for transferring powers to the citizen through local government, the face of which should be changed through the adoption of institutional procedures, as the Council of European Municipalities and Regions also points out.
For effective decentralisation and strong local government we propose. The modernisation of the existing legislative framework.
The establishment, among other things, of a second tier of local government, with elected regional officials and expanded powers and the study of the consolidation of the Municipalities and Communities Acts.
The elaboration of an institutional framework governing cooperation between neighbouring Municipalities and Communities.
Encourage the creation of common services of neighbouring Municipalities and Communities, so as to reduce the cost of essential services and ensure their economic viability and quality (e.g. technical services, dog waste collection, etc.)
Encourage the review and consolidation of municipal taxes, fees and more generally the charges of the citizen.
Provide for equalisation funds for the weakest municipalities, as foreseen in the European Charter of Local Self-Government.
Our repatriating compatriots
In recent years, thousands of our compatriots who lived abroad have returned to Cyprus.
These compatriots, however, face serious problems of adjustment in the first period, with the result that many of them flee abroad again, while others become victims of economic exploitation by fraudsters.
The repatriation of our expatriates is an event of exceptional national and economic importance.
Every effort must therefore be made to facilitate their return and to mitigate their adjustment problems.
We recommend
The relevant services need to coordinate to provide clear and detailed information to expatriates about the current situation in Cyprus, schools, the labour market, the property market and entertainment.
Repatriates who need it should have free access to courses to learn or improve their use of the Greek language.
Expansion of the Industrial Training Authority's programmes to train young returnees in skills that are in demand in the labour market.
To give those who serve their military service the opportunity to take Greek language courses and vocational training, without any financial burden.
The Ministry of Defence should organise seminars to raise awareness among officers and instructors of the National Guard, in order to eliminate the, albeit rare, phenomena of prejudice against repatriates.
Subsidies for the attendance of children who are repatriated at the age of over 11 years old, without good knowledge of Greek.
JUSTICE-PUBLIC ORDER
Justice is the foundation of democracy and the rule of law.
In order to effectively fulfil its mission, it needs continuous moral and material support.
The long delay in the administration of justice, which amounts to a denial of justice, is a chronic problem.
Measures to improve the organisation of the courts need to be promoted, in cooperation with the Supreme Court.
These will include strengthening the branch with new judges and support staff, but also the construction of modern buildings and the use of modern technology.
We believe that the establishment of the institution of the tertiary administration of justice is necessary for Cyprus to keep pace with the European and international reality.
The Tribunal of Tertiary Jurisdiction may consist of five members and shall be presided over by the President of the Supreme Court.
To deal with minor issues, Courts of defined jurisdiction may be created to hear citizens' appeals on tax, urban planning, etc.
They will also deal with matters concerning transfers, promotions and dismissals of civil servants.
If the decisions of these Courts are not satisfactory, any interested party will have the right to appeal to the Supreme Court.
There is an obvious need to reform Cypriot law to bring it in line with modern social conditions and technological developments, as well as to complete its harmonisation with the European acquis.
The prison system
The prison system needs to be cleaned up.
As things stand today, prisons have become incubators of crime.
What is needed are modern systems aimed at the social integration of convicts, in particular:
Ensuring humane living conditions for prisoners.
Training of prisoners and preparation for their reintegration into society.
Creation of a special unit to support the released prisoners and offer them assistance in the difficult stage of reintegration.
Creation of special areas for the rehabilitation of juveniles
Implementation of systems for the protection and security of prisoners.
Continuous and systematic training of prison officers.
Organised crime
The growth of organised crime is a phenomenon that causes great concern to the peaceful Cypriot citizen.
Organised crime endangers the lives and safety of citizens, undermines the economy and undermines democracy and quality of life.
Drug trafficking, smuggling and other illicit transactions with the occupied territories, money laundering, prostitution and any other organized criminal activity can only be fought with decisive measures based on unanimous popular support.
Our proposal consists of the following points:
Establish a specialised body for the prosecution of organised crime, which will be the independent task force against organised crime.
Organised crime has the financial resources and other means to corrupt consciences, but also to "close" mouths with intimidating methods, so that it can act undisturbed.
Strong financial incentives make organised crime ruthless in its methods and flexible in its organisation.
For these reasons, it can only be effectively addressed when prosecution services are properly organised and equipped with adequate resources and human resources.
The special new body will include criminal lawyers, forensic scientists, psychologists, psychologists, economists and other scientists, as well as specially trained police officers.
He will work closely with the Customs, the Immigration Service, the State Chemistry Department and other state agencies to carry out his work.
It will also cooperate with police forces in other countries.
Establishment of a forensic laboratory.
The contribution of the State Chemistry Department to the work of the police cannot be overlooked.
However, the delays in the work of the Chemist are well known, due to the sheer volume of work he has to do.
It is therefore obvious that there is a need for a properly staffed and equipped forensic laboratory that will use modern technology for the collection and analysis of evidence and information, in order to reduce the dependence of law enforcement work on the testimonies of citizens.
Working with the public Regardless of the scientific and other methods to be used, a key element of success is public trust and cooperation.
When the citizen feels safe, then they will be ready to cooperate with the police.
A reliable and effective programme for the protection of witnesses and the use of complaints should therefore be established.
Drawing on the experience of other countries. Countries facing the existence of organised crime have turned to the establishment of specialised services and we should draw on their experience.
The experience of other countries in upgrading the Police Academy for the purpose of better staffing and more effective operation of the Police can also prove valuable.
Independent Anti-Corruption Agency.
The experience of other countries shows that organised crime tries to infiltrate the ranks of the police but also the premises of political groups or actors.
Even in Cyprus, there are some indications of attempts to link organised crime groups to politics and members of the police force.
An independent agency with a mission to fight corruption would restore the credibility of the police force and improve its effectiveness.
Fire Service
It is necessary to strengthen the Fire Service with specialised scientists and upgrade the training of firefighters.
Every summer we witness the destruction of our forests due to inadequate planning for effective forest firefighting.
We recommend the immediate establishment of regional forest firefighting units, with specially trained and properly equipped forest firefighters.
The issue of protecting our forest wealth concerns the entire population and therefore great importance must be given to informing and educating the public to actively contribute to the work of forest protection and forest firefighting.
The Minotaur of Asphalt
The blood tax on asphalt increases year by year.
The costs - human, social and economic - are enormous. Official statistics show that in the last ten years we have suffered 1152 deaths in road accidents, half of them under the age of 40.
We must, at long last, address the problem as both a serious and urgent one.
Much can be done to reduce the number of accidents, deaths and injuries: improving the road network,
improving road signs,
educational programmes in schools,
public awareness campaigns, etc.
The costs of the necessary projects and programmes are very small compared to the human and economic costs of accidents for our country.
Laws and regulations must be applied strictly and uniformly in all regions and for all.
Drink-driving, speeding and dangerous driving are anti-social behaviour and must be prevented with the full force of the law.
Even minor offences, such as illegal parking, can have disastrous consequences and therefore our people must be made aware that road regulations exist to be enforced and will be enforced.
MASS COMMUNICATION MEDIA
The entry into the 21st century was marked by the explosion of the technological revolution and the breaking of monopolies in the field of mass media.
This element is rightly characterized as positive, because pluralism and the public expression of opinions, positions, comments and criticism are the characteristics that shape and give essential content and quality to democracy, which is the basis of the modern era.
In this context, the individual rights of citizens need to be fully guaranteed and to be given substance.
In this direction, the press is called upon to win the bet, responding to the sirens of temporary sensationalism.
This point is deemed imperative since various media outlets have occasionally escaped the legal and ethical framework of their operation in pursuit of ratings.
It is therefore necessary to formulate a political framework of rules, which we all have an obligation not only to adopt but above all to apply on a daily basis.
 The HCRP believes that the following framework of principles and rules should be promoted and institutionalised: full respect for the individual, political and human rights of citizens and social groups.
The privacy of citizens is sacred and must be treated as such.
Particular attention should be paid to cases involving minors.
Human suffering should not be exploited.
Respect for the right to express all opinions and the right to know all positions.
Ensuring independence, transparency and control in the media.
In a favoured nation, the existence of a legislative framework is necessary. More important, however, is the commitment of the actors involved in the implementation of the laws.
In the case of SMEs, the self-control of Media Officers is of crucial and decisive importance.
Owners, managers and journalists, individually and collectively, have an important role to play, as they are or should be at the centre of the whole effort.
The Broadcasting Authority, as an independent statutory body, has a dominant position, so much depends on its attitude or behaviour.
Its action and operation in the context of the strict application of the letter of the law should under no circumstances lead the Authority to the other side of the river with methods reminiscent of other times.
The spirit of the law which should prevail should be the subject of dialogue between the Broadcasting Authority and the media.
In this direction, the Authority is invited to take initiatives by claiming a leading role.
The aim of the initiative should be to improve the quality of political and social dialogue in the media. The dialogue should be continuous and public, involving political forces, journalists, media representatives and civil society.
The Public Broadcaster
The end of the anachronistic monopoly in the media sector has shaped a new broadcasting landscape in which public service broadcasting must be supported in order to cope with the new conditions and successfully play its important role.
This in no way means that public service broadcasting can operate in conditions of unfair competition by exploiting its position and state sponsorship.
The JCC considers it necessary for RIK: To be put under the microscope of financial consolidation to the extent that the quality of the programmes offered is not affected.
To play its important national, social and cultural role by making full use of state sponsorship.
To help it cope with the competitive environment by operating within the rules of competition.
All this presupposes a radical reform in the field of public broadcasting as a result of a substantial and constructive dialogue involving the state, the management and the employees of PIK.
The internal organisation of RIK needs a radical overhaul, while the bureaucratic approach to things has no place in the new environment.
At the same time, a new modern operating framework is emerging as a necessity, with specific targets.
The Hellenic People's Party Central Committee will seek: Ensure the continued operation of RIK as a public broadcaster.
Creating the conditions for its parallel operation in conditions of healthy and fair competition.
Harmonious coexistence of public service broadcasting and private media.
TRANSPORT AND WORKS
Public works and expenditure
Public works play a key role in the path to economic and social development, to enhance the competitiveness of the economy and to improve the quality of life of citizens.
There are currently significant shortcomings in the infrastructure sectors of public health, education, transport and roads, airports, ports, water supply and management, rainwater, wastewater and solid waste management, emergency response and generally improving the quality of life of citizens
and overall social development.
The great importance of public works and the significant resources that will be required require a review of the way they are implemented, in order to use public resources more efficiently and to meet the objectives they will serve in the context of an integrated policy to address the needs of the country.
Every Ministry and Public Organisation should prepare and submit to Parliament not only a spending programme, but also a programme of cuts and savings of public money.
Budgets should set clear objectives and measurable criteria for achieving the objectives.
Public transport, Traffic and Transport
Despite progress, there are still problems in comprehensively addressing the country's road network, public transport and transport safety levels.
In the context of a more coherent policy, the JPC recommends the following: planning the expansion of the network and improving it to serve more communities and improve the competitiveness of economic activities in rural, coastal and urban centres.
Further improve the technical specifications and quality of pavements.
Further modernise the technical safety criteria used in the design and operation of the road network to reduce as far as possible the number of road accidents.
Urban planning is not just a matter of construction intervention, it is a matter of Culture, Communication, Dignity, Colour and Vision.
Implementation of a policy to establish and enhance the use of public transport, with the aim of substantially improving the quality of life of citizens in all sectors of activity and throughout the geographical area of Cyprus.
Public transport is not a competition between interests, it is a consciousness in the interest of the citizen and a broader issue of Society with qualitative elements, and therefore it should be treated as a measure of Social Welfare.
The modern role of public and semi-public organisations
Public and semi-public organisations offering services in the fields of telecommunications, tourism, transport, energy, etc. are called upon to face the new conditions imposed by the liberalisation of the market sectors in which they operate.
In the new environment of ever-increasing competition, the role of public and semi-public organisations will necessarily have to change.
As wrong as it is to say that the role of these agencies should be abolished,
it is equally wrong to insist on maintaining their present character.
The former would lead to phenomena of market promiscuity and anti-social behaviour, while the
latter would contribute to the gradual weakening and eventual dismantling of these organisations, resulting in their handover to the private sector at a devalued value.
The central objective should be to ensure that public and semi-public organisations are able to deal effectively with the new challenges, because only in this way will they be able to maintain their public character, so that they can continue to fulfil the most important part of their mission, namely the service of the broader national and social interest.
This can only be ensured by enhancing their efficiency and competitiveness, either through functional restructuring and adaptation of their organisational structure or through the modification of their institutional framework, as appropriate.
The organisations selected to remain semi-public should immediately promote the necessary changes to their legislation and regulations in order to operate effectively as modern businesses.
The participation of representatives of employees, employers' organisations, consumers' organisations, as well as technocrats and experts in the field of the Agency's activity should be institutionalised in their Boards of Directors.
The appointment of the Chairpersons and Directors-General should be made by meritocracy through transparent procedures and should be subject to public hearings in Parliament.
In the case of the Agencies selected to become private legal entities, the most appropriate framework for cooperation with the private sector should be considered and specified in each case.
The ownership of public bodies should not be a dogma or an end in itself, particularly in non-strategic sectors of the economy.
However, any changes in ownership should be the result of strategic choices, with the sole aim of increasing the financial efficiency of the organisation, which is the basis on which the organisation's continued role in utility services can be ensured.
Proposals for privatisation should be assessed on the basis of the criterion of serving the wider social interest, taking into account whether these organisations are operating inefficiently or loss-making.
The Hellenic Democracy Committee notes that privatisations can be beneficial only if the following conditions are met:
Conditions of competition are ensured to prevent the exploitation of the key position of privatised organisations by private interests.
Enterprises or elements of enterprises that constitute natural monopolies (e.g. the telecommunications network or the electricity transmission and distribution network) should always remain under state control.
Independent Regulatory Authorities are established in areas where full competition is not possible.
The rights of existing employees in the affected organisations are effectively protected.
Appropriate and fully transparent procedures are followed so that the state receives the real value of the public assets being privatised.
Any privatisations are promoted through processes of dialogue between all stakeholders to ensure maximum political and social consensus.
In the case of shareholdings, it is desirable to provide a substantial share of the shares to the employees of the organisation, a share to all households in Cyprus, either free of charge or at a nominal price, and generally to seek the widest possible shareholder base.
