I am Young
The relationship between the new generation and the Left is renewed and consolidated through the contemporary struggles and demands of young people.
Youth trusts AKEL as the political force that guarantees the safeguarding and extension of their rights at school, in the army, at university, at work and in life in general.
AKEL has always been a companion and supporter in the small and big struggles of the young generation, as it has always listened to the concerns, anxieties, worries, concerns and visions of the youth.
Our philosophy is to build an integrated policy characterised by social sensitivity and humanity, a policy that supports young people.
With the election of Demetris Christofias to the Presidency of the Republic of Cyprus, new horizons have opened up for the new generation.
The social, institutional and political role of the young generation of the country and the institutions that express them has been upgraded.
Already in three years, measures have been taken and benefits have been given to the young generation that exceed the social work of five years of other governments.
AKEL, as a key component of the government, contributed decisively to the realisation of many of the militant goals of the youth movement.
Indicative measures to support youth include: Ensuring the long-term sustainability of the Social Security Fund without any extension of the retirement age or privatisation of insurance.
The substantial increase of the minimum wage threshold to half of the national median.
The creation of a single housing scheme with an increase in grants for the construction or purchase of housing
and an increase in the number of beneficiaries for young couples and the allocation of 200 million in the form of housing loans from the Housing Finance Agency at zero interest for 2 years.
The completion of the huge effort to modernise the content of education, with the formulation of new curricula and timetables from Kindergarten to High School.
The Government's commitment to reduce the number of students per class from 30 to 25 in all classes was implemented.
The institution of the Head of Department was extended to the first grade and to 30% of the second grade.
The implementation of a comprehensive plan to tackle anti-social behaviour in schools, based on the recommendations of a scientific committee.
To sponsor during the 2008-2009, 2009-2010 and 2010-2011 school years all students in the 2nd grade (public and private) for the purchase of a laptop computer.
The implementation of the school bus system.
The granting of a package of targeted support measures for students and families facing serious socio-economic problems, totalling €12.000.000.
The setting of a cap on tuition fee increases in private universities in order to address the phenomenon of absurd annual increases.
The establishment of a Faculty of Medicine at the University of Cyprus and a Department of Rehabilitation Sciences at the TE.PA.K.
The increase of the soldiers' allowance
and the promotion of anti-drug and educational programmes of the Youth Organization for the creation of open sports facilities,
the free granting of the Youth Card to the National Guardsmen
and the improvement of living quarters.
The introduction and extension of the institution of free transport for pupils and students with the demonstration of a student card.
The launch of a series of infrastructure projects for the Youth of the Cyprus Youth Organisation such as the Playhouses in Ag. Athanasios, Paralimni and Kaimakli, the first Youth Hostel in the Zemenides Mansion and the gradual transformation of the Information Centres into Free Counselling Centres.
The Cyprus Youth Organisation signed Memoranda of Understanding with the Ministry of Defence and the Police.
As AKEL Left New Forces we will continue to consistently and assertively fight alongside the youth movement for: Tackling unemployment through the upgrading of career guidance and counselling for young people, the
further promotion of programmes for the employment of University and Higher School graduates,
the reduction of working hours and the implementation of the 35-hour working week, as well as
the free allocation of youth cards to the unemployed.
Preventing any form of extension of the retirement age in the wider public and private sector.
The extension of gravel land segregation and the allocation of plots to young couples in real need at cost.
The increase in leave and maternity allowance.
The reduction of military service to 19 months.
The mitigation of the social problem of juvenile delinquency by developing prevention programmes, from primary school to the army
and the creation of a separate detention area for young offenders and the establishment of a Juvenile Court.
Schools open to the local community that are places where youth can gather and engage in healthy activities.
Establishment of free student unionism which will be the real answer to the realisation that the new generation is devaluing the common good.
Further upgrading the advisory role of the UNECO and through it the voice of the Cyprus Youth.
It is our commitment that as AKEL, always together with the youth, we will continue to walk with the bright, universal visions of the Left as a beacon, we will continue our struggles to defend and expand the rights of the new generation, we
will continue to give perspective to the future of our country, to the most valuable investment of a society that is none other than the young generation.
Immigration Policy
A global phenomenon
Migration is not a current phenomenon. It has always been linked to the prevailing global political, social and economic conditions. The violent nature of the changes taking place today in the countries of origin of migrants and asylum seekers, combined with globalisation, are intensifying the movement of people, both legally and illegally.
Wars for access to natural resources and control of geostrategic passages, with the main protagonists being countries of the developed world,
exploitation, neocolonialism
and impoverishment, poverty and destitution, climate change and desertification are the main causes of the migration phenomenon.
At the same time, an important factor in migration has been and remains the developed world's own need to develop its economy and meet the needs of the labour market.
Migrants are first and foremost people who claim hope for the future.
In order to provide radical solutions, humanity today must effectively address the real causes of migration.
Cyprus and immigration
With our accession to the European Union, due to our geographical location and occupation, Cyprus has been transformed from a country of origin to a country of reception of many more migrants, legal and illegal, and asylum seekers.
As AKEL Left New Forces, we listen to the concerns that plague our society, with our primary concern being the safeguarding of the rights of the citizens of Cypriot society.
In dialogue with the government, social bodies and migrants' organisations, we are working to regulate all issues related to migration.
It is a fact that the economic and employment potential of Cypriot society is not unlimited. With this in mind, we conclude that the implementation of a balanced, comprehensive and effective immigration and asylum policy was necessary long before the current government took office.
At the same time, we believe it goes without saying that foreigners who are hosted in our country should show the necessary respect for the legality and culture of the country that hosts them.
Today, for the first time, under the government of Demetris Christofias, Cyprus is formulating a comprehensive immigration policy. Which is fully in line with the European acquis, the European Pact on Immigration and Asylum, international and European conventions.
There are currently 100,000 European citizens in Cyprus legally, of which 32,000 are Greeks, 66,187 legal immigrants from third countries who have come under specific procedures and work in sectors where there is a shortage of domestic labour, 2,270 asylum seekers/recognised refugees.
Illegal migrants, in whom the parasitic economy and capital unfortunately invest, although they have been significantly reduced, are estimated at 25,000 - 30,000.
The objective currently being implemented is to comprehensively address all issues related to migration and asylum.
In particular, among others: A new employment strategy for third country workers is being implemented so that work permits are granted where the needs are not met by Cypriots or Community nationals.
Legislation has been introduced and controls have been stepped up to tackle illegal and undeclared work.
The phenomenon of the influx of illegal immigrants from the coasts controlled by the Republic of Cyprus was tackled.
The flow of illegal migrants from the occupied territories has been effectively reduced by implementing programmes for better surveillance of the Green Line. From 5162 entering in 2008, this number was reduced to 1855 in 2010.
Efforts to conclude bilateral agreements with states of origin or transit of illegal migrants have been intensified.
The creation of a modern detention facility for illegal immigrants under repatriation was promoted.
The procedure for examining asylum applications has been accelerated, resulting in a significant reduction in the abuse of the asylum system.
Today we observe: a drastic reduction of pending asylum applications (in 2008 the number of pending asylum applications was 4479, in 2009 it decreased to 1192, while in 2010 it decreased to 1097); a significant decrease in the number of new asylum applications (in 2005 the number of asylum applications reached 11,500, while in 2010 there were 2089 new applications), a sharp decrease in the number of asylum seekers entering the free areas from the occupied territories (in 2008 there were 2545, in 2009 there were 1505 and in 2010 they decreased to 956).
A national action plan for the integration of third country nationals has been formulated and started to be implemented (language learning centres are already operating)
 and an action plan to combat trafficking in human beings.
The operation of two additional reception centres for asylum seekers was promoted, with the aim of reducing the number of benefits provided. The operating costs of the units will be co-financed by 75% by the EU.
On the initiative of the Republic of Cyprus, the EU Member States that receive the largest migratory waves are raising asylum and migration issues more intensively before the 27.
The constructive participation and substantial interventions of the Republic of Cyprus in the institutions of the European Union have been strengthened for the formulation of a common European policy on migration and asylum issues, which is in solidarity with the Member States, such as Cyprus, which are under particular pressure in relation to their capacities.
Community funds are being used to implement actions included in the Solidarity Fund programmes amounting to 50 million for the 2007-2013 programming period.
At the same time, as AKEL Left New Forces we are working: For the crackdown on illegal immigration and further regulation of legal immigration.
To improve the conditions for the integration of asylum seekers and beneficiaries of international protection into the labour market in order to facilitate their dependency on public assistance.
To fully implement the National Action Plan for the integration of migrants and their family members
and maintain dialogue and cooperation with migrant communities to identify good practices and problems encountered in their integration efforts.
To make support to the countries receiving the largest migratory flows more effective
and to take practical steps towards a more equal sharing of burdens and responsibilities between Member States.
We are also very active in this direction in the European Parliament.
For the European Union to channel the resources available for migration into peace efforts and development policies.
To improve and expand the reception infrastructure for asylum seekers.
To intensify efforts to implement the Action Plan against Trafficking in Persons.
For the continuous training of officials, teachers and the general public.
For the conduct and continuation of a constructive dialogue between the relevant ministries, political parties and other stakeholders, so that immigration policy can have the broadest possible consensus needed to be implemented effectively.
In our efforts, we are confronted with various real and contrived problems. We are also faced with the racism and xenophobia that are being instilled in our society by far-right elements, but unfortunately also by certain political actors who are exploiting fears, prejudices and unfortunate incidents and, above all, exploiting the consequences of the global economic crisis.
We do not forget that for years Cyprus has been a country of origin for immigrants.
All responsible political forces in the country must work to combat such phenomena.
The attempts to exploit the difficulties and unemployment created by the global economic crisis, the targeting of the government's immigration policy and migrants, must not be allowed.
Xenophobia and racism are seeds from the same quiver that gave birth to the discord in our country, which fed extreme nationalism and led to the tragic events of 1974.
We do not see our country or Europe as an impregnable fortress. We perceive Cyprus as an open and welcoming society, a crossroads and meeting place of cultures.
Of course those who are hosted in Cyprus must respect our laws and traditions.
Our goal remains a migration policy that takes into account all the parameters of the issue. First and foremost the concerns and worries of our fellow citizens.
But which at the same time is in line with our international contractual obligations and
respects human rights and human dignity.
OXI TO THE ECOLOGICAL DESTRUCTION OF THE PLANET
The planet is threatened
Environmental problems now threaten the survival of humanity and the planet.
These problems are direct consequences of the dominant development model of recent centuries, which have brought about the unfair distribution of wealth, the accumulation of poverty and misery in many parts of the world,
horrific climate change and the dramatic decline in biodiversity.
The recent tragic event in Japan, following the earthquake and tsunami, demonstrates the enormous dangers to humanity from the use of nuclear energy.
Particularly worrying is Turkey's insistence on proceeding with the construction of a nuclear power plant in the Aqouyou area, which will pose a threat to the security of Cyprus and all neighbouring countries. As AKEL - Left - New Forces, we stand unreservedly against the creation of such a plant in a region that is particularly prone to earthquakes.
Sustainable Development
In Cyprus we are facing acute environmental problems caused and perpetuated by the violent separation of the Cypriot ecosystem caused by the Turkish invasion-occupation, the presence of foreign military bases,
anarchic development and the absence of a proper and integrated state policy for 10 years.
The environment plays a decisive role in what we call quality of life.
That is why it has been among our priorities for 10 years now. Our environmental policy aims to protect, properly manage and develop the environment.
Our main objective is to achieve sustainable development, to serve the real needs of society, not only for present generations but also for future generations.
This can be achieved through the implementation of the Strategic Plan for Sustainable Development, based on the availability of the natural resources of the place, and the creation of a Central Environmental Agency, which will bring together all the services dealing with environmental issues.
The Christofias government
We welcome the determination of the government of Demetris Christofias in addressing and resolving a number of important environmental issues:
the implementation of the legislation on Integrated Water Management.
The promotion of the procedures for the arrival of gas.
The gradual promotion of Renewable Energy Sources.
The launch of the new passenger transport system.
The approval by the Council of Ministers of the Akamas Management Plan.
Supporting the claim for the right to declare Cyprus a Genetically Modified Organisms (GMO) Free Zone.
The creation of landfill stations for the management of solid and other household waste.
WE AIM TO IMPLEMENT THE FOLLOWING:
BUILT ENVIRONMENT
Completion of the hierarchy of Development Plans with the preparation of a Cyprus Island Plan and Area Plans.
Replacement of the Rural Policy Statement with Regional Spatial Plans.
Review of urban zoning through transparent and participatory processes.
Develop and implement regulatory plans in all communities.
ENERGY
Implementation of the Natural Gas Access Project and the creation of an Energy Centre in Vasilikos.
Implementation of the National Action Plan for Renewable Energy Sources with a target of 13% by 2020.
Promotion of Energy Savings Grant Schemes.
Rational utilization of the RDF for the benefit of the low income strata of the people.
WASTE MANAGEMENT
Reducing waste production.
Promote the EU's declared goal of transforming Cyprus into a "recycling society".
Implementation of the management policies defined as part of an integrated waste management strategy.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Implementation of the Strategic Plan to address climate change and the threat of desertification facing our country.
Supporting efforts for a new agreement by the global community to drastically reduce emissions.
Implementation of the measures adopted at the Bolivian summit in April 2010 for substantial financial assistance to the countries of the poor South.
BIODIVERSITY
Strengthening and supporting the efforts of the Republic of Cyprus to be granted the right to declare Cyprus a fully GMO-free zone.
Harmonisation with the European REACH programme.
Support for the Nature 2000 Network and the inclusion of specific areas in the Network.
Preparation and implementation of Management Plans for the areas included in the "Nature 2000" network.
A vote for AKEL - Left - New Forces means strength in the struggle and for the environment
As AKEL we value the struggle to tackle ecological and environmental destruction at the top of the political agenda as it is not only the struggle of the workers, but the struggle of life itself and our planet.
It is about the struggle for tomorrow, for a better quality of life.
By voting for AKEL - Left - New Forces you give strength to the struggle for the environment, you strengthen the political force that for almost a century has been identified with the struggles for ecology and the environment. It is the political force that developed and supported the environmental movement in our country.
AKEL's positions and proposals on Education
Education is the engine that can push society forward. It can open wide horizons and lead people to new achievements that will strengthen the perception of peace, democracy, freedom and social justice.
With this in mind, we as AKEL have for years been emphasising the need to carry out radical educational reform.
Its aim should be to achieve profound changes in both the structure and content of education. A reform that is at odds with maintenance, anachronism and regression.
Our enduring vision is the creation of a modern, humane and democratic education, which will have the human being at its centre and which will be able to provide all-round education.
An education in which no young person is left uneducated.
The Government of Demetris Christofias has already taken decisive steps towards the implementation of the Educational Reform. Indicatively:
1 Increased spending on education
Increase of the budget for 2009 (by 12.5%), for 2010 (by 3.5%) and 2011 (by 2.4%) and of expenditure as a percentage of GDP from 7.1% in 2007 to 7.8% in 2009, ranking Cyprus among the countries with the highest expenditure on education at the European Union level.
2 Modernising the content of education
The huge effort to modernise the content of education has been completed, with the development of new curricula and timetables from kindergarten to high school.
3 New Teacher Training programmes
For the introduction of the new curricula, the largest compulsory training programme ever implemented in our educational system has started this school year.
The implementation of the introductory teacher training programme started in the 2008-2009 school year.
4 Measures to upgrade public schooling
the Government's commitment to reduce the number of students per class from 30 to 25 in all grades;
the institution of the Head of Department in the first grade and in 30% of the second grade classes.
the number of optional full-day kindergartens.
the connection of all schools to the internet and the pilot operation of the Online School (IES) was launched,
the Educational Priority Zones (EPZs), with the addition of two new EPZs, one in Larnaca and one in Limassol.
For the first time, a comprehensive policy for the integration of foreign-language pupils was formulated, with the organisation of accelerated Greek language learning classes, the publication of a guide for the reception of pupils in various foreign languages and the training of teachers;
a comprehensive plan for tackling anti-social behaviour in schools, based on the recommendations of a scientific committee.
a new framework for the operation of the Integrated Day School and a decision was taken by the Council of Ministers to gradually expand the institution to 25 Integrated Day Schools.
The Open School institution was extended from 4 to 10 municipalities;
significant funds for upgrading the material and technical infrastructure of schools;
comprehensive proposals for the implementation of a new system for the evaluation of educational work and teachers and for the modernisation of the system for the appointment of teachers.
5.  Creation of new structures
the Centre for Educational Research and Evaluation.
for the first time the operation of Provincial Offices of Counselling and Vocational Education.
Office for European and International Affairs, as part of the restructuring of the Ministry of Education.
6.  Social support measures for pupils and students
in the school years 2008-2009, 20092010 and 2010-2011 sponsorship to all students of the 2nd grade for the purchase of a laptop computer.
the institution of the school bus. a
package of targeted support measures for students and families facing serious socio-economic problems, totalling €12 million; a
government bill to cap tuition fee increases at private universities, in order to address the phenomenon of unreasonable annual increases.
7.  Measures to democratise education
The Christofias Government has taken a series of measures to democratise education: the issue of teachers' access to their personal data files;
a bill was passed by the Council of Ministers and passed by the Parliament to guarantee teachers' freedom of expression.
A Bill by the Government which was passed by the Parliament whereby service reports will be shared with every teacher.
8.  Higher Education
Established the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Cyprus and the Department of Rehabilitation Sciences at the TE.PA.K.
Objectives
AKEL believes that the government's programme in the education sector must continue to be pushed forward decisively and at an even faster pace. The goals set for the continuation of the Educational Reform are quite ambitious and AKEL will work at all levels for their implementation.
These objectives are:
Educational Reform
continuing the effort for the formation of a democratic and humane school in Cyprus;
elimination of narrowly ethnocentric, mono-cultural and, by extension, nationalistic elements;
reorganization of the administrative structures of the educational system, aiming at the mitigation of centralization and bureaucracy, which hinder any effort for modernization;
creation of public Post-secondary Institutes of Vocational Education and Training.
comprehensive and objective teaching of the modern history of Cyprus.
Appointment-Training-Evaluation of Teachers
modernisation and improvement of the list of appointments, without changing its basic philosophy;
design and introduction of specialised training programmes, which will meet the needs of the education system, school units and teachers;
immediate implementation of the new evaluation system, which will abolish the one-dimensional model of inspection.
Primary-Middle Education
extending free public compulsory pre-primary education by one year to cover children aged 3 years and 8 months to 4 and 8 months;
extending free public compulsory education from 10 to 12 years and creating a new 12-year compulsory education module.
well-prepared and 'tidy' introduction of new curricula and timetables;
introduction of new teaching methods that foster critical thinking, humanistic values, democratic attitudes and virtues;
continuous improvement and expansion of the institution of the single all-day school.
gradual integration of general secondary education and technical and vocational education into a new form of upper secondary school, which will organically combine general and technical vocational education;
upgrading of special education.
Higher Education
further developing public university education so that Cyprus can become self-sufficient in first cycle university programmes
and so that every young person who wishes to do so can study in their own country;
creating new undergraduate programmes covering new disciplines, such as medicine and fine arts;
ensuring that private universities serve their public mission responsibly and offer quality programmes of study.
In this direction, our unwavering goal is the transformation of private universities into non-profit organizations.
For AKEL, the comprehensive progressive reform of the education system based on our vision for the formation of a modern, humane and democratic education, public education
which will provide equal opportunities for access and success for all young people at all levels of the education system,
are the necessary conditions for the modernisation of society, the
upgrading of the quality of life, the
avoidance of educational-social marginalisation and the mitigation of social and educational inequalities.
Forward for the Economy of the Future
Development-oriented and Socially Balanced
As AKEL Left New Forces we are committed to working consistently to build a modern state in which economic development and social welfare are in harmony.
Where the public, private and cooperative sectors will coexist and work together in harmony, complementing and supporting each other.
A modern, flexible and socially oriented mixed economy must be based on the following principles:
The sharing of economic burdens according to one's income.
The creation of a more humane and more socially sensitive state which protects and supports the economically disadvantaged sections of society.
To regulate the uncontrolled operation of the laws of the market in such a way that this action is not to the detriment of the economically vulnerable sections of society.
For the realisation of our vision as AKEL Left New Forces we are committed to fight:
To promote growth at all levels through continuous adaptation to new technologies, research and innovation.
To defend the social character of public utilities
and to modernise them so that they become more flexible and more competitive, providing cheap and competitive services to the people.
To keep the budget deficit and public debt at satisfactory levels
so that the savings will free up resources to be channelled into growth, modernisation and renewal of the economy's infrastructure.
To upgrade the state's policy in order to attract foreign investment and channel it into major development projects.
To continuously improve the productivity of the economy.
To modernise and radically reform our tourism policy.
For the transformation of Cyprus into a centre for advisory services.
To keep small and medium-sized enterprises at the heart of economic policy.
To upgrade and modernise the manufacturing sector.
For the greatest possible support of the cooperative movement.
As AKEL Left New Forces we are committed to keep fighting:
In favour of a fairer redistribution of national income
In favour of supporting employment
In favour of supporting small and medium-sized enterprises
Against the speculative behaviour of the oligopolies that erode the incomes of workers.
Resolution of the Cyprus problem - A question of survival
The Cyprus problem is an international problem of invasion, occupation, foreign interference and flagrant violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Cyprus, the human rights and political freedoms of the entire Cypriot people.
It also concerns the normalisation of relations between the E/Cypriot and T/Cypriot communities and the confrontation of nationalism and chauvinism.
Our unchanging goal remains the liberation and reunification of the homeland, the people, the institutions and the economy;
 the end of the dichotomous status quo,
the relief from the presence of foreign troops,
 the end of colonisation and foreign guarantees;
 the return of refugees
and the elucidation of the fate of the missing persons.
 We are working for a solution of a bicommunal bizonal federation with political equality as outlined in the relevant UN resolutions.
On the basis of the 1977 and 1979 High Level Agreements, the UN resolutions and resolutions, the 1989 Unanimous Decisions of the National Council, the Agreement of 8 July 2006 and the Joint Communiqués of the leaders of the two communities of 23 May and 1 July 2008, fully respecting international and European law.
Mobility in the Cyprus problem: Negotiations - Internationalisation
Breaking the dangerous stagnation
The election of Demetris Christofias marked a period characterised by the continuous undertaking of substantive initiatives, the implementation and extension of the July 8th Agreement,
the resumption of direct negotiations for a bicommunal bi-zonal federation solution.
Important commitments by the Turkish Cypriot leadership
The joint Christofias-Talat communiqués of 23 May and 1 July 2008 reaffirmed the bicommunal bizonal federation as the basis for a solution.
For the first time, the Turkish Cypriot leadership accepted the existence of a state with one sovereignty, one international personality and one nationality and that the content of political equality is that given by the UN.
Cyprus ownership procedure
It has been agreed between the two communities and the UN. It concerns the internal aspect and has the meaning of not imposing a solution or timetables or arbitration.
It does not exempt Turkey.
Erdogan's recent statements on the protests in the occupied territories have demonstrated internationally what the occupying power's aims are and the role it plays.
Insistence on principled positions
Insistence on the position for the development of the Republic of Cyprus into a reunited, federal Cyprus
and the prosperity of our people as a whole in conditions of security and peace.
The restoration and respect for the fundamental human rights of all Cypriots is a central pillar of President Demetris Christofias' proposals.
On property, the right of first choice of the legal owner is promoted.
Territorial adjustments must ensure the return of the largest number of displaced Cypriots and their properties under Cypriot administration.
The position of principle remains the withdrawal of the settlers.
The exceptional stay of a small, specific number was accepted by previous Presidents on the basis of humanitarian criteria.
For the first time, our demand for an end to the anachronistic guarantees was made in the talks.
Strong central government
This is a long-standing aspiration of the Greek Cypriot side in the negotiations and a key pillar of President Christofias' proposals.  The more the central state is weakened, for the sake of an ostensibly functional solution, the more the unity of the state will be weakened - the functionality of the state internally, the exercise of foreign policy, the use of European status, the management of security and the economy.
An integrated proposal for governance
Proposals were tabled and agreed to eliminate divisive elements, ethnic divisions and to abolish the harsh vetoes of the 1960 Constitution.
Proposals providing for election of the President and Vice President directly by the people through mixed voting and a functioning Cabinet.
It is no coincidence that Eroglu is currently opposing them.
Triptych of proposals
The linking of the property issue with the territorial and settler issues, the holding of an international conference at the appropriate time with the participation of the Republic of Cyprus and the proposals on Famagusta aim to achieve substantial progress and mobility in the negotiations,
consolidating the international perception of the existence of President Christofias' real political will for a solution.
Restarting the Famagusta issue
For the return of the fenced area of Famagusta to its lawful inhabitants under secure conditions.
Reconstruction of the area and operation of the port under EU auspices for direct trade with the Turkish Cypriots, giving impetus to the prospect of the liberation and reunification of Cyprus and creating a new dynamic in the negotiations.
Multidimensional and multilevel foreign policy
It has led to a revitalisation of the Republic of Cyprus' relations with traditional friends and allies,
further internationalisation of the Cyprus problem,
support for our positions
and the prevention as much as possible of the Turkish side's plans.
The successive recent EU Council decisions and Merkel's statements are indicative of this.
EEZ - energy
The signing of agreements on the delimitation of our Exclusive Economic Zone with neighbouring states and energy are upgrading our role in the region and strengthening our statehood.
Data that are conciliatory in our efforts to find a solution.
Assertiveness in the negotiations - Unity on the home front
It is the long-standing position of the National Council that only through UN-sponsored talks can a solution be found.
With consistency in principled positions and assertiveness, but also with realism and a sense of responsibility for the future of Cyprus, we believe that today the struggle for a feasible solution is a patriotic attitude.
The promotion of ideal but unfeasible and unworkable solutions, the renunciation of the bicommunal bizonal federation, constitute a subversion of the basis of the negotiations, damage our credibility and serve to perpetuate partition. A change of strategy or the withdrawal of proposals at this stage is also appropriate.
We reject DISY's position for an enlarged conference;
we believe that it will lead to heterogeneous early give-and-take, arbitration and timetables.
DISY's position on a decentralized or loose federation clashes with the long-standing positions of the Greek Cypriot side for a strong central government.
DISY's shifting of the importance of the Cyprus issue during the election, the bilingualism of its executives, its collaboration with EUROKO in the Parliament on the Cyprus File and its election mutations, far from serving the goal of a solution.
We do not ignore the intransigence of the Turkish side. But we will continue to work in every way to remove it.
We expect all political forces to turn their fire on Ankara, even now.
Working at the same time to forge unity within the National Council by supporting the firm positions of our side and not through sterile and nihilistic criticism.
In a spirit of constructive dialogue, we will continue the struggle until the vindication of our country and all our people.
