PARLIAMENTARY ELECTIONS 2011
Joining forces in society in the economy
TOLMOYME
We dare to change a state model that has given everything it had to give and is holding us back with its waste and bureaucracy.
We are creating a neat state.
One that supports growth,
private initiative,
economic progress
and social justice.
DIEKDIKOYME
We claim the Cyprus we deserve.
We do not settle for stagnation and mediocrity.
We ensure the conditions that help the Cypriot citizen to become again the force of economic progress.
With a plan and comprehensive proposals,
we are tackling unemployment,
poverty and
major social problems.
EΛΠIZOYME
We hope for something better, because we dare and demand.
We are turning the page and leaving behind outdated policies, attitudes and mindsets.
We are unleashing the strengths and capacities of Cypriots.
And hope becomes something tangible.
A better tomorrow for our citizens and society.
On 22 May we are called to elect the new House of Representatives. It is an invitation to democracy that no one should miss.
Democracy, in order to work, needs its own oxygen, it needs social participation.
On 22 May, we can send a strong message to change the course of Cyprus.
We must stop the decline,
join forces and move forward with confidence and boldness into a new, creative era.
Cyprus is moving in the wrong direction.
Our national issue is in a quagmire.
We are not taking advantage of the opportunities that Europe gives us.
Economic insecurity is growing.
Because the government is not taking action.
It does not dare to make the cuts that our state and our economy need.
We have the opportunity to send a strong message of policy change,
to tackle unemployment,
accuracy,
the economic recession,
crime,
the major social problems.
On 22 May we join forces.
I invite you to support the Democratic Rally.
Together we dare.
Together we claim.
Together we bring hope.
Nicos Anastasiades President
CYPRUS
It has been proven historically that our homeland, Cyprus, won battles when we had:
Unity of forces
International alliances
and, above all, a strategic plan
Unfortunately, today all three of these parameters are absent.
The national issue is in a quagmire.
The government has no strategy.
The Democratic Rally has clear positions on the Cyprus problem: We seek a solution of a bicommunal-bi-zonal federation with one sovereignty, one citizenship and one international personality.
The solution must be based on the principles and values of the European Union
, including the four fundamental freedoms.
The solution must provide for the immediate withdrawal of Turkish troops.
There is no solution without unity of the territory, the people, the institutions and the economy.
We are ready to assume our responsibilities
and support any constructive effort for a solution as we have done so far.
ECONOMY
The government has no plan and strategy to deal with the economic crisis.
He walks blindly, without a compass.
It does not take measures for growth.
Thirty thousand of our fellow citizens are currently unemployed
Thousands of self-employed people have been left without income and without any benefits
One in two pensioners lives below the poverty line
Precision drastically reduces the income of all of us
Public surpluses have been turned into public deficits which now the taxpaying citizen is called upon to pay back.
The obvious needs to be done. Support investment
and create new jobs.
Cyprus needs a new model of state: flexible, well-managed,
sensitive, citizen-friendly.
UNEMPLOYMENT
In the market the situation is becoming suffocating. There are no jobs. Unemployment is constantly rising.
The 13,280 unemployed in February 2008 - when the Christofias government came to power - became 29,806 last month, a big increase of 124%.
In the last year alone, 6,000 people have been added to the list of unemployed.
5,000 of our fellow citizens remain unemployed for more than six months.
44% of the unemployed are aged between 30 and 49. People with families, who are now unable to meet banking or other obligations and commitments.
Especially among young people, unemployment increased by 187%.
Only a growth policy with a plan and strategy can boost the economy
and create new jobs.
IMMIGRATION
Illegal immigration is becoming a major problem for Cypriot society,
with the government simply watching.
The answer to the problem lies in the strict implementation of the European Union's migration framework and the adoption of specific policy measures by the Government.
Strict coastal surveillance,
increased control at roadblocks and thorough surveillance of the Green Line, using modern electronic means.
Utilisation of the European agency FRONTEX and accession of Cyprus to the Schengen Treaty.
Carry out strict controls to combat illegal and undeclared work
and return illegal residents to their countries of origin and ban their re-entry.
Immediate deportation of those involved in the commission of criminal offences.
Giving greater emphasis on Greek language teaching and cultural familiarisation programmes for legal immigrants, for their smoother integration into the social reality of Cyprus.
