OUR VISION IN PRACTICE
Our Cyprus is at a crossroads.
One way is to turn the crisis into an opportunity to regain its growth momentum, upgrade its geostrategic position and get rid of its structural weaknesses.
The other leads to entrapment in the deadlocks of the past, inertia in the face of the challenges of the new era and entanglement in the vicious circle of recession.
The Democratic Party has identified itself with the struggles to achieve a just, viable and workable solution to the Cyprus problem.
He has identified himself with the achievements that made the Cypriot people proud of the economic miracle that took place during his years of governance.
Today, it addresses the Cypriot people, proposing an assertive strategy on the Cyprus problem
and a strategy of responsibility and perspective for the country and its people.
A strategy of social consensus, structural changes and radical reforms.
Prioritising the major problems of everyday life, sustainability and security,
so that society and the economy can navigate the difficult transitional period of disruptive developments.
THE LIBERATION AND REUNIFICATION OF CYPRUS IS THE ULTIMATE VISION
For the Democratic Party, the vision for the new, post-crisis era of Cyprus is inextricably linked to a just, viable and functional solution to the Cyprus problem.
The Cyprus problem remains for the Democratic Party a primarily international problem created by the Turkish invasion and occupation.
It is a problem of international law, it is a problem of international legitimacy, it is a problem of human rights.
It is a problem of foreign intervention in the internal affairs of the Republic of Cyprus.
Turkey and its behaviour will always remain an obstacle to its solution.
Today we are again in a period of transition.
It started with the rejection of the Annan Plan.
It continued with the demarcation of the A.O.Z. and the signing of agreements for the exploitation of the natural wealth of the area
 It escalated with the resumption of bilateral negotiations by the current Government.
The content of the solution remains more critical than the time in which the desired solution can be achieved.
We have disagreed with President Christofias and his government on the handling of the property issue, the settlers, the weighted vote, the rotating presidency.
These are proposals that we insist must be withdrawn.
What is paramount is the exploitation of the opportunities created in the context of the broader upheavals in the region, but also of the new conditions that arise with the prospect of Cyprus becoming an energy hub of Europe.
We can and must gain new allies in the resolution effort, starting with the Turkish Cypriots themselves, whose growing opposition to the Turkish government is a positive development.
With appropriate diplomatic and communication moves, new allies can be mobilized to condemn the destruction and desecration of cultural and religious monuments in the occupied territories.
New allies can be mobilised to highlight the problems of the interned and the human rights violations by the occupying forces.
Turkey's crimes of ethnic cleansing must stop.
The PPC insists with stability and consistency to support creatively and constructively every effort of every President of the Republic of Cyprus who strives for a just solution.
For the PPP, a just solution is only the solution that puts an end to the Turkish occupation, foreign interventions, colonization, and Turkey's guarantee rights.
It is the solution that guarantees the three basic freedoms and human rights of the legal residents of Cyprus.
It is the solution of restoring the unity of the State, of the people, of the institutions, of the economy.
The solution of confederation proposed by Turkey, seeking the existence of two separate states, is unacceptable.
It will not be accepted no matter what dilemmas are put forward, no matter what blackmail is used.
If the Turkish side insists on defiantly exploiting the direct negotiation process, it should not hesitate to denounce it and face conditions that will increase the price of its behaviour.
POLITICAL STABILITY - STRONG ECONOMY
The aim of the Democratic Party's strategy is to ensure political stability as a prerequisite for the capitalisation and exploitation of the country's comparative advantages, which enable the birth and implementation of a new vision for Cyprus.
The vision of upgrading the tourism product,
strengthening the financial system,
increasing the competitiveness of businesses, and
becoming an international educational and research centre.
The vision of transforming the region into an energy hub of European importance, a
model of green development, an example of the use of renewable energy sources,
a pole of attraction for new investment, a
place of production of high-quality, value-added and food-safe agricultural products.
A vision of a truly strong economy based on creative initiative, continuous innovation, new technologies and the values of sustainable development.
The non-negotiable core of our strategy is the reform of the State and the redefinition of its role.
This is the essential difference between us and neoliberalism, which considers the State as a servant of the market.
It is our essential difference from statism, which oppresses the market and prevents the healthy development of its competitiveness.
It is the essential difference between us and populism, which "caresses the ears" without facing reality, without proposing realistic solutions.
We do not want a State incapable of intervening in developments, of
regulating markets, of
imposing social justice, of
ensuring social cohesion.
We do not want an entrepreneurial State that will substitute the private sector, that will inhibit its initiatives, that will stifle its potential.
We don't want a bureaucratic, clientelistic, undemocratic state that wastes resources to serve partisan agendas by accumulating debts and deficits.
We want an executive State, with flexible mechanisms, which will animate the productive forces and pave the way for their development.
We want a highly effective State, capable of preparing the future, creating solid infrastructures and coordinating the steps of a dynamic and interdependent society.
Without dividing its forces,
without fragmenting their cohesion,
without favouring the day labourers,
without unfairly penalising the weakest.
We want a State that exists to serve and not to be served.
To encourage, not discourage.
To guide and not to be guided.
To multiply comparative advantages and not to create comparative disadvantages
.On these comparative advantages we call on the Cypriot people to base their hopes and optimism.
On the basis of these comparative advantages, we seek to achieve programmatic convergences to overcome the crisis, to recover the economy, to reorganise society.
RECAP
There are three major changes that we propose and support in order to make the State a producer of national wealth, development and prosperity.
The first intersection concerns fiscal consolidation.
Without it, we cannot face the risks that threaten the economy with collapse, the
labour market with deregulation,
businesses with suffocation,
our financial system with contraction,
our pension funds with bankruptcy,
our human resources with unemployment.
The second section concerns the elimination of inequalities
and the abolition of challenging privileges that reduce growth dynamics and undermine social cohesion.
The third major breakthrough is the creation of a new institutional framework for cooperation between the public and private sectors on the basis of a new division of labour.
A framework that will allow the public sector to invest in development.
Helping the private sector to increase its competitiveness by making full use of human resources,
creating new jobs and prosperity.
Human resources are our biggest and most important asset and our strongest comparative advantage.
Fighting unemployment, underemployment and underemployment is a priority for our economic growth and social cohesion.
Productive investment in networks and infrastructure on the part of the public sector must be increased.
Small and medium-sized enterprises must be supported through tax incentives and support measures.
Two of them are to accelerate the implementation of programmes to encourage women and youth entrepreneurship
and to support their initiatives to invest in new technologies and innovations.
Fighting unemployment and creating full employment conditions is directly linked to managing the problem of migration
and tackling the problems of illegal and undeclared work, which distorts competition and victimises law-abiding entrepreneurs.
Modernising our education system and linking it to the productive needs of the country is of strategic importance for the full exploitation of our human potential.
Only in this way can Cyprus become a centre of educational and research interest for the entire Eastern Mediterranean.
The upgrading of the G.E.S.Y. is also of crucial importance as a means of strengthening our human resources
and transforming Cyprus into a medical centre of the wider region and our pharmaceutical industry into a pillar of development.
DEVELOPMENT
Five are the key features of our proposals to provide a growth response to the recession.
The first is to contain deficits and reduce public debt by drastically cutting the State's unproductive operating expenditure.
We say no to tax increases that will lock in our economy.
The second is to eliminate the weaknesses of the Cypriot economy, such as the anachronisms of our pension system, the extent of tax evasion and the irrationality of social benefits.
The third is to redesign our tax system to increase the competitiveness of the economy.
The fourth concerns the restructuring of the productive base of our economy,
with an emphasis on investments that generate wealth,
that exploit natural energy resources,
that attract new investments
and that create conditions for productive initiatives with new technologies, modernising innovations
and ecological criteria.
The fifth is the implementation of an energy policy that will trigger the development of our economy,
create new international alliances
and contribute to the maximisation of Cyprus' security and geostrategic position.
Some of the specific measures we propose for the fiscal consolidation of the State are:
Restriction of the state wage bill
Reduction by 20% of the number of public sector positions
Fairer distribution of the ATA
Provision of increases based on productivity
Promotion of the institution of interchangeability
Implementation of the new legislation to combat tax evasion
Abolition of semi-governmental organizations that do not serve productive activities of the State
Taxation of gambling
Freezing the recruitment of permanent and temporary employees
Adoption of modern methods and procedures of administration
Provision of social benefits based on income and property criteria
Reform of our pension system is a prerequisite for preventing the medium- and long-term undermining of the economy, social cohesion and the future of the younger generation.
Some of the measures to be implemented in this direction are:Consolidation of welfare funds
Encouraging the operation of private pension funds
Adoption of new investment programmes by the Social Security Fund.
Increasing the basic pension and the limits of minimum and social pensions A
key pillar of our strategy for a return to growth is the redesign of the tax system, in a way that provides incentives for the development of our productive forces and for new productive initiatives.
That is why we propose: Tax exemptions for SME investments in technology, research and innovation
Taxation of wealth that is not invested, not distributed, not used for the development of the country and its prosperity
Tax on idle land
Establishment of tax incentives for its utilization
Temporary abolition of transfer fees
Implementation of urban planning amnesty
Revision of the policy on the building rate
Our proposals for environmental protection policy are of strategic importance for the recovery of our economy and its return to the path of growth, as they should not be treated as an "anti-growth burden", but as a prerequisite for the production of new wealth.
Saving energy and rationalising its sources and uses is a key factor in increasing competitiveness, reducing production costs and improving quality of life.
Key priorities of our strategy for the protection of the environment and the sustainable development of our economy are:
Exploiting Cyprus' mineral energy potential
Diversification of energy sources through the expansion of renewable energy sources and the introduction of natural gas in the country's energy mix
Development of energy infrastructure and improvement of electricity transmission infrastructure
Simplification of all licensing procedures for investments in the energy sector
The creation of a modern investment environment in the energy sector is a decisive factor for the generation of new wealth, for the upgrading of Cyprus' strategic role.
and promoting alliances that strengthen our security.
In this context, new horizons for growth and prosperity can be opened.
Given that 7% of GDP is currently absorbed by the import of oil products, the economic benefits that will result from the exploitation of domestic oil, hydrocarbon and natural gas deposits located within the maritime space of our country are obvious.
The acceleration of the procedures for the licensing of exploration and the integration of Cyprus into the major international oil and gas networks is a national objective and priority.
The planning of energy flows, the emergence of Cyprus as a link between producers and consumers of energy raw materials and a major source of energy production to Europe is crucial for its diplomatic armouring and the strengthening of its negotiating position.
At the same time, revenues from hydrocarbon exploitation will enhance the competitiveness of our economy with added value and contribute to the upgrading of social welfare, environmental protection and the productive potential of the country.
That is why we propose the creation of a Special Fund to manage the revenues that will be generated by the exploitation of our new energy wealth.
SOCIAL CHANGE
No development effort will succeed without the cohesion of our society and the active participation of all citizens.
This is why the strategy proposed by the PPP for the future of Cyprus places particular emphasis on strengthening the position of the population groups most threatened by the crisis and exposed to the risks caused by the recession.
Our farmers, stockbreeders and fishermen are the first to be supported in their efforts not only to protect their income,
but also to participate decisively in increasing the competitiveness of our economy.
The linking of the tourism industry with agricultural production can contribute decisively to the promotion of agricultural products and the country's attractiveness as a tourist destination.
The same applies to the promotion of agri-tourism programmes, which can be an alternative form of tourism, particularly valuable for boosting tourism demand in international markets.
Our proposals for linking culture to our development vision are also moving in the same direction.
It is a matter that concerns us all, but especially young people.
The central objectives of our strategy for the upgrading of the everyday life of our citizens and the international image of our country are:The strengthening of creativity
The provision of equal opportunities of access to cultural goods
The encouragement of interculturalism
The preservation and promotion of our particular cultural identity
Our strategy includes not only the measures that strengthen cultural actions per se, but also a series of other measures that promote the perception that culture is not a museum object, but a way of life.
That's why we associate it with sport.
That is why we identify it with the fight against violence on the pitch.
That is why we associate it with the reform of our prison system.
That is why we consider it a component of our policy for the prevention of crime, the
fight against delinquency,
the formation of social institutions and technical infrastructure that will not create social exclusion, but will shield our youth against the scourge of drugs,
protect our children from violence, and
give people with disabilities access to all goods and services offered to all.
In this context, the measures we are proposing come to provide concrete solutions for life and its quality in terms of road safety and transport.
Young couples, single-parent families, working mothers and women in general deserve special treatment.
This is necessary not only to safeguard their rights,
but also for their equal participation in social and economic life.
Unemployment, which mainly affects young people and women, must be combated with concrete measures.
Priority must be given to their vocational training.
Adjustments must be made to social welfare so that the number and quality of state-run day-care centres and nurseries can be made easier for working women and young couples.
Special care is needed for young refugee couples.
Not only for their housing, which is still a major problem, but also for the redistribution of the burden through financial aid, the criteria for which must be reviewed and adjusted.
More generally, multiple and long-standing problems of all those who have suffered and been affected by the Turkish invasion, whether they are refugees, trapped, or families of the missing, must finally be settled.
RESPONSIBILITY HOUR
Compatriots,
The Democratic Party addresses the Cypriot people with a high sense of national, political and social responsibility.
It proposes a path of perspective and hope.
This is not the time for partisan debates.
This is no time for theoretical pursuits.
This is not the time for political conflicts and tactical debates.
It is a time for universal vigilance, rallying, unity and common action.
It is the time of collective responsibility in the face of the new conditions that are emerging.
It is the time for political understanding and social consensus.
It is the time for collective initiative on the basis of political convergence that will allow us to intervene effectively in a highly competitive and amoral global system of shifting balances.
That will allow us to claim with modern weapons of geopolitical and geostrategic value to strengthen our position and our negotiating capacity by creating new alliances
and winning the battle of economic development
and national vindication.
This is the essence of the strategy that the Democratic Party proposes to the Cypriot people.
That is why we ask for your support.
That is why we ask for your vote.
That is why we ask for your mandate.
Let's go forward together.
Together we will take Cyprus forward.
