CONTACT
The main cause of the decline of the states is generally the corruption and disintegration of the class that holds power... The polity belongs to the realm of genesis and cannot escape the law of decay...wealth displaces virtue and on it the citizen can rise to the highest ranks of power without regard to lack of experience and ability... man becomes insensitive to the noble aspirations of the soul and is not willing to fight for country and honour if he is to lose a part of his wealth..."
INTRODUCTION
We are at the dawn of the twenty-first century and the global conjuncture is characterised by the end of an era defined as "old" and the beginning of a new one that has not yet fully emerged.
In this fluid situation of change, Cypriot society, trapped in the tentacles of the long pending national problem
and the ongoing crisis of values that plagues its political life,
tired of big talk, lack of quality and little effectiveness, seems unable to respond to the challenges and demands of the times.
Reversing this situation is everyone's responsibility.
It is therefore imperative that we study and evaluate the data rationally and document proposals for the future of our country.
In order to live in a free, safe, secure, prosperous and European Cyprus, we need to codify our goals and choices from now on and at the same time study and plan the tactics and ways to implement them.
In the times we live in, our success and our prospects are intertwined with our foresight, our methodicalness and our ability.
Cyprus has its own comparative advantages and disadvantages.
It is a place with a long history,
with an important geostrategic position.
and pro-professional educated inhabitants.
But none of these objective characteristics is in itself an advantage or a disadvantage.
It is their rational evaluation, the correct analysis of their parameters and the practical actions of their exploitation that can turn them into advantages that will help us achieve our goals.
The following texts are the distillation of experience and scientific analysis and constitute the proposals and vision of the European Party for Cyprus in the 21st century.
THE EXISTING SITUATION IN OUR COUNTRY
Today the dominant features of the situation prevailing in the Cypriot state and society are the following: 1. A deep existential, educational, social, cultural and political confusion plagues our society.
We have lost our balance and we are on the edge.
Moral values are being discredited.
The ideals are mocked.
The Greek language is in constant decline.
Cultural terms are disregarded.
In everyday life, the prevailing rules of life are easy enrichment, vain selfish display and personal promotion pursued in any way and at any price.
2. Today, our country is suffering from a lack of moderation and loss of harmony.
In our interpersonal contacts, competitive relations prevail under the "individual doctrine" of "every man for himself".
3. The clientelism that has dominated politics for years has bred the sterile partisanship of society and has managed to divide and colour the social body in Cyprus. Even if this is not so obvious today.
4. There is an increasing antagonism in the relations between the state and the social whole.
The state has long since become a tool of convenience.
With its endless bureaucracy and the waterboarding of the state apparatus, it does not respond to the visions of the citizen who, in turn, does not trust it.
The inability of the royals to cope with the slide, also undermines the good behavior of any citizens who try to contribute productively to Society.
When they see that what they stand for and serve is neither recognized nor enforced.
The economy is changing, money is being concentrated in smaller and smaller groups of people.
The political being of Aristotle has been transformed into a modern consumerist individual, who behaves according to the communicative suggestions and needs of the market.
Representative democracy is in danger of being corrupted. Power is managed by closed, closed circles.
Institutions are weakened and citizens are marginalised, resentful, disgusted with politics and alienated from the public sphere.
The media shape and guide public opinion in an uncontrolled way.
At the same time they transform citizens into uniform human masses of consumers, receptive to the messages sent out by the market and those who shape it.
Many times in the Cypriot state, laws and institutions end up inactive by some (who should be their defenders and defenders), without exemplary punishment being imposed.
Generally in our society there is a lack of strategy and goals.
As Cypriot Hellenism we are living the decline of the analysis of phenomena and events, we are living the absence of early preventive planning and rapid coordination.
In order to move forward into the future, we must learn from the past and especially from the "fate of Corinth" shortly before its conquest by the Romans.
According to the historical description :" .... the "prudent Greeks" of decadence with demagogy and acrisis, sacrificed Greece to save themselves.
The confusion, the divisions, the unmitigated lustful worship and the psycho-spiritual denaturalization of the Greeks, had imposed the "convenient" assessment that any resistance to Roman expansionism was pointless and futile.... "
THE VISION OF THE EUROPEAN BODY FOR CYPRUS OF THE 21°V CENTURY
For the vision of the regeneration and reform of our state and society to become a reality, a comprehensive universal effort, whose strategic objectives should be:
The study, planning and development of activities to restore moderation, balance and harmony to the body of Cypriot society.
The search for and adoption of a new individual and collective behaviour. The development of a new relationship with space, the environment, the state, politics, parties, the market and work that will spring from the leaders to serve as a model for the citizens.
The initiation of a process of cleansing the social body from the malformations that cause and sustain social decay, with a planned and methodical fight against corruption and crime at all levels and at all levels.
Creating the conditions for people and leaders to become active, to establish new behaviours and give a new social perspective.
Most importantly, they will set a good example of hard and effective work.
The reform of social institutions so that they can "breathe and become capable of providing solutions to problems and at the same time be restored to the consciousness of citizens.
The study, design and creation of a modern, fair, orderly, equitable, fair, honest and flexible state.
The pursuit of the identification of politics and ethics. The prevalence of honest political discourse based on honesty, clarity, clarity, mildness and determination, in order to restore ethics and consistency to our political life.
Encouraging young politicians to get involved in political life.
Politicians who will be determined, not to accommodate and accommodate,
but to sacrifice themselves in order to impose the political face of truth, honesty, honesty and morality.
Supporting political parties to function productively as institutions for the elaboration of ideas and proposals for the modernisation of society.
This will restore the parties' connection with society, revitalise democracy and public life.
Also the safeguarding of political and financial transparency, and the introduction of controls on the finances of political parties.
The planning and building of a channel of permanent cooperation and communication with scientific research centres, located in the Greek diaspora and in Europe, for the introduction into our society of experiences and knowledge, in order to address the problems that plague us.
Sections
FOR THE REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT OF CYPRUS IN THE 21ST CENTURY
CONTENTS
I 01 FOREWORD I 02 INTRODUCTION I 03 THE EXISTING SITUATION IN OUR COUNTRY I 05 THE VISION OF THE EUROPEAN PARTY FOR CYPRIOTS IN THE 210TH CENTURY I 06-07 CONTENTS TITLES FOR THE 21 POLICY UNITS I 08 REFORM OF STATE AND SOCIETY INSTITUTIONS I 12 ECONOMY -BUSINESS -BIOMHXANIA 1 16 HINTERLAND -RURAL DEVELOPMENT -AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT -LIFE 1 19 TOURISM -NAUTY -TRADE - SERVICES I 23 ENVIRONMENT - SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT - QUALITY OF LIFE - NATURAL WEALTH I 26 SUPPORT FOR MIDDLE CLASS DEVELOPMENT - NEW DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY I 28 LOCAL GOVERNMENT - DECENTRALISATION - ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM I 30 RESEARCH - INNOVATION - NEW TECHNOLOGIES I 32 INFORMATION SOCIETY - TELECOMMUNICATIONS - DIGITAL GOVERNANCE I 34 ENERGY - INFORMATION SOCIETY - TELECOMMUNICATIONS - DIGITAL GOVERNANCESAVINGS AND NEW TECHNOLOGIES PRODUCTIONCONTENTS CYPRUS INTERNATIONAL SERVICE CENTRE -CAPITAL OF EUROPE COMMUNITY FUNDS - ABSORPTION - MANAGEMENT - DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION - EDUCATION SYSTEM - EDUCATION REFORM REFUGEE POLICY - SOCIAL SUPPORT - SOCIAL ASSISTANCE - SOCIAL WELFARE HEALTH - MARGINALISATION - MEDICAL CARE CULTURE - HEALTH CARE - HEALTH CARE - MEDICAL CARECULTURAL HERITAGE -DEVELOPMENT -CREATIVITY YOUNG CYPRIOTS IN THE 210TH CENTURY WOMEN -POWER FOR DEVELOPMENT -EQUITABLE PARTICIPATION -EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES -SPORTS -ELEMENT OF SOCIAL COHESION AND DEVELOPMENT -CIVIL SOCIETY -CRIME -OFFENDING BEHAVIOUR -DRUGS -EXPATRIATES -EXPLOITATION OF EXPATRIATES -REPATRIATION -CYPRUS -EUROPEAN SOLUTION
REFORM OF STATE AND SOCIETY INSTITUTIONS
One of the main pillars of the policy of the EUROPEAN GROUP is the "reform of the State and society".  The
need for a radical reorganization and real modernization of our country is based on the realization and deep awareness that the current Public Administration, as well as
the social atmosphere of tolerance and indifference are the main limiting factors for the progress and development of the country.
Our path to the future is being sabotaged by a wasteful, opaque and ineffective state that is below par, characterised by corruption, partisanship and inefficiency.
CYPRIOT REALITY AND PROSPECTS FOR IMPROVEMENT
Every day, citizens find that many public services, instead of serving them, inconvenience and frustrate them.
The administration is not friendly and the state is driving the citizen away, with the consequence that the citizen no longer trusts public bodies and institutions.
The main structural problems of the Public Administration of the Cypriot state are:
The low quality of services provided by many parts of the public sector
The high cost of public services and goods
Poor organisation and centralisation of public services
The feeling of insecurity felt by citizens
and lack of trust in state services, public functions and institutions
The absence of controls and sanctions and the total lack of objective evaluation which undermine the effectiveness of management
Unfairness and corruption undermining the authority of the state
The most important causes of the administrative misery of the country are the following: The partisanship of the administration and the clientelism that developed between the rulers and citizens.
 The tradition of bribery has been the basis of these clientelisms and has led to the unqualified recruitment of thousands of officials on purely partisan grounds.
The absence of control and sanctions for violations of the principle of legality and good administration, resulting in corruption, opacity and illegal transactions.
The absence of a clear and rational division of responsibilities between state institutions.
The underestimation and the leading of the administrative apparatus by a multitude of various consultants
and the systematic degradation of worthy public servants into order-takers.
The degradation of the moral mission of the state
and the absence of a spirit and mentality of responsibility of state institutions.
The lack of modern methods of organisation and management.
The absence of fair evaluation and performance incentive mechanisms has resulted in the flourishing of inequalities, the failure to promote the most competent and qualified staff.
The extremely slow pace of utilisation of new technology (management information systems and cutting-edge technologies).
Social tolerance and apathy and the logic of "don't be bored, brother, I don't care about us being good" has bred the audacity, corruption, inefficiency, waste and incompetence of the State.
A substantial improvement of the situation in the Public Administration is not possible through individual policy measures, occasional adjustments and interventions.
 It requires a comprehensive and radical overhaul and reform of the public administration to such a degree and extent that it can be called "Reform of the State".
Our state and society must change radically before it is too late.
This is the major challenge facing the country.
Reconstruction and real reform is a strategic choice and priority of the EUROPEAN GROUP and is the most important task we foresee for Cyprus in the coming years.
PROPOSALS OF THE EUROPEAN PARTY
The strategy of the EUROPEAN GROUP for the reform of our state and society in the 21st century includes the following:
Reorganisation of the government mechanism
Creating mechanisms and redistributing responsibilities to avoid dysfunction and duplication to make the state flexible, less costly, efficient and effective.
Significant transfer of resources and executive powers to the decentralised and self-governing units of the state (municipalities and communities).
Only critical decisions should be retained in the central institutions and services.
We want the administration to be close to the citizen in order to provide services at the lowest possible level, where the real problems and needs are.
Dignity, evaluation and more motivation for staff.
Instead of the funnel of civil service of hundreds of thousands of people who are not well paid and operate in an unqualified environment, we want a state service with better employees, who are selected meritocratically, work hard, are paid appropriately and develop without party criteria, but on the basis of their merit.
Strengthening civil society and volunteering
We want the effective empowerment of civil society by strengthening movements and voluntary bodies for the collective expression of citizens.
We believe that social welfare in Cyprus is based on the coordinated efforts of the state and the voluntary private sector.
The time has come to institutionalise cooperation between the State and the voluntary sector.
Our suggestion is the decentralization of social care from the Ministries to the local government
and the increase of state sponsorship to voluntary organizations, in order to strengthen the infrastructure of the coordinating bodies of voluntary organizations, to create structured mechanisms and network.
A modern management model, oriented towards objectives and results.
We want a new system, a new methodology, mentality and philosophy of administration and organisation, away from bureaucracy and legalism, passivity and inertia, corruption and hypocrisy.
The country needs a new method and practice of management based on objectives and results, economy of means, responsibility, systematic control and evaluation.
e-Administration and e-Governance, use of information technology at all levels
Instead of using outdated and anachronistic management systems, which the public service uses today and are remnants of the Anglo-Saxon era, we want a substantial improvement and modernization of the operational systems of the administration, which correspond to the "digital age" and the "knowledge society".
The public service must make use and exploit information technology.
"E-government", with the use of information systems in public administration, is the cutting-edge reform for the future.
Public administration neutral and impartial
Instead of centralisation and the dependence of the Public Administration on party influence, we want the meritocratic operation and neutrality of the Administration.
We want independent authorities to be set up to fight corruption,
promote transparency
and protect citizens' rights.
The modern democratic state must have continuity in its functioning, without party dependencies and influences, in order to serve the public interest in the long term and effectively.
Transparency and control everywhere
Transparency as a prerequisite of the rule of law and a guarantee of the safeguarding of the public interest is a basic principle which must govern all public life.
In order to implement the principle of transparency, we support the following:The establishment of an appropriate institutional framework
The continuous control with the imposition of sanctions
The reduction of the citizen's contact with the public sector, through e-government
The introduction of objective criteria in the requirements of the state from the citizen The introduction
of a fine for the services of the public sector in cases where the citizen is inconvenienced and not served.
ECONOMY -BUSINESS -BIOMHXANIA
The overall objective of the economic policy proposed by the EUROPEAN GROUP is to achieve a high rate of growth,
based on the creativity of the Cypriot people and the attraction of foreign investment.
This calls for an appropriate adjustment of economic policy, with specific objectives, binding priorities and, above all, a broad programme of macroeconomic and structural interventions with clear timetables.
The key elements that underpin the development of a strong economy in Cyprus are, on the one hand, the new external environment created by our accession to the European Union, which affects the small size and open nature of our economy and, on the other hand, the comparative advantages that our country has.
CYPRIOT REALITY AND PROSPECTS FOR IMPROVEMENT
I) Economic Policy
Only with a strong economy can Cyprus support its social cohesion and distribute the social dividend of growth fairly to all.
Making the most of our membership of the EU and our economic and social convergence with the member countries requires a greater opening of our economy and new concepts of state activity.
For the European Party our main objectives should be: The rapid sustainable growth of the economy,
in an environment of price stability, especially after our accession to the EMU
The increase of employment
and the reduction of real unemployment
The provision to all citizens of social services of public utility of a high level and quality (health, education, social care, etc.)
The protection of the environment, natural resources and our national heritage for the benefit of future generations
II) Business Policy I Entrepreneurship
Cypriots have an entrepreneurial spirit and entrepreneurial thinking, but they need "training" to be able to channel their energy outside Cyprus and compete with foreign companies operating in Cyprus.
The development of entrepreneurial knowledge and skills should be fostered at all levels of education through specific programmes.
Cypriot entrepreneurs need to be trained in modern methods and techniques of entrepreneurship.
Cypriot enterprises also need access to sources of financial capital.
The difficulty in accessing sources of investment finance applies to many EU countries.
A pan-European capital market for finding investment capital would provide a solution to this problem.
The problem of Cypriot businesses to find investment resources can be slightly reduced by the good design of Grant Programmes from European and National Funds through an effort to modernise the local businesses and improve their competitiveness.
Through the entrepreneurship support programmes, incentives can be provided to curb urbanisation,
resettle citizens in the countryside,
and create sustainable production units for traditional and other products.
III) Industrial Policy
Our industries are left helpless and, except in a few cases, the majority of the country's industries are in danger of losing the game.
It is imperative that the state should act to help the industrial sector.
Incentives should be given to companies to use specialised Industrial Development Consultants who, with their experience, know-how and the use of diagnostic tools (business audits, etc.), can offer information and recommendations to the industrialists themselves, in order to modernise their activity and adapt to the new European environment, thus ensuring their stay in the market.
Through the programmes to support industrial activity, incentives for the modernisation of local industrial units, particularly in the manufacturing sector, should be strengthened
and increased grants should be provided to improve the competitiveness and productivity of Cypriot industry.
IV) EMU integration
For the European Party, any postponement of Eurozone membership would call into question the credibility of our exchange rate and economic policy and consistency, with negative consequences, especially as regards the robustness of the Cypriot economy.
The adoption of the Euro also strengthens Cyprus politically as it will now be a member of the group of states that is gaining more and more power in EU decision-making.
This will allow Cyprus to actively participate in the formulation of EU policy towards Turkey's European objectives, which should follow a policy of prudence and implementation of EU principles and values.
Furthermore, our adoption of the euro will be a decisive factor in any talks on the economic aspects of the solution of the Cyprus problem.
In addition to enabling our entrepreneurs to better exploit the opportunities of the single market with the adoption of the euro, the convergence of Cypriot interest rates with those of the euro area will reduce borrowing costs,
while easier access to Europe's capital markets will broaden the choices of investors and businesses
, while greater price transparency will strengthen competitive conditions and
have positive effects, especially for consumers.
Also the elimination of exchange rate risk in Euro transactions will reduce transaction costs with favourable effects in general.
PROPOSALS OF THE EUROPEAN PARTY
I) Economic policy proposals
Creating an infrastructure and environment that will attract investment and business initiatives,
while enhancing the extroversion of the Cypriot economy
Developing a growth strategy based on the Social Dimension of the Economy and the Market with growth, employment and social justice as its pillars
Modernising the inefficient and wasteful state
and fighting bureaucracy and corruption
Improving the competitiveness of the economy, by containing labour costs and ensuring the competitiveness of the economy.
I) Business policy proposals
To create a structure of permanent cooperation between the Ministries of Finance, Trade, Industry and Tourism, Education and other institutions, in order to have a common strategy and measures for the promotion of entrepreneurship
The subject of entrepreneurship to be introduced in the curriculum of secondary schools
 and adopt measures to link businesses with schools (e.g. work week, etc.)
The state to take responsibility for collecting information and data on the promotion of entrepreneurship and the dissemination of good practices
 and to set specific targets for the promotion of entrepreneurship, both at state and regional level, so that progress can be monitored in each region separately
The state to promote the organisation of seminars (either through the private business sector or private educational sector) for the Cypriot entrepreneur on how to operate a business outside Cyprus
To demonstrate to the European Union the potential of Cyprus as a gateway to the Eastern Mediterranean and vice versa, where production and other units could operate.
Encourage initiatives such as that of the Banking Association to adopt a "code of conduct" between banks and SMEs.
Also to support projects such as those for women and youth entrepreneurship,
as well as the project to subsidise the technological upgrading of the manufacturing sector.
I) Proposals for industrial policy
The state to provide incentives for the creation of high-tech and capital-intensive enterprises, making use of the relevant EU funds.
Development of programmes for the introduction of new technology in industrial activity and encouragement of investments in technology introduction with special tax incentives or favourable lending conditions
Incentives for investment of resources and personnel in the field of research and especially applied research by linking research centres (University of Cyprus and other public and private institutions) with industry.
Restraint of labour costs and improvement of productivity of industrial units,
while the revision of the institution of the A.
This institution is anachronistic and has been abolished in almost all EU countries.
I) Proposals for EMU
The early and smooth adoption of the Euro will have positive effects for the Cypriot economy in general and for Cypriot businessmen
and consumers in particular, therefore our accession to the Eurozone should take place as foreseen in 1998.
Participation in the Eurozone strengthens the incentives to promote the necessary structural reforms, to further consolidate public finances
(which will facilitate the implementation of effective social policy in times of adverse economic conditions)
and to make greater use of the objectives and programmes of the Eurozone.
UPLAND - RURAL DEVELOPMENT FISHERIES
Cyprus' accession to the EU has created a new environment for both the agricultural and fisheries sectors.
In both areas, the current difficulties can be traced back to attitudes and policies that have been applied in Cyprus for decades.
The constant procrastination, the fear of switching from the protective environment of the mixed economy to free production and marketing, created many chronic problems which are now visible with the frequent and continuous mobilizations of Cypriot producers.
The current situation makes it imperative to take measures to restructure the structural structures of the economy in general and in particular in the sectors of agriculture and fisheries.
CYPRIOT REALITY AND PROSPECTS FOR IMPROVEMENT
I) Rural and rural development
Looking at the contribution of the Primary Sector of the Economy, which includes Agriculture, we see that it constitutes about 4% of the Gross Domestic Product, which is the total of the Agriculture Sector.
The manufacturing industry as part of the secondary sector linked to the output of the primary sector does not exceed 8%.
Nevertheless, the very large number of agricultural and livestock holdings in all activities of the Agriculture Sector-45,000 holdings-indicates the activity of a significant part of the economically active population,
which appears to be active in the tertiary sector, which covers trade, tourism, real estate, public service and military, education and other social services.
This is accompanied by a lack of effective training, the absence of modern production methods, the lack of proper marketing organisation and, above all, the lack of a proper administrative structure that meets the needs of the EU environment.
The result of this situation is the high cost and low quality of our agricultural and livestock product.
The consequence of all this is the abandonment of the countryside and the deterioration of the standard and quality of life, particularly in mountainous areas.
II) Fisheries
Although Cyprus is an island, it does not have a strong tradition in the fisheries sector.
The fishing fleet on the island is very largely limited to inshore fishing, accompanied by a strong presence of amateur fishermen, who often use illegal fishing gear as the penalties are not very strict.
Legislation is inadequate in the pelagic fisheries sector.
Government research for new fishing grounds, new fish species and above all infrastructure is missing.
This led to the rapid development of aquaculture of a small variety of fish.
The development of this activity - always in the full development of private initiative - has been successful.
However, the potential for growth exists.
[ I] EUROPEAN PARTY PROPOSALS
Proposals for the countryside and rural development:
1.  Themain objective is to increase the share of the agricultural sector in the Gross Domestic Product of the state, aiming not only at internal sufficiency but also at export
2. Supporting the professional producer in the new EU environment.
Renegotiation with professionals engaged in "problematic" professions, for a 3-year period of special treatment to enable them to develop a 2nd related profession, allowing them to earn an adequate living income
3.  Develop a new policy in food production.
In this context, development of a crisis management plan for the food chain from production to the consumer
4. Support and upgrading of rural areas through LEADER-type programmes for development in remote and small rural villages, particularly in mountainous and semi-mountainous areas
5. Substantial and qualitative upgrading of the countryside with development and promotion of the local culture through programmes for the restoration of traditional settlements, traditional means of production, agricultural products, which are characteristic of Cyprus, with parallel support for agrotourism programmes.
6. Reform in the Ministry of Agriculture which should be completely restructured and transformed into the Ministry of Rural Development and Food.
7. Create a Single Food Inspection Agency
8. Develop a central food laboratory and a central feed laboratory
9. Involve specialized staff and develop a permanent training programme
10. Integration of services of the Planning Bureau, Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Interior in the implementation of the Rural Development Programmes 2007-2013
11. Abandonment of the "empty chair" policy in the European institutions
12. Accreditation of the services of the Agricultural Payments Agency
14. Preparation of a new strategy for the production and marketing of agri-food products
15. Establishment of a Supreme Council for Agriculture and Livestock as an institutional advisory body
16. Establishment of an agricultural chamber
17. Establishment of a crisis response and management mechanism within the Ministry of Agriculture
18. Support and direct advisory guidance to producers in the creation of Product Groups.
19 . Development of cooperative consortia, outside of party interference and entrenchment
20 . Development of professional associations by product to optimise quality and productivity.
21. Establishment of a register of professional farmers
22. Give away farm loans after objective criteria are established
23. Provide financial support (scholarships) to children of farmers to study in professions directly related to rural development.
24. Establishment of a Higher Agricultural School
25 . Upgrading the mechanism for permanent training of farmers KEGE
26 . Autonomy of the Institute of Agricultural Research. Develop research towards food processing
27. Establishment of a Faculty of Agricultural and Food Science and Technology at the University of Cyprus.
[II] Proposals for Fisheries:
1.  Develop new regulations that dictate that the state should establish research for new fishing grounds and new varieties of fish
2. Develop a strategy for pelagic fishing vessel infrastructure.
At the same time, creating incentives for the development of a fleet of pelagic vessels.
Examination of overseas fishing opportunities based on the Greek experience
3.  Enforce strict control and increase penalties in coastal fishing, especially towards recreational fishermen
4 . Establishment of a register of professional fishermen
5.  Supporting professional fishermen from net disasters
6.  Upgrading of vessel equipment with incentives for cooperatives and parallel grants
7.  Help the aquaculture industry to develop new profitable fish varieties that will reduce market prices
8.  Adoption of new legislation for the creation of an Oceanographic Studies Department for marine research on marine pollution, the study of the fauna and flora of the Cypriot seabed, the protection of the green turtle Caretta-Caretta etc.
9. Development of a marine park, a kind of museum of the biodiversity of the Cypriot seas
10. The fight against marine pollution should be undertaken by the Port Police and Merchant Shipping to neutralize pollutants with adequate equipment and qualified personnel.
TOURISM - TOURISM - TOURISM - TRADE SERVICES
Cypriots, from ancient times, have had a tradition of hospitality, trade and shipping.
This was largely due to Cyprus' very good geographical position and the restless, pro-conformist and hospitable character of the Cypriots.
In modern times Cyprus has managed to develop the sectors of tourism, shipping, trade and services.
Today it has a very good tourist infrastructure,
has its own flag which is among the largest registers at international level,
maintains a good commercial activity
and aspires to become an international service centre.
With these facts, Cyprus has the potential to become one of the largest tourist, shipping and commercial centres in the world.
CYPRIOT REALITY AND PROSPECTS FOR IMPROVEMENT
I) Tourism
Tourism is undoubtedly the backbone of the Cypriot economy.
This sector had invested in the sun and the sea, resulting in a one-dimensional product.
At the same time, high operating costs, seasonality and lack of infrastructure projects limit the development of our tourism product.
The new data suggest that Cyprus should be repositioned on the tourist map. Strengthening competitiveness is a priority and the only way for the sustainability of our tourism.
II) Shipping
The contribution of Cyprus Shipping to the Cyprus economy is more than 40% of the Gross Domestic Product, and exceeds £200 million per year.
In addition, 4000 employees and 40,000 seafarers are employed in shipping.
The Maritime Industry: It is the only globalised industry in Cyprus, It
operates without any government subsidy, It
successfully competes globally as a "Maritime Superpower", It
is the 2nd largest contributor to GDP.
Today, the Cyprus Flag has dropped from 4th to 10th place in the world in two years and the Cyprus Register of Shipping has gone from 1700 ships two years ago to only 1100 today.
Unfortunately, even today, no satisfactory ship inspections are carried out and the computerisation of the Department of Merchant Shipping, which was started in 1996, has not yet been completed.
The main problems of Cyprus Shipping today are the following: The Turkish ban on the docking of ships of Cypriot interests has caused the deletion of hundreds of ships from the Cyprus Register and prevents hundreds of other ships from using the Cypriot flag
The dubious maintenance after April 2007 of the existing regime of taxing shipping companies on the basis of "Capacity Tax" rather than "Corporate Tax" scares shipowners and ship operators into increasing taxation
The payment of a double contribution for Social Security, both by shipowner-employers and by European seafarers working on board ships flying the Cypriot flag.
The problematic Maritime Policy exercise due to the accumulation of important and complex departments in the Ministry of Communications and Works
III) Trade and services
Cyprus's accession to the European Union marked an important milestone for the broad trade sector.
In particular, import activity has intensified, especially in consumer goods that are now flooding the Cypriot market.
In many products the consumer has seen a reduction in prices and an increase in the variety on offer.
At the same time, the export sector faces the challenge of modernisation so that export products can meet the specifications and standards that apply in European markets.
A very low level of e-commerce via the internet is found in Cyprus.
At a time when online trading is predicted to be the next big innovation in the world.
The human potential for the development of such activity exists in our country, but incentives and sponsorships are needed in order for businesses to develop such commercial activities.
In the services sector, the services offered by banking institutions and large financial advisory firms continue to dominate.
Integration has created serious prospects for the export of services, for educational institutions, medical centres and for the provision of services in general.
But private initiative needs support and incentives (fiscal, procedural, etc.).
PROPOSALS OF THE EUROPEAN PARTY
I) Proposals for Tourism
1. Strengthening the competitiveness of the Cypriot product through upgrading the quality of the tourism product.
Quality means preserving the natural environment and protecting the cultural heritage of our country.
2. Cyprus should serve the needs of the 21st century tourist. This implies the development of all forms of alternative tourism (sports, conference, agrotourism, etc.) and ensuring the quality of their stay.
3. Emphasis on the promotion of our tourism product through electronic marketing and advertising.
The Internet has now become accessible to all and is a modern tool for increasing the tourist flow.
4.  The State should stand up for the tourism industry and ensure that projects such as airports, and marinas are built.
There is also a need for cooperation between the public and private sectors for the implementation of development projects.
5. Local authorities should undertake appropriate projects that will improve the living standards of their residents and attract foreigners.
II) Proposals for Shipping
1. Turkish ban on docking of Cypriot ships
The government, as well as our MEPs, should put pressure on Turkey through the EU for an early resolution of the problem.
It should be a legal battle, not necessarily a political one.
Provide additional incentives to shipping companies, so that the benefit to Cyprus exceeds the cost to them of the ban on docking their ships in Turkish ports.
2.  Maintaining the existing tax on shipping companies
The government should try to maintain the relevant legislation beyond 2007.
A study should be carried out by the relevant Ministry to calculate the cost/benefit analysis of offering additional tax relief to shipowning companies.
An appropriation with a supplementary budget should be approved for the study.
3 . Inability of the Ministry of Communications and Works to promote and solve serious problems
Creation of a General Directorate of Shipping at the Ministry of Communications and Works, which will have the much needed mechanism for rapid decision-making for the formulation and implementation of the Government's policy on shipping.
Creation of a Maritime Policy and Serious Problems Committee
The creation of a centre for maritime research and studies
III) Proposals on trade and services
To provide incentives to expand the export sector to new products that exploit Cyprus' comparative advantages
To provide incentives to develop synergies and partnerships between Cypriot companies and expatriate entrepreneurs for the promotion of Cypriot products in the markets and in the countries where they reside
Strengthen small and medium-sized retail businesses, because they are valuable cells of trade
and ensure that consumers have the basic choices
Create a price and competition watchdog at the Ministry of Commerce which will monitor and regulate the proper functioning of the market, especially in view of the accession to the Eurozone.
Incentives and sponsorships should be given to businesses to develop e-commerce infrastructure, activities and partnerships
Incentives should be given to private colleges to upgrade the curricula they offer, in order for them to be recognized on the basis of quality criteria in private universities, so that Cyprus becomes a centre for the provision of services of high academic quality
Establish a School of Medicine at the University of Cyprus
and to provide incentives to upgrade private clinics and state hospitals in order for Cyprus to establish itself as an international medical centre for offering high value-added medical services to foreigners
ENVIRONMENT-SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT-QUALITY OF LIFE-NATURAL WEALTH
The environment and the natural wealth of Cyprus are among the comparative advantages of our country.
For this reason, the state must proceed with an integrated environmental policy which, through sustainable development practices, will ensure the exploitation of natural wealth for the benefit of the economy and society.
As part of this effort, the protection of the natural asset should be shielded by legislation.
Especially in cases where there is an ecological or aesthetic value that requires protection, a special management regime should apply.
CYPRIOT REALITY AND PROSPECTS FOR IMPROVEMENT
1). The Cyprus Ecosystem and the Human Burden
To understand the problem of pollution we need to look at our overall environment as an ecosystem to measure and see to what extent human activity is affecting it.
The problems that exist today are briefly listed below:√ Emissions of carbon dioxide pollutants into the atmosphere
√ Pollution of surface and groundwater
√ Identification of dust sources and continuous recordings of dust in the atmosphere
√ Delay in legislation and strategic planning to change catalyst-free vehicles
√ Slow implementation of environmental management policy in industrial plants
√ Recording of radioactivity emissions from high-voltage electricity pylons and radio and television masts
√ Records of high noise pollution from noise sources, especially in residential areas
√ Unreasonable disposal of raw waste from livestock (cow, sheep, goat, pig and poultry) farms
√ Absence of biological stations and strategy for their development on livestock farms
√ Unreasonable disposal of raw industrial waste - from cheese dairies, sausage factories and other food processing plants
√ Absence of a toxic waste water and waste treatment plant resulting in serious problems of storage, local management and packaging -removal from the production sites
√ The absence of an incinerator for the incineration of animal waste from slaughterhouses makes the risk of disease imminent
II) Forests and wildlife
Cyprus' forests cover 32% of the total area of the island. 18.5% is vegetation in the high state forests and 13.50% is shrubland.
The responsible department is the Forestry Department, which implements forestry policy and legislation, and manages the relevant state expenditure.
Despite the development of a National Forestry Programme with the assistance of the UN FAO for the decade 2000-2009, with achievable targets, there are fundamental problems.
III) Mineral Wealth and Mining
It is well known that Cyprus owes its name to copper.
The rich subsoil of the Troodos region in minerals such as copper was an attraction for man, who very quickly turned to their exploitation.
The 220 quarries and the activity of the former CMC of the Asbestos Company and today of the JMG have created open wounds in the natural environment.
IV) Water resources
It is generally accepted that the lack of water in Cyprus has been our number one problem after the national one.
The creation of a series of dams that at 100% capacity can serve water needs for 5 years, as well as the South Pipeline project, which provided water up to Kokkinochoria, proved inadequate in a prolonged drought.
The continuous drought for a decade highlighted a number of weaknesses.
PROPOSALS OF THE EUROPEAN PARTY
I) Proposals for the Cyprus Ecosystem
1. Establishment of a Single Environmental Body.
Development of environmental services in those Ministries directly related in one way or another and their coordination with the Single Body
2. Establishment of a Central Environmental Laboratory for continuous and timely monitoring of environmental pollution
3. Development of a strategic programme of education of Cypriots to create environmental awareness, both for young people and for employees in the workplace
4. Identification of pollutant sources and quantities on a year-round schedule
5. Develop a programme of controls on the disposal of motor oil and pesticide residues
6. Establishment of a toxic waste water station
7. Establishment of an animal waste incinerator
8. Overall development of an industrial waste management strategy
9. Retirement of old steam turbine plants and development of new wind farms
10. Construction of new conventional plants using natural gas instead of fuel oil
11. Urgent development of legislation to scrap old vehicles without catalytic converters
12. Upgrading of public transport in the city and disincentives to private car use (e.g. ground-based electric trams or the introduction of small modern public transport vehicles to and from city centres)
13. Subsidising the purchase of environmentally friendly cars
14. Acceleration of the creation of the Unified Traffic Control Centre in the Capital
15. Establishment of a traffic ring in the centre of Nicosia. Access to this ring will be accompanied by the payment of a high fee
II) Proposals for Forests and Wildlife
1. Upgrading forest fire management mechanisms and plans. Organized engagement of civilians and the National Guard
2. Upgrading and reactivation through the Rural Development Programmes 2007-2013 of deserted bush forest areas (due to drought or lack of human activity)
Upgrading of recreation areas within forest areas
4. Upgrading of the Forest College at the cognitive and functional level
5. Cultivation of green consciousness by citizens through actions at all levels of society, starting with young people through special education programmes
6. Creation of a Cyprus Wildlife Museum
III) Proposals on Mineral Wealth and Mining
1. Strict implementation of the new legislation on environmental restoration
2. Develop new planning for environmental restoration from past activities that were developed without the new legislation and remain an open wound to the natural environment
IV) Proposals on Water Resources
Creation of a Single Water Resources Agency to coordinate all services involved in the water cycle
Development of water awareness as a single problem rather than a local one, especially in the field of education, but also among farmers
Strict regulations on water use are necessary.
The decontamination of domestic water may have solved the problem for the villages and cities, but it is not the lynchpin of the water problem in our country.
The competent Ministry should give importance to dryland crops.
Our farmers never acquired the water consciousness to switch to dryland crops. It is noted that they consume 70% of the total water consumption
Utilization of secondary treatment water from biological plants
SUPPORT MIDDLE CLASS SUPPORT - NEW DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
A key commitment of the EUROPEAN BODY is the objective of achieving social justice in conditions of stability and growth.
Social justice, social cohesion and a fair distribution of national income are the necessary conditions for achieving stable and sustainable development.
The current state of the country's economy requires the restructuring of all sectors of the economy.
In particular, it is necessary to support and strengthen the country's middle class, which is the backbone of our economy and society.
Related strategic objectives of this objective should be the modernisation of production units, the
strengthening of the competitiveness and productivity of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises
and the introduction of modern technology in production methods, for the production of good quality and high value-added products and services.
CYPRIOT REALITY AND PROSPECTS FOR IMPROVEMENT
In the EUROPEAN COMMONWEALTH We believe that the middle class is the driving force of our country.
The middle class has been destroyed by lack of support, but also by the coup de grace of the stock market scandal that marked the biggest wealth shift in the history of the Republic of Cyprus.
The period that followed the decline of the stock market made it obvious that the middle class of Cypriot society had been irreparably affected by the scandalous events of the stock market era.
These results are now visible as many small and medium-sized enterprises are over-indebted and cannot secure the necessary capital for investments that would help them to modernise and expand their activity and market share.
The middle class needs support today in order to overcome the problems it is facing
and thus exploit its considerable potential for the benefit of the development of society and the economy of Cyprus.
In particular, micro and medium-sized enterprises and the classes of women and young people should be given state assistance and support.
Our proposal is to support the middle class with special support measures such as, for example, programmes for modernisation and expansion of businesses,
programmes for youth and women's entrepreneurship,
lifelong education programmes,
programmes for the reintegration of unemployed and retired people, programmes to support young farmers for high-tech crops, etc.
PROPOSALS OF THE EUROPEAN PARTY
1. Providing incentives for technological modernisation, restructuring and development of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises
√ Provide incentives to encourage growth through mergers, acquisitions and expansions
√ Provide incentives for participation in sponsorship programmes
√ Reduction of the tax rate in the first years of operation for start-ups
√ Providing incentives for the development of common distribution and e-commerce networks
√ Incentives for the use of new technologies in the business strategy of small businesses
√ Encourage small but dynamic companies to use the modern financial tools of the capital markets
√ Involvement of the banking sector in the process of development incentives, in order to familiarise banks with the specificities of the media and to assist them in the preparation and submission of investment projects
2. Providing incentives for the integration of women and young people into productive activity
√ Women and young people are the force for the development and renewal of the political and social life of the country.
For their integration into productive activity and in particular with the appropriate use of Community and national resources, we propose:
√ Subsidy for two years of 50% of the wage for those enterprises that hire unemployed young people. √
Development of targeted actions for a better combination of family and professional obligations (parental leave, allowances, flexible working hours, etc.) for every working mother √
Strengthening and broadening the incentives and actions of the Youth and Women's Entrepreneurship Programmes √
Subsidy for one year of 50% of the wage for those companies that employ unemployed mothers
LOCAL GOVERNMENT - DECENTRALISATION - ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM
Accession to the European Union has marked the decentralisation and administrative reform of the self-governing regions of the country.
In this context, the institutional restructuring of local government, both at the level of municipalities and communities, is necessary in order to enable it to fulfil its mission.
In order to achieve this objective, substantial responsibilities should be transferred from central administration to the restructured local authorities
and at the same time the financial resources associated with the implementation of each new responsibility entrusted to local authorities should be transferred from the state to the local authorities.
Each new competence given to local authorities should be accompanied by the allocation of the necessary funds for its implementation.
CYPRIOT REALITY AND PROSPECTS FOR IMPROVEMENT
The assessment of the course of local government to date leads to the following observations and findings: Lack of a comprehensive strategic plan for the administrative organization of the provinces in accordance with the requirements of integration.
√ Lack of interest in the development of local government in mountainous and other areas.
√ Inability to highlight balanced regional development and decentralisation of state services.
The importance of regions has grown in Europe and will continue to do so.
The European Union places particular emphasis on the role of the regions as a driving force for development and as a factor in strengthening cohesion in the Union.
The objective of the EUROPEAN BODY is to reduce the isolation of self-governing areas (Municipalities and Communities) through the development of a specific plan, with axes: √
The exploitation of the local specificities and comparative advantages of each region
The creation of Regional Development Organisations involving local government and the productive classes √
The strengthening of investment √
The improvement of the quality of life √
The strengthening of citizens' participation in the community, as well as the promotion of general national objectives.
PROPOSALS OF THE EUROPEAN PARTY
1. the institutionalisation of the measure of the clustering of Community Authorities
and the operation of elected regional councils with direct powers and responsibilities
2. the encouragement of the voluntary amalgamation of municipalities
and the creation of an elected unitary authority in each of the four main urban centres of free Cyprus and in free Famagusta with substantial, direct and exclusive powers
3. Promote changes in the internal distribution of powers between the Mayor and the Municipal Council, so that substantive powers are given to the Municipal Council, thus making the functioning of local authorities more democratic
and making democratic combinations truly accountable to the citizens for the way local issues are managed
4. Creating truly self-governing organisations in order to reduce the gap between the citizen and the authorities, and to multiply opportunities for active participation of citizens in the realisation of common goals
5. A genuine transfer of responsibilities for local affairs to the various levels of government.
The principles of decentralisation, subsidiarity and efficiency are the starting point for reform
. 6 No new powers without new resources. Any new local government competence must be accompanied, after costing, by the necessary resources, adequate staffing and the necessary support mechanisms
7 . No new law without an expression of opinion from local communities No legislative initiative concerning local government will be finalised without the prior expression of the opinion of local communities
8.  Participation of local government in the planning, programming and implementation of Community programmes (e.g. Leader+)
9.  Local consultation for an organised and in-depth examination of local problems, involving civil society organisations and individual citizens
10.  Incentives for the development of an e-government infrastructure
11.  Specific operational plans for mountain areas
12. Inter-municipal cooperation in the form of 'co-cities'.
Incentives to municipalities and communities to cooperate at inter-municipal level for certain functions (transport, municipal police, waste management, water supply), without wasting human and resource resources in order to achieve the best results.
Establishment of the second tier of local government
RESEARCH - INNOVATION - NEW TECHNOLOGIES
The Lisbon Conference set the development framework for the European Union within a set of measurable objectives and a series of policy guidelines with the central objective of making the European economy the most competitive in the world.
This direction sets some growth limits that must be approached if Europe wants to compete with its main economic rivals, Japan, the USA and the ever-rising China.
In this context, it was set that by 2010, research and technological development expenditure should reach 3% of GDP, with ? coming from private sector spending.
CYPRIOT REALITY AND PROSPECTS FOR IMPROVEMENT
In 2003, public expenditure on research and technological development amounted to only 0.35%, when the European target is 3%,
while as far as the involvement of the private sector in this process is concerned, there is an abject failure and a serious lack of appropriate policy measures, since Cyprus, as far as private participation is concerned, is only 0.06°/o when the European Barcelona target is 2%.
The sectors that underpinned Cyprus' growth dynamics were traditional consumer goods, food, beverages, clothing and wood.
Firms in these sectors became export-oriented and competed in European markets in terms of price rather than product quality.
The import of technology will create a new level of competition in these sectors.
Tourism is the sector on which Cyprus' one-dimensional development model has been focused in recent years.
It shows a dangerous consolidation in exploiting only the climatic conditions of Cyprus with limited options in other alternative forms of tourism.The
services sector occupies a dominant position in the Cypriot economy and consists of an extremely diverse mix of businesses.
These firms are for the most part 'younger' than firms in other sectors, and therefore show signs of being more easily able to adapt to the differentiations imposed by evolution.
PROPOSALS OF THE EUROPEAN PARTY
The European Party, taking into account the international data and the policy of the European Union, has formulated the following positions on the policy that Cyprus should follow in the fields of Research and Technological Development:
1. Establishment of a National Research Council which will define national research priorities, while at the same time setting the framework for negotiating European priorities, which we as a Member State are involved in defining.
2. Design of a 10-year plan to promote research and technological development at all levels of Cyprus' society and economy
3. Direct setting of the 1% target for R&D spending
4. Expansion of the activities of the Research Promotion Foundation to cover also the Technology Development and Innovation Sector, while maintaining its independence (flexibility and speed of decision-making) and its horizontal character.
5. Clear measures to encourage and effectively support businesses involved in research activity
√ Immediate intention to draft a bill to exempt research activities from taxation
√ Upgrading the Business Incubator Plan
 Creation of specialised funded research programmes specifically for Enterprises
√ Creation of specific funded support actions, through which the involvement of enterprises in Research will be facilitated
√ Development of funded initiatives to link the Academy with industry
6. Redefining the role of organisations active in the research and technology support subsystem (Research Promotion Foundation, Technology Foundation, KEPA, etc.)
7. Establishment of Research Centres in specialised sectors (e.g. Food)
8. The selection of the academic staff of the University should not be detached from the needs of society, as is largely the case today, but should instead be in harmony with them.
9. Campaign for the protection of intellectual property rights (patents)
√ Financial support for copyright registration
√ Financial support for technology transfer efforts
10. Exploitation of the Hatzidakis Report on the Regional Policy of the European Union. In particular cross-border cooperation, which is the third axis of the European Union's Regional Policy.
11. Use of neighbouring countries (e.g. Israel) for transfer of know-how and good production practices
Exploiting the scientific potential of Cyprus. Immediate promotion of measures to limit scientific "desertification" by the stay or departure of notable Cypriot scientists abroad
INFORMATION SOCIETY - TELECOMMUNICATIONS - DIGITAL GOVERNANCE
Cyprus, after accession to the European Union, should proceed to the preparation and implementation of a National Strategy for the creation of the Information Society.
In the framework of this effort, incentives and guidelines will be given in order to guide all actors of society and the economy to effectively exploit the enormous potential offered today by Information and Telecommunication Technologies.
CYPRIOT REALITY AND PROSPECTS FOR IMPROVEMENT
Unfortunately, Cyprus' progress in the use of new technologies has not been satisfactory to date.
The course the country has followed in recent years has led it to low positions in most technology rankings in Europe.
What characterises the social and economic dimension of the use of technology in Cyprus could be defined as "Technological Illiteracy".
Both the public and private sectors, as well as citizens themselves, are very slowly introducing Information and Communication Technologies into their activities.
Cyprus' economy is mainly based on the provision of services. Recognizing that modern technology provides sufficient tools to improve the services provided, then we can safely conclude that Cyprus cannot be left out of the "Information Society" if it wants to be competitive.
PROPOSALS OF THE EUROPEAN PARTY
1. Developing a new digital strategy for Cyprus that:
It will aim to achieve a "digital leap" in the coming years, which will highlight Information and Communication Technologies as a key strategic direction for our country in the 21st century
It will respond to the challenges of the 4th Programming Period for the period 2007-2013
It will be compatible with the new European policy for the Information Society "i2010" and the EU's "Jobs & Growth" action plan.The
strategic steps for the preparation of the New Digital Strategy for Cyprus are the following:
Step 1: Diagnosis-identifying the root cause of the problems that hamper the diffusion of Information and Telecommunication Technologies in our country and lead us to a technological illiteracy
Step 2: Analysis of the international policies related to the Information Society and new technologies.
Identifying good examples and the failures of other countries
Step 3: Study of international and European developments in the field of Information Society (new EU policy i2010, WSIS developments etc.)
Step 4: Formulation of the main directions of the digital strategy for the next period, taking into account the specificities of the Cypriot economy and society
Encourage investments aimed at creating a modern and technologically advanced infrastructure, which can have a regional reach and serve the objective of promoting Cyprus as a service centre
Upgrading the telecommunications infrastructure on which the creation of the "Information Society" will be based
Establishment of an Information and Communication Technologies Security Agency
Improving productivity by enhancing the use of Information and Communication Technologies by businesses
Use of Information and Communication Technologies by the public sector to improve its internal processes and provide better services to citizens
Developing electronic services for citizens, which save time, offer new ways of dealing with bureaucracy, and increase their choices
Introduction of the digital passport, the digital medical identity card and smart cards with biometric data in the daily life of the Cypriot citizen.
Given that the personal data of users is always protected.
Promotion of telemedicine, teleworking and tele-education
Creation of a body to promote research in Information and Communication Technologies
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND NEW PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGIES
Today's world is characterised by rapid technological and scientific progress, which leads to an ever-increasing need for man to find new sources of energy while improving living conditions.
It is accepted that renewable sources will contribute to energy production, but they will only be able to meet a small part of the basic load of future society, mainly due to the limitation of these sources.
However, their contribution to environmental protection and thus to improving living conditions is considered important.
This is why several countries have included programmes to promote renewable energy sources in their energy policies.
In addition, several countries have recently included in their energy policy, in the field of renewable energy, programmes to promote research into the production of electricity from hydrogen and nuclear fusion.
Hydrogen, which is considered an ecological fuel, can be used to generate electricity in a combustion chamber or in fuel-cells.
CYPRIOT REALITY AND PROSPECTS FOR IMPROVEMENT
Cyprus' energy needs depend on oil imports as 95% of primary energy production is based on oil (40% in Europe).
For Cyprus the only domestic energy sources are renewable (sun, wind, biomass) as it has a lot of sun and to a lesser extent wind and biomass.
Solar radiation which is quite high in Cyprus is currently used for the production of hot water in homes and tourist units.
The use of solar panels is quite widespread in Cyprus and satisfies about 4% of the island's energy needs.
It is a fact that Cyprus is one of the leading countries in the use of such systems.
Photovoltaic systems are currently used to a very limited extent, but their use needs to be promoted on a large scale in the near future.
The wind potential in Cyprus is low, but there are some areas where this potential could be exploited.
Studies on the use of biomass in Cyprus for electricity generation have shown that their maximum contribution will be around 8.50%.
New renewable energy technologies, such as wave energy, need serious research and study.
At the same time, by promoting renewable energy sources, Cyprus will introduce natural gas into its energy balance.
It is a fact that the forms of energy used by each country characterise the flexibility of its energy system.
When the energy system is based on several forms of energy, the possibility of alternative selection and provision of the appropriate energy or combination of energies to users is increased.
It is certain that with the introduction of other energy sources, the energy economy of Cyprus will be significantly relieved, as it will reduce its dependence on oil and improve the elasticity factor of primary energy.
Cyprus has a large scientific staff and participates in several research programmes of the European Union and in cooperation with other organisations studies and develops new technologies for energy production.
PROPOSALS OF THE EUROPEAN PARTY
The European Party, taking into account the international data and the energy policy of the European Union, has formulated the following positions on the energy policy that Cyprus should follow:
1. Promoting renewable energy sources while strengthening the renewable energy fund
2. Promoting cogeneration technologies while strengthening the cogeneration fund
3. Promote energy saving measures,
the establishment of mandatory regulations regarding the use of various building materials and the strengthening of the relevant fund
4 . Promotion of distributed production technologies and related institutionalisation and encouragement
5 . Utilisation of solar energy in buildings (public buildings, municipal buildings, hotels, etc.)
6 . Encouraging new companies to enter the petroleum products sector while maintaining the same number of service stations (breaking the oligopoly)
7 . Encouraging full liberalisation of the oil sector
8 . Serious study of the Government's actions for the withdrawal of the Dhekelia oil storage facilities
9 . Preparation of an action plan for the fair distribution of excise duty on petroleum products (e.g. reduction of excise duty on heating oil, which is an essential commodity, etc.)
10. Serious study of the Government's actions for the establishment of an Energy Centre in Vasilikos.
Developing an action plan (long-term planning) for decoupling from oil and creating the right conditions for the transition to the hydrogen economy
11. Appointment to relevant committees or councils of people with special knowledge of energy issues (
abandonment of the party institution)
CYPRUS INTERNATIONAL SERVICE CENTRE - GATEWAY TO EUROPE
Cyprus, located at the crossroads of the continents of Europe, North Africa and Asia, occupies one of the most important positions in the Mediterranean region.
Cyprus is now an equal and credible member of the EU and from this position it can play an essential role in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean and the Greater Middle East.
Cyprus' accession to the European family can be the protective shield that will provide basic security and release the island from the hostage situation due to its geostrategic position.
Cyprus is now a territory of the European Union, it is the last gateway of the EU to the Middle East, Africa and the Eastern Mediterranean.
As such, it can enjoy the support, assistance and help of both the EU and each of its member states individually.
At the same time, Cyprus can play an important role in promoting political and economic relations between the EU and Mediterranean countries, with mechanisms to promote political, partnership and other relations, as well as
dispute resolution mechanisms.
The repositioning of Cyprus as an important international business centre for attracting foreign capital can provide a serious dynamic for the development of the economy and the overall promotion of our country on the international stage.
CYPRIOT REALITY AND PROSPECTS FOR IMPROVEMENT
Cyprus certainly has the potential to follow the example of other countries, such as Ireland and the United Arab Emirates, in order to become a major international business centre with all the favourable consequences.
Despite all the low taxation and the favourable Cyprus company status, Cyprus has not managed to attract European multinational companies, which proves that there are serious problems and difficulties that inhibit interest.
Furthermore, while the National Action Programme of the Lisbon Strategy highlights the need to promote Cyprus as a business centre in the Eastern Mediterranean, this objective does not seem to be a top priority for anyone.
The reluctance of foreign strategic investors to invest in Cyprus is reinforced by the unfavourable environment that prevails in the competent state agencies responsible for servicing such investment intentions.
Some of the most crucial problems that exist today and inhibit investment interest in creating the necessary infrastructure for the provision of services of international interest are the following: √
There is insufficient coordination between the different departments involved in servicing investment intentions from abroad.
√ The procedures for issuing work permits have become very difficult and tend to make Cyprus a no-go area for many multinational companies.
√ The stamp duties required end up being absolutely prohibitive for any large multinational investment that may be planned for Cyprus.
√ Strategic investors are not given the necessary incentives to choose Cyprus among other options available to them to establish their business in the Eastern Mediterranean, Middle East and North Africa.
PROPOSALS OF THE EUROPEAN PARTY
1. Take the initiative to promote the decision of the Barcelona Conference (1995) to create by 2010 a Euro-Mediterranean free trade area, covering a market of 800 million consumers from the EU and the Mediterranean coastal countries
2. Establishment in Cyprus of a Euro-Mediterranean Secretariat to promote political and economic relations between the EU and the Mediterranean countries through dispute settlement mechanisms and
mechanisms to promote political, partnership and other relations
3. Providing incentives and creating infrastructure for the development of services to the Mediterranean coastal countries
4. Upgrading the Coordinating Body for the Reception and Servicing of Large Investments
The role of coordinating body for large investments is played by the Ministry of Finance.
The Central Bank had staffed a service department with 18 people.
There is a need to upgrade the Large Investment Reception and Servicing Agency, to
strengthen it with experts, who will study what is prevailing internationally, the recommendations of the state agencies
and the views of private professional associations.
This body will coordinate all the Government Departments involved and will serve all the needs of major strategic investors interested in investing in Cyprus
5. Simplification of the procedure for issuing work permits The procedures for issuing work permits have become very difficult and tend to make Cyprus a no-go area for many multinational companies who see Cyprus as a good base for their operations in the Middle East region.
These procedures need to be simplified and made faster.
Even requirements that restrict investors' planning should be changed in order to make the approaches of the government departments involved more client-centric
and for strategic investors to be treated much better in Cyprus than in other competitive business centres.
6. Adjustment of the required stamp duty for large investments Currently all companies based in Cyprus pay for each stamp duty charge L.C. 0.30 for each L.C. 100.00 or part thereof plus L.C. 10.00.
It is understood that in large transactions and lending which is almost the norm for foreign multinational companies, the above fee can reach a prohibitive amount of a few million pounds.
These high costs are a disincentive for large investments in Cyprus. It is imperative that stamp duties are set in such a way that they are competitive with those of other competitive business centres and attractive to foreign strategic investors.
COMMUNITY FUNDS ABSORPTION MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
With EU membership, Cyprus participates in the Structural Funds.
It is a given that Cyprus needs to participate in the most effective way in all European Support Programmes and to make maximum use of European funding and financial resources.
The main objective should be to maximise the absorption of resources from Cyprus.
Given that Cyprus has no experience in these areas, the whole issue must be addressed in the most effective way and without delay.
CYPRIOT REALITY AND PROSPECTS FOR IMPROVEMENT
To date, the management of the various programmes that have been announced has shown that there are many problems (delays in evaluations, audits and grant payments, etc.) which would not arise if all programmes were managed centrally.
PROPOSALS OF THE EUROPEAN PARTY
The position of the European Party is to create an independent European Funds and Programmes Management Body which will be directly under the authority of either the President of the Republic or the Minister of Finance and which will operate under regulations approved by the Council of Ministers.In
this way there will be transparency, good administration, fair treatment of citizens and efficiency,
2. Mode of Operation and Structure of the Entity
√ The body will be governed by a Council and an Executive Chairman √
The body will cooperate with the relevant Ministries and government departments, professional and other private sector organisations and with private individuals or companies √
The body should be entitled to contract with private individuals and government departments for participation in the preparation of programmes.
From this activity the Institution will be able to benefit financially √
Part of the Institution's costs may be covered by the EU Structural Funds themselves
3. The role of the Body
The adjustment of the programmes according to the conditions and needs of Cyprus at regular intervals
The preparation and approval of the selection criteria for applicants/projects. Who will be funded by each programme
Regular evaluation of progress towards the achievement of the objectives of each programme
Timely and comprehensive information to stakeholders regarding the existence of programmes or funds
Informing the executive about the whole functioning of European funding
Serving citizens from A to Z, regardless of which other government departments or agencies may be involved (1-stop service point)
Guidance to citizens and government departments on application procedures
Oversight for a rapid response of the relevant Ministries and government departments to citizens' requests
Submitting proposals to the EU for new programmes
Strengthening private consultancy firms, which will provide expertise to help businesses prepare their grant applications and thus assist in the whole process of absorbing funds.
EDUCATION -EDUCATION SYSTEM -EDUCATIONAL REFORM
The aim of education is to form and shape virtuous and legitimate citizens and to develop a democratic and humane state through an informed and comprehensive educational reform.
The pinnacle of our education should be its unwavering commitment to the elements and values of our Greek national identity,
always in a spirit of respect for the national element.
Elements and values such as the Greek language, history, culture, tradition, respect for human beings, equality, justice, democracy, should embody the content of education.
CYPRIOT REALITY AND PROSPECTS FOR IMPROVEMENT
The system currently applied in Cyprus is not people-centred and democratic, aiming at shaping the citizen of tomorrow, but is focused on serving temporary interests and perceptions.
The building infrastructure of the schools does not convince about the aims of education, nor does anyone show any real interest in protecting the schools.
Learning contains no incentives to develop students' initiative. Competition between pupils results in 'private lessons' in the afternoons, which take up a considerable amount of young people's time and are a serious financial burden on parents.
The indiscriminate way of appointing and evaluating teachers, without properly selecting people who are genuinely interested in practising their profession, is the Achilles' heel of the education system.
The problem of violence and delinquent behaviour among young people has lately taken on very worrying dimensions, a problem that has deep roots with responsibilities in all directions.
PROPOSALS OF THE EUROPEAN PARTY
The European Party, taking into account the international social and economic data and the expected demands of future citizens, recommends:
Transforming the school into a democratic school of society and citizenship
Immediate promotion of the educational reform on the basis of the studies and evaluations of expert researchers and the Ministry of Education
Public education as a social and cultural right for all
4 . Education system where teachers are involved in the decision-making process
5. A school system where diversity and pluralism are respected
6. A school system that cultivates skills, competences, values and civic virtues.
7 . A people-centred school that seeks to educate and not to meet the needs of the market
8. Reform of the system of administration and the exercise of power and supervision, which remains strictly centralised, bureaucratic and inflexible
9 . Reforming the structure of the education system from Kindergarten to University
10. Particular emphasis on the reform of upper secondary education and the new type of the single high school.
II. Consolidation of nine-year compulsory general education
12. Establishment of full-day kindergarten, primary school, secondary school and high school
13.  Establishment of a national baccalaureate and a new university admission system
14.  Establishment of post-secondary vocational training centres
15. Renewal of the curriculum and pedagogical, teaching process
16. Strengthening public higher education
17. Promotion of science and technology disciplines.
The operation of the TEPAK should help in this direction
18. Promotion of special curricula for minorities
19. Participation in the creation of the Single European Higher Education Area
20.  Establishment of a scholarship programme for doctoral studies in Cyprus or abroad.
Operation of the new institutional framework for scholarships for students of higher education institutions
21. Full operation of the new institution of the Council for Higher Education
22. Increased autonomy for higher education institutions in the management of the resources allocated to them by the state in the context of the implementation of the provisions of the Law on the operation of the University
23.  Support for the autonomy and academic freedom of state universities
24. Support for the operation of private higher education schools
and further support for their transformation into non-profit schools
25. Limit the size of private higher education schools in terms of number of students, staff and glass infrastructure
26.  Academic staff of private higher education schools to be of high quality
and provided with the opportunity for quality scientific research
27. Independent authority to evaluate and certify the quality of private higher education schools
28 . Education and continuous training of teachers at all levels
29. Promotion of research, technology and biomedical learning in education
30. Promotion of annual evaluation of school units, educational work and a new system of evaluation of teaching staff, with the aim of identifying weaknesses and immediate remedial action
31. Based on the promotion of research-evaluation system, establishment of promotion positions for researchers.
Focus on the organizational chart required by each individual school
32. Better utilization of teachers who have specialized knowledge in education
33. Re-evaluation of the system of appointment and promotion of teachers
34. Utilization and alignment of offered curricula and research activities of state institutions of higher education (e.g. University of Cyprus, TE.PA.K) , with national policy directions on social and economic issues
35. Promotion of lifelong education through the introduction of incentives.
Our integration into Europe requires a substantial change of mindset in the perception of the problems of today's era and continuous education of citizens on the various issues is essential
.  A complete revision of the teaching of civic education to students at all levels of education.
Targeting the issues of violence, security issues,
environmental and health issues,
social solidarity issues,
new correct approach of foreign, especially economic immigrants in our country
37.  Focusing on the important issue of youth delinquency in schools and out of school, especially on football pitches.
Involvement of all stakeholders, in particular sociologists and psychologists
38. Exclusion of party youth from activities within the educational units
39. Strengthening and expanding the institution of all-day schooling
and attempting to completely abolish afternoon tutorials in order to free up the new one to develop personal skills
40. Upgrading - regaining respect for public education through upgrading the building infrastructure and architectural character of the public school.
Securing public schools and the learning environment
41. Strengthening the functioning and full autonomy of the operation of higher education institutions in the context of the implementation of the laws governing their operation.
Strengthen their budgets and promote self-financing institutions
42.  Adequacy of the premises of higher education institutions and student accommodation
43.  Promotion and support by the state of the effort to create and operate private universities
44. Maintain the annual student grant as a means of supporting students, students and their families
45. Strengthen special education for children with special needs and problems.
Immediate reassessment of the results of the implementation of the relevant legislation.
Recruit more special education teachers and extend the institution to secondary school education
46. Re-evaluate the institutional framework for the recognition and assessment of qualifications through the KYSATS and within the framework of European practice
47. Increase budgets in education for development,
investment in the research sector,
to address operational and infrastructure needs with the introduction of all-day schooling
48.  Awareness and integration of more school units in European Programmes of transnational educational cooperation (e.g. Comenius etc.) for transfer of know-how and good educational practices from EU countries
REFUGEE POLICY - SOCIAL SUPPORT - SOCIAL WELFARE
The Calvary of the refugee world, of the stranded, of the relatives of the missing and suffering, will end only with the final settlement under the European Solution,
which will end the occupation,
ensure the safe return of all refugees to their homes and properties,
guarantee freedom for our stranded
and guarantee the determination of the fate of each and every one of our missing persons.
CYPRIOT REALITY AND PROSPECTS FOR IMPROVEMENT
I) Refugee Policy
The refugee policy pursued by all governments has not been able to solve the serious problems of the refugee world.
The EUROPEAN BODY has as its political focus the resolution of the chronic problems accumulated by the Turkish invasion of the refugees
and the restoration of their rights through a just future solution.
An important effort to help our fellow refugees was the creation of the Equal Burden Sharing Body.
The main purpose of the institution was to undertake actions for the realization of the equal distribution of the burdens resulting from the invasion among all citizens of the Republic, as well as
the restoration of the pre-war solvency of the refugees.
The institution has not yet fulfilled its purpose despite the existence of a guiding study in this direction.
The refugees were left almost alone to deal with the problems that the Turkish invasion had accumulated for them.
A positive element in the operation of the Institution is basically the lending of a large number of refugees for their study and housing needs.
The further securitization of refugee housing is for us a basic measure to do justice to refugees in the context of ensuring a comfortable living and strengthening their solvency.
Regarding refugee status, we believe that the failure to include children of a refugee mother (by maternity) among refugees constitutes unequal and unfair treatment of these children.
Considering the fact that only a government proposal can amend the relevant Law, we declare that in such a case we will support any government proposal towards the removal of this inequality and injustice.
Since 1994, the policy of building new settlements to house refugees has been abandoned.
The consequences of this policy are already tragic. While thousands of refugee families have already been approved for housing, there is no visible chance of them being satisfied due to the lack of available housing.
II) Missing and Trapped
The latest developments on the issue of the identification of the skeletal remains of our missing persons constitute a positive step if and when the Turkish side continues to cooperate in this direction with positive will.
In order to obtain results with certainty, it is imperative to proceed, regardless of the cost, with the establishment of the necessary laboratory for the identification of the remains.
Regardless of these developments, our side must insist on the effective investigation of the fate of each of our missing persons and the clarification of the circumstances of their disappearance or death.
Since the opening of the barricades, the movement of our stranded compatriots may have become easier, but their continued presence in their places, which is necessary for real and national reasons, is still as difficult as before.
III) Social support and policy
Social policy is identified with the totality and quality of social services (education, health, social care and insurance)
and infrastructure that create a framework of security and safety in which every citizen can create and progress.
For the EUROPEAN GROUP, social policy is the umbrella for the protection of an effective welfare state that is genuinely concerned about the citizen.
It is the policy that guarantees everyone equal opportunities,
high quality services in health, education and welfare,
decent pensions so that there is no anxiety about tomorrow.
Social policy creates the environment in which every citizen can move forward creatively, achieve his or her goals and contribute to himself or herself and to society as a whole.
IV) Social welfare
In Cyprus, unfortunately, the welfare benefits are not at the level of a modern European state.
With this in mind, we declare that we will work to ensure that all benefits are provided to meet the needs of citizens who are lagging behind.
The aim is to ensure a perfectly decent and acceptable standard of living for all citizens in need of social welfare (pensioners, people with disabilities, single-parent families, etc.).
EUROPEAN GROUP welcomes and supports the full and equal participation of people in need of social welfare, especially people with disabilities, both in social events and in the labour market.
The phenomenon of isolation of these people, either because of insurmountable obstacles or because of social prejudice, is something that does us no credit, either as individuals or as a society at large.
Their unhindered participation in social events is a sign of civilisation and respect for human particularities.
Cyprus suffers from under-generation which affects its size, economy and productivity. That is why every government must stop treating large families as beggars and help them effectively to boost the population growth effort once and for all.
PROPOSALS OF THE EUROPEAN PARTY
I) Proposals for Refugee Policy
1. Introduction of a real policy for the rehabilitation of refugees on the basis of the occupied property of each of them and the provision of compensation for the loss of use of their property from 1974 to date
2. Increasing the operating budget of the Equal Burden Sharing Institution by providing larger amounts from the state
3. Strengthening the existing loan schemes of the Equal Burden Sharing Institution and the elaboration of new ones
4. Introducing new lending procedures such as financing the difference in interest rates for loans that refugees receive from other lending institutions outside the Entity
5 . Reducing the time required for the Board of Directors of the Entity to review and approve applications
6 . Immediate securitization of refugee housing where and when there is no legal or other real obstacle
7 . Accelerate reconstruction plans for all government housing estates
8 . Expedite the allocation of new land plots for housing young refugee couples
9. Increase the amount of assistance for repair I maintenance of houses built in self-housing settlements from LK 5000 to LK 10000
and extend the scheme to beneficiaries who built their houses by 1990
10. Full rehabilitation and maintenance of Turkish Cypriot houses where refugees reside
11. Increase the financial assistance given to refugees residing in government settlements to create new housing by purchasing an apartment/house or self-housing in a privately owned house
12. Increase in grants given for the purpose of self-housing in a government housing estate or in a privately owned plot or purchase of an apartment/home
13. Increase in income criteria for purposes of housing in government housing estates or self-housing on government land
II) Proposals for Missing and Trapped Persons
Establish the necessary laboratory for the identification of the remains
Provide incentives and allowances to support and ensure that our interned people stay in their places.
Provision of additional housing assistance for the repair of their homes, especially in cases where there are children of trapped persons.
Strengthening and supporting the operation of the Rizokarpaso High School and continuing to put pressure on the occupation authorities for its uninterrupted operation
Ensuring the conditions for the marketing of the products of the interned within the framework imposed by the health regulations and the interests of the interned
Improving the conditions of passage to our Maronite villages
Proposals for Social Support and Policy
1.  Strengthening social care and social protection programmes for all genuinely socially disadvantaged citizens. Aim for properly targeted social support
2. Construction of new low-cost housing by allocating government land to the Land Development Agency for housing refugees and other poor families in the form of long-term rental purchase
3.  Study of divisible ways of financing for housing acquisition by consolidating housing programs to reduce their administrative costs and increase their efficiency
4. Strengthen assistance given to large families
and families with disabled members
5. Tax relief,
extension of entitlement to the Multi-Mother's Allowance,
tax-free car,
increase in child benefit,
banking facilities,
study and implementation of a comprehensive housing plan,
more help for the children of multi-mothers are some measures in the right direction to help multi-mothers
6.  Establishment of a demographic development foundation.
Large families, three-parent families and single-parent families should not be treated as applicants by the state, but should be protected by specific comprehensive and long-term planning
7. Incentives for IVF (with an increase in sponsorship to at least LK 2,000) along with providing facilities for needy and large young couples to care for their children in modern day care centers in the state
8.  Establishment of a foreign workers' body to multi-dimensionally address the system that humiliates people,
harasses entrepreneurs,
humiliates persons,
takes away jobs,
creates illegals
and incubates opportunists
9.  Promote equal burden sharing between divorced parents
10.  Free benefits (theatre tickets, holidays, etc.) to large families
and people on very low incomes (unemployed, retired, etc.)
11. Tackling unemployment, which is the most serious social problem that is not currently seen in its true dimensions
12.  Immediate incorporation of the EU Directive 2000/78 on equal treatment in employment
IV) Proposals for social welfare
1. Establishment of a group including people with disabilities, in order to carry out a study of all old public buildings, and their immediate modification to make them accessible to people with walking difficulties and those who use wheelchairs.
In addition, better control should be exercised on new buildings and building permits should not be granted to those that do not meet international accessibility standards.
2 . Strengthening incentives for the employment of people with disabilities, both in the public and private sectors
Further staffing of the Disability Care Service in terms of human resources,
as well as further financial support for the service, enhancing programs and services for people with disabilities
Providing people with disabilities with free medical care, as well as all the necessary technical aids that will facilitate their living
Imposition of stricter penalties for parking on pavements, ramps, as well as in cases of parking by non-eligible persons in the special space for disabled persons
Immediate adaptation of all schools to make them accessible to people with disabilities.
In addition, schools should be strengthened with special educators, special trainers and psychologists, encouraging the full and equal integration of these people in public education
Deinstitutionalisation of care for the elderly and people who cannot move by strengthening the institution of home care
Creation of employment centres and recreational and creative leisure programmes for elderly people
HEALTH - MARGINS - MEDICAL CARE
Since the end of the Second World War it had been recognised that the main pillar of a State's social policy is that of health.
This need becomes more urgent in the 21st century where the social State is now the conquest of most peoples.
Health, health care and care are social goods to which every citizen of the Republic of Cyprus is entitled.
The EUROPEAN BODY emphasizes the importance of providing equal opportunities for all citizens regardless of their socio-economic status to receive health care from a doctor or hospital of their choice.
CYPRIOT REALITY AND PROSPECTS FOR IMPROVEMENT
The existing Health System of the Republic of Cyprus is long outdated with outdated structures, infrastructure and organisation.
The need for its immediate reorganization becomes more urgent if we take into account that Cyprus is the only country in Europe without a Unified Health System.
Despite the findings on the shortcomings and gaps in health care, there is an unjustified delay and absolute reluctance to take decisions on the already delayed reorganization of the antiquated Health Care System.
The hasty adoption of the 2001 PESY law without the necessary preparation resulted in the law suffering in many ways and at many levels.
In contrast to the situation in the Cypriot Health System, the medical potential in Cyprus, both in the public and private sector, can be described as brilliant.
In Cyprus there are remarkable doctors who can ensure the provision of specialized and very high quality modern medical services, provided there is planning, vision and proper organization of the available public and private resources and infrastructure.
The use of medical technology, the reorganization of health services in the public and private sector and the creation of modern medical infrastructure can make Cyprus a regional medical centre providing high quality and value-added medical services.
PROPOSALS OF THE EUROPEAN PARTY
1. Ensure political and social consensus on the PESA, which will have the following fundamental principles:
√ The Health System will be universal and compulsory
√ Resources, human resources and technical equipment are used rationally to produce the best possible result
√ The system will ensure equal access for all citizens to the various services
√ Free choice of doctor or hospital will be guaranteed for the citizen
√ The financial management of the System must be transparent, the control must be continuous and independent of the Government of the day
Primary care to be allocated equally to the public and private sectors in order to end the suffocating overload of state hospitals
Primary care should be based on the Family Doctor system, changing the referral system
The state hospitals should be given autonomy and allowed to develop modern tertiary care medical services in order to serve both Cypriot patients and patients from abroad.
Intensifying awareness of free organs, in order to increase the possibilities of transplantation to Cypriot or foreign patients
Strengthening tertiary care centres (Institute of Genetics, Oncology Centre, etc.) to provide specialised services to citizens and the state and to develop research for the prevention and treatment of genetic diseases
Introduction of the institution of Medical Audit in the mechanisms of the Health System to control and ensure the provision of quality medical care to citizens
Upgrading the Ambulance Service (fleet, communications, etc.) to ensure timely care in any emergency
Implementation of a single modern Health Information System, which will introduce modern technology tools in the management of the Health System, which will upgrade the services provided
Systematic and continuous education and training of all Health System staff on developments in the medical sector
Reorganisation of the Ministry of Health, so that it can fulfil its mission as a regulator of health services
Strengthening the underdeveloped and poorly funded prevention sector
CULTURE - CULTURAL HERITAGE - DEVELOPMENT - CREATION
In practice, our entry into the EU and the adoption of the multicultural concept impose the preservation of our national heritage while directing on the other hand the qualitative balancing for a common European cultural identity.
In the European Party, culture is the necessary vehicle for knowledge and virtue, it is the bridge that unites different concepts and beliefs.
Culture is a measure of the quality of a people.
By its very nature, culture remains intact from limitations, divisions and partisan divisions.
CYPRIOT REALITY AND PROSPECTS FOR IMPROVEMENT
In Cyprus today, the absence of a cultural policy that would allow the development and cultivation of aesthetic perception is evident.
While the number of our museums is not increasing and the quality of the existing ones is not improving.
Cultural institutions, artists and people of letters and art are not supported by the state at all and the presence of their ideas is mostly left to private initiative.
The European Party:√ Respects and honours all creators and artists √
Believes that every creator is free and his/her work has unlimited scope for expression √
Believes that art is not limited in time and space and should be perceived as such √
Wants our citizens to have access to all forms of cultural events, culture is for everyone √
Welcomes, even considers necessary, initiatives from the private sector to promote culture. √
Sees decentralization as a conduit for the spread of art and culture √
Understands that education and civic culture are perhaps the best vehicles for cultural education √
Accepts that non-professional artists contribute in their own way to the spread of our culture, so the state should offer them encouraging policies to support the work they do
Insists on the idea that our fellow artists abroad should have every assistance from the state to exhibit their work
PROPOSAL OF THE EUROPEAN PARTY
1. Culture to vaccinate education
√ Building cultural education from primary to tertiary education √
Promoting more visits to cultural institutions and artistic events by pupils and teachers √
Free access to cultural institutions and events for pupils, students and soldiers
2. Visual arts and photography
√ Encourage Cypriot painters to participate in biennales √
Create a permanent exhibition space for visual art and painting in each city √
Support private exhibition spaces,
promote exhibitions in public and private spaces √
Establish a Euro-Mediterranean visual arts exhibition in Cyprus with artists from Europe and the Mediterranean countries
3. Book and publications
√ Create libraries in every school district √
Funding for book publishing by Cypriot authors, tax reduction for book production, publishing and sales
Creation of a large library of research capabilities in Nicosia
4. Contemporary Art
√ Creation of a Museum of Contemporary Art and cooperation with foreign Contemporary Art Museums
Promotional programmes in Secondary Education to engage young people with Contemporary Art
5. Music and Dance
√ Upgrading of music education in the educational system, based on new concepts of music
Further organization of the Symphony Orchestra on a professional basis
Creation of a Music Hall
6. Theatre and Cinema
√ Further support and development of Cypriot theatre
State sponsorship for the movement of theatre productions to all provinces
Creation of an independent Film Centre
Support for the production of notable Cypriot films
6. Theatre and Cinema
√ Further support and development of the Cypriot theatre
State sponsorship for the movement of theatrical productions in all provinces
Creation of an independent Film Centre
Strengthening the production of notable Cypriot films
7. Culture and Technology
√ Electronic recording of all our cultural heritage, especially in the occupied areas (monuments, listed buildings, works of contemporary art, etc.) √
Creation of an internet-based cultural information network connected to cultural centres in Greece, Europe and around the world √
Incentives for the promotion of culture and the cultural product of Cyprus through well-designed multilingual internet websites
8. Popular Culture
√ More promotion of popular culture through local government √
Upgrading the learning of popular culture in our schools √
Strengthening the effort to promote our authentic folk heritage by bands and associations
9. Aesthetics of Cities and Public Spaces
√ Preservation of all monuments in Cyprus √
Restoration of old buildings and their cultural exploitation where necessary √
Urban uniformity in our cities
THE YOUNG PEOPLE OF CYPRUS IN THE 21ST CENTURY
Young citizens are a key pillar in realising the reforms and visions of any society.
They are the ones who maintain a normal and distinct attitude towards the extremism of traditional political constellations.
Young citizens with their passion for life, their thirst for renewal and freedom from anything that hinders freedom, social justice and solidarity, are able to draw society into an attitude of militant resistance and demonstration of human will.
But the modern young person is in conflict with the harsh reality of unemployment, spiritual boredom, consumer melancholy and the other so many other morbid symptoms of our time.
CYPRIOT REALITY AND PROSPECTS FOR IMPROVEMENT
The Turkish invasion, the violent uprooting and relocation of refugees to the free areas, resulted in the rupture of the social fabric that existed until 1974 throughout Cyprus.
More than three decades later, in many local communities there are many serious problems that need immediate attention.
Youth is the main victim of the current social situation in our country.
Problems such as unemployment, drugs, violence, racism and the devaluation of principles and values, find in the young people of Cyprus certain recipients.
The learning youth are the victims of the unresolved and serious problems of Primary and Secondary and Secondary Technical Education.
It is marching in an environment of mindless competition and miseducation, receiving standardized education with many shortcomings.
National Guardsmen serve their military service in conditions and service schedules that shape their view that this maximum contribution to their country is not an obligation, but time that is ultimately wasted.
Cypriot students inside and outside Cyprus are studying in the shadow of chronic, hot and serious student problems, which none of the governments have ever taken into account or addressed to solve.
Workers and young scientists are plagued by unemployment, underemployment, underemployment, underemployment and uncertainty about a secure future.
Temporary and part-time young workers are mainly employed in the service sectors, where the presence of trade unions is weak, resulting in insufficient support and promotion of young people's labour rights.
Also, more and more young people are being employed in sectors of work where there is insufficient control, such as nightclubs, the constantly changing nature of businesses, and as a result they do not enjoy any of the statutory labour rights.
Moreover, young people are paid considerably less than adult workers, thus increasing the likelihood that young people are among the most economically vulnerable groups.
In Cyprus today, the environment of insecurity leads many young people to extreme behaviours.
Although the phenomenon of youth delinquency and violence is not a recent phenomenon, it is accepted that nowadays it is even more common to see cases of anti-social behaviour among young people.
In today's society the traditional social fabric has been fragmented.
At the same time, the questioning of values and institutions is more intense than ever.
Moreover, we are witnessing an indiscriminate expansion of urban centres with a parallel indifference of the state towards the preservation and protection of rural populations.
Of all the wounds that bleed the body of Cypriot youth, the most bleeding is the scourge of drugs, which has brought the greatest suffering to many families and contributes daily to the continuous destruction of the young shoots of our country.
PROPOSALS OF THE EUROPEAN PARTY
Modernising education programmes for young learners.
Introducing innovations such as all-day schooling, experiential education and the productive use of technology into education programmes
Enriching the service plans of young conscripts with actions
training on modern innovation and technology issues.
Creation of mobile or fixed "islands of technology" in National Guard camps for technological training of National Guardsmen
Creation of a committee to examine and resolve, as a priority, the chronic serious student problems of the Cypriot student communities within and outside Cyprus
Creation of state mechanisms to support young people in finding employment, vocational training and retraining
Supporting youth entrepreneurship by expanding the Youth Entrepreneurship Programme
Establishment of a grant scheme for young scientists to promote innovative ideas with financial support for research in mainly high-tech fields
Redefining the role of youth centres since their current form is contrary to society's expectations.
Unfortunately, the majority of youth centres do not serve to provide healthy employment for young people, but instead remain unregulated in the hands of private individuals and far from effective state intervention.
Thus, they become a breeding ground for violent characters and drug trafficking.
Staffing of Youth Centres with professional teachers, pedagogues, gymnasts, dance instructors, etc., so that young people can be productively employed under the supervision of specialists.
Creation of mechanisms for continuous support of young people facing problems (e.g. telephone support lines, etc.)
Development of actions that will promote the sensitivity of young people towards volunteering, so that the vision of social solidarity can be realised far from any kind of preconceptions and prejudices
Develop actions to promote the universal participation of young citizens in research projects, so that there is constant innovation
Moreover, a sound and rational proposal for the future of young people should be accompanied by the creation of a climate of intergenerational trust, so that the various bodies responsible for youth issues are in a state of immediate readiness to intervene effectively and efficiently in the creation and implementation of the necessary policy.
WOMEN A FORCE FOR DEVELOPMENT - EQUAL PARTICIPATION - EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES
In a rapidly changing world, the Cypriot woman today feels unprotected against the challenges of the new era.
With its struggles in the 20th century it conquered the theoretical right to gender equality, while at the dawn of the third millennium it claims its equality.
For the European Party, women are the hidden force for the development of the country, which must be activated soon.
CYPRIOT REALITY AND PROSPECTS FOR IMPROVEMENT
In 21st century Cyprus, inequalities still dominate the daily life of Cypriot women and "clip their wings".
The Cypriot mother, wife, working woman is today asking for a different approach. She is calling for bold and radical measures that will offer:
equality in practice,
opportunities and incentives for the effective development of her creative abilities
, modern and effective social infrastructures that will strengthen women and the family both materially and morally.
The Cypriot woman today demands a new, comprehensive political proposal that will allow her to make a meaningful contribution to herself, her family, society and Cyprus as a whole.
The environment of equal opportunities that Cypriot women urgently demand in order to create, to distinguish themselves, to play a leading role in the 21st century, is still a dream.
Instead, she experiences inequality in her daily life.
He works two 8-hour days (one at work and one at home) without, sometimes, even the moral recognition.
She faces daily the spectre of unemployment, the
low wage regime, the
dilemma of career or family
, the deterioration of social infrastructure,
while her participation in public life is a luxury.
In the workplace, the Cypriot woman is the big victim of unemployment.
While women make up a significant proportion of the workforce, the proportion of women workers is very low.
Even in cases where skills are not lacking, women are rarely given the opportunity to break out of the lower and middle positions of the work pyramid.
Cyprus' political life is literally "empty" of women.
The Cypriot woman today feels unprotected. This policy cannot continue.
PROPOSALS OF THE EUROPEAN PARTY
With vision, courage and determination we will work to create the environment of equal opportunities that Cypriot women demand. We propose:
That an Independent Authority for the implementation of gender equality be established to oversee the implementation of national and European legislation on equality and in particular the implementation of the principle of "equal opportunities everywhere" established by the Commission of the European Union.
To expand the funding of women's activity (expansion of the Women's Entrepreneurship Programme) in order to make effective use of national and European funds for the financing of productive business units that will be established and staffed mainly by women.
Promote modern vocational training and employment programmes for unemployed women, oriented towards the dynamically developing new sectors of the economy, such as service provision, telecommunications and IT.
Establish a framework of specialised measures and incentives in the labour market aimed at relieving working mothers (part-time work, flexible working hours).
To develop special employment programmes for the young woman of the region, in order to give the Cypriot woman the incentives and opportunities to stay and work in the place where she was born.
Promote gender equality and increase women's participation in the labour market.
The aim is to increase the overall employment rate to levels above 60%.
In order to achieve this goal, the state should proceed with targeted actions and interventions that will ensure the best combination of family and professional obligations (parental leave, benefits, flexible working hours, etc.) for every working mother.
SPORT AS AN ELEMENT OF SOCIAL COHESION AND DEVELOPMENT
Sport activity is a key factor in the all-round development of young people's personality development.
This is why sport is a key component of the European Party's social policy.
In a modern welfare state, it is imperative that spending on education, culture, entertainment and sport for citizens is increased.
CYPRIOT REALITY AND PROSPECTS FOR IMPROVEMENT
Individual sport has been gaining ground in Cyprus in recent years. This is a result of the need of today's Cypriot to ensure good health through sport.
Gyms and 5X5 football pitches have multiplied over the last five years, particularly in urban centres.
The big problem at this level of sport is the lack of control over the distribution of pharmaceutical preparations and nutritional supplements, which contain banned substances and which are often used uncontrollably by athletes for better results.
In contrast, school sport remains without vision and programme, with the result that children remain untrained in sport on the one hand, and talent is lost and high-performance sport seems like a dream.
In professional club sport, especially football, things are worse.
The championships are held in a gloomy atmosphere that characterises it:
The over-indebted sports clubs
The withdrawal of spectators from the stadiums
The unqualified and unreliable sports agents
The fanatical, uncontrolled and sometimes directional fans
The violence and incidents in the stands and surrounding areas
The questioning of the winner and the final result √
Sports agents dependent on political and financial interests √
The limited sources of revenue generation of the clubs, leading to dependencies
The European Party, posits the need to develop sport as a national obligation and investment to achieve social vitality, social cohesion and development
and to properly shape and strengthen a proud national sporting consciousness.
PROPOSALS OF THE EUROPEAN PARTY
1. Systematise school sport programmes at all levels of education.
Strengthening of sports infrastructure,
creation of indoor gyms in as many schools as possible
2 . Creation of a Pancyprian Committee for the supervision of physical progress of young people
3 . Increase the number of physical education hours in secondary schools.
Employment of qualified physical education teachers in primary school sports in addition to the existing special gymnastics teachers
4. Establishment of preschool sports with child participation and acquaintance with sports through the playful form of sports
5. Direct subsidies for rural sports clubs. Rural sports clubs were the main cause of youth retention in the province
6. Strengthening of the Sport for All Programmes (Sport for All Programmes) which embraces the whole world.
We believe that this sport contributes to the mental and physical health of all ages
7. Improving existing sports facilities and creating new ones.
Creating sports infrastructure for people with disabilities
8. Subsidies to clubs for the creation of sections for people with disabilities
9. Development of programmes to support and strengthen amateur sport
10. Establishment of programmes to strengthen and support high-level sport through special benefits and incentives for athletes
11. Specific and multiple control of the production, possession and distribution of pharmaceutical preparations and food supplements containing prohibited substances
12. Establishment of the use of high digital technology tools to organise effective and repressive control of violence in stadiums
13. Supporting and strengthening club sport and the clubs themselves through upgraded planning by the CMA
14. Strengthening the structures of military sports. Military sport is one of the main components of the effort to upgrade athletes' competitive skills
15. Gradual increase in the annual budget of the CTO (20 million/2006)
16. Establishment of a scientific body under the supervision of the COA to control individual areas of competitive sport, such as the training sector, control of athletes and the improvement of research and documentation of sports infrastructure
17. Supporting football clubs with annual sponsorship within the framework and conditions set by the state
PUBLIC ORDER - CRIME - CRIME - DRUGS - OFFENDING BEHAVIOUR
Protecting the life and property of the citizen is a basic obligation of the state.
In the new era with the rise of international terrorism, organised crime, illegal immigration, drug trafficking, money laundering, the obligations of state security and protection services are increasing.
Organized states are forced to develop new policies so that police agencies can fulfill their mission
without being diverted from their purpose, without harming civil liberties.
CYPRIOT REALITY AND PROSPECTS FOR IMPROVEMENT
Today, more than ever, there is an urgent need for the state to develop a more rational anti-crime policy.
Each of us should contribute to this from our own position and according to our own capabilities.
All together the State, Security Forces, Science, Media should work together in harmony to achieve our common goal "for a better Cyprus that provides security to all its citizens".
The current situation can be summarized as follows: √ The increase in most indicators of crime in Cyprus has been dramatic during the last ten (10) years √
Deaths -mainly of young people- from drugs and car accidents are increasing daily √
Thefts, robberies and burglaries are now a daily occurrence √
Incidents of delinquent behaviour with mainly young people as protagonists are very frequent and widespread
I) Crime and delinquency
Crime and delinquency by individuals or groups of individuals has reached alarming levels in Cyprus in recent years.
Every day, every Cypriot unfortunately witnesses crimes that threaten the security of his home, his property and even the security of his own integrity.
Organised crime, white collar crime, drug-related crime, and juvenile delinquency have taken on alarming proportions in our society.
This phenomenon is due to the fact that in recent years any efforts made to reduce criminal behaviour have been isolated and unplanned, resulting in nothing substantial being done to prevent and combat crime.
In the European Party we see the upward trend in crime as a consequence of the lack of a collective effort by the Government to address the issue in a radical way.
II) Drugs
Of all the wounds that bleed the body of Cypriot society, the most bleeding one is the scourge of drugs, which has brought the greatest suffering to many families
and contributes daily to the continuous destruction of the young sprouts of our country.
The drug problem is first and foremost a public health issue.
The state is called upon to respond to the self-evident imperative of ensuring the health of citizens and the quality of life.
The drug situation is spreading like a "cancer cell" in the body of Cypriot society because: √
We remain attached to and adhere to traditional and anachronistic methods of repression, which favour the existence of a costly and parasitic law enforcement, penal and correctional apparatus √
We consider the existence of existing units that serve secondary purposes as sufficient measures to deal with the problem
We allow the continuation of the mass psychosis against users and demonise them in the eyes of the citizens in such a way that they are considered to be the main problem
III) The situation in the forces of repression and prevention
It takes little effort to confirm that the Cyprus Police is based on centralisation and absolute discipline on individuals and not necessarily on institutions.
A system that was vital for the existence and consolidation of the body in the 1960s, but which overflows with examples of inefficiency in the 21st century.
The European Party has observed and documented concrete examples in the police force where radical changes are imposed:
Recruitment and promotion in the Police is dominated by unqualified and buffoonery which prevents the professional advancement of those who deserve it
The lack of planning leads to a waste of public money, as thousands of pounds are spent on training police officers who will end up as clerks, clerks, or guards etc.
The introduction of technology in the police force is disproportionate to the technological training of human resources, with the result that technology is an element of bureaucracy and inefficiency since it is not used properly
The methods of determining the effectiveness of the body are anachronistic and unscientific since they only measure the detection rates of recorded crimes while ignoring the causes of the crimes
The administrative model of the police today is based on hierarchical standards of military origin, which stifle collectivity, and the development of initiatives
PROPOSALS OF THE EUROPEAN PARTY
EUROPEAN COMMITTEE has drawn up a pioneering proposal for an anti-crime policy with the Man at its centre, the main axes of which are:
I) Proposals on crime and delinquency
Setting up specific teams for each form of criminal behaviour.
Each team will specialise in its own field and will be exclusively dedicated to fighting crimes in their area of expertise, such as financial crime, juvenile delinquency, violence in stadiums, domestic violence, etc.
Establishment of a "Scientific Council for Prevention" with the participation of scientific groups from the university sector and with the mission of a scientific approach to contemporary forms of crime.
The council will have an investigative and advisory role to the Police
Activation of the pilot programme for "Community Policing" and extension of the "Neighbourhood Policeman" programme.
 The two programmes bring the citizen closer to the police and as a result each citizen feels safer and the police are closer to incidents of criminal behaviour
Use of modern technology that can add value to the work of security services
Establish pedestrian and motorised patrols on a more regular basis, especially at times and places that facilitate crime
Establishment of institutions for psychological and professional support in places where young people gather (schools, youth centres, associations, etc.)
Stricter state response to cases of violent misbehaviour, especially in sports venues, with the imposition of high fines on teams whose fans cause incidents
Introduction of the institution of stewards, i.e. supervisors belonging to sports clubs who cooperate with the police to prevent incidents and the good conduct of each match
Disengagement of sport from political symbols that have the effect of dividing rather than uniting youth
Incentives for the organisation by the clubs themselves of seminars against violence in sports venues
II) Proposals on drugs
Conducting a nationwide scientific epidemiological survey which will aim to bring to the surface the true extent of the drug problem in Cyprus
Strengthening rehabilitation centres
and the creation of counselling centres in all cities and in the countryside, staffed by scientific personnel who can provide immediate and rapid assistance
Develop a more liberal policy towards drug users
and to tighten up the treatment of traders
Education of the underage population through scientific prevention programme in primary and secondary education
Development of specific vocational and social care programmes for the smooth reintegration of users into society
Establishment of substitution programmes in line with international standards
Transfer of know-how and experience from societies and countries that have a track record of success in the war on drugs
It requires redefining the user from criminal to patient. In this way the user will know that he is not an outcast of society, but a child of society who will always have the opportunity for rehabilitation and recovery.
Proposals for the forces of repression and prevention
Development of a five-year strategic plan aimed at the proper exploitation of the human resources and operational capabilities of the Cyprus Police
Establishment of placement and promotion methods based on the academic merits and personal achievements of each member of the College in conditions of full transparency
Rewarding merit, consolidating meritocracy at all levels
and combating partisanship within the body
Independence from political interventions of all types
Fighting corruption within the police
Renewal and modernisation based on new technologies of the logistical infrastructure used by the Cypriot police
Immediate planning for the training of Cypriot police personnel in new technology
A new design of the administrative model to enable a collective effort in the fight against crime
EXPATRIATES - UTILIZATION OF EXPATRIATES - REPATRIATION
A weapon for strengthening our country's position abroad is the huge potential of the Greek diaspora, a reservoir from which Cyprus draws strength, scientific knowledge and support and can be a network of support for our initiatives in every corner of the world.
Citizens of the world and at the same time bearers of Cypriot cultural identity have a dual role.
Their harmonious integration - social, economic, political - in the countries where they live and work, communication, interconnection and cooperation with their homeland.
CYPRIOT REALITY AND PROSPECTS FOR IMPROVEMENT
Cypriot expatriates and citizens of Cypriot origin around the world are an important potential for Cyprus.
They are a restless, creative and successful part of the Cypriot people, but they do not feel cared for by the homeland.
It is not treated with the same love that it feels for Cyprus.
People who, whether organised or individually, maintain their links with their place of origin, but have not received the required treatment and protection from the Cypriot state.
In today's era, the rallying of Hellenism and the preservation of its identity are decisive parameters for the future survival of both the nation as a whole and the Cypriot Hellenism in particular.
Relations between the Cyprus Centre and the Cypriot Expatriates have been fragmented and uncoordinated to date.
The Cypriot state has dealt with expatriates without a long-term strategy and real social sensitivity.
To date there has been no long-term national strategy on the issue of our expatriate compatriots.
The governments of the day have never made effective use of the Cypriot expatriates who, through their political and social activity, exert influence on the decision-making centres of the country where they reside.
To date, there has not been a basic coordinated and planned organisation of Cypriot communities abroad, so that their activity could be a channel of communication, friendship and cooperation with their countries of settlement.
There has never been any intention to address and solve the serious problems that repatriated Cypriots face in their efforts to repatriate and reintegrate into the economic, social and political system of their country.
Finally, the necessary institutions for strengthening Cyprus' relations with the Greek diaspora are lacking.
PROPOSALS OF THE EUROPEAN PARTY
Creation of a "Secretariat for Cypriots living abroad" at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the coordination and resolution of all issues concerning expatriates.
Today, all Ministries are involved, causing great difficulties and creating unfavourable conditions for the development of cooperation between the state and the expatriates.
Institutional upgrading and strengthening of the institutions of our expatriates, which have so far been established and functioning.
Legislative treatment of those issues and problems that plague the ranks of the expatriate population with the rapid promotion of relevant legislation.
Supporting investment intentions in Cyprus by expatriate entrepreneurs.
Creation of partnerships for the promotion of Cypriot products by expatriate businesses in their countries of activity.
Issue of voter registration cards and participation of expatriates in the electoral procedures of the country, with the introduction of voting in the places of residence.
Strengthening the Cypriot presence in the Council of Hellenes Abroad (C.A.E.) and providing support for the political and organisational formation of the "Commonwealth of Greeks" through the expansion and strengthening of the institutions and activities of the C.A.E.
Cyprus' contribution to the evolution of the Council of Hellenes Abroad into a non-governmental international organization, which will lead to the consolidation of all philhellenic forces within a strengthened legal framework (e.g. observer status at the UN).
Providing incentives for repatriation,
simplifying the repatriation system
and facilitating the smooth integration of expatriates into Cypriot society.
Activation of Bodies and Committees of the Cyprus Parliament and establishment of a permanent dialogue with the expatriates and their governments for the solution of their problems.
At the dawn of the 21st century, Hellenism everywhere must preserve its identity, its culture, unite its forces and with the weapons of timelessness and cosmopolitanism, move forward into the new century.
We believe in the forces of ecumenical Hellenism.
We consider it necessary to continue its creative effort and its historical presence around the world with the formation of a network of solidarity and support.
The Republic of Cyprus is the only internationally recognised state in Cyprus that participates equally in the European Union as a full member.
The future of the Republic of Cyprus and the path towards a solution of the Cyprus problem are at a truly decisive turning point.
The new conditions that have emerged following the referendum of 24 April and the accession of the Republic of Cyprus to the EU give a new dynamic to the resolution of the problem.
Taking advantage of the new developments and taking into account the long-standing objectives of all parties with interests in our region, it is imperative that our side proceeds to redesign, adjust and enrich our strategy to achieve a fair and equitable solution as soon as possible, democratic, workable solution,
which will respect the fundamental rights and freedoms of Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots
and will be fully compatible with the European acquis, the principles and values which are the foundation of the European Union, a EUROPEAN SOLUTION.
OXI is not a denial but an assertion of a solution
For the EUROPEAN GROUP, the historic decision of 76% of Greek Cypriots to reject the ANAN PLAN does not translate into a refusal for a solution or a renunciation of hope and expectation for a real secure settlement.
On the contrary, the Cypriot people, through OXI, gave a clear mandate to demand a solution based on European principles and values.
The challenge at this stage is therefore to devise and implement a strategy for the realisation of the popular mandate of the referendum.
The European GROUP, with full respect to the verdict of the people, makes an explicit commitment to promote a European SOLUTION and to defend the crystal clear mandate of the majority of 76% of the Cypriot people.
The ANAN Plan is outdated
In the European CUMA we believe that the ANAN PLAN has been overtaken by events and cannot be accepted with decorative changes.
We consider it futile and dangerous to approach the discussion of the ANAN PLAN for three reasons:
First: Because there is a risk of our being trapped and accepting the ANAN PLAN as it is or with decorative changes.
Second: Because there is a risk of leading to a failed process resulting in the upgrading of the pseudo-state
and thus the consolidation of partition.
Third: Because there is a risk that we will be led into endless efforts and discussions that will perpetuate the problem.
OVERALL STRATEGY FOR A EUROPEAN SOLUTION
The EUROPEAN GROUP understands that the Cypriot people as a whole want a solution as soon as possible
and recommends the use of the European environment for a European settlement of the Cyprus problem.
Such an objective requires our own initiatives.
The EUROPEAN GROUP supports that the comprehensive settlement of the Cyprus problem will come through a democratic process within the framework of the UN and with the participation of the European Union, which will ensure the drafting of the Constitutional Aspects of the new State System of governance of Cyprus with the participation of all Cypriots.
This process will allow the people of Cyprus to overcome the deadlocks and adopt means and measures that will lead to a peaceful and democratic coexistence,
which will build a EUROPEAN SOLUTION based on principles and values that will benefit the entire Cypriot people, Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots.
The only legal limits to the constitutional process should be strict compliance with European principles and the acquis communautaire
and with international provisions on political and human rights stemming from international law, the European Convention on Human Rights and other European institutional instruments.
Principles of the European Solution
For the EUROPEAN GROUP, the European solution is the settlement that leads to a secure and safe future and is fully compatible with the European acquis, the fundamental principles and values of the European Union.
We seek a Solution that:
To ensure the continuation of the Republic of Cyprus, the unity of the State, the institutions of the economy and our people.
To be based on the principles of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as contained in the relevant European and International Conventions.
Be fully compatible with the European acquis, the principles and values on which the European Union is founded.
Strengthen and broaden the participation of the Republic of Cyprus as a full member of the EU in all its existing and future policies.
To provide for the existence of one sovereignty, one citizenship and one international personality, so as to enable citizens to live without racial and racist segregation.
End the presence of foreign troops and settlers.
Abolish any form of invasive rights of third countries.
Be compatible with the decisions of the European and International Courts and respect the property rights of all Cypriot Citizens.
Making the most of the European Environment and the time to resolution
Today Greece, Turkey and Cyprus, Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots have a common goal. Europe.
The strategy for achieving the solution is relevant to Turkey's path towards the EU.
The EUROPEAN GROUP wants a democratic and European Turkey integrated into the European Union.
But for Turkey to join the European Union, it will have to accept the European democratic solution.
Regardless of any other efforts, we consider it important that we take individual initiatives to make use of the time until the final solution is found.
With our own initiatives outside the Annan plan, time can be used within the framework of the functioning of the European Union, taking advantage of the European environment and the functioning of the Union's institutions.
Such initiatives can be:
Proposals for the opening of Famagusta
Proposals for the reduction of the occupation troops to the numbers of, say, 8,000-10,000 thousand
Proposals for a wider disengagement at every point where there is an old and a new crossing route
Proposals for a census in the occupied territories by an independent organization
The Veto Exercise
To strengthen our negotiating position vis-à-vis Ankara, we must be ready and determined to exercise the veto on Turkey's accession path.
There are 35 chapters on Turkey's accession progress. We should seek to open those chapters related to the recognition of the Republic of Cyprus and the implementation of the customs union.
By putting forward the Veto, we will be able to pressure Ankara to comply with its obligations towards the Republic of Cyprus.
It should be made clear in every way that in order to avoid the activation of the VETO mechanism, Turkey must:
Implement the Protocol on the Customs Union by ending the embargo on ships and aircraft of the Republic of Cyprus.
Recognise the Republic of Cyprus.
To start a discussion on the immediate withdrawal of Turkish troops from Cyprus and their replacement by a European Union force, which will control the situation and security on the island.
Begin the removal of settlers after a population census has been taken.
Only if Ankara proceeds with the implementation of the above conditions will the way be opened for the democratic process that will lead to the European Solution of the Cyprus problem.
A democratic and European solution will be viable in its content and acceptable to Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots because it will not only not be unfair to them, but will also guarantee their rights and their peaceful, social and economic development.
The European solution is the only realistic way out.
Because, the previously realistic so-called realistic proposals and policies formulated in the Annan plan have proved to be utopian, unrealistic and rejected by the majority of Greek Cypriots.
In the EUROPEAN BODY we are:
Determined, united to fight for our European future.
Determined and united to fight for European principles and values.
Determined and united to fight for what we are entitled to as equal members of the EU.
Determined and united to fight for a secure and prosperous homeland that will ensure our future.
