The Turkish invasion and occupation of 37% of the Cypriot territory remains the top problem of our country.
It is for this reason that our primary task is the unstoppable effort to solve the Cyprus problem, to
withdraw the occupying army
and to reunite Cyprus.
It is our non-negotiable position that all Cypriots together can do more.
We want unity because Cyprus deserves more.
Those who cultivate polarisation, division, the division of Greek Cypriots are doing a very disservice to Cyprus.
We believe in unity, in collectivity, in the better functioning of the National Council. The use of all in the international arena to achieve better results.
Cyprus first, United Cyprus first
The National Council on 12 April 2005 codified a package of changes to reform the UN Solution Plan in order to meet the major concerns of the NRC.
We contributed ideas and suggestions to this codification.
It is the responsibility of the President of the Republic to consult with the UN, so that the conditions are created for meaningful talks, for meaningful progress towards a comprehensive settlement of the Cyprus problem.
We support the full and active presence of the European Union in the efforts to resolve the Cyprus problem.
Cyprus is an EU member state and Turkey is a candidate for membership.
The Cyprus problem is an unresolved, European problem, in which the EU must play a leading role in the efforts to find a solution.
The EU is a protagonist with:
Appointment by the European Commission of its representative to be the EU's voice in efforts to find a solution.
EU involvement in the negotiation of the solution on all issues of concern to the EU and linked to its founding principles - acquis, defence, security, security, functionality, economy, reconstruction, reconciliation.
Together the UN and the EU can do more.
The EU is the guarantee for the solution, the security for Cyprus' future.
A Turkey that develops its ties with the EU but also that really behaves in a European way is preferable to an uncontrolled Turkey.
In this effort we can work together with Greece.
We can build on its experience and prestige.
Support for Turkey's European path is given with terms and conditions. It is not a blank cheque.
The handling of the Cyprus government on 17/12/04 and 3/1/05 showed that its expectations were very low.
It gave the green light to Turkey, without any trade-offs on the substance of the Cyprus problem (invasion, occupation, resolution).
These manipulations do not satisfy us, because in essence they disconnect Turkey's European course from the essence of the Cyprus problem.
We gave the go-ahead with little in return and the invader was given a letter of invitation to start accession negotiations on 3 October.
We argue that there are still twelve useful months, until the end of 2006, which can be used to help Turkey change its policy.
Turkey is under the EU's strict assessment and we are asking that it be judged now, in the early stages of the process, for its behaviour on the Cyprus problem and its efforts to resolve it.
We want a Cyprus that has a voice, authority and presence in EU developments.
To be a country with a role in common European problems.
To speak with a modern voice, to have the
confidence that by promoting European policies, it will gain alliances and credibility and thus be able to promote its own demands.
We need to work to bring the Greek and Turkish Cypriots closer together, to build bridges of understanding between us.
We are taking initiatives and we support every initiative so that the two communities can banish the hatred and suspicion of the past and build on the prospect of our united, common, European homeland.
Time is a key factor in efforts to find a solution.
A long-term solution is the other road to partition.
That is why it is important to put time at the service of the solution, to create the conditions and to guide developments in order to move forward.
We do not accept the idea of partition.
We do not accept the idea that our borders will be at the Ladder Palace.
We are fighting for all of Cyprus, we are fighting for a solution that unites all of Cyprus within the European family.
The road to a solution is not easy.
We need to have clear objectives: the EU alliances
; the unity of political forces
; the common, collective effort.
For us it is a non-negotiable position: first Cyprus.
In the Cyprus problem we all have to choose the path of responsibility.
There is no room for party blinkers on national issues.
We want open-minded politicians, with modern answers, with responsible attitudes.
We want citizens who participate and claim.
European Union
Cyprus is now a full member of the European Union.
This is without doubt the greatest achievement in the modern history of our country.
The Democratic Rally feels justified, because it was the political force that set the goal, charted the course and sealed the Cyprus integration.
But we believe that integration is not the end of the road. On the contrary, it marks the beginning of a new era that will indelibly mark the shape and future of Cyprus.
Cyprus at the heart of European integration
As a political force that believes in the process of European integration, the Democratic Rally considers the active participation of Cyprus in the European project essential.
We must avoid the trap of becoming a marginal partner with a one-dimensional presence that is only concerned with the issues that are relevant to our political question.
There are no issues that do not concern or affect us.
We need to be a reliable partner with an opinion and a positive contribution on all issues concerning the large European family.
The Democratic Rally calls for the adequate staffing of the Cypriot delegation in Brussels
and the systematic presence of Cyprus in all institutions.
Empty chair policies do not agree with us.
Economic and Monetary Union
For the Democratic Rally, joining the EMU is a self-evident institutional obligation that will place Cyprus at the core of the European Union.
We insist on joining the Eurozone on January 1, 2008 and will not consent to any further postponement or delay.
European Neighbourhood Policy-Mediterranean countries
The European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP) is one of the important individual common policies of the European Union with particular, in our view, importance for Cyprus.
Through the ENP the European Union seeks to build strong bilateral relations with its immediate neighbours who are not candidates for membership and to share with them the values of democracy, human rights, the rule of law and good governance.
The emphasis of the ENP is not on project financing but on financial support for reform processes.
For the European Union in general and for Cyprus in particular, the Mediterranean is a challenge for cooperation, dialogue and progress.
Cyprus could be the seat of the European Observatory to monitor reform progress in these countries.
At the same time, Cyprus should seek to adopt policies aimed at strengthening the external borders of the European Union to prevent illegal immigration, organised crime and trafficking in human beings and drugs.
Lisbon Strategy
Cyprus should also play an active role in the review process of the Lisbon Strategy.
The common goal of the strategy is to make the European economy the most competitive in the world by the end of the decade.
The progress made so far has been unsatisfactory, leaving the European Union trapped in a vicious circle of unstable growth that further complicates and hinders the adoption of the necessary reforms that will renew and reinvigorate the European economy.
The Democratic Rally believes in the need for investment in the areas of the information society, technological upgrading and sustainable development.
It also believes in the need for market integration
but does not agree that this should lead to the equalisation of tax rates, which would be a highly negative development for the Cypriot economy.
Budgets 2007-2013
Cyprus should have a clear strategy on how to shape the next EU financial period for 2007-13.
Without a solution to the political problem, Cyprus will be a net contributor to the Community budget.
Our emphasis should be placed on the areas of regional policy for cohesion purposes, which should take into account the specificities of Cyprus as an island and remote from the European economic centre.
European People's Party
The Democratic Rally, as the leading European political force, pledges to continue its strong action and substantial presence in the European People's Party and all its affiliated organisations.
The presence of the Democratic Rally in the largest European political group gives the Democratic Rally the potential to intervene in the emerging European events much greater than the small size of our country would suggest.
Defence and Security in a United Europe
The Democratic Rally remains firmly committed to finding a peaceful solution to the Cyprus problem.
Without the solution, Turkey does not seem willing to take measures to reduce tension, such as reducing troop numbers or lifting the minefields.
Therefore the threat from Turkish occupation troops still exists.
At the same time, the Democratic Rally notes that this threat is differentiated from the past.
Thanks to our efforts and the support of all the political forces of the country and the close cooperation with Greece, Cyprus is now a full member of the European Union.
At the same time, Turkey is now also oriented towards Europe and has already begun its accession negotiations.
The partial lifting of restrictions on movement through the roadblocks and the possibility of communication between the two communities, which mitigates the possibility of hostilities, also creates a new situation.
Therefore, for the Democratic Rally, maintaining Cyprus' defence capability remains a top priority,
but taking into account the security environment in the region created by the new European reality.
Equal participation in the EU's Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP)
The policy of building a common foreign and security policy is an integral part of the effort to create a strong European Union that will emerge as a new powerful pole in the international system.
The Democratic Rally believes in this common effort and claims the equal participation of Cyprus.
A prerequisite is the participation of Cyprus in the "Partnership for Peace", the joint initiative of the NATO and former Eastern Coalition states for the establishment of stability, security and democratic institutions in the Euro-Atlantic region.
The government's refusal to move in this direction, due to AKEL's outdated doctrinal beliefs, deprives Cyprus of the opportunity to fulfil an important role within the EU that stems from its geostrategic position
and that would simultaneously strengthen its statehood and its own security.
Reorganization and upgrading of the National Guard with a parallel reduction of service and reserve
The Democratic Rally believes in the need to reorganize the National Guard, taking into account the new political data, the economic data of the state, as well as the rapid technological progress and international trends regarding the organization of the Armed Forces.
A key feature of these international trends is the emphasis on flexibility and staffing by well-trained professionals rather than by conscripts.
We believe that the National Guard should also become a small, modern and capable semi-professional army capable of being a real deterrent force against any Turkish threat.
In this context, the Democratic Rally proposes:
The gradual recruitment of some 2500 new professional soldiers on the basis of an improved service institution.
The better utilization, training and ensuring the advancement of the already serving ASPs and Volunteers;
the reduction of the military service to 14 months while improving the level of training of the conscripts.
The corresponding reduction of the reserve and the National Guard by improving the training programme
and adjusting it so that the absences of reservists from their professional activities are reduced to a minimum.
The reorganization of the National Guard with the abolition of reserve units of limited combat capacity
and the strengthening and increase of the staffing rate of the mechanized forces as well as the air and naval forces.
The procurement of new modern weapon systems and the modernization of selected existing weapon systems to incorporate the latest technology, always within the limits of our financial capabilities.
The strengthening of the Search and Rescue capabilities that were painstakingly acquired under the Clerides government and which in recent years have degenerated due to the lack of appropriate flight and other means.
The concession to private individuals of certain ancillary services such as those of catering, CPSMs and clubs, saving conscripts who will serve exclusively in combat units.
The reduction of the bureaucracy and the administrative services of the National Guard to the absolutely necessary, saving again valuable human resources.
The modernisation of legislation to remove all the "windows" that allow for draft evasion or unjustified dismissal.
Finally, Democratic Synergy attaches great importance to the understanding and defence cooperation between Cyprus and Greece at all levels.
The basic principle of the Cyprus-Greece Common Defence Area Doctrine is none other than the taking of joint decisions and the formulation of a common strategy on defence and security issues, something that is not at all clear lately.
Economic and Development Strategy
The Democratic Rally, as the predominantly European political force of the country, has adapted to the new data of the global economy and adopts the implementation of modern economic planning.
The main concern of the Democratic Rally is the real convergence of the Cypriot economy with the European economic and social acquis, and the
achievement of the goal of Cyprus' accession to the Eurozone without further delays in 2008.
Social Liberalism
The Democratic Rally proposes Social Liberalism as the model for socio-economic development.
We are in favour of a social market economy that respects the citizen and encourages growth.
We reject the philosophy of the entrepreneurial state, which often comes at the expense of economic development.
We propose the qualitative upgrading of the state by focusing its role on public utility services, adopting modern models and
fully respecting the rights of workers.
We emphasise the market economy and growth.
The economy should be based on private initiative and not on state interventionism.
We believe that state intervention is necessary and effective only in cases where market forces fail,
always with the aim of promoting the economic and social well-being of citizens.
We propose the development of the welfare state, which promotes social cohesion and relieves the strata of the people in need of state assistance.
Economic Reform
The Democratic Rally's proposal for Economic Reform, which is based on the model of Social Liberalism, places great emphasis on long-term growth
and real convergence with European standards. DISY's proposal is based on the following pillars:
A New Approach to the Business Role of the State
DISY believes in a different role for the state in terms of its business activities.
It proposes the following: The shareholding and partial privatisation of public utilities, such as ATIK, AEK and Cyprus Postal Services.
In this case, the state would continue to be in control, but the framework for running these organisations would become much more flexible, while giving a minority stake to a strategic partner would strengthen their competitive position.
At the same time, employees should be safeguarded;
the privatisation of certain state-owned enterprises or any minority shareholdings held by the state, which do not provide citizens with a service of general interest or public utility, such as the Forest Industries, the Cyprus Stock Exchange, the Cyprus Bakery Company, the Development Bank, the Conference Centre and the State Fairs Authority.
The delegation of the management of state property to private parties, such as airports, ports, marinas.
The state can retain its state property but can entrust its management to private individuals for an annual fee and the
realisation of investments through public-private partnerships.
The purchase of services from the private sector (e.g. for cleaning, security, laundry services for public hospitals, maintenance of public buildings), a measure that will help to gradually contain the state wage bill.
State Property
Creation of a Council for better use of state property.
It is well known that state property worth hundreds of millions of pounds is used very counter-productively.
Through the Council, state property will serve the needs of the public sector but will also generate millions in revenue per year.
Since 1960, the state has either ceded or ceded national privileges, with the result that a number of private individuals have exploited national resources with the permission of the state.
Transparent procedures must be introduced to authorise these privileges.
The state must find ways to collect market rent for state property used either by private individuals or by various organisations.
Imposed the revaluation of state land rental fees from the land registry.
Development of New Sectors of the Economy
The Democratic Rally believes that the development of new sectors in the economy will help to increase the growth rate of the economy and tax revenues,
and will lead to the creation of new jobs.
It proposes the following: Emphasis on the sectors of private tertiary education, private health care, and shipping so that Cyprus can lay the foundations for becoming an educational centre, a health care centre, and further strengthen its position in world shipping.
In this way, foreign capital will flow in to boost the economy
and create highly skilled and highly educated jobs.
The creation of casinos, of strict and high standards, which will enrich our tourist product and boost the economy through the investments that will be made.
However, a framework must be found to limit any social problems that may arise.
The development of renewable energy sources.
The development of recycling activities.
Increasing Public Sector Productivity and Restraint of the State Wage Bill
The Democratic Rally considers increasing productivity as a priority for the further development of the Cypriot economy through the implementation of the Lisbon Strategic Plan. To this end, it proposes the following:
The implementation of the plan prepared by independent experts on the instructions of the government to improve productivity and the evaluation system of civil servants.
Accelerating the process of integrating new technology into the public sector.
The rapid development of administrative and technical mechanisms to increase the absorption of the funds to which Cyprus is entitled from the EU Structural Funds.
The need for rationalization in the provision of state services to citizens, as there is an individualization, without proper coordination, in the effort of the various departments of the state to serve citizens, which translates into reduced productivity.
The regulation of the institution of temporary employees in the public sector as well as the limitation of overtime.
The reactivation of the Pancyprian Productivity Council for the whole economy.
Tax Measures
In the general context of tax reforms, DISY proposes the following: The payment of Capital Gains Tax and Real Estate Tax by the Church as well
The reduction of the tax on betting, which will reduce illegal betting
and increase state revenues.
The fight against tax evasion and the phenomenon of unpaid taxes.
The simplification and further improvement of the tax system.
Promoting Cyprus as a Business Centre
The Democratic Rally supports incentives for the exploitation of the services sector, in which Cyprus has a comparative advantage.
The creation of an independent organisation with private and public sector participation to promote Cyprus as an international business centre.
This organisation will have the sole task of promoting the specific characteristics and comparative advantages of Cyprus to foreign investors (favourable tax system, EU Member State, geographical location, incentives, etc.).
Attracting foreign investment should be among our immediate priorities.
This should be accompanied by broader structural changes to make Cyprus an attractive place to develop or expand business activities.
Joining EMU
For the Democratic Rally, joining the EMU without further delay is a major national goal, as it will upgrade Cyprus politically,
while leading to conditions of macroeconomic discipline and stability.
The Democratic Rally, with creative and informed views, proposes modern and progressive economic plans towards the achievement of this national goal
and hopes that the real convergence of the Cypriot economy with European standards will soon be achieved through a steady course of fiscal and social consolidation.
Modernisation of Civil Life
What Cyprus needs is the development of a national strategic plan against corruption and corruption.
This strategic planning should be based on three pillars: Suppression, prevention and education. In other words, it should become part of the education of the new generation.
These three pillars are equally important and must be implemented together and in a coordinated manner.
This strategic plan must cover all sectors of society, not just the public sector.
The involvement of society in the fight against corruption and corruption is a very important factor.
The role of the private sector in combating these phenomena is crucial.
Without those who bribe there would certainly be no bribe takers.
Company managers need to be convinced that corruption is the cause of much damage. It increases the cost of any commercial activity and makes people unworthy.
What is needed first and foremost is the cultivation of an attitude of absolute respect for public money.
Cultivating such a mindset requires long-term concerted efforts.
It also requires: at the highest political level, zero tolerance towards anyone involved in irregularities and malpractices or in the misappropriation of public money.
All cases of corruption and/or misappropriation of public money should be fully and effectively investigated.
Those involved in such cases should be punished in an exemplary manner.
The constitutional impediment to the interception of telecommunications is a huge and often insurmountable obstacle to the effective investigation of corruption cases.
To this end, the Constitution should be amended as soon as possible to allow, with the necessary judicial safeguards, the interception of telecommunications.
Creation of an independent three-member Election Commission which would be responsible, among other things, for the control of contributions to the parties and expenditure on elections by both parties and independent candidates.
Establish transparent procedures for contributions to parties.
The income and expenditure of the parties to be audited by the Auditor General of the Republic.
In order to reduce the dependence of the parties on contributions, which causes phenomena of interference, a substantial increase in state sponsorship to the parties is required.
Put a cap on party spending for parliamentary and presidential elections and the office of president.
Increase the amount a candidate can spend during the campaign period but make the control of this spending strict and effective.
Further modernise and improve the procedures for tenders.
Adoption of special legislation prohibiting the same person from holding the office of President of the Republic and Mayor for more than two consecutive terms.
Similar legislation should be considered for members of Parliament, even though they do not exercise executive power or take decisions on spending.
Introduction of the measure of compulsory abstention from the performance of their duties for all state and municipal officials against whom a criminal investigation is being conducted, ordered by the Attorney General of the Republic for as long as the investigation is ongoing.
If a state or municipal official is sentenced to a term of imprisonment, he or she must necessarily be removed from office.
Health
Ignorance is the greatest form of social disease. The Democratic Rally believes that support for health begins by tackling ignorance.
The aim of our Policy
Our aim is to create a modern health system to protect health and manage disease.
This can be achieved through the multi-level implementation of preventive mechanisms and by enabling every citizen to have access to high quality health services, as well as a
free choice of doctor.
Ensuring the financial sustainability of the health system is of paramount importance to the Democratic Rally.
It is equally important to ensure that the citizen makes the lowest possible financial contribution in order to guarantee high quality health care coverage for himself and his family.
Non-producing members of society will also have full and high-quality health coverage.
Special care must be taken by the state for its physically, psychologically and mentally disadvantaged members.
Present situation
We are the only member-state of the European Union that does not have a National Health System, a Medical School, a School of Nursing, a full Pediatric Hospital and Child Health Institute, a clinic for adolescent medicine and an Anti-Cancer Hospital.
In addition, quarterly care services are scattered and disjointed pending the opening of the New Nicosia General Hospital.
The prospects for the construction of the New Famagusta Hospital in Paralimni, the Oncology Department of the Limassol Hospital, the Hemodynamic Laboratory of the c-camera, as well as the completion of the Limassol General Hospital are constantly postponed to indefinite time horizons.
Many of our fellow citizens die or are injured every day on Cypriot roads in road traffic incidents, while many accidents could have been prevented and their mortality and morbidity could have been reduced with proper planning of the mechanisms for dealing with injured people.
Chronic wasting disease sufferers do not receive appropriate pharmaceutical and medical care, there are no physical rehabilitation and physiotherapy clinics, and no psychological support.
Psychiatric services need fundamental reconstruction and support,
while community psychiatry services are in their infancy.
Sufferers of drug addiction have little support and
NONE OF THE SCIENTIFICALLY PROVEN METHODS FOR PREVENTING ADDICTIONS ARE APPLICABLE.
In fact, no drug strategy is actually being implemented.
Regarding nursing staff, the problem is acute and cannot be addressed by half-measures and a complete lack of national planning.
In the critical area of pharmaceuticals, the situation has reached a complete deadlock with appalling shortages of vital medicines and an inability to control the situation due to lack of strategy, lack of a health system, uncontrolled number of beneficiaries and many other inherent problems that unfortunately the government has not even pointed out, has not even recorded.
The medical equipment procurement system is slow, inefficient and ineffective, so that when a machine - ordered years ago - is installed, it is already outdated.
Many hospitals face not only a shortage of beds but also of other essential spaces such as doctors' offices and patient examination rooms.
Our Proposal is built on Nine Pillars. Health is a defense mechanism for the nation so it should and must be included in our defense plans.
The Democratic Rally, after serious study and planning, submits before the people its responsible proposal for the achievement of the simple, modern and comprehensive goal of securing the Health of the Citizen and full and dignified support when he is ill.
THE FIRST PILLAR
The first pillar is the restructuring of the Ministry of Health by reorganising its services.
THE SECOND PILLAR
The second pillar is the support and modernization of state medicine with the main axis being the autonomy of public hospitals financially, functionally and administratively,
while scientifically there must be a full connection between the Hospitals, the Institutes, the Faculty of Medicine and Nursing and all scientific institutions.
The triptych of ECONOMIC AUTONOMY - DIACHRONIC COOPERATION AND SCIENTIFIC DIVERSITY defines the definition of the flexible hospital.
THE THIRD PILLAR
The third pillar is private medicine. It is well known that the basic structure of private medicine is the small private clinic-apartment.
This characteristic of private medicine, the fragmentation of the nursing system, causes all the inherent and concomitant problems.
DISY's proposed law to provide development incentives to private doctors to organize large private hospitals by joining together and abandoning the anachronistic system of small units has been passed by the Plenary of the House of Representatives, but is not implemented.
We propose the provision of financial and other urban incentives.
We also propose to provide incentives for private hospitals to employ biologically disadvantaged people.
The same quality control mechanisms that will be applied to the public sector will be applied to the private sector.
The first three pillars, built independently but taking into account at each step of their implementation the need for mutual support, synergy and cooperation, can support the General Health Plan inductively.
THE FOURTH PILLAR
The fourth pillar is the establishment and operation of a Medical University.
THE FIFTH PILLAR
THE FIFTH PILLAR CONCERNS MEDICINAL PRODUCTS AND THEIR POTENTIAL.
Our proposal on the major issue of medicines includes the establishment of a National Medicines Agency. It is now imperative to promote the establishment of an independent drug body that will properly and in the long term regulate the problems of medicine in our country.
Supply for all the Cypriot people, of high quality medicines in full supply and with pharmaceutical choices at the cheapest possible prices.
Since about 80% of the population and the sufferers of certain diseases, such as cancer patients, heart patients, rheumatism patients, etc. are entitled to free medical care, the state must supply public pharmacies with high quality medicines in sufficient quantities.
For the 15% of the Cypriot people who are obliged to buy medicines from private pharmacies, care must be taken to ensure that medicines are of high quality and in sufficient quantities.
To stop the violation of Community legislation, concerning the labelling of medicines in the Greek language, which will be the reason for the imposition of sanctions by the EU against the Republic of Cyprus, which is in violation of Community legislation.
The wrong policy followed by the "Change" coalition government, to which it remains stubbornly attached, has led to the tragic deadlocks of the last few months, namely the disappearance of good and cheap medicines from the Cypriot market.
We have been warning about all this since October 2004, but unfortunately the government is still persisting with this wrong policy, which leaves no hope.
THE OUTER PYLON
THE EXTERNAL PILLAR EINAI HEALTH EDUCATION
ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMMES-PREVENTION PROGRAMMES
For the Democratic Rally, Health Education is the strongest ally of the citizen for the protection of health and the strongest ally of the doctor for the management of illness.
Prevention in Health
Having been taught the basic principles of Health Education, children have already ensured to a very large extent: a negative attitude towards smoking; good eating habits; complete traffic education; awareness of risks and a negative attitude towards drugs.Proper sexual education - knowledge of sexual and reproductive health and rights; love of the environment, ecological awareness; involvement in sports; strong self-esteem - dealing with bulimia and anorexia. Knowledge of caries prevention and dental hygiene; friendly and tolerant attitude to vaccines; love of physical exercise and sport.
THE SEVENTH PILLAR
THE SEVENTH PILLAR EINAAI BIOETHICS AND CODES OF CONDUCT
The rapid developments in biotechnology and genetics make bioethics of paramount importance as a pillar of support for public health.
1.  Support and respect to the Cyprus Bioethics Committee.
2.  Establish Ethics Committees in each Research Centre and Hospital.
Implement the Law on Patients' Rights, adopted since December 2004.
Precisely define patients' obligations.
Establishment of in-hospital death investigation committees in every hospital (DISY Law Proposal, which has been submitted.
Re-positioning of Doctors against the Hippocratic Oath.
Creation of a Code of Professional Ethics for all groups of health workers.
Establishment of an Independent Forensic Service
Integration of all institutions involved in biotechnology genetics issues into single institutions: Children's Health Institute and Transplantation Institute.
THE EIGHTH PILLAR
The PILLAR EIGHT is the fundamental restructuring of Psychiatric Services. The existing structures today are consistent with services of an underdeveloped third world country.
Our proposal consists of: Improving the building infrastructure in cities and large rural centres.
Staffing of services by recruiting psychiatrists specialising in child psychiatry, psychiatry of the elderly, community psychiatry, etc.
Recruitment of specialist psychologists, social workers and occupational therapists to provide effective support to sufferers.
Pay particular attention to the prevention of mental illnesses and the importance of early diagnosis.
Implement special measures for the psychiatric support of prisoners.
Develop a special support service for drug and alcohol addicts and people in the process of drug and alcohol rehabilitation.
Application of Community Psychiatry, i.e. the search for and treatment of the mentally ill in their places of residence and work.
In this context, we propose the establishment of emergency and crisis response centres and mobile units.
In the context of health education, emphasis should be placed on addressing the prejudice of the people towards the mentally ill.
Inclusion of mentally ill people in the productive process
and incentives for employers to employ mentally disadvantaged people.
Creation of multi-purpose scientific teams with the participation of Community, Municipality, State and Non-Governmental Organizations.
THE PSYCHIATRIC REVOLUTION CANNOT SUCCEED WITHOUT A RECONSTRUCTION OF THE SOCIAL WELFARE SYSTEM, FOR WHICH WE PROPOSE:
I.  Recognition and definition of vulnerable social groups and the state's obligations towards them.
2. Establishment of a coordinating body to promote cooperation between private and public initiatives.
Strict enforcement of legislation to support disabled people
Encourage volunteering.
Substantial involvement of social services in multi-purpose support groups for the mentally ill.
Drugs
The Cypriot people watch daily through the mass media, print and electronic, the thread of addictions from the streets unfolding, with peaks and troughs as appropriate, and in full accordance with the occasional news.
While waiting for the so-called Anti-Drug Council to draw up and submit the national strategy on the drugs issue, we see various people, involved and not involved, trying to impose certain views, often obviously unscientific and anti-social.
Multilingualism and many controversial issues add to citizens' anxiety.
Of course, the anxiety does not only concern drug addicts, the unknown and familiar world of addicts and their tragic relatives, the surrounding community and potential candidates for addiction, but also every citizen and every family.
Success against drug abuse is a top priority for the Democratic Rally.
That is why our comprehensive programme to tackle drugs includes long-term plans to prevent drug use.
Pancyprian Plan for the treatment of addicts.
Social Reintegration Programme for the rehabilitated.
Strengthening research, education and especially health education.
ONE PILLAR
The ninth pillar is continuing medical and nursing education
 The goal of continuing medical education is to reach the level of a physician to perform safe, effective, timely, efficient, timely, efficient and equitable medical practice, with a focus on the human being.
To achieve this goal, the D.I.SY proposes: the audit of the suitability of the clinic and the hospital for the training of medical residents on a periodic basis.
Review of the recruitment of medical specialists.
Continuous information of medical specialists.
Implementation of the nursing specialties program.
Trade and Industry
The trade deficit has reached an all-time high and is the largest of all the EU-25 countries.
The export trade sector needs to be restructured to cope with increased competition.
Ι. Strengthening the competitiveness of Cypriot Industry
It is generally accepted that Cypriot products are high cost and not very competitive in foreign markets.
Ways must be found to reduce labour and manufacturing costs.
In this context, a dialogue should be held with the social partners, the Government and the State Aid Commissioner regarding:
The possibility of providing incentives and subsidies for upgrading productive sectors through Research and Technology;
the possibility of employing foreign workers where there are shortages and where this is necessary to increase productivity.
The possible tax incentives that fall within the scope of those permitted by the State Aid Law.
2. Participation in EU entrepreneurship programmes.
In the framework of the European Commission's policy in this area, various programmes are in place to support SMEs.
Unfortunately, the current government has not been able to absorb any funds from the Multiannual Programme for Small and Medium Enterprises, despite Cyprus' contribution to the programme's budget.
Cyprus' participation in the successor programme 'Competitiveness and Investment' is imperative.
For this purpose, the Government should prepare and promote the programme properly, so that SMEs can benefit from such programmes.
The Democratic Rally proposes the establishment of a body which will aim precisely at the participation of Cyprus in such programmes and the absorption of funds by Cypriot enterprises.
3. Attracting Foreign Investment
Compared to the other new members of the European Union, Cyprus has managed to attract very little foreign investment since accession.
In contrast, plans for foreign investment from third countries are faced with bureaucratic and time-consuming procedures.
Measures should be taken to simplify the institutional, legal and regulatory framework governing foreign investment in Cyprus.
At the same time, the Democratic Rally proposes the establishment of an independent and flexible Foreign Investment Promotion Agency.
4. Implementation of the New Industrial Policy Programme
In an effort to cope with the declining manufacturing sector, the government of Clerides introduced the New Industrial Policy in 2002 with the aim of restructuring the industry
and attracting foreign investment.
In the last two years the Plan has not been implemented despite the interest shown by businesses.
At the same time, the manufacturing sector is experiencing negative growth rates and contributes the lowest percentage of GDP compared to the other 24 EU countries.
There should be a political will, and consultation with all relevant stakeholders, to implement the New Industrial Policy Programme.
The adoption of other similar programmes and fiscal incentives should also be considered.
5. Promotion of Cypriot Traditional Products
The preparation of quality standards and the certification of our traditional products should be promoted in order to protect their designation of origin.
Their promotion should be reinforced through advertising and other relevant events.
Small and medium-sized enterprises
The Democratic Rally supports the study of additional measures to support small and medium-sized enterprises alongside the de minimis programme.
The aim is to make their products and services more competitive.
In cases where insurmountable viability problems are identified, incentives and information on the possibility of mergers with larger companies should be offered.
We are seeing a serious problem of unpaid trade debts, particularly among small and medium-sized enterprises, which is undermining production planning and hampering growth.
We propose the creation of a special Court for the speedy processing of small debts and ensuring the swift execution of court orders.
Services
The Democratic Rally believes in the need for Cyprus to emerge as a regional and international service centre with emphasis on the areas of finance, education, health and sports, technology and shipping.
In order to facilitate this objective and to attract foreign investment in the above sectors, the Democratic Rally proposes:
1. Strengthening the fund management sector
Cyprus should take advantage of its membership of the EU and the experience gained from providing services to the offshore sector to become a regional centre for capital management.
The Democratic Rally proposes to examine relevant supporting legislative and administrative measures.
2. Creation of the institution of the Banking Ombudsman
The Banking Ombudsman is an institution through which consumer and investor disputes with banks and financial institutions are resolved amicably, out of court and very quickly.
Such institutions exist in almost all European countries.
The Democratic Rally proposes the establishment of such an institution that will give the necessary credibility to the Cyprus Financial System.
3. Creation of a Single Supervisory Authority in the financial sector
The liberalisation of the Cypriot financial system and EU membership implies increased risks to financial stability.
The institutions of supervision need to be adapted to reflect developments in the sector.
The existence of a Single Supervisory Authority, which is an unfulfilled commitment of the Papadopoulos government, will provide credibility and efficiency and will constitute a clear benchmark and a comparative advantage in the international financial market.
4. Establishment of the Institute of Financial, Maritime and European Studies
Apart from the positive impact on the academic sector, the establishment of such an institute will also have a very positive impact on the sectors in which it will be active, both in terms of international visibility and research work.
A platform will be created where conferences and seminars will be organised focusing on issues that may be relevant to the Mediterranean countries.
Such an institute may be independent or collaborate with domestic or foreign university faculties strengthening the profile of the academic sector in Cyprus.
Tourism
The situation of our tourism industry in the last three years has not been satisfactory.
Tourist arrivals have followed a downward trend and the issue of falling incomes is more serious.
This is a matter of concern because tourism is the main industry of this country on which a number of other sectors depend.
We acknowledge that the financial situation of the hotel industry is not satisfactory, which is further aggravated by the increase in unlicensed accommodation.
We also acknowledge that competition from the occupied territories will continue to intensify.
We find that tourist Cyprus faces a competitiveness problem against countries such as Croatia, Turkey and Egypt.
The government's incorporation of the COT levy into VAT, resulting in an increase to 8%, further aggravates the situation.
The Democratic Rally considers it necessary to accelerate the implementation of the Strategic Plan for the development of tourism and proposes the following:
Creation of the new airports without further delays.
Construction of golf courses, marinas, casinos and sports facilities.
Strengthening the conference infrastructure.
Incentives for the creation of health farms and/or health spa additions to existing hotels.
Improving infrastructure at local level.
Measures to improve the appearance of our tourist resorts.
Creation of a tourist police force.
Improving human infrastructure through training and establishing tourism awareness among all stakeholders.
Long-term planning for the attraction of the "Permanent Tourist" i.e. citizens of other countries who declare Cyprus as their secondary residence and for their tax obligations.
This planning creates prospects for positive impacts on the wider economy and for Cyprus to secure a significant share of this rapidly growing market.
Immediate restructuring of the CTO and its transformation into a flexible organisation for the promotion and promotion of our tourism product with the close cooperation and involvement of the private sector in the management of advertising expenditure and other long-term studies.
A radical rethinking of the approach to Advertising and Promotion and its "business" approach as a serious "investment" in our economy through effective and carefully focused campaigns.
Announcing substantial incentives for upgrading and retiring beds.
Facilitation by the competent authorities for the granting of work permits to foreigners where there are no Cypriot applicants
Relaxation of restrictions by the Central Bank to Commercial Banks for extending the repayment period of loans to hotel and tourism companies, similar to those in force in European Union countries.
Consumers
The Democratic Rally aims to better serve the citizen consumer.
A standing demand of the Democratic Rally is the creation of a Consumer Commissioner.
Recent examples of soaring fuel prices and serious shortages of medicines make this body essential to safeguard consumer rights.
Technology
Today our country is among the lowest among the EU countries in the employment of full-time research staff in all sectors of the economy.
Cyprus also ranks lowest among EU countries in the integration and diffusion of information and communication technologies in society.
Finally, Cyprus claims the last place in Europe of the 25 in terms of investment levels (as a percentage of GDP) in technological research, at 0.27%, while the European average is 1.93% of GDP.
According to recent data, Cyprus is also characterised by a very low share of computer-based jobs in the EU as a whole.
The low growth rate in IT jobs in all EU countries.
The low percentage of websites
The Democratic Rally proposes:
Information on the operation of the Research Promotion Foundation, established in 1996 on the initiative of the Glafkos Clerides government.
The design and implementation of research programmes
and the granting, through a special fund, of grants for the implementation of worthwhile research projects.
Promoting the participation of Cypriot researchers in European research programmes.
The provision of scientific advice and other advisory services related to the promotion of research.
The provision of integrated electronic services for citizens to carry out their transactions with public services.
Substantially reduce the cost of internet access.
Full exemption from the cost of access for higher education students.
Encourage access via devices beyond conventional computers, such as mobile phones, pocket computers, TV.
Immediate adoption and implementation of e-government.
E-services should be accessible to citizens, regardless of where they are and their level of familiarity with telecommunications, as well as to people with disabilities.
E-Government systems must support and guide citizens without having to go to the Public Services, providing in electronic form all the necessary material to implement the so-called one-stop services.
Citizens go to only one Public Service to submit their claims (one-stop services).
The collection of the required applications is carried out through communication between the Public Services.
Development of internet portals to assist citizens in their daily activities, for health issues, job search, tourism, etc.,
but also to support specific population groups.
Implement a transparent institutional framework for the tendering, acceptance, execution and monitoring of IT projects.
Implementation of teleworking as an institution that contributes, among other things, to the professional rehabilitation of vulnerable social groups, such as people with disabilities and women with children,
as well as to the creation of new jobs.
Promote the application of new technologies in all cases where they contribute to the equal integration of people with disabilities in society (access to education, public services, etc.).
Transport, Communications Development Projects
The existence of an appropriate infrastructure is a prerequisite for achieving the objective of growth in the new environment of a united Europe, globalisation and technological progress.
The proposals of the Democratic Rally go beyond the constraints usually imposed by government deficits and lack of public resources.
We propose solutions to the needs of society as a whole without mortgaging its future by excessive borrowing:
Air Transport
Cyprus Airlines
The Democratic Rally has submitted a total of nine proposals for the consolidation and rescue of Cyprus Airlines.
Among other things, we propose the increase of the share capital as a temporary support measure,
the change of the commercial model and the proper restructuring of Cyprus Airlines with Eurocopria,
the reduction of costs and the design of a development policy
and the promotion of the privatisation of the company by entrusting the management to a strategic investor.
Airports
Larnaca and Paphos airports: We are the political force that promoted the B.O.T. of the airports and we look forward to the implementation of the plans made as soon as possible.
Maritime Transport
Merchant Shipping
We consider necessary the formulation of a national policy for the further development of Cyprus Merchant Shipping and the Cyprus Shipping Industry in general.
The shrinking of the Cypriot fleet over the last two years must be halted without compromising the qualitative upgrading that was achieved during the EU accession process.
The proposals of the Democratic Rally include:Providing incentives to attract new merchant ships and ship management companies.
Intensification of efforts within the EU to lift the Turkish embargo against Cypriot-flagged ships.
Completion of the computerisation of the Department of Merchant Shipping.
Solving the problems of the Inspectors of the Department of Merchant Shipping.
Providing tax incentives for investment in Merchant Shipping.
Encourage Cypriot Insurance companies to expand their activities in the Marine Insurance sector.
Provide incentives for the establishment of a Repair Facility and an Oil Residues Facility.
Establishment of a School of Merchant Marine Officers
and upgrading of the Marine Engineering branch of the University of Athens within the framework of the new Technological University.
Ports
Upgrading of Cypriot ports through the Public-Private Partnership method. In this way the management will be transferred to the private investor but the ownership will remain with the state.
Road Transport
Upgrading of Public Transport
Cyprus needs a modern and integrated public transport network.
In a country of 700,000 inhabitants, the existence of 570,000 motor vehicles is excessive.
The steep rise in fuel prices, the increase in road accidents and the rise in traffic congestion now require the development of an integrated public transport network.
The bus network should be modernised, cover more and more regions and have a stable and modern operating schedule, able to meet the needs of all social groups.
Incentives should be considered for the establishment and operation of regional bus companies
and incentives for the replacement of old buses, similar to those given for the replacement of old lorries.
But the essential solution to the traffic problem will only come with the infrastructure for trams.
Road Development
Our position is that we should have a complete, safe and integrated motorway network that will connect all of Cyprus from Paralimni to Polis Chrysochous.
At the same time all rural roads should be upgraded.
Great importance should be given to projects that contribute to road safety, such as the installation of safety barriers and the improvement of road signs and lighting.
Traffic Congestion
We believe that the major problem of traffic congestion in cities and especially in the capital is directly related to the lack of an organised public transport network.
The road network should be improved and plans to build peripheral networks to decongest the centre should be implemented.
At the same time, incentives should be given to the private sector and local authorities to build additional parking spaces, which will also help alleviate congestion.
Road accidents - Road awareness.
Cyprus, as a full member of the EU, is committed to the target of reducing road accidents by 50% by 2010.
Unfortunately, at this stage we do not seem to be moving in this direction. Apart from the need to improve the road infrastructure, we note that the main negative factor remains the poor road awareness of Cypriots.
The proposals of the Democratic Rally in this area include: Implementation of the Strategic Plan made in 2001-2002 and the immediate establishment of the competent special commission provided for in the Plan.
Creation of additional traffic education parks.
Intensify educational visits to schools.
Intensification of the campaign by the media.
Organisation of road safety seminars for all drivers.
Specifically to deal with accidents involving agricultural tractors, the introduction of incentives for the installation of protective beams and bollards.
Contacts
The Democratic Rally considers it necessary to grant financial and administrative autonomy to the organisations of the Communications sector, which will give them a new character and make them more flexible and able to respond to the demands of the modern market.
In this context, we propose the shareholding and partial privatisation of both ATIK and the Post Office, with the allocation of shares to the employees.
At the same time, we consider it necessary to strengthen the institutions of the Regulator and the Competition Commission, which will ensure the healthy conditions of a competitive market.
Development Projects
We propose the adoption of modern methods and concepts in relation to the design, implementation and management of development projects in order to:
Improving infrastructure.
The immediacy of implementation.
The delegation of responsibility.
The right to choose.
Limiting borrowing.
We propose the following ways and methods: Outsourcing to private schemes.
Long-term contracts.
Combination of rental and commercial exploitation.
Support for the private finance initiative.
Support for projects with commercial elements.
Interdependence of works and emphasis on legality.
Rural Development
I. Introduction
The liberalization of international markets for agricultural products, which is being promoted and expanded in the context of the negotiations conducted by the World Trade Organization and subsequently the accession of the Republic of Cyprus to the European Union have created a new environment with highly competitive characteristics and new requirements for both the state and farmers.
The rapid transition from a protected and subsidised agricultural economy to a free market economy has caused shocks in the agricultural economy with serious economic and social consequences for farmers.
The state, despite painstaking efforts, cannot respond to the new conditions because it operates at the pace and with the structures of the 1960s.
In order to face the new realities that have emerged, strategic planning and targeted public dialogue with society and farmers is required in order to rebuild the agricultural sector by exploiting the competitive advantages that the country offers, such as climatic conditions, human resources, technology and our strategic position in the South-Eastern Mediterranean region.
2. Description of the agricultural sector
The primary sector of the Cypriot economy basically consists of agriculture, fisheries, forests and mineral wealth.
During the first decade of the Republic of Cyprus's existence it remained stable at around 21 per cent. However, it then shrank dramatically and currently provides around 4 per cent of GDP, with some fluctuations basically due to the level of annual rainfall.
The sector's contribution to the employment of the economically active population has shrunk considerably and is currently no more than 8% in full-time equivalent terms.
It is estimated that about half of this percentage concerns people who earn at least 50% of their income from agriculture.
Its decline is mainly due to the focus of the state's policies in previous periods on the development of the secondary and tertiary sectors of the economy such as light industry and services.
The rapid development after the Turkish invasion covered in a short period of time the loss of production in the occupied areas
while at the same time, with the completion of a series of water projects in the 1980s, the base of the agricultural economy expanded, which exceeded domestic demand and expanded into exports which brought significant foreign exchange to the island's economy.
However, this export orientation of important sectors of Cypriot agriculture was ultimately its Achilles' heel.
The gradual opening of the European market to new competitors with lower labour costs, the subsidies to Community producers, the increase in production costs and the intense competition from other sectors of the economy in Cyprus itself and, finally, the distortions of an old-style "pro-agricultural" policy that did not favour innovation and quality improvement, eventually led to a substantial undermining of the competitiveness of Cypriot agricultural products and a substantial reduction in the value of exports.
The exit of agriculture and farmers from the current impasse that they have reached as a consequence of the failed policies followed for years by all governments, requires a change of mindset both by the state and by the farmers themselves, where strategic planning, vision and cutting edge will lead to better days.
3.  Suggestions
The aim of the Democratic Rally is to retain the population in the periphery through an integrated rural development policy, of which rural policy is a particularly important pillar.
To achieve this goal we aim: a) to increase farmers' income through a policy of quality and competitiveness of our products
and state intervention to reduce production costs, and
b) to improve living conditions in the countryside.
Our agricultural strategy must be based, among other things, on technology,
information, information and education,
on the restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture, on
young farmers,
on the correct and rational management of water resources, on
the Farmers' Register,
on the certification of agricultural products and on a framework for the structure and functioning of the Agricultural Cooperative Organizations & Inter-professional Organisations.
We need to head to
a new policy for the establishment, operation and activation of agricultural cooperatives at the marketing and processing of agricultural products and the supply of inputs, with the aim of reducing production costs.
a new policy for trade in agricultural products: central and regional markets, involvement of farmers and cooperatives in the control of tariffs, etc., with the aim of reducing the price difference between producer and consumer.
a new policy for the production of high quality agri-food products in demand both at home and abroad, especially ecological products, with the aim of improving our trade balance and opening up new markets.
a comprehensive policy for foreign workers in the agricultural sector.
a policy that will establish criteria and give priority to the main farmer and rural residents for the various rural development projects.
In addition to the above policies required for the proper development of the countryside and the rural economy, the D.SY. recommends the immediate adoption of the following essential measures that will help our farmers today to continue their profession and remain in the countryside:
 Settlement of agricultural debts.
Implementation of measures to reduce the cost of production
such as not paying fees for building permits, pits, etc.,
standard rent for the lease of gravel and forest land,
reduction in the price of electricity for agricultural and livestock purposes,
increase in the VAT rate in the special plan for farmers, etc.
Establishment of a specialised agricultural promotion agency.
Cypriot traditional products should be protected and their production should be planned through partnerships with women farmers and their export to Europe.
Simplification of the procedures for the implementation of the Rural Development Plan and establishment of criteria.
Immediate payment of subsidies and simplification of procedures.
Amend the legislation of the Agricultural Insurance Organisation (OGA) to include all agricultural and livestock production.
Rapid payment of compensation by OGA within three months.
Simplification of procedures for the approval of permits for the employment of foreign workers for agricultural purposes.
Diversification of the institutional framework regarding the Turkish Cypriot clergy so that their owners can participate in the implementation of the Rural Development Plan.
Environment
Our future is our choice
Our world is our natural heritage. We have simply borrowed it from our children.
Therefore, the Democratic Rally has clearly placed the protection of the citizen and the environment at the centre of its policy, aiming to build a secure future in a qualitatively and environmentally upgraded Cyprus.
We are working hard to promote effective and credible environmental action, both in Cyprus and in the EU within the framework of the European People's Party, on the issues of climate change, air pollution, sustainable development, the establishment of appropriate measures to ensure food safety and the resolution of existing environmental problems that affect the quality of life of citizens.
How we achieve it
Promoting the harmonisation of economic development and production with ecology in the concept of sustainable development.
Establishing a functioning system of environmental responsibility, so that citizens' right to a healthy environment becomes a reality.
By submitting specific proposals and recommendations to the Cyprus and European Parliament.
Cultivating respect for subsidiarity, as a top-down approach cannot be successful.
Our commitments for a cleaner world are
Combating climate change:We demand a clear guide for a rapid and effective implementation of the Kyoto Protocol
Improving the environmental quality of urban areas to protect the health of our citizens.
Establishing effective ecological liability based on the "polluter pays" principle.
Supporting local authorities, which play a key role in managing the environment and implementing legislation.
Policy proposals
Sustainable Development of Urban Centres
There is a need for sustainable planning for urban centres suffering from noise, air pollution, traffic congestion, high population growth rates, urbanisation, overconsumption of goods and services. We therefore propose:
Improving the quality of life:
Promoting environmental taxation ("polluter pays")
Promoting recycling and integrated waste management
Limiting the horizontal expansion of urban centres
Supporting the neighbourhood
Sustainable development of Municipalities and Communities
Strengthening the role of Municipal and Community Councils
Decentralisation of government services
Promoting the creation of "Agenda 21" tokens in line with the conclusions of the UN Conference on Environment and Development
Public participation in decision-making
Air pollution
There is a need to find ways to reduce air pollutants due to economic growth and increased vehicle use.
Promote incentives to reduce car use
and use environmentally friendly public transport.
Water Resources:
They are scarce and their quality is particularly worrying.
The need for their protection must be high on the agenda of Cyprus' environmental policy.
For this reason we propose:Protection of groundwater
Protection of the aquatic environment from hazardous chemicals
Protection of bathing waters
Protection from ship pollution. Strict implementation of the Barcelona Protocol.
Biodiversity
A major effort is required to protect biodiversity and endemic species of fauna and flora as well as habitats of particular importance, which are unfortunately endangered by the rapid changes of the last decades, due to tourism, housing, industrial, agricultural and fishing development.
Renewable Energy Sources
In view of the fact that the conditions in Cyprus are ideal, we propose to provide incentives for the creation of photovoltaic power plants.
Environmental Awareness and Awareness Raising
Alongside any regulations and efforts to protect the environment, there should be information and awareness-raising initiatives to create and strengthen environmental consciousness.
Enhancing environmental awareness will be achieved mainly through environmental education in schools.
The subject of environmental studies should be a common core subject rather than the elective subject it is today.
Public support for EU environmental policy, by providing clear and concise information to citizens, enhances the right to participate in the decision-making process on environmental issues, thus ensuring their effective implementation.
Scientific Research
We strongly support scientific research and the resulting progress, but at the same time we are against the misuse and abuse of scientific discoveries.
In conclusion, it is necessary to support the efforts for the reunification of our island, since no development can be sustainable as long as there is a green line and barbed wire.
<<WE CAN'T DIRECT THE WIND BUT WE CAN ADJUST THE PANS>>
Employment and Social Welfare
The Democratic Rally, as the representative of Social Liberalism, envisions a Cyprus Economy based on the free market and centred on the human being.
The basic and integral pillars of Social Liberalism are: The strengthening of employment.
Improving living and working conditions.
The provision of appropriate and adequate Social Protection.
Deepening the social dialogue.
Fighting social exclusion.
Our accession to the EU offers new possibilities and new opportunities, as long as we are able to take advantage of them and avoid the difficulties they entail.
Employment policy
Harmonisation on paper has been achieved, but in practice we are lagging behind.
Since May I 2004, the Cypriot citizen has been called upon to live in a new environment.
The Cypriot worker should be fully informed about his/her rights and responsibilities, those of his/her employers and the state. This can be achieved through a comprehensive information strategy, in cooperation with the social partners.
Social Security
The Social Security Fund is now facing serious sustainability problems.
Lending to the government from the Social Security Fund is not the most efficient investment of the Fund's reserves.
In cooperation with all social partners, solutions should be promoted that effectively address the challenges posed by an ageing population.
These solutions should not have a negative impact on the Fund's benefits, which, on the contrary, should be increased in order to achieve convergence with the average European pension level.
Regarding the operation of the T.K.A. we propose:
The payment of benefits to Banking Institutions.
The upgrading of the Medical Council with the presence of the applicant's doctor in it and the creation of a secondary Medical Council.
The upgrading and decentralisation of the Social Security Fund services.
The increase in the level of minimum pensions.
Indexation even if the increase is below 1%.
National Employment Commission
The establishment of the National Employment Committee was a standing position of the Democratic Rally.
The current dysfunctionality must be overcome if the Commission is to play its role.
The need for a long-term strategy based on new approaches to employment patterns, work organisation and human resources development is all the more urgent today.
Adopting the position that employment is the best form of social welfare, the Democratic Rally proposes:
improving self-employment programmes for the elderly.
Upgrading and implementation of the Self-employment and support programme for returnees.
Re-evaluation and upgrading of the Self-employment Scheme for University and Higher School graduates with the aim of making the loan conditions more favourable.
Strict control on the application of the legislation so that it does not sit idle.
Particularly on issues such as occupational safety and health,
equality between men and women,
industrial pollution
and the enlightenment and training of workers.
Implementation of the existing legislation for people with disabilities, granting incentives to employers to employ them with a view to their social inclusion and professional rehabilitation.
The promotion of part-time employment, with the aim of attracting into the labour market groups of the population that cannot be employed on a full-time basis.
Extend these measures to foreign students studying in Cyprus.
Extend the benefits of facilities and incentives for working mothers.
Review and strengthen the apprenticeship system in order to meet the needs of the economy for skilled workers.
Social Welfare Policy
The main goals and objectives of the Democratic Rally's policy in the field of Social Welfare are: to ensure a decent standard of living for every citizen with special emphasis on the protection of vulnerable and weak groups of the population;
to support the family, to
prevent family dysfunction
and to address problems related to the healthy integration of every person in society;
to protect, welfare and safeguard children,
and to activate and strengthen communities and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs); to promote the welfare of children and to support the development of the social and economic development of the population.
Policy for older people
We fully adopt the EU's position "for a society for all ages" by proposing policies to ensure that senior citizens have a comfortable, dignified and useful life while participating in the economic, cultural and social life of our country.
Family-Child-Parents
At a time when Cyprus is facing a serious problem of underdevelopment, the Family needs immediate support.
In particular, support is needed for large families whose number of children is a national contribution.
We recommend:
1.  To extend the right to the Mother's Allowance to all mothers with many children
2.  Favorably differentiated pricing policy for water for large families.
Increase in car purchase sponsorship.
Increase of the soldier's allowance for children of large families
Our position is that in the present era, all the benefits of large families should be extended and apply also to families with three children.
Social Exclusion
The rapid social changes brought about by globalisation, the use of new technologies, homelessness and the trend towards demographic ageing interact with changes in the institution of the family, which is changing its form and mode of operation.
As a result, solutions are increasingly sought by the state and organised social groups, especially in the field of care for family members (children, elderly, disabled people).
Another of the newest problems of the Cypriot society is the increased presence of foreigners in Cyprus, the need for social support and their participation in society either as temporary workers, political refugees or illegal immigrants.
However, in order to enable the competent State services to respond to current and future social challenges, it is important that they are adequately staffed and that the cooperative relationship with civil society is further strengthened.
We recommend:
Design and implementation of strategies and legislation aimed at ensuring a decent standard of living for every person permanently residing in Cyprus (e.g. the Public Assistance Law).
Programme for the rehabilitation of people from the public sector Assistance for their active participation in the labour market and gradual withdrawal from public funds.
Providing a range of support and care services to older people and people with disabilities, so that they remain in their families and communities, with the ultimate aim of enabling them to be as active and involved in social life as possible.
Further encouragement of non-governmental organisations and local authorities to design and implement programmes to support the family and maintain social cohesion.
Programmes to prevent social problems through early identification and intervention services.
Programmes to protect and rehabilitate children from physical and moral hazards.
Creation of an Interministerial Coordination Body for Social Policy.
Refugees, Trapped, and Missing Persons
Refugees
It has been and remains a constant position of the Democratic Rally that the refugee world has unjustly borne almost single-handedly the burden of the invasion.
The establishment of the Equal Burden Sharing Body in 1996 was an important step in the right direction. The Democratic Rally proposes:
1. Securitization of refugee housing:
Immediate granting of property titles where there is no legal problem
and regulation of the legal framework governing TC properties.
The issue of acquiring a refugee identity should be studied in the context of parental equality.
2. Equal Burden Sharing Institution:Transform the institution into a financial institution with the possibility of increasing the maximum borrowing limit up to 100,000 and increasing the repayment period up to twenty years, as well as increasing the annual state funds to the extent that they can satisfactorily respond to applications without lengthy delays.
3. Compensation for lost income.
4. Reinstate tax credit, for £500: provision to apply to all refugees without income criteria.
5. Redistribution of the utilization of TC property according to the occupied property: the income should be reasonable and deposited in a special fund which should exclusively finance projects for the benefit of refugees and affected people.
6. Election of refugee leadership: to enable refugees to choose their own representatives to claim their just demands.
7. Increase financial assistance for housing purposes.
8. Continue to segregate new land and offer incentives for housing.
Trapped
The struggle of our trapped people is admirable and both the state and society must support them in every way possible.
This is why it is necessary: to provide additional housing assistance for the repair of the houses of our interned persons,
financial and other assistance for their activation for a substantial improvement of their housing conditions and comfortable living.
2.  The housing problem of the children of the interned is acute. It is imperative that an increased housing allowance be provided in line with what is currently provided.
Missing persons
Due to the negative attitude of the Turks and the new conditions that they constantly impose, the implementation of the agreements on the missing persons has not been achieved so far.
Despite the alleviation of the anguish of a small number of families through the creation of the Genetic Material Bank (DNA) and the exhumations in various cemeteries, the major humanitarian problem remains unsolved.
The Democratic Rally alongside the government will continue to raise the issue in all international fora, foreign diplomatic missions, foreign parliaments and everywhere else until Turkey gives up its intransigence and cooperates to solve this humanitarian issue.
Local Government
Local government has been entrusted with the responsibility for the comfortable living of citizens but more importantly for the establishment of a social life which is the background and infrastructure for the foundation of the idea of development.
The various problems should be addressed and solved at the level of the authorities closest to the citizen, so that decisions can be made in response to the needs and expectations of local communities.
The Democratic Rally supports the principle of administrative autonomy and believes that the transfer of powers from the state to local authorities must be accompanied by the transfer of corresponding financial resources.
Our individual proposals for local government are structured in three broad categories
Institutional Proposals
Mayors' terms of office to be limited to two consecutive terms.
Creation of a training school for local government officials.
Creating the appropriate institutional framework to allow the election of officials employed in the public, semi-public and educational sectors to local government.
Establishment of elected secondary local government.
Accurate definition of local and provincial government competences on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity and the presumption of competence in favour of local government, as provided for in the European acquis.
Merge the existing two existing laws on municipalities and on communities into one general law on local government with general and specific regulations.
Establishment of the Union of Municipalities and the Union of Communities
Encouragement of inter-municipal and inter-community cooperation.
In this context, the consolidation of services and the drastic reduction of operating costs can be implemented.
Clustering of neighbouring municipalities and communities, where this is desirable, since the submission of development proposals and the absorption of funds from the European Union require effective mechanisms at the level of local authorities.
Consolidation of planning permission and building permit.
Creation of a single planning authority for the urban areas.
Delegation of school tax offices to local government.
Establishment of a Municipal Police Force
Establishment of institutions of direct participatory local democracy such as the involvement of citizens in the decision-making process affecting them.
Holding local referendums.
Establishment of Municipal Youth Councils.
Adoption of a Citizen's Charter of Rights.
Proposals of an economic nature
Greater and objective distribution of state funding.
Transfer of new resources from the state to local government, e.g. revenues from the transfer of real estate to the Municipalities and Communities where they are located.
Utilisation of municipal and community property.
Partnerships between local authorities and the private sector to increase the resources invested in local development and manage them more efficiently.
Promoting development projects through self-financing.
Proposals for society, environment, quality of life and culture
Creation of Citizen Information and Service Offices
and establishment of a direct service line.
Creation of Tourist Information Offices and their cooperation with private tourist offices and other tourism operators.
Serving citizens via the internet.
Correct management of the collection and treatment of waste concrete.
Creation of green spaces, cycle paths, neighbourhood sports areas.
Creating children's clubs.
Creation of internet cafes and suitable places for young people
Creation of Friendship Clubs and Hostels for the elderly,
introduction of a paging system in the homes of lonely elderly people
and creation of a voluntary help corps for people who cannot be helped by their relatives.
Development of social inclusion programmes
Creation of multicultural and sports centres in the countryside at regional level.
Provide incentives for communities to reverse the trend of homelessness. In this context, there should be a government policy to establish administrative, medical and health services in major rural centres in the countryside.
Promotion of the particular cultural and architectural tradition and settlement character of our communities.
Occupied Municipalities
The provision of increased state sponsorship to the occupied municipalities for enlightenment and information purposes
The undertaking of initiatives by the occupied local government organizations for the preservation of memory, the particular cultural tradition and heritage and for the contact of the new generation with our occupied lands
The electronic recording of local social, economic, historical and cultural data of each occupied municipality
The encouragement of more direct and systematic contact of the youth with the occupied cities and communities in order to keep the memory alive and the flame of the struggle for return unquenched
The creation of a Museum of Occupied Municipalities in which photographs and other material from our occupied towns and villages will be exhibited.
Urban Spatial Development
The urban development of the large Urban Centres of Cyprus in relation to the Regional Local Government, Municipalities and Communities, has today also touched the residents to the extent that the observed degradation of the urban environment has become commonplace.
The contrast between 'concrete' and 'green', air pollution and the dysfunction of transport and communications (traffic) are nowadays unfortunately trivial expressions.
There is an urgent need for proper research and scientific practice with short, medium and long-term objectives to solve the spatial and environmental problem we are facing today and which will be completely impossible to solve properly and effectively in the future if the right steps are not taken NOW.
Our suggestion is that urban planning regulation at the local level should be a tool for spatial expression and coordination of the entire institutional and administrative framework, Executive - Legislative power and Local Authorities.
We urgently demand not the disappearance of the participation of the TA from the Urban Planning but the institutionalized dynamic participation not only in the Common Council but also in the Urban Planning.
Once this effective participation of the organs of the TA in the centres of urban planning decision-making has been achieved,
we should proceed without delay to the proper formulation of urban planning policy.
The Local Plans, as currently amended and in the objection stage, must be varied and/or amended to such an extent that there may be a deviation from their general application which in most cases is not only ineffective but also destructive.
See provisions for individual housing,
conditions for residential development on parcels of land that have in fact eliminated the possibility of their development,
inclusion of large areas in protection zones without expropriation and compensation, which will certainly lead to their forced sale at humiliating prices to capital, which, once it has concentrated this land, will come, with its political pressure, to achieve undevelopment of profitable zones and exploit this property to the detriment of the real beneficiaries.
There is a need for specificity and a more detailed way of defining use categories that correspond to the "personality" of each area.
The road network as it currently exists, apart from the interurban network, which in some cases is quite satisfactory, should be harmonised with the needs of residential development without delay.
Access from the periphery to the centre should be planned in such a way that it can be accessed from several directions. This can only be achieved by means of peripheral - regional roads which are connected to the centre by several axial roads.
These plans and their implementation should be made immediately before the general building boom makes this policy de facto unworkable.
The third pillar of development that must be immediately taken care of and preserved is that of environmental protection - greenery.
This protection, however, cannot come through unilateral actions of the Executive but with the direct participation of the PA and other Environmental Bodies and, above all, without the land owner paying the cost.
It is not through Regulations and Legislation that the Executive can bind land for future environmental development.
This should be done through proper and fair procedures. That is, Expropriation and immediate Compensation.
We conclude by summarising our positions in the triptych below:
α.  Urban planning and development with substantial participation of the local authorities both at the design and decision making stage.
b.  Road network that will decongest the Centre through peripheral roads with access to the Centre by axial roads
c. Environmental regeneration, preservation and expansion of greenery through expropriation and direct execution of the projects rather than through prohibition of land use by the land owners.
Expatriates and Repatriates
Repatriates, especially young people, must have the generous moral and material support of the state for their professional activity and rehabilitation.
 The Democratic Rally proposes: the unimpeded participation of the repatriates in the government's housing plans.
Supporting those who are repatriated and do not receive any pension and face living needs.
The establishment of a Pancyprian House of Expatriates, where the history of Cypriot migration will be exhibited, as well as a local house in communities where there has been a large influx of migration.
The continuation and strengthening of the institution of the Library of the Cypriot Diaspora.
The right to import a car with better tax conditions.
Our proposal for Expatriates includes:
The planning of a census of our expatriates, an effort that began on the initiative of the Presidential Commissioner Manolis Christofides on issues of Expatriates, Repatriates and Returnees and which has now come to a standstill.
The institutional, qualitative and organisational upgrading of the Expatriates' Service, which is currently in a deteriorated state, in order to respond effectively to the multiple challenges of the vital sector of Expatriates, who are essentially an entire Cyprus outside Cyprus.
The generous moral and material support to the Youth (NEPOMAK) because we consider every investment for young people productive.
For the smooth integration of the Greco-Pontians into society, the Democratic Rally recommends:
The housing rehabilitation of expatriate permanent residents of the Republic of Cyprus, without creating dividing lines and "ghettos".
The smooth integration of students into our education system and the strengthening and training of adults in language and education.
The preparation, support and promotion of expatriates in the labour market.
The development of actions for the promotion of the particular multicultural identity, tradition and heritage of our expatriates.
The creative and equal participation of expatriates in special programmes of mass and competitive sport.
The full cooperation of the Greek-Cypriot governments in addressing problems.
Youth
The proposals of the Democratic Rally aim to make young people participants and protagonists in everything that concerns them.
Through transparent procedures, in a spirit of consensus
and rejecting interlocking and undue influence in society, institutions and government.
Youth Organization of Cyprus
Youth Centres with significant activity should be upgraded to regional multi-purpose Youth Centres.
We emphasize the need to exercise the advisory role of the O.NE.K. to the government and other bodies.
We support the increase of the budget of the O.NE.K. as well as the increase of the sponsorship to the political Youth Organizations.
We consider support for the development of research on youth issues to be essential
Youth Council of Cyprus
We recommend a substantial increase in the sponsorship of the Cyprus Youth Council by the Youth Council of Cyprus and the recognition of its role by the state. In order to contribute effectively to the promotion of Cyprus through the European Youth Forum and other international steps, but also to strengthen its ability to develop programmes for young people in Cyprus and its role as an umbrella organisation for non-governmental youth organisations.
Students
Acceleration of the operation of the Cyprus University of Technology and the inclusion of all the schools of the ATI.
Offer those incentives by the government that will promote the establishment of Private Universities and especially non-profit Private Universities.
Restructuring and simplifying the functioning of the KYSATS.
Further increase in student sponsorship.
Employment
We call for the implementation of policies to integrate and promote young people in the labour market.
The improvement and strengthening of Youth and Women Entrepreneurship Programmes.
Young people and information
We recommend the creation of more information centres or info points by the Youth Agency.
Information points can be set up in all schools and high schools as well as in youth centres.
Drugs
We call for the creation of prevention centres and counselling services in rural and urban centres and the development of primary prevention programmes with the active participation of local communities, local government and voluntary organisations.
We call for the creation of rehabilitation centres and the adoption of modern treatment mechanisms and models for rehabilitation.
We want the state to provide substantial support to the rehabilitated persons in the reintegration phase.
We call for the support of voluntary organisations such as KENTHEA and Agia Skepi, so that they can meet their difficult task.
Alcohol, mental, sexual and reproductive health and rights.
We invite all relevant stakeholders to an open dialogue on regulations for the marketing of items such as alcohol and tobacco.
We propose better access to contraceptive methods and knowledge about their proper use, as well as the development of sex education programmes.
Racism and Xenophobia
We recommend the promotion of informal education programmes by the UNECE with the inclusion of disadvantaged population groups focusing on problem areas.
Road accidents
The police, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Culture and the ESEM and PESEM, to develop further programmes within schools and at youth entertainment venues to foster road awareness.
Volunteering - Non-Governmental Organisations - Active participation
We recommend the creation of a legal framework for non-governmental voluntary organisations,
the recognition of voluntary work as an additional qualification by the state in cases of recruitment in the public and semi-public sector.
We propose to further fund voluntary youth organisations and informal youth groups to cover their operating costs and to develop programmes for young people.
Bicommunal youth contacts
We recommend the immediate upgrading of the Bicommunal Youth Forum, so that it can function as a real bridge between the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot youth.
Young Cypriots from Cyprus
More support from all stakeholders of the Youth of Expatriates (NEPOMAK) so that it becomes a global communication, coordination and cooperation body for expatriate Cypriot Youth.
Small Communities
We call for immediate state assistance for permanent housing for youth organizations of small communities.
National Youth Policy
We call for the further and effective involvement of young people at all levels of youth policy making.
Education
Introduction
Our policy proposals that we are putting forward aim on the one hand to salvage what can be salvaged from the unproductive sensationalist moves that aim to cover up the absence of policy and strategy and to cover up the tragic deadlocks to which they have led the country's education in three years
and on the other hand to offer a way out of these deadlocks.
The absence of policy and discourse is attempted to be addressed with a report on reform but based on an institutional approach that is far from reality since, without any evaluation, it clashes at its base with the only valid evaluation that has been done, that of UNESCO, and, we repeat, it wants to reorient education and introduce new aims and objectives when UNESCO records that "the aims are considered excellent".
Purposes that are common to the education system of Greek children everywhere, but also common to the education systems of our European partners.
We therefore propose that the government should abandon the logic of reorientation and new purposefulness and continue to implement and not abolish the innovations or ongoing reforms it has received and which are based on the comprehensive evaluation and the recommendations of the UNESCO report.
If it does not agree, to be convincing in its proposals, it should invite an international evaluation body to come and make proposals on its findings.
It will therefore find us to support it in order to promote them together.
If not, we warn that we will not be complicit in the disorientation and degradation that is mathematically leading the country's education.
Education in Cyprus was, is and must remain the necessary beacon and the necessary infrastructure that helped, helps and will help the Hellenism of Cyprus to face its various problems and especially the threat of natural and national annihilation from the land of our fathers.
The core values of Cypriot education were, are and must be timeless and based on culture, tradition and modern orientations.
Our participation in the United Europe can only be the framework of our education strategy.
Our teachers must continue to receive the full support of the state to enable them to develop their qualifications and skills so that both they and their students can continue to meet the demands of modern society.
Our philosophy is to offer young people opportunities and rights.
We reaffirm our long-standing policy as adopted in 1997, 1999 and 2001 and introduce the following innovations.
Pre-primary Education
It is particularly important that pre-school children as young as 3 years old receive education and we will pursue this.
The control and supervision of private kindergartens is imposed.
It is necessary to expand the institution of all-day Kindergarten.
We expect to complete and implement the Kindergarten housing policy started in 2000.
We demand that the existing educational materials of Program Development be utilized for the purpose of publishing Kindergarten teacher aids.
Primary Education
Ι. Full Day School
The institution should be strengthened and expanded to cover all schools in Cyprus.
2. Information Technology
The creation of a computer lab in every school should be the goal.
3. Science
Creating workshops.
4. Pedagogical Institute
Too upgrade the Pedagogical Institute.
5. Building - technical infrastructure
Accelerate the implementation of the building programme.
6. Educational camps
Creating modern facilities.
7. Special education
Enforce the law.
8.  Teacher training
Teacher training to be developed and integrated into working time.
9.  National levels
Completion of the national level compilation.
10. Teacher evaluation
Replacing the existing evaluation system with a more modern one.
I I. School counsellorsExpansion and improvement of the institution.
12. Strengthening the service of the Ministry of Education for European Union Affairs
13. Intercultural educationTransversal development with a view to integration.
14. Educational programmesMaintain existing programmes and introduce new ones.
15. Reduction in the number of children per departmentContinue.
16. Departments and Support Programs for foreign language children.To be integrated into school programs.
17. Educational Priority ZonesTo be developed beyond.
Secondary education
Improving the institution of pre-service training.
Upgrading in-service training.
Introduction of the evaluation of the school unit and the educational work.
Replacement of the existing teacher evaluation system, which has been in place since 1976.
Complete the introduction of national levels.
Forwarding the five-year agreed regulations for the transfer and placement of teachers to the Parliament for a vote.
High School
Complete the restructuring of the high school curriculum.
To extend the institution of the Head of Department, which has been successfully implemented in the third grade, to the first and second grade of high school.
Continue to review the curricula and promote the writing of books that are consistent with them.
High School
Until the generalization of the Unified Lyceum with the unification of Secondary Education and Secondary Technical School, the programme of the Technical Schools to be completed as revised on the basis of the principles applicable to the Unified Lyceum and the unification to come as an inevitable consequence at a later stage.
Replace the single and entrance examinations by a single matriculation examination as planned.
Instead of the completely free choice of courses that led to about ten groups of courses, each leading in a particular direction, it should be definitively established that these are the options offered, as was the goal from the very beginning.
The selected courses of the major must all be examinable.
To review the number of common core and directional courses, especially in the third grade, with the aim of limiting the maximum number of courses in this class to 10 (ten).
The project of unifying Secondary General and Technical Education should be left to a later stage, after the proposed amendments have been completed and evaluated.
Technical Vocational Education
Technical and Vocational Education During the school year 2003-2004 the implementation of the institution was completed for the third year.
We recommend that the Ministry of Education and Culture carry out an evaluation of the new institution.
The introduction of new courses or the abolition of certain disciplines should be done after an investigation.
Apprenticeship system We recommend the creation of independent Apprenticeship Schools operating in their own buildings.
Evening Technical Schools The institution of Evening Technical Schools is considered useful and necessary. We recommend an evaluation of the institution with a view to its expansion.
Vocational Training Institutions Establish post-secondary Vocational Training Institutions as foreseen by the European directives.
Higher Education (Higher and Higher)
Development of the University of Cyprus.
Immediate operation of the Cyprus University of Technology.
Immediate operation of the Open University
and the introduction of tuition fees as a minimum measure of social justice.
Implementation of the law for the establishment of Private Universities
and their immediate establishment and operation.
Immediate implementation of the European acquis in practice through legislation.
Separation by law of institutions of higher education from institutions of higher education.
Separation by law of Academic and Professional Institutions of Higher Education.
Adopt a legislative framework for the direct establishment and operation of post-secondary vocational, education and training institutions.
Commissioning an international organisation of comparable experience and credibility to evaluate all higher education institutions, public and private.
Harmonisation of the legislation of the KYSATS with the NARICs of the other 24 partners and the EU and relieving it of additional responsibilities assigned to it.
Establishment and operation of a Medical University.
Legislation to enable both public and private higher education institutions to promote joint programmes and degrees with other European, American and other higher education institutions
and to conclude agreements for the granting of joint and double degrees in accordance with European Union policy.
Immediate alignment with the European Union's curriculum timetables.
Increase in student sponsorship.
Offer specific incentives that will lead the ISTEs to effortlessly choose to become non-profit universities.
Culture
Culture is the past, the present and the future of a people, it is our very self. Therefore, the challenge of the times is for us to conquer multicultural democracy with the active participation and involvement of citizens in cultural life and cultural movement.
We consider it necessary to promote and emphasize the great importance of culture in the context of civic life and to support people and civil society organisations.
Our goals
Our objectives and any policy proposals cannot overlook the wider context in which we are called upon to co-exist. And that is none other than the European Union of 500 million citizens.
The main characteristic of the European Union is the relaxation, or even the gradual abolition, of the importance of borders, leading to the formation of a multicultural and multilingual community.
This will result in peoples being grouped into linguistic, cultural units.
Given the demographic, economic, political and military supremacy of other peoples, there is a visible danger of levelling out and national and linguistic alienation of weaker peoples.
In this sense, the cultivation and promotion of our culture, our Language and our Tradition is a measure of Defence and National survival of Hellenism.
At the same time, we must not forget that our homeland unfortunately still remains semi-occupied and divided.
The realities of the EU and the occupation impose the following general objectives:
To carry out, together with Greece and the Greeks of the Diaspora, the struggle for the preservation of the national, linguistic and cultural unity of Hellenism in the EU.
The cultivation of our self-consciousness as Greeks, as Europeans and as citizens of the world.
The preservation of our cultural heritage and the living elements of our cultural past, from the Ancient, Byzantine and Modern Era.
The cultivation of the universal principles and values of the modern civilised world.
Specific objectives are defined as:
To promote and emphasise the great importance of culture in the context of political life.
The promotion of cultural creation and the promotion and promotion of people of culture.
Stimulating cultural life and cultural movement.
Supporting people and cultural institutions.
Our recommendations
In order to achieve the above general and specific objectives we propose: Upgrading of the Cultural Services of the Ministry of Education at the level of the Ministry of State and their restructuring, according to cultural sectors.
Increased spending on culture.
Utilization of the modern trends of Cultural Diplomacy for the promotion of the Rights and interests of our country.
Continuous mobilization of international public opinion and utilization of the possibilities offered by the Council of Europe and UNESCO to force Turkey to respect our cultural heritage in occupied Cyprus.
Strengthening, upgrading and expanding cultural exchanges with Greece and other European and non-European countries.
Strengthening cultural education by promoting schools as Centres of Culture.
Encourage cultural broadcasting by the media.
Utilization of the Internet in the promotion and cultivation of Greek Civilization.
Strengthening cooperation with Multicultural Centres in Greece and Europe.
Encourage and strengthen NGOs, clubs and associations, with the aim of multicultural decentralisation.
Strengthening of the Cultural Infrastructure with projects such as the State Library and Gallery, the Concert and Lecture Hall, the State Theatre Hall, the Contemporary State Archive Hall, the Contemporary Museum of Antiquities, etc.
Creation of a Cultural Archive.
Creation of an opera house.
Upgrading of the State Orchestra to a Symphony Orchestra.
Supporting the effort to establish chairs of Modern Greek Studies and History of Cyprus in foreign universities in Europe and America.
Sports
Introduction
A prerequisite for sport to fulfil its multidimensional role is that it is supported through public budgets.
That is why the Democratic Rally will fight not only for the implementation of the annual approved budgets but also for their increase.
For us, austerity policy has no place in sport.
Sport as a dynamic expression of socio-political life has always been concerned with political spaces and ideologies centred on man.
The Democratic Rally supports and promotes sport at all levels as a phenomenon inherent to its ideological and political identity.
We reaffirm today for mass, club, federal and top-level sport, our long-standing policy on sport as adopted in 1997, 1999 and 2001 and we propose the following innovations.
The establishment and operation of sports classes that do not entail any additional financial costs if they are developed within the framework of the single high school as the approved plans of the Ministry of Education and Culture.
Knowing the particularly dire financial situation in which the clubs -companies of team sports especially football and the need to take measures to meet the requirements / criteria of Uefa and continue their activity we propose:
The state to continue through the COAannual sponsorship to our clubs in the manner and criteria established by the government of Glafkos Clerides since 1997 and to increase from the current year by at least 25% to meet the financial data of today.
The 25% increase should be used to pay off the accumulated debts of the unions to the state (income tax, VAT and social security) which should be paid off in this way within a decade.
The associations to benefit from the above or any other favourable arrangement under the express condition that they will pay within the legal deadlines any obligation (tax, VAT and social security).
Failure to respond will result in their immediate exclusion from the preferential arrangements.
This regulation will provide a definitive solution to the problem that plagues the unions -companies, puts things in their proper place and obliges the companies -companies to assume their responsibilities towards their own existence.
We suggest finally as a similar arrangement agreed and promoted for the clubs of other team sports facing similar problems.
Violence and misconduct in sports venues
Rejecting the inappropriate behaviour that unfortunately occurs before, during and after the end of sporting events, we propose the immediate implementation of legislation that made inappropriate behaviour and violence in sports venues an "individual offence" with no discounts and without fear of reprisals.
We call on the clubs to meet their contractual obligations and exclude from their stadiums and matches those who provoke with their improper behaviour
and we demand from the bodies of the COA and the ADEA to proceed without delay to the implementation of the legislation that provides for the removal of the fan status from any misbehaving person.
We are finally restoring and will fight for the introduction of the fan card which will rid our sport of foreign bodies
and bring to the stadiums the pure fans, the dozy fans and their families.
We call on the fan companies and organizations in consultation with the clubs and the competent bodies to offer honorary entrance tickets to women, mothers, sisters, wives, daughters, of athletes and fans who with their increased presence in the stadiums will change the image of the grandstand and will improve the revenue of clubs, but first of all will make companies and organizations in the consciousness of society.
As far as pharmacostimulation is concerned, we demand thorough monitoring not only of top athletes but of every athlete, especially young people and children.
We call on the CTO and the Ministry of Education and Culture to introduce to the student population the sports participation and achievement essay which will help raise awareness of sport and fair play among young people.
Finally, we call on the government and especially the CIO to proceed immediately to the evaluation of our sports model by an international firm with relevant experience in the field and to make final policy, strategy and tactical proposals for the upgrading of Cypriot Sport.
Citizens' equality
Achieving full equality of citizens requires positive interventions, interventions that create conditions for the moral and material uplift of all citizens, interventions that create a citizen-friendly environment.
On the contrary, the state today appears rigid where it needs to provide care and relief and terribly flexible where it wants to open the doors to benefit those who secure its favour.
The Democratic Rally proposes:
The creation of a Citizen's Line, where each and every one will have access and the opportunity to complain about any injustices, malpractices or arbitrariness against them or which come to their attention.
At the same time, specialised teams should be set up with the scientific expertise to process the information, evaluate it and initiate procedures to deal with it.
In this way, support will be provided to the citizen and at the same time the government and the public sector will be scrutinised for acts, actions or omissions to the detriment of citizens.
The amendment of existing legislation to eliminate deviations from the principle of gender equality.
At the same time, the state has an obligation to create mechanisms to help implement the legislation.
The establishment of a General Secretariat for Equality, with specific structures and responsibilities that will aim to consolidate gender equality and promote the National Policy for Equality.
Through the action of the General Secretariat for Equality, various issues such as the fight against social prejudice will be covered,
the establishment of the principle of equality,
 monitoring the development of the women's movement and cooperating with various women's organisations,
promoting measures to tackle female unemployment,
 working conditions,
 the preparation and implementation of education and vocational training programmes,
 strengthening collective productive initiatives,
 publishing and distributing publications and magazines on equality,
the organisation of conferences and training seminars,
the organisation of contacts and meetings with various bodies at national and international level for the exchange of views and information.
The establishment of an Equality Research Centre which, with the appropriate scientific support, will be able to promote and inform about the various Community programmes and which will have documentation and IT analysis units that will provide quality information services at individual and group level.
Additional suggestions include:
encouraging part-time employment, the inclusion of women who wish to re-enter the labour market in training programmes.
The expansion of the network of kindergartens and nursery schools by extending their operating hours, the adoption of the institution of all-day schools and kindergartens.
The creation of support structures for businesses, with subsidised programmes for parental and maternity leave and more flexible working hours for mothers.
The granting of strong financial incentives to private companies, as long as they employ men and women in equal numbers,
The granting of parental leave for child-rearing to the father as well, as long as the mother does not make use of this arrangement.
The immediate development and promotion of legislation for the prevention and treatment of domestic violence.
In the context of such legislation, consideration should be given to the introduction of financial assistance with terms and conditions for victims who are prevented from leaving the family home due to lack of resources.
The creation of special courts with jurisdiction in domestic violence cases should also be considered.
We consider it necessary to further support reception centres for battered women by expanding their role and strengthening them with specialised human resources.
The strengthening of the important institution of the Commissioner for Administration by establishing an Equality Circle in line with the models of many other European countries.
Justice and Public Order
Penitentiary Policy
The State punishes the violators of the law, not avenges them.
This is why the design and implementation of the country's general penitentiary policy is a distinguished institutional manifestation of a democratic state characterised by the spirit of moderation and humanism and must aim at: a) the correction and social reintegration of citizens who manifest delinquent and delinquent behaviour,
b) the development of administrative actions to prevent crime.
Ι.  Organisation and operation of our penitentiaries
Upgrading the level of prisons: it is necessary to improve the organization and operation of the Department, the services offered
as well as the proper staffing with qualified and other personnel and their continuous training.
Operation of a psychiatric hospital or accommodation centre for convicted persons and the employment of the necessary medical, paramedical and psychiatric staff.
Employment of specialised staff (human sciences e.g. sociologists, psychologists, gymnasts).
Improving prison security conditions.
2.  Reintegration and support programme for prisoners:
Providing opportunities for education, vocational training, creative recreation, etc.etc.
Developing a policy for the care and reintegration of prisoners into society.
The creation of a reintegration centre, which will provide them with employment, temporary financial support and accommodation, at least until they find their own accommodation.
Vocational, technical training and education of convicts in professions offered on the labour market.
Care for convicts after their release, by developing the mentoring and out-of-house employment centre into a financially self-sufficient centre and increasing state assistance to released prisoners.
Socialisation of convicts, improving their communication with the outside world and their families.
Further strengthen the institution of open prison and expand reduced security programmes.
Centre for the Rehabilitation of Drug Addicts: it is mandatory that drug users do not live in prisons either with drug dealers or with offenders of common criminal law.
Crime prevention policy: development of crime prevention policies within the penitentiary in cooperation with public and international social care institutions.
Modernization of legal rules governing the correctional process of citizens serving custodial sentences,
Establishment of the institution of the Prison Prosecutor in order to ensure the dignified treatment and safe detention of prisoners and the protection of their rights
: The establishment of a special committee which, after 15 to 20 years, would consider making a recommendation for the release of the lifer, subject to certain conditions relating to his behaviour and remorse, as well as his family situation.
Immediately address the problem of overcrowding in prisons and segregation of prisoners
Create new wings
Gradually abolish provisions that criminalise actions or omissions related to administrative obligations of citizens and replace them with administrative penalties
Effective procedure for the deportation of foreigners and the examination of applications for political asylum.
Application of alternatives to imprisonment, in cases where imprisonment is not the only measure of correction or may be the last resort.
Strengthening social welfare services by appointing an additional number of guardianship officers to allow for alternative sentences to imprisonment, such as community service.
Police
Crime is becoming increasingly widespread. A well-organised, trained and fully equipped police force is essential.
The citizen must feel safe and have confidence in the police.
1. Training policy: training of police officers both nationally and internationally.
Police Academy: upgrade basic training. It should also be divided into several schools of higher and higher education and staffed with the appropriate qualified personnel: (a) Police School, (b) School of Officers and (c) School of Postgraduate Education and Training
2.  Protecting the honour and dignity of the Police:
The introduction of the "behind-the-scenes" system, the implementation of staff rotation and the establishment of an independent internal affairs service will contribute to the fight against corruption and corruption and respect for human rights, as well as
to the creation of favourable conditions for the restoration of the credibility of the role of the Police, the honour and dignity of its members in the minds of citizens.
3.  Reconciliation with the citizen:
Training programmes for police officers on social behaviour, dealing calmly with social reactions and defending human rights.
Measures to serve the citizen, such as reducing bureaucracy, simplifying procedures and forms, creating Contact Centres
Strengthening the institution of Community Policing in order to prevent crime and the cooperation of the police and the public with frequent patrols in central areas of cities and small villages
Improving the premises and offices where the Police welcome and serve citizens
4.  Redesign of the organisation of the Police with decentralised powers
Redistribution of tasks (relieving police officers of non-police duties and assigning clerical tasks to civilians)
Adoption of new and modern methods of management and administration, better use of staff and introduction of measures to motivate staff
Creation of a tourist police force
Adoption and implementation of a system guaranteeing meritocracy and the principle of suitability in the appointment, promotion, transfer and evaluation of police officers.
Establishment of a legislative framework for the recruitment and promotion of specialised police personnel
Consolidation of the Port Police with the Air Wing and their reinforcement.
5.  Limitation of the "state-centric" perception prevailing in the Police, with its autonomy and administrative independence from its political superior.
6.  Fire Service
Autonomy of the Fire Service
Improvement of the provided fire safety by reorganizing and modernizing its services
and further strengthening its logistical infrastructure with volatile fire-fighting equipment, modern fire-fighting vehicles, mechanical equipment for dealing with major technological and industrial threats.
Upgrading the operational capacity of the EMAK.
Establishment of a Fire Academy
Consolidation of fire-fighting forces under the responsibility and direction of the Fire Brigade.
7.  Decisive action against crime
Crime Research Centre for the formulation of an effective anti-crime policy at the stage of crime prevention and suppression.
Modernisation and strengthening of the forensic services
Strengthening of cooperation and participation in European Union and international police cooperation programmes.
Protection of minors. Establishment of special teams and training of police officers in handling cases of delinquency of minors and preventing their exploitation.
Domestic violence: improving the conditions for investigation and programmes for the protection and rehabilitation of victims of domestic violence.
Illegal immigrants: strengthening our means and programmes to control our beaches and the line of confrontation, extending controls in urban centres and the countryside, reviewing the relevant legislation to bring it in line with EU directives.
Measures to tackle common crime: reinforce the Financial Crime Agency, strengthen the
enforcement of laws on financial fraud crimes, enforce
mandatory security conditions for bank branches and credit institutions,
regulate the operation of private security firms.
Justice
We are investing heavily in making access to justice easier for citizens and ensuring that justice is delivered more quickly and efficiently.
We propose the economic autonomy of the judiciary,
the modernisation and simplification of procedural rules to speed up the administration of justice
and the lifelong training of judges and judicial officials.
Ι.  Measures for the speedy administration of justice.
Establishment of a Standing Committee for the Revision and Modernisation of Law and Procedural Rules
Establishment of a Law School. Thedelay is an obstacle to the development of the legal system
Further modernisation and revision of the Law of Evidence.
Radical changes in the organisation, operation and structure of the Courts. Simplify judicial procedures in civil cases and establish a court to hear small claims cases.
Modernise the rules of criminal procedure to speed up the trial of criminal cases and reorganise criminal courts,
review the jurisdiction of criminal courts and establish courts to hear specific categories of cases, such as juvenile and dependency courts.
2.  Review and supplement the measures for the enforcement of judgments on pecuniary claims
3.  Reorganisation of the Supreme Court and revision of its jurisdiction.
Separation of the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court and the Administrative Court.
Establishment of an administrative court to hear cases of review jurisdiction
Creation of a tertiary jurisdiction
4.  Revision of the method of selection and promotion of judges.
5.  Extend the institution of legal aid to other jurisdictions.
6.  Continued improvement and expansion of court buildings.
7.  Cooperation in the fields of justice, security and freedom:
intensifying judicial cooperation between EU Member States, and establishing a European Public Prosecutor.
Judicial cooperation in criminal matters, in particular in the areas of organised crime, terrorism and drug trafficking.
Judicial cooperation in civil matters: (a) to improve and simplify the system of cross-border service of judicial and extrajudicial documents,
cooperation in the taking of evidence and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters;
(b) to promote the compatibility of the rules applicable in the Member States; and (
c) to eliminate obstacles to the smooth conduct of civil proceedings.
European Judicial Networks in criminal and civil matters and the Eurojust unit.
8.  Information Justice
The computerization of judicial work and the introduction of information technology and modern technology in the Courts
, the expansion and strengthening of the library of the courts by electronic means, the computerization of all stages of the trial, the
keeping of statistics,
the extension of the electronic bank of court decisions to include decisions of the European courts,
the computerized keeping of court records, the
the creation of web infrastructure for the automation of communication with the EU and the electronic archiving of all primary and secondary legislation and other government decisions for immediate use by the public via the internet.
9.  Safeguarding sensitive personal data.
10.  Revision of the Criminal Code and modernisation of penalties.
I I. Internationalisation of crime: transnational cooperation and promotion of cross-border application of preventive and repressive methods in the context of judicial assistance.
12.  Cyber Crime: modernisation of the legislative framework in order to protect the citizen, suppress crime and guarantee the free movement of ideas.
13.  Citizen-Justice relations: Circulation of a guide with all the information that is practically useful for the citizen in his/her relations with justice services
14.  Completion and modernisation of the rule of law: development of institutional actions that broaden and forge the circle of individual rights and freedoms and generally strengthen the functioning of democratic institutions.
15. Consolidation and codification of laws.
16. Establishment of a juvenile court.
New Offences
Policy proposals to tackle youth delinquency
In order to promote the well-being of minors and their development in an environment free of crime and delinquency, we propose the implementation of an integrated policy with the following main pillars:
Ι. Prevention policy
The progressive development of a preventive strategy and implementation of measures and programmes based on predictive studies, analyses, inventories and scientific evaluations of programmes, services, facilities and measures.
The implementation of new methods of community participation within a wide or range of services and programmes, with the close intersectoral cooperation of all governmental and non-governmental agencies and the participation of the young offender in self-help and socialisation programmes.
2. Socialization
The policy of integrating these people into society as equal members through the family, the community, schools, and voluntary organisations, with the main lines of action being:
Α. Family:
The well-being of the family and the strengthening of programmes that provide care and protection for children and ensure their physical and mental well-being.
We pay special attention to children of families affected by sudden economic, social or cultural change.
Developing programs that provide families with the opportunity to learn about parental roles and responsibilities related to child development and care.
promoting family cohesion and harmony and discouraging the separation of children from their parents, except where circumstances so require.
Β. Education
The development of young people's personality and skills through education and the teaching of core values.
The cooperation of schools with parents, community organisations and authorities involved in youth activities.
The provision by the school environment of special attention and care to persons at social risk and the provision of medical, counselling and other services to them.
The implementation of a strategy to prevent the abuse of alcohol, drugs and other substances by young people through educational programmes.
The creation of higher professional and educational standards with regular monitoring and evaluation of work (e.g. competent teachers, approach to teaching).
Organising extracurricular activities of interest to young people.
Providing special assistance to people who find it difficult to comply with regular school attendance or who drop out of school.
Student participation in decision making concerning the school community.
Γ. Community
The development of programmes that respond to the needs and interests of young people
The development of programmes to support and assist young people in their transition to adulthood with an emphasis on counselling, counselling, care and treatment
The strengthening and financial support of voluntary organisations that provide services to young people
and the creation of accessible recreational facilities.
3. SOCIAL POLICY AND POLICY ON JUVENILE OFFENDERS:
The institutionalisation of young people is the last resort.
The interest of the young person is of paramount importance, which is why we propose the implementation of credible programmes, with the following main strategic axes within and outside the criminal justice system:
Promoting voluntary participation of young people in delinquency prevention programmes.
The adoption of the institution of the Ombudsman for Minors to safeguard the rights and interests of the child
The establishment of a Juvenile Court with procedures that will ensure its child-centred orientation
The implementation of training programmes for those who treat juvenile offenders on issues of reaction and pedagogy.
The creation of specially trained police units and separate areas for the preliminary examination of minors.
Detention of minors is used only as a last resort.
The introduction of settlement measures, instead of any other punishment, e.g. community work, probation, reparation, satisfaction of the victim, participation in special programmes.
The abolition of juvenile offender registers
Intercommunity relations
Relations with the Turkish Cypriot Community
The Democratic Rally recognizes the importance of bi-communal contacts and the need to build communication and trust between the two communities in Cyprus, factors that will act as a strengthening link in any future solution to the Cyprus problem.
It recommends intensifying efforts to close the gap created by 30 years of lack of contacts
and improve management, as well as taking advantage of the partial lifting of movement restrictions.
It therefore proposes: intensifying efforts and taking initiatives to open new channels.
The practical and institutional strengthening of bicommunal Non-Governmental Organisations.
The inclusion of the Turkish language in the School of Translators to be established; the
establishment of annual bi-communal events aimed at promoting cooperation and mutual understanding.
Support for bicommunal cooperation between professional groups and guilds.
The financing and institutionalisation of the Bicommunal Youth Forum.
The increase of the budget of the Cyprus Youth Organisation for bicommunal youth events
The creation of suitable premises for children's bicommunal camps under the supervision of the Ministry of Education and Culture, which will be provided free of charge to organisations.
Religious Groups
Within the framework of European Cyprus, the culture and specificity of the religious groups, the Maronites, the Armenians and the Latins, should be further protected and highlighted.
We recommend: Create a position of Presidential Advisor for Religious Groups.
Increase the funds for the promotion of their cultural heritage and traditions.
Further support for their educational institutions.
Mass media
Audiovisual media
We live in an electronic communication and information society. Audiovisual media are the main source of information and entertainment for citizens and play a leading role in shaping public opinion on political, cultural, economic and social issues.
In formulating its policy in this field, the Democratic Rally takes as its starting point the fundamental principle of pluralism,
the democratic right to freedom of thought and expression,
the right of the citizen to correct and responsible information
, as well as the modern perceptions of the way the Mass Media operate.
The Democratic Rally attaches particular importance to the modern audiovisual media, radio, television, cinema, internet, which are experiencing rapid growth due to the abolition of the state broadcasting monopoly
and the liberalisation of the sector and the full development of modern technology.
The parallel and balanced development of private and public broadcasting ensures and promotes pluralism and is an essential element of democracy.
It is also important, through the existence of a modern institutional framework, to ensure that conditions of transparency prevail in the field of broadcasting media
and to combat the worrying phenomena of arbitrariness and the intertwining of economic and political interests.
Within the framework of a modern perception and response to the new data and challenges that are formed by the adoption and application of electronic and digital technology in the field of audiovisual media, the Democratic Rally proposes and supports the following:
Television-Radio
Update the existing legislation on broadcasting to cover the digital broadcasting chapter (terrestrial, satellite, cable).
Support and further strengthen the Broadcasting Authority so that it can carry out its work effectively.
To make the citizen - viewer the agent of quality control of the broadcasting media.
Strengthen the self-monitoring and self-regulatory systems of the broadcasting media - journalists' disciplinary committees and ethics committees - in order to eliminate the phenomena of extra-regulatory interference and forms of indirect or direct censorship.
Cinema
Modernisation of existing legislation on Cinema.
Supporting domestic film productions through collaborations with the Greek and European film centres.
Supporting and developing the audiovisual industry and providing economic incentives so that Cyprus acquires infrastructure - creating modern studios - and becomes a centre for international film and television productions.
Internet
Promote arrangements for the protection of the user and his/her personal data online.
Massive introduction of the internet at all levels of education. Cyprus remains, in comparison with other EU Member States, low on the table of the number of internet users.
European Audiovisual Programmes
Further strengthening Cyprus' participation in European audiovisual production and cooperation programmes such as Medea Plus, EURIMAGES, EUREKA and the Euro-Mediterranean MEDEA programme.
Adoption of the pioneering eEurope, eLearning and eGovernment programmes.
Introduction of electronic voting in the various electoral procedures.
