EDEK SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC MOVEMENT
We take a stand for Cyprus
On 22 May we are not just choosing a party and MPs. We are choosing the course of Cyprus in the years to come.
These are critical years for our economy and our quality of life.
Years of decisive developments on the path to a solution of the Cyprus problem.
Unfortunately, the expectations created by the Christofias government have been dashed.
The government's complacency, inertia and lack of determination have led the Cypriot economy into a crisis, with negative results both for our country's fiscal figures and - even more so - for households and citizens.
The inefficiency of the rulers is accumulating problems in security, education, health.
Opacity casts heavy shadows on crucial decisions.
The lack of tolerance for criticism degrades the quality of our democracy.
The wrong strategy and the unacceptable concessions of the President of the Republic have put the Greek Cypriot side in a worse position than when the direct negotiations started.
On 22 May we can change this course.
To choose a democratic, workable and sustainable solution.
Immediate withdrawal of the rotating presidency by weighted vote, the residence of 50,000 settlers, the restriction of the right to property.
To choose economic policies that ensure growth and social justice.
Abolition of the tax raid, which affects the middle and low income strata.
To choose actions that improve the quality of life for us and our family.
On 22 May, every Cypriot takes a stand.
He strengthens, with his vote, the voice of the EPP.
Your voice.
NATIONAL ANAAGKH THE CHANGE OF STRATEGY IN THE MANAGEMENT OF THE CYPRUS PROBLEM
The management of the Cyprus problem in recent years has led to dramatic deadlocks and terrible risks.
The wrong strategy and tactics of the President of the Republic led the Greek Cypriot side to a worse and the Turkish Cypriot side to a better position than they were in when the direct negotiations started.
Turkey is leading the talks to a deadlock.
 The danger of placing equal responsibility on both sides and initiating the upgrading of the pseudo-state is visible.
A change of tactics in the negotiations and strategy in the overall management of the Cyprus problem is a national necessity.
We recommend: To formulate an outline for a Cyprus settlement, based on the joint communiqué of the National Council in September 2009 and to present it officially to the UN Secretary General, the permanent members of the Security Council, the European Collective Institutional Bodies, the EU Heads of State and the European Parliament.
Withdraw the proposals for a rotating presidency, weighted voting, and 50,000 settlers staying.
Promote a request for the adoption of a package of principles for a Cyprus settlement at a forthcoming European Council.
To request the EU to appoint a political figure as an envoy for the Cyprus problem.
Launch a strong awareness campaign to make it clear that the Turkish proposals are completely outside the agreed solution framework.
To clarify that Cyprus will not allow the opening of any new chapter in the Turkey-EU accession dialogue. EU, if Turkey does not comply with its commitments to the EU and Cyprus.
To promote petitions within the EU for the return of Famagusta,
for the violation of the rights of the interned
and for the usurpation of Greek Cypriot properties.
To reorient our foreign policy with particular emphasis on exploiting the radical geostrategic reorientations that are taking place as a result of the Israel-Turkey rift and the discovery of huge deposits in the EEZs of Israel and Cyprus.
The EPP will not compromise with the current, damaging course of action; we will continue to fight for a democratic, functional and viable solution, based on the principles of International and European Law.
For a solution that will ensure the natural and national survival of the Cypriot Hellenism.
FOR A NEW SOCIAL COMPACT: PEOPLE-CENTRED DEVELOPMENT IN SOLIDARITY
The EPP programme is a comprehensive proposal that responds to the demands of society and secures the prospects of the economy.
We propose to the people a new social agreement: Reform and modernization of the State
and democratic control of all power.
To confront any establishment that unscrupulously neglects its position at the expense of the interests of the people.
To confront the corruption and rot in public life.
Not with sermons on morality, but with democratic control and social accountability.
With measures against bureaucracy.
With constant controls of all those who manage the property and wealth of our people.
A competitive and socially oriented economy.
We want a reliable state,
we want a market that operates on competitive terms
, but also strict control mechanisms that protect society and the environment
and create equality of opportunities and possibilities.
Our priorities: Abolition of the challenge of multiple pensions and the simultaneous granting of pension and salary.
Taxation of inert wealth.
Charging banks a fee per transaction based on their assets or liabilities.
Modernisation of betting taxation.
Increase controls and adopt deterrent penalties for tax evaders.
Linking increases in the Civil Service to productivity.
Adjusting the way the ATA is awarded so that more is given to the low-paid compared to the high-paid.
Broad application of interchangeability to limit recruitment in the Civil Service by consolidating and grouping service plans.
Abolition of those semi-public organizations that divert the state from its social role
and the gradual allocation of part of the share capital of others to the private sector, which will not make them private, since more than 50% of the shares will remain with the state, which will exercise control.
Encouraging entrepreneurship among young people
and supporting small and medium-sized enterprises,
in particular through aid for recruitment and training of staff.
Developing alternative energy sources
and encouraging the green economy.
Implementation of a new strategy for the development of tourism by creating a thematic tourism product.
Abolition of transfer fees for owner-occupied housing.
Promote educational reform,
increase investment in research,
introduction and dissemination of new technologies and lifelong learning programmes.
Implementation of the General Health Plan
and creation of a Medical School at the University of Cyprus
Rural and regional development,
environmental preservation
and promotion of our country's culture.
With your trust and support, this new social agreement can and must be realised.
With the strong presence of the Greek People's Party in the new Parliament.
With our decisive intervention in policy-making and decision-making.
On 22 May we vote for the EPP
Now is the time of transcendence for all.
Now is the time to vote for the EPP.
Recognition of consistency and reliability is not enough.
Sympathy is not enough.
With our trust and our vote, the EPP will have a decisive role in the formation of the parliamentary majority. It will have greater power, on behalf and for the benefit of the citizen.
A strong EPP means a democratic, workable and viable solution, in line with the will of the majority.
Withdrawal of the unacceptable proposals for a rotating presidency, weighted voting, and the stay of 50 thousand settlers.
A strong EPP means a fair economic policy.
Taxing idle wealth, not middle and low incomes.
Curbing waste.
Stronger protection for the weakest income groups of our fellow citizens.
A strong EPP means a guarantee of transparency and meritocracy.
Increased environmental protection.
Better quality of life.
6+1 Suggestions for a better life
Entry date: 06/04/2011
The inefficiency of the AKEL-DIKO government is accumulating problems in security, education and health.
Opacity casts heavy shadows on crucial decisions.
Our quality of life is deteriorating.
Decisions are needed, NOW. 1. Immediate implementation of the General Health Plan
and the provision of primary health care services on a 24-hour basis.
2. Establishment of the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Cyprus.
3. Establishment of the institution of the Consumer Commissioner, to contain prices and protect households from profligacy.
4. Creating a humane and creative school that develops critical thinking, prepares students to live in a technologically advanced environment and promotes lifelong learning.
5. Integrated immigration policy, with the integration of legal immigrants as the main pillar
and zero tolerance for those who are in Cyprus illegally.
6. Modernising legislation on environmental protection.
 and establishing educational programmes to create environmental awareness
6 + 1 Establishment of continuous controls on all those who manage the money of the Cypriot people and public property.
On 22 May we change course.
We strengthen the voice of the EPP for better education, health for all, transparency, meritocracy, increased protection of the environment, better quality of life.
EDEK STRONG CYPRUS STRONG
6 +1 Proposals for the Cyprus problem
Entry date: 07/04/2011
We propose: 1. The formulation and submission of an outline for a solution to the Cyprus problem, based on the joint communiqué of the National Council of September 2009.
2. Withdrawal of proposals for rotating presidency, weighted voting, 50,000 settlers staying.
3. Promote the adoption of a package of principles for a Cyprus settlement at a forthcoming European Council.
4. Request for the appointment of a political personality as EU envoy for the Cyprus problem.
5. Preventing the opening of any new chapter in the Turkey-EU accession dialogue if Turkey does not comply with its commitments to the EU and Cyprus.
6. Forward representations to the EU for the return of Famagusta,
violation of the rights of the trapped,
 usurpation of Greek Cypriot property.
7. Amend our side's proposals on property to fully safeguard the rights of the legal owner.
10 + 1 Proposals for the Economy
Entry date: 15/04/2011
EDEK calls on the government, AKEL and DIKO, to immediately shift to a developmental economic policy, with emphasis on strengthening the competitiveness of the Cypriot economy.
Fiscal consolidation is needed, with a mild adjustment
and maximum protection for low and middle incomes.
It is not tax measures that will solve the problem. On the contrary, they may lead to greater social injustice, capital flight and even greater recession.
And of course a decision is needed to tightly control public spending.
For the EDEK, the overriding objective remains the strengthening of the social market economy
and tackling the crisis by creating the conditions for sustainable growth.
The competitiveness of our economy can be achieved through the development of new productive sectors in the services sector, the creation of modern industrial units based on innovation and modern technologies and an emphasis on the green economy.
To this end, we propose:1. Strict control of public spending by: An additional 5% reduction in public sector operating expenditure (excluding payroll expenditure) per year.
Reduction of unproductive public expenditure.
Extensive implementation of the rotation system, aiming at a more efficient and productive use of staff.
Abolish the challenge of multiple pensions and the simultaneous concession of pension and salary.
A salary ceiling for the public and semi-public sector so that no employee has a salary higher than 90% of the basic salary of the President of the Republic.
Abolish universal benefits and replace them with targeted benefits of a new type.
Abolition of semi-public organizations that serve no rationale or purpose and the gradual transfer of part of the share capital of others to the private sector, with the State retaining the majority of the shares.
2. Fiscal consolidation with: Adoption of a three-year program of fiscal consolidation and sustainable growth, to be adhered to without any deviation.
Simultaneous filing of the government's tax policy with state budgets.
Increasing productivity in the public sector by setting measurable targets to evaluate each service and providing incentives to increase productivity.
Promote and strengthen the supervisory role of the state and reinforce subsidiarity where the economy needs it.
Combat tax evasion and tax avoidance by linking the computerised system of the Social Security with the Social Insurance Fund,
revising the policy on the submission of provisional tax returns and modernising the tax on betting.
3. Development economic policy by:
Encouraging entrepreneurship by introducing a 5-year tax-free period for the creation of new businesses by people up to 35 years of age.
Boosting growth in new technologies
and alternative energy sources
by introducing a tax-free period of 3 years for new businesses.
Expanding the use of the "Build-Operate-Transfer" model, so that the construction of critical and useful projects for the economy, which ensure growth and lead to job creation, can proceed immediately and without state expenditure.
Planning and implementation by the state of development projects of a contributory nature.
4. Reduction of unemployment by: Tax incentives for hiring new unemployed people.
Strengthening the staff of public employment services to manage more effectively the reintegration of unemployed people into the labour market.
Supporting SMEs with interest-free or low-interest loans and tax breaks for 5 years to create new jobs.
Extending the training programme for the unemployed.
Unemployment benefit paid for 9 months instead of 6 months and paid no later than 4 weeks after claiming.
The EPP does not claim infallibility. But it does claim the best.
Dealing with the crisis is a top priority for both the state and citizens.
The EPP submits its proposals and declares its readiness to support any measure that moves in the right direction.
We continue to fight for fair economic policies.
Taxing inert wealth rather than middle and low incomes.
Curbing waste.
Stronger protection for the weakest income groups of our fellow citizens.
We invite every Cypriot to study our proposals for the economy. To judge what is right. To strengthen the voice of the EPP. For a stronger Cyprus.
Decision on Economy and Development
Entry date: 13/12/2010
The pursuit of a viable and workable solution to the Cyprus problem passes through a strong Cyprus.
Through a growing economy.
Through a prosperous society.
Unfortunately, the reality today has nothing to do with either growth or prosperity.
On the contrary. The economy is sinking deeper and deeper into crisis, while society is being squeezed, constricted, agonized.
The numbers are absolutely typical.
The fiscal surplus of 3.5% turned into a deficit of 6.5%.
Public debt went from 48.4% of GDP to over 63%.
The economic growth rate fell from 4.5% to 0.5%,
while inflation went from 1.2 to 3.6%.
Unemployment has reached unprecedented levels for Cyprus and is running at a rate of around 7%, while among young people the rate is twice as high.
More typical, however, is what we experience every day in society. The desperation of young people who cannot find work.
Workers' anxiety about their future.
The distress of the housewife for those things she has to cut back on in order to make ends meet.
The uncertainty of the professional and the small and medium-sized businessman about the next day.
Faced with the problems of the economy, the government has chosen for months to play the role of an observer.
He discussed, consulted without actually doing anything.
The responsibilities with the co-governing parties AKEL - DIKO are heavy. And why they did not realize the magnitude of the crisis. And because they did not understand its consequences for Cyprus. And because they did not take the right measures in time, with the consequence that what they have decided now is more painful than what could have been decided 8 or 10 months ago.
But also because the measures they finally announced are socially unfair and economically ineffective.
Socially unjust, because they constitute a tax raid against the underprivileged only. Instead of taxing inert wealth and large real estate, instead of a one-off social solidarity tax on the profits of big business, the government has imposed an excise tax on fuel, a tax on food and medicines, an increase in the price of water and a reduction in the interest rate on compensation for expropriation.
The complacency, procrastination and inefficiency of the government are being paid for today by the middle and lower strata of our people.
Instead of measures that would ensure fiscal consolidation through structural changes to create conditions for growth, the pension system remains untouched, structural changes are left untouched, and spending cuts are more wishful thinking than reality.
The EPP insists. Fiscal consolidation is not achieved by raising taxes on essentials.
It is achieved by reducing costs and increasing the productivity of the public service.
By taxing inert wealth.
With actions that lead to growth.
Unfortunately, on the altar of the effort to maintain the government alliance, the prospect of an exit from the crisis was sacrificed.
and social justice.
The EPP will not consent to these measures. As a socialist party, which has at the heart of its policy the defence of the small and middle classes of the people and the underprivileged, we propose today solutions to address the problems of the Cypriot economy.
Our parallel objective is to strengthen social cohesion
and reintegrate into the social fabric those low-income groups who are below or at the poverty line.
We propose to reduce government spending:
Abolish the inclusion of the allowances of senior officials in the wider public sector and independent officials of the Republic of Cyprus in pensionable pay.
The existing situation is challenging the sentiment of the society and therefore, the proposed measure should first be applied to the President of the Republic, Ministers and MPs.
Abolish the challenge of multiple pensions and the simultaneous concession of pension and salary.
Create independent bodies to determine the productivity of the wider public sector, on the basis of which the number of new jobs can be determined.
Linking increases in the Civil Service to productivity by department and/or per person.
Adjust the way in which ATA is allocated so that more ATA is given to lower paid employees compared to higher paid employees.
Broad application of interchangeability to limit recruitment in the Civil Service by consolidating and grouping service plans.
Targeting of allowances based on salary and objective criteria.
In order to increase the State's revenues, we propose: Taxation of large real estate through the adjustment of real estate prices to current market conditions.
Charging banks a fee per transaction based on their assets or liabilities.
Modernisation of betting taxation
Adoption of deterrent penalties for tax evaders.
The abolition of certain semi-public organisations that distract the state from its social role.
As socialists, we cannot as socialists accept that the State remains a shareholder in companies that have ceased to be natural monopolies or are loss-making.
The State Bakery Company, the Dairy Industry Organisation and the Oil Products Council have no reason to exist.
Nor can the Cypriot taxpayer, in the name of the existence of a national carrier, be asked to bear the ever-increasing losses of the company.
The adoption of a recovery plan and the search for a strategic investor is urgently needed.
Another answer to the public debt is the gradual disposal of part of the share capital of certain semi-public organisations to the private sector, which will not make them private, since more than 50% of the shares will remain with the state, which will exercise control.
For the EPP, the overriding objective remains the prospect of sustainable development and the well-being of workers by promoting a modern model of development of the social market economy.
In this direction we propose: Encourage entrepreneurship among young people
and support small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular through aid for the recruitment and training of staff.
Implement a modern industrial policy based on new innovations and modern technologies.
Development of alternative energy sources
and encouraging the green economy.
Encouraging investment to create new jobs in new service sectors such as education, medical and therapeutic services, social services for children and elderly people.
Implementation of a new strategy for the development of tourism by creating a thematic tourism product.
Abolition of transfer fees for owner-occupied housing.
Making Cyprus a regional centre for medical services.
From this Programming Conference we are shaping a social agreement, a contract with the citizens that is timely, modern and progressive.
Our main objectives: A society of cohesion, dignity and solidarity.
Prioritise education, research, technology and lifelong learning.
A confrontation with corruption, intricacies and opaque mechanisms in public life.
A new effective policy for the environment.
High quality health care for the whole population, with the implementation of the General Health Plan and the provision of primary health care services on a 24-hour basis.
A new policy for the countryside and our farmers.
Fundamental reform in the field of local government on the basis of the triptych, Decentralization - Administrative Autonomy - Financial Self-Reliance.
Another policy for women and the young generation, to take their rightful place in Cypriot society.
A strategy for cultural regeneration and the promotion of sport as a universal good accessible to all.
Integrated immigration policy. It must be understood that there are legitimate concerns among citizens about the problem of immigration.
Of course the answer is neither ghettos nor xenophobia, but real reforms that will ensure integration
and zero tolerance of illegal immigration, undeclared work and human trafficking.
