ADVERTISEMENT
Nothing is stronger than an idea that has matured.
We stand with reflection on our lives.
We are faced with a semi-occupied homeland,
with its people living separated from the wall that foreign invaders have erected for so many years, at the mercy of a "comfortable temporality".
On the other hand, we live in hostile cities.
An inhuman and predatory "development" model, supported directly or indirectly by all political forces,
rapes nature,
pollutes our waters,
sells out our coasts to unbridled tourism,
concentrates people in concrete cities,
dismantles the social fabric
and imprisons us in the dictatorship of the self-propelled sheet metal,
in the trashing of life and nature.
It is the same model that promotes extreme consumerism, the
squeezing of labour, the
degradation of human relations,
alienation, isolation, indifference, passivity, anxiety and neurosis.
It is the model that produces the scandals and corruption of the rulers,
reinforces favouritism and allows the abuse of power.
There is hope and it is green
We who are suffocating from the deterioration of our quality of life and the disconnection of society from nature,
who are experiencing the environmental crisis that threatens the entire planet,
who are wondering where the logic of "development" is leading us,
are ready to fight for a civil society, to
fight to save something from the tomorrow that is being stolen from us.
Our lives and our world must begin to change here and now, so that it can change tomorrow.
Creating such a society that can build and claim its visions with dignity:
The guarantee of human and civil rights, the
unity of the country, the
peaceful future that is the framework of our aspirations for a meaningful and not superficial prosperity.
On the road to Ithaca
It is understood by all that the realisation of the above objectives is not an easy task.
We are trying to overcome the traditional dividing lines of political parties, to open new paths.
To do so, we must seek and strengthen those elements that unite us.
Above all, we are interested in honesty and authenticity in expressing and shaping a truly different proposal, a new claim, a new presence on the political scene.
We seek to offer a proposal that first expresses and then convinces.
Our aim is to ensure that our discourse does not lie, does not sell out in the marketplace of consciences, is not consumed in the pursuit of power and does not turn into faded slogans.
CYPRUS
Introduction
Cyprus is a multicultural society
and the concerns and insecurities of all its inhabitants must be taken into account when considering a solution to the Cyprus problem.
Human and political rights must be guaranteed within the framework of the final solution.
The ecological vision recognises Cyprus as a single entity,
with centralised management of natural resources and central planning for the sustainable development of the island.
Cyprus is already walking its peaceful future in the European Union (EU), which is not a panacea, but the European Acquis is a minimally capable framework that can and should guarantee a safe and peaceful life for all its inhabitants.
We express our sympathy to all Cypriots who for many decades have suffered and are suffering from the various phases of the Cyprus problem.
When we reach a solution to the Cyprus problem, it is essential that there be the necessary mutual apologies for the past and a commitment to try to create a better future.
We need to strengthen our ties with our Turkish Cypriot compatriots.
Our support for the struggle of some TCs against the TC regime and Turkey must be strengthened.
Bold initiatives are also needed for the Republic of Cyprus to prove that it considers them citizens with equal rights
and to implement even more measures that create conditions of security and trust against the daily propaganda of the TC regime.
The unity of the ecosystem
A main component of the Green Proposal is the unity of the Cyprus area as an ecosystem and as a society of people.
On this basis, the unified management of natural resources, water, energy, minerals, forestry, coastal and other resources
and the unified planning of development and infrastructure projects is not only necessary but inevitable to be realistic and effective.
Civil society - Direct democracy
Respect for citizens' rights,
dignity, social justice,
independence and the abolition of all foreign intervention and aggression are the main and inviolable elements of any approach and any solution.  At
a time when civil society, with the strengthening of its capacity for active involvement, is acquiring an increasingly decisive role
, and international society is upgrading the goal of direct democracy,
accepting any violation of it would be unacceptable.
The racist segregation of people
The Environmentalist Movement believes that the geographical separation of Cypriots, based on origin or religion, cannot support a peaceful perspective for Cyprus and the region!
 The proposed bi-zonal bicommunal federation is based on such a racist division of people,
 to such an extent that there are very few differences between it and the next stage of Turkey's stated claims, which is already the confederation.
The commitments so far
No one can deny the existence of some suffocating data.
The ongoing occupation, the
flight of the E/C and the displacement of the T/C, the
mass settlement, the
miserable living conditions of the trapped E/C and Maronites in the occupied territories, the
ethnic cleansing,
the forcing of the T/C to emigrate,
the cultivation of suspicion between the two communities are decisive factors.
On the other hand, some "high-level agreements", later translated into UN resolutions and EU texts, contain the name of the "agreed" solution: the "bizonal bicommunal federation" (BICF).
Draft Anan 5, while coming from the UN Secretary General, did not respect the provisions of the UN resolutions, nor international law, nor the principles on which the European Union is based
, and was rightly rejected by the overwhelming majority of Greek Cypriots.
What does "territorial aspect" mean?
The territorial issue, as it is put forward, is linked to the principle of bizonality and separation in general.
We Ecologists cannot accept that separation is the sufficient and necessary condition for peace.
The approach to the territorial aspect could, even now, be pursued on the basis of more zones (e.g. as many as the current provinces or as many as the number that emerges on the basis of certain indicators provided by the European Union in the framework of regional development, etc.)
and with strengthened self-governance
that will slowly but surely promote coexistence and cooperation between Greek and Turkish Cypriots and others for common progress since they will not presuppose, nor will they lead to, homogeneity of zones/regions.
Presence of occupation troops - The guarantees
The withdrawal of Turkish occupying troops is necessary before the implementation of the solution.
The presence of an occupying force does not allow the free expression of the TCs living in the occupied territories.
As the large numbers of T/C migration show, the victims of the occupying power are also the T/C themselves.
Satisfying the sense of security can only be answered by the presence of an international peacekeeping force,
with an active European presence and similar guarantees that should replace any guarantees by Greece, Turkey and the United Kingdom.
The settlers: Violation of the rights of Cypriot citizens
Injustice does not create justice.
In this reference the position on the matter can be condensed. It is precisely this formulation that constitutes the basis of the principle, which is complemented by the clear reference to the fact that the settlers are not part of the Cypriot people and cannot participate in shaping the solution.
The European Parliament's decision through the Posos Report provides a clear perspective on this issue: Provide economic incentives for the repatriation of settlers.
The Environmentalist Movement believes that this is much more reasonable and humane than compensating refugees for forced deprivation of their property rights.
Trapped
The Movement stands with admiration before the struggle of the "enclaved" against the Turkish plans to eliminate every trace of Greek element in occupied Cyprus.
The "trapped" Greek Cypriots and Maronites, with their voluntary stay and their long and multifaceted sacrifices, have offered the political leadership unique weapons to expose Turkey's plans against Cyprus.
Unfortunately, their valuable contribution has not been exploited.
The Movement recognizes the need for a substantial and continuous improvement of the living conditions of the "trapped" and promises to contribute to the immediate utilization of their sacrifices.
Missing persons
The issue of the hundreds of missing persons has not been handled properly so far.
The Movement argues that the issue of the missing persons should not be politically exploited or associated with any expediency and proposes to intensify efforts to investigate the fate of all missing persons throughout Cyprus and beyond in Turkey itself.
Enlightenment
The non-resolution of the Cyprus problem is due to Turkey's declared plans against Cyprus.
Unless Turkey abandons its expansionist plans, the Cyprus problem will not be solved through bicommunal talks.
Turkey will abandon its expansionist plans only if it is effectively pressured by the international community and by its obligations arising from its accession path to the European Union.
Otherwise, instead of putting pressure on occupying Turkey, the perpetrator, our side, the victim, will be pressured to make further concessions beyond those it has already made.
Securing the necessary support can only be done through costly, systematic and organised enlightenment, without interruptions or suspensions, involving and utilising all concerned citizens, politicians, organisations and other actors in denouncing human rights violations.
Annan Plan 5 and the prospect of a solution
The philosophy of the Annan Plan 5 is divisive.
It divides Cypriots into two separate cages based on their ethnic origin.
Its reintroduction would be disastrous.
We understand that the implementation of a just and humane solution will require conscious efforts by the citizens, both Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots, who should seek to find a way of communication and understanding.
Realistic timetables will be needed that aim to unite society and citizens.
European integration and the provision of Community funding in this direction can be a catalyst.
What could constitute the transitional situation? Something that would not undermine the prospect of realising the vision but would gradually create the necessary framework of security and mutual trust, elements that are essential for peaceful coexistence.
However, the evolution of the Cypriot state into a state with enhanced regional development (e.g. federation) cannot be based on the occupation data.
For a common vision of all Cypriots - A united society
The contact and rapprochement between Greek, Turkish, Maronites, Latins and Armenians is an urgent priority in order to rebuild bridges of communication.
To this end, we propose the creation of unified social and political bodies with a view to abolishing the separate perception.
Freedom and peace cannot exist without democracy and social justice, without respect for human rights, culture and the environment.
Our goal is to build a free multicultural society
with dignity and respect for Man and his Rights!
British Bases
The presence of the British Bases in Cyprus is a remnant of colonial situations. Such vestiges have been condemned decades ago by the UN (1947).
It is necessary to promote a process of renegotiation of the British Bases and Britain's other "rights" in Cyprus. This necessity is reinforced by international developments.
EUROPE
We see Cyprus' accession to the EU as a challenge for the future.
We know that integration causes a number of problems in the economy, in the organisation of society, perhaps even in our culture.
However, the integration of Cyprus into an area where human rights play a leading role and where legislation on issues such as the environment is at a satisfactory level can only have positive results.
The Environmentalist Movement is an active member of the European Federation of Green Parties.
The Movement has set as its goal to raise awareness among the respective Green Parties in Europe (inside and outside the EU) as they constitute an emerging political space that can have a decisive impact on the understanding of the essence of the Cyprus problem.
INTERNATIONAL REALITY
We live in the era of the "New Order", i.e. the era when the American leadership took over the fate of humanity under its "protection".
This is after the Cold War era and the competition between the superpowers and the so-called balance of terror.
The main feature of this omnipotence is direct foreign intervention and the resolution of local disputes based on American interests.
The development model followed has as its main objective the maximisation of profits without taking into account all the negative impacts on nature and human beings.
It is this model that for decades has been depleting natural resources, dangerously polluting nature with its waste, creating millions of unemployed and condemning a significant part of humanity to hunger and misery.
Since its birth, the Ecological Movement has taken a clear position on nuclear issues. It opposed the view that wanted to divide them into war and peace.
This movement grew after the Chernobyl accident, where it became clear that the dangers of nuclear weapons were enormous.
Our role is to connect with the global ecological movement and to inform, raise awareness and mobilise Cypriots in the context of an international mobilisation with key objectives:
respect for the autonomy and independence of each people and movement
the fight for a nuclear-free Earth
participation in international mobilisations
and halting the path leading to global warming
engaging and lobbying for funds for environmental protection in poor countries
participation in international economic "embargoes" for ecological purposes. Public awareness is a key prerequisite
the struggle against globalisation that disrespects people, societies and nature.
SOCIAL INSTITUTIONS - DEMOCRACY
In order to sustain life on our planet, sanitation must begin with human society itself.
We can hope to build a new human society that does not express aggression and rivalry.
This can be achieved through the establishment of democratic institutions that guarantee the full implementation of human rights.
The freedom of the individual must be respected.
The right of expression of individuals or groups to be fully guaranteed.
The equality of citizens regardless of gender, religion, ethnicity, language, sexual habits, social or income level, culture, mental or physical disability, expressed through the provision of opportunities and rights to all.
Direct citizen involvement is a key tool for achieving these objectives.  The
establishment of institutions of direct democracy
and the functioning of 'civil society' (and not politicians) is the only safeguard of freedom and democracy.
To make the above a reality we will fight for: Protection of citizens' privacy, the
rejection of electronic envelopment, the global interference with citizens' personal data (Echelon)
and the guarantee of the confidentiality of telephone conversations.
Abolition of violence and abuse of power by the police,
limiting the activities of private security groups (securities) through the establishment of an adequate legislative framework.
Institutionalisation of referendums.
Strengthening legislation that guarantees women's rights to equal treatment
while protecting women's biological rights such as maternity leave and parental leave (for both men and women).
Establishment of an allowance for each child and reinforcement of benefits for large families (graduation of benefits from the third child onwards).
Implementation of social support programmes.
Abolition of all forms of discrimination against ethnic or religious minorities, people with special needs or characteristics and the sick (e.g. AIDS).
Implement measures against nationalism and racism.
Promote psychological and social support for foreigners (e.g. establishment of a multicultural centre).
Formation of social institutions and technical infrastructure for people with disabilities.
Implement and further modernise legislation on facilities for people with disabilities,
their integration into society and the avoidance of institutionalisation and social exclusion.
Radical crackdown on the bribery, corruption and corruption that undermine the development of society.
Intensifying efforts to keep young people off drugs and alcohol and helping them get off them.
Protection of foreign workers from exploitation by employers and "traders".
The promotion of equal pay and the establishment of equal professional and social rights so that the rights of local workers are also protected.
Developing a strategic plan to address the problem of economic and political refugees.
Addressing the issue on the basis of respect for human life and dignity and taking into account the specific circumstances of Cyprus.
Hosting and supporting refugees until their departure from the country in humane conditions.
Establishment of community service as a response to the establishment of the right of conscientious objectors.
Strengthening psychological support services for soldiers and promoting institutions of self-organisation and self-expression for soldiers and police officers.
Strengthening social care (pensions) for needy families, pensioners, large families, disabled people, young couples and elderly people.
Promoting young people into work and decision-making centres.
Not hiring retired people in the public service for better employment opportunities for young people.
Protecting children and young people from violence and pornography.
Strict enforcement of regulations to prevent the showing of advertisements and shows of erotic degeneration on television in zones suitable for children.
Strengthening the service of educational psychologists.
Elimination of bureaucracy through the application of new technologies and proper training of civil servants.
Redistribute the number of civil servants according to the needs arising from the new circumstances.
Safeguarding the civil rights of civil servants.
Strengthen the services of the Commissioner for Administration, the Commissioner for Human Rights and the Audit Office.
Reform of the prison system and modernisation of prisons to transform them from places of detention and punishment and encouragement for new criminal offences to places of rehabilitation, with practical respect for the dignity of those who live there.
Abolition of all privileges of politicians (e.g. police guards).
Abolition of consecutive terms in any public office (no more than two).
Promote legislation on the operational framework of polls (credibility, solvency, timing of elections).
Promote regulations that require the media to present and treat all political spaces, groups and citizens equally and to
protect journalists who work according to the principles of journalistic ethics.
Modernise public service broadcasting.
Protecting small and medium-sized shopkeepers from competition from supermarkets.
Improving working conditions for shop assistants, particularly during the festive season.
Promoting measures to prevent the increase in crime.
Promote legislation on the functioning of political parties and financial support for all political organisations.
Promote legislation to make it illegal to accept contributions from foreign financial institutions to Cypriot parties
and to oblige parties to declare where their financial resources come from and how they are spent.
De-partitioning of public life through the legislative application of criteria for participation in the boards of semi-governmental organisations.
Legislating the right to information and access to information on public service programmes.
EDUCATION
Education, inside and outside educational institutions, is called upon to make use of knowledge, history and culture and, by cultivating thinking, criticism and research, to consolidate existing knowledge, produce new knowledge and create culture.
In essence, education, by building on yesterday, creates today and paves the way for tomorrow, serving the vision of society.
For us, this vision includes the formation of informed, creative, critical, participatory, assertive and, above all, free citizens who know how to fight for their rights.
These objectives require the educational process to be essentially democratic,
based on respect for the individuality,
national and cultural specificity of each member/group
and the cultivation of humanistic and ecological awareness.
In the case of Cyprus, with the ongoing Turkish occupation and all its consequences on man, the environment and culture, education has a more complex and decisive role.
Our finding is that our education, regardless of the substantial contribution of educational institutions and individuals, does not meet the specific needs of the country.
This is due to the lack of vision and the fact that our society has deified the great and has subverted human and cultural values.
It has promoted imitation, xenomania, over-consumption, profit maximisation and commercialisation as models and 'values'.
Democratic education requires equality of opportunity in education.
The blossoming para-education is called upon to fill the gaps in the content of educational programmes and their distortions.
This process increases the inequality of educational opportunities that is already intensified by the differences between "good" and "bad" schools, private and public.
The operation of the University of Cyprus and the Cyprus University of Technology is undoubtedly an important development for the country.
 It is expected that the University as a living organism should respond to the pulse and needs of society, through freedom of thought, expression, research and reflection, through an interaction with society as a whole and at the same time with the global intelligentsia.
 We do not want an elitist and isolated island of the "chosen ones" or a foreign body in society but a living part of society that actively participates in the social, cultural and economic life of the country.
 On this basis and in order to address all its citizens, the University of Cyprus and the Cyprus University of Technology are expected to be primarily Cypriot and to actively promote this concept.
 The approach to the operation of the institution of the Integrated Upper Secondary School should be redefined in the short and long term, to promote a substantial link with Technical Education and to redefine the objectives, with the involvement of stakeholders (open and lifelong education).
review the objectives and role of Vocational Education and Training and the Apprenticeship System
to create institutionalised institutions and a flexible and effective body to set objectives and continuously monitor and adjust the course in the context of the needs of the place and the developments in the European area
to provide funds for the functional and aesthetic upgrading of the schools' premises
to protect the autonomy of the Universities while ensuring their connection with the specific needs of the country
to actively support the Open University
to strengthen the service of educational psychologists
to ensure academic freedoms through a democratic function and dialogue within the University community, with the institutionalised and effective participation of faculty and students
Education and environmental awareness
In a rapidly changing world, with the small and big environmental and other problems in the Cypriot area, a renewed education and a lively, genuine, consistent education must be promoted.
An environmental theme has been defined in schools which, fortunately, has not been limited to the framework of a single lesson but, rightly, extended through a set of lessons.
Environmental awareness is the basic basis for the formulation and promotion of any environmental policy.
The establishment in society of values opposed to extreme consumerism and the development of quantitative factors relating to quality of life and sustainability remains the main concern of the environmental-ecological movement.
It is essential to acquire a comprehensive environmental sensitivity, because no measure of environmental protection or ecological management can and should not be based on coercion and imposition, but on substantial social consensus and acceptance.
Environmental awareness-raising bodies should be everywhere.
Particularly important is the role of the media, which, while they have so far shown a great deal of sensitivity when it comes to the environmental movement's highlighting of environmental scandals, have generally proven to be weak in promoting real efforts to investigate, present and consistently promote the problems.
We recommend: Funding of environmental awareness programmes through the possibilities provided by the EU.
Promoting incentives for the overall engagement of citizens and the media on environmental issues.
Creating a real framework for environmental education in educational institutions, in cooperation with environmental-ecological volunteers and expert scientists.
Removal from school textbooks of references that glorify the current development model (e.g. mass tourism, nuclear) and the addition of an environmental approach to the curricula and artistic activities for children e.g. music, art.
Possibility of further training of teachers on environmental issues.
HEALTH
One of the negative effects of the tremendous change in living conditions, refugeeisation and urbanisation of a large part of the population is the decrease in the adaptability of the human organism resulting in an increase in chronic diseases (rheumatological, allergic and other autoimmune diseases).
The health system that exists in Cyprus and the proposed National Health System represents the established medicine as opposed to preventive medicine.
The current impasse in the health sector is due to the commercialisation that exists in this sector.
There is a huge gap between what is useful, sensible and economical for the Social Welfare System and what is profitable for a medical practice, for the Health Funds and for private hospitals.
Top-down politics, pandering to individual group interests, has led to painful dead ends.
The political leaders are not able to show a pioneering spirit in order to achieve the ideal medical care with the sparing use of existing financial resources.
The State, essentially wanting to withdraw from its funding obligations in this area, is proposing a modern health care system without substantially changing the philosophy of established medicine.
The financial burdens are simply distributed to those who until now have had "free" health care, the poor, the pensioners, the sick and the weak, while there is an attempt to create some barriers (civil servants).
A General Health Plan must be created that sees man, social and environmental conditions as communicating vessels, with the aim of reducing and ultimately overcoming social inequality in this area as well.
The substitute solution is that Health System that works without profit, that is able to take care of both the weak and the needy, that can work really efficiently with low costs.
To overcome the deadlock of established medicine we propose: Promote an Insurance Fund and a Universal Health Care System with universal participation of all the people, with no windows left for exceptions.
Democratic control of all procedures
and limitation of doctors' autonomy.
Control, restriction and gradual closure of Private Medical Funds.
Consistent implementation of a proactive environmental policy with enforcement and strict adherence to health standards through appropriate planning.
In matters affecting General Health, Environmental Impact Assessments definitely need to be complemented by Health Impact Studies.
Creating institutions that promote and control the quality of medical education and care
and at the same time give the masses the opportunity to participate in the formulation of state health policy.
Patient associations with critical knowledge about their condition can play an important role in this.
Creation of autonomous decentralized Health Offices in which medical and paramedical staff will cooperate equally with other specialists (social workers, psychologists, engineers, etc.) in order to implement preventive and consultative medicine and the comprehensive approach to the issue of General Health and the promotion of health education.
Promote and implement alternative and other forms of medical care and study the reintroduction of folk/traditional medicine.
Combating the social reasons that lead people to self-destruction through mass drug addiction, i.e. the epidemic-scale addiction to legal toxins (alcohol, nicotine and psychotropic drugs), by supporting the creation of rehabilitation/detoxification units that operate with harmless, non-toxic, holistic methods based on collective community, social engagement and addressing the psychological factors that lead to addiction.
Implement a real anti-alcohol policy by banning advertising.
Genetically modified organisms and products
Ban all cultivation of genetically modified organisms and products.
Ban the use and import of genetically modified feed and seeds.
Promote ecological agriculture and organic farming.
Promote cultivation for forage plants suitable for fodder production.
Third age
The problems faced by the elderly do not receive the attention and interest that the State and the Ministry of Health should have.
The institutions that exist to care for older people are few and inadequate to provide decent living and are accessible only to people with high financial incomes.
Even in the new Nicosia General Hospital there is no geriatric ward.
Smoking
Lung cancer is the leading cause of death and smoking the biggest culprit.
Nicotine addiction, and particularly addiction to smoking among young people, is a problem that needs to be addressed immediately.
The Environmentalist Movement adopts the following conclusions of the World Conference on Lung Cancer held in Tokyo.Promote new methods to prevent smoking among children and thus prevent them from becoming addicted to nicotine.
Increasing the tax on tobacco products.
Ban smoking in all enclosed public places.
Public education and anti-smoking education on the harmful effects of smoking.
Promote enforcement and awareness-raising in the workplace, learning and leisure areas, and protect passive smokers.
Electromagnetic fields (EMF)
Epidemiological studies abroad show an increased risk of leukaemia in children aged 14 and 15 living near high-voltage pylons and telecommunication antennas.
With the possibility that the health of the person near EMFs is affected, the approach of prudent "prevention" is adopted, i.e. avoiding the proximity of people to EMFs.
Telecommunications antennas should be banned from being placed less than 300m from schools and areas frequented by children and the elderly.
Patients' rights
With the evolving situations in the medical system, patients need to be legally protected.
The Movement supports the Charter of Patients' Rights, which should also practically guarantee the rights of all patients and improve their service by creating a service within hospitals to serve patients and reduce the inconvenience they suffer.
Heart disease
In Cyprus, heart disease is the biggest cause of loss of life and the costs of care are enormous.
Prevention will save lives and therefore we ask for the creation of local clinics at public expense with the aim of a) guiding and educating citizens on how to live a better life, b) teaching physical exercises to improve the heart and c) diagnosing heart diseases.
Cancer
Cancer is increasing in Cyprus and worldwide, mainly due to environmental factors.
It affects men, women and children of all ages and social classes and is the second leading cause of death (after heart disease).
The World Health Organisation calls on countries to develop national cancer programmes, with increased prevention measures, early diagnosis and improved treatment and care for patients.
Similar recommendations have been adopted by the European Union.
On the contrary, the Cypriot government, ignoring both the reports of Cypriot experts and the demands of cancer patients, is restricting state services to cancer patients, without taking substantial prevention measures.
While the oncology department of the Nicosia General Hospital with its 18 beds is constantly overcrowded, the government does not create oncology departments in other cities.
Apart from the state's obligation to take strong preventive measures, the minimum obligation of the state is to maintain the state oncology department within the New Nicosia General Hospital, which should be a full and multi-purpose hospital, capable of treating every case.
The services offered by the private sector, even if of high quality, do not relieve the state of its responsibility to provide medical care to cancer patients.
YOUTH
Youth is the hope for the future of an area in which all the visions and aspirations that were not realised by previous generations are invested and projected.
Thus, youth bears a great burden, it must realise its aspirations for a better tomorrow and fill the gaps and shortcomings of the past, but at the same time it must find its own way, set its own goals and priorities.
In today's Cypriot society, it is not difficult to recognize a confusion of identity, external patterns and culture becoming established and the new generation, more flexible, moving towards new ways of expression, becoming familiar with new techniques and possibilities (e.g. the use of e-mail), but also becoming captive to virtual reality, the individualism of our time and the race for power and material goods.
To all this is added the blow of a semi-inherited homeland and the narrow framework within which one can work towards the vision of a free and united state,
without even saying anything about the destruction of the natural environment and the ecological nightmare that looms over our heads.
In this climate, youth must be equipped to claim a better tomorrow for themselves and for future generations.
First and foremost it must:Gain a voice and be involved in the decision-making centres
Fight against the bribery that makes the job search process a humiliating and degrading experience for young people
Acquire new role models and become actively involved in citizen and volunteer groups
Combat insecurities, self-doubt and self-destructive paths with addictive substances
To receive a comprehensive and all-round education (with a reduction of non-education) and to be advised on study and career issues
To be educated about the environment in which they live (integration of environmental education in schools) and to be informed about the global environmental situation (climate change, hunger, globalisation, human rights abuses, development model).
The major chapter of unemployment and under-employment that afflicts young people in Cyprus must be opened and employment and training must be prioritised.
SPORT
Sport is part of our very lives, so we should all have the opportunity to play sport.
This will be ensured by claiming open spaces for sport and recreation, building a network of pavements and footpaths with the necessary safe access, cycle path networks, open local gyms, integrating sporting activities into everyday life - walking, cycling in daily commuting, legislation to transfer financial resources from taxation to open sport projects with a local character.
This is in contrast to the prevailing policy of closed (for use by athletes only) sports fields or sports venues, or the construction of huge sports centres which, in addition to the environmental impact where they are built, take significant funds away from mass sport.
Sport as a spectacle must be viewed very carefully because of its social dimensions.
To make it accessible to the general public, who can watch it without physical and mental danger, the ideology and mentality that governs it needs to be overturned from the bottom up.
In school, the concept of fighting well, respecting the opponent, must be inculcated.
Schools should also have changing rooms and other facilities to encourage students to play sports.
It has become a habit in Cyprus to talk about sports and to mean football.
This is what the CIO invests most of its funds in, this is what all the sports broadcasts in the media are dealing with, this is what all the newspapers write about in their sports columns.
On the contrary, we have a lot to say about sports in which almost no one has invested anything and successful athletes who can talk about them even if the glory of football does not let them raise their heads.
We insist on a fairer distribution of state funds in many sports and an end to deficit funding of football.
There is also a distinction between men and women in sport.
The men's teams get the lion's share of the funds in sponsorships and the visibility and importance that the state gives.
On the other hand, women's sport is used by the state to cover its debts or contractual obligations to the European Union and other organisations.
Examples are football.
This discrimination must end.
DEVELOPMENT
The complex concerns of global society in relation to the environment and natural resources, biodiversity, health and quality of life have led to the concept of sustainability, or more simply sustainability.
This was preceded by the experience of intensification of production and competition, especially after the industrial revolution and the overexploitation of natural resources which, in the colonial era, led to the plundering of Asia, Africa, Latin America and the Third World and wars for oil, water, etc.
This model of development is still applied in many less developed countries.
The development model followed in Cyprus after independence could not have been wiser than the international trend in the preceding years.
If such an excuse is acceptable for the first years after 1960 and for the years after the Turkish invasion, it is unacceptable that the development plans of successive Governments continued to move in the same, outdated framework which may feed the conventional economic indicators with positive figures, but as a rule stresses and distorts the environment.
The great importance attached to the tourism sector is dictated by economic data, but the orientation of economic policy towards mass tourism with the sole aim of high numbers of visitors and beds without any real analysis of the benefits for Cyprus has led to the squandering of environmental resources, undermining the prospects even for tourism itself.
The degradation of agriculture, with land use change, urbanisation and the reduction of industry to the level of small-scale manufacturing, without adequate planning for quality, energy and environmental criteria, bodes pessimistically for the future.
The directions for agriculture and industry need to be redefined in today's competitive and environmentally sensitive international climate.
There is an immediate and urgent need to understand and adopt the model of sustainable management based on the ecological use of resources to serve the real needs of society today, but also to be able to serve future generations.
TOURISM
Need for a review of tourism development policy
The environmental movement has long warned that uncontrolled tourism development with an emphasis on increasing quantities and numbers, without assessing the real benefits, would result in the deterioration and degradation of the Cypriot environment and would kill the "golden goose".
Unfortunately, as much as the need for environmental protection and the need for balanced development of all sectors of the economy based on the available natural resources and human potential of the country was stressed, these needs were ignored.
The tourism sector was constantly growing and became the mainstay of the economy.
At the same time, however, it was eroding and destroying the unique natural environment which was mainly what made Cyprus an attractive tourist destination. Today, even if belatedly, there are voices from others calling for urgent measures to be taken to save the tourism industry and prevent further environmental degradation.
How many millions of tourists can Cyprus accommodate?
How many more hotels, tourist apartments and tourist villages need to be built?
How big a role should tourism play in the economy in view of the real dangers that threaten it from factors that are completely out of local control and can lead to its complete collapse overnight, as has happened in the case of the war in the Gulf and in Iraq?
Uncontrolled tourism, as it has recently appeared with the tolerance of the authorities in Ayia Napa, is trampling on values and principles for the sake of money, and necessitates the creation of a Tourist Police for the control and safety of residents and visitors to tourist areas.
We propose:A planned restructuring of the tourism sector, with reference to the benefits it brings, but also taking into account the environmental costs.
Promotion of three types of alternative tourism, a) agrotourism, b) cultural tourism and c) special interest tourism
Composition of the Board of Directors of the CTO and the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Tourism with scientists relevant to ecology and alternative forms of tourism activity
Definition of strict tourism zones with criteria relating to environmental and social characteristics of the areas
Strict control of the operation of existing tourist units in terms of biological treatment facilities, waste disposal, noise pollution and general micro-environmental management
Cessation of hotel owners' subsidies
Elimination of the funds spent by the CTO on advertising abroad and aimed at mass tourism, and focus on features that promote the specificities of Cyprus, and escape the vicious circle of competition with other similar markets.
Charging the ecological costs of tourism activity (depletion of natural resources, environmental damage, etc.) to operators in the sector. The revenue from this charge can be used to improve the environment, which will again benefit those who pay it.
Compulsory escort of tourist buses by licensed tour guides, especially for buses carrying tourists in the occupied territories.
AGRICULTURE - LIVESTOCK FARMING
The contraction of agriculture was the result of both the Turkish invasion and the development model that placed a one-dimensional emphasis on tourism and the removal of import restrictions due to the European path.
The continuous effort for quantitative growth and at the same time the emphasis on monoculture e.g. potatoes, vines, olives and citrus.
The result of this trend is that the majority of the products produced are of poor quality: a) large quantities of chemical residues from the use of pesticides, b) new varieties that taste and nutritional properties are not at all similar to the traditional ones.
The irreversible effects of the use of fertilisers, pesticides and biocides on land, water, air and health are raising concerns about their necessity.
The lack of a serious and long-term policy and the relatively "non-existent" legislation create a major problem in the livestock housing sector.
This is a problem which will exacerbate the reactions of residents affected by the operation of units with large numbers.
Georgia
Substantial funds for research, the introduction of know-how and the financing of applied bio- and eco-farming projects.
Setting standards, testing and labelling of clean products.
Continuous information and incentives for organic farmers.
Informing the public about the importance of consuming such products (organic farming) and the important role of seasonality.
Until the vast majority of agricultural produce is clean, the aim must be to reduce pesticides and fertilisers immediately.
Livestock
Our society, if it wants to continue to have meat in its diet, will have to pay its true cost.
It is essential that all farms producing livestock products have all the means to minimise environmental pollution (biological stations, buildings, etc.).
What we say about agriculture in relation to "clean" products also applies to livestock products.
In this sector, however, in addition to plant foods, which should be free of pesticide residues, particular attention needs to be paid to the area of antibiotics and certainly to refraining from administering hormones and other drug mutants.
Parliament must amend and complete the legislation and take measures to implement it in relation to the operation of livestock units in designated areas, as well as social control by all stakeholders.
Developing a policy for the use of livestock wastewater.
Countryside
The main objective is the revitalization of our villages (mainly the mountainous ones) not as places for weekend excursions or holidays but as living everyday places for their permanent residents.
The basic precondition is the safeguarding of economic life.
Substantial incentives and facilities are needed for the implementation of eco-economy and bio-culture.
A number of infrastructure projects that need to be done as well as financial incentives for young couples will encourage young people to return to the villages (e.g. subsidies for accommodation in mountain villages).
A prerequisite, however, is the discharge from bourgeois ideology and the consolidation of human values.
Informing rural farmers not to grub up traditional fruit trees.
INDUSTRY
In 40 years of independence, successive governments have failed to create the right infrastructure for industry, both in terms of technology and in terms of preventing environmental problems.
In addition, there is currently a shortage of labour (especially of skilled labour), since on the one hand the orientation of the educational system and on the other hand the prolonged and almost exclusive subsidisation of tourism has not allowed the creation of wage and other incentives for workers in the industrial sector.
The industrial sector should be addressed on the basis of a practical acceptance of the need for a balanced development of all three sectors of the economy, in the perspective of sustainable development and taking into account environmental, social and cultural costs.
In this direction, the institution of the Environmental Impact Assessment should be:Implemented in industry, in a substantial way.
Ensure the operation of industrial units on the basis of correct quality and environmental procedures, by employing the appropriate scientific and technical staff, installing environmental control systems and effectively addressing the problem of air emissions and liquid and solid waste.
Implement a comprehensive policy on the management of toxic and other hazardous waste.
Promote closed system waste management procedures with priority given to minimisation, reuse and recycling.
Promote the design of environmentally friendly (or more environmentally friendly) products, using appropriate technology while creating reception areas for processing and recycling or energy recovery from waste and other materials discarded after first use.
Promote the use of renewable energy sources in industry as well.
Avoid overexploitation of local natural resources for the sake of exports (e.g. cement)
and avoid the establishment of noxious/polluting industries.
Provide incentives for "clean" technologies.
Expand the Industry Support Plan for pollution prevention.
Incentives should be given to recycling plants, provided that the whole process is realistic and without other environmental impacts. In cases where this is not feasible, the possibility of cooperation with neighbouring countries and the export of materials for processing/recycling to them should be exploited.
Incentivise small industries to set up in communities where this can be done using local labour and local materials (decentralisation for revitalisation).
To promote the cooperation of the University of Cyprus and the Cyprus University of Technology with the industry to investigate problems that exist and to study ways to adapt the solutions offered.
Create properly staffed and equipped laboratories to fill existing gaps and meet additional needs.
To put in place the appropriate infrastructure to properly assess their reliability.
To create the necessary metrological infrastructure taking into account the specificities and needs of Cyprus.
To strengthen the field of applied research in order to stop the simple introduction and adoption of ready-made solutions that are not always realistic for the Cypriot reality.
To make effective use of local scientific potential and stop the massive import of foreign experts.
CONSTRUCTION - MAJOR WORKS
The construction of large projects is often the cause of ecological disasters in our country. Most large or small projects (motorways, ports, ports, building complexes, etc.) are designed and executed without any care for the impact on the environment.
Many projects suffer from grand idealism, i.e. they have been done on the basis of sensationalism and populism rather than functionality and economy.
There is great waste and frequent irregularities and scandals, while the operating costs of major projects are not taken into account in the initial planning (energy, maintenance, etc.). An example of an uneconomic project (400 million) with irreversible and serious environmental impacts is the proposed Pafos - Polis Chrysochou road.
The over-expansion of quarrying activities has led to a number of serious environmental disasters.
Many quarries operate near or in areas of outstanding natural beauty or importance (forests, canyons, rocky areas), near residential areas or archaeological sites.
Still, in several cases, the damage remains after the end of quarrying operations.
Unfortunately, it seems that due to the 'essential' function of quarries in the whole construction system, very little has been done to control quarrying activities in an effective way.
We recommend: A full and comprehensive environmental study of any project, as a necessary condition during its design and before its implementation.
Objective costing of quarry materials based on the impact of the specific activity on the environment (natural, cultural, residential).
Transparency and public presentation of the initial proposals for any project.
Change the legislative framework controlling quarrying activity.
Strengthening the Mining Agency to make it work effectively.
Recycling of aggregates to reduce the amount of quarrying.
Full implementation of the law providing for the restoration of the natural environment where quarrying activities are terminated.
SYNOPSIS
The traffic problem in Cypriot cities has become more acute in recent years, causing a number of problems, such as:Substantial disuse of the road network, due to traffic congestion.Inconvenience, stress and loss of time.Environmental pollution from car exhaust fumes.Expenditure of a large part of the Development Budget of the Republic of Cyprus every year on road works without rational traffic management.Waste of tens of millions of pounds every year as a result of excessive fuel consumption and wear and tear on vehicles.Road accidents, causing huge human, material and social damage.
The above problems are mainly due to the untimely implementation of the planning law, local plans and urban traffic infrastructure projects,
the anarchic development of cities,
the lack of a specific policy to encourage alternative - more environmentally friendly - means of mass transport for the population
and the pressure to expand development areas, resulting in scattered development and dependence on the private car.
Traffic management measures
Staggered working hours: Staggering the starting and ending hours of the various buckets of workers and schools can help in the right direction.
More efficient use of the main roads, with strict enforcement of traffic regulations, especially with regard to illegal parking.
Adopt a policy to encourage alternative soft modes of transport (public transport, cycling, walking) and build cycle paths and pedestrian routes.
Running special route buses (e.g. to schools, industrial areas, etc.) to reduce the need for extensive use of the private car in the city.
Allowing public transport priority lanes for buses, taxis and cars with three or more passengers, for fast passenger transport, without widening roads at the expense of existing pavements and yards.
Reorganisation of traffic lights with systems that give priority to public transport and fire and ambulance vehicles.
A broad public awareness campaign and institutional measures to raise the level of road and environmental awareness of citizens.
Study of intercity public transport - train, tram.
Ensuring the safe movement of persons with disabilities.
Measures to reduce pollution
Adopting modern methods of technical control of cars in a way that minimises emissions.
Troubleshooting the problems created by removing the catalyst.
Construction projects
Special provisions in the road projects under study for the movement of buses, bicycles and pedestrians.
Design and construction of modern bus stops and stations.
Review of existing plans for routing sections of the road network through sensitive residential and commercial areas, in the light of environmental impact studies.
Design and construction of extensive and functional networks of cycle paths within cities.
Construction of sidewalks on all streets for safe and comfortable pedestrian and wheelchair traffic.
Completion of urban transport infrastructure projects.
Ensuring that traffic infrastructure projects are compatible with local conditions.
Promotion of soft means
Promote a specific policy to develop the use of bicycles.
Establish a special lane for bicycles on main avenues and interurban roads.
Improving the road surface of the roads.
Creation of bicycle parking spaces on the periphery, at the starting points and stops of urban transport.
Setting up bicycle rental stations for short trips in city centres.
Extensive network of cycle paths.
Modern bus service between the airport and cities
Solutions to reduce the price (e.g. loans, subsidies) of bicycles.
Strict observance of traffic rules by car drivers.
Prohibit parking cars in the street or on the sidewalk.
To instil traffic behaviour in car drivers.
Implementation of urban planning law - quality of life
Strict application of the planning law as a means of rational development. Uncontrolled development leads to an exacerbation of the problem and makes it more difficult to take corrective measures.
Rational zoning of government services and public spaces.
Preparation of Environmental Impact Assessment Studies, prior to the final design of traffic infrastructure projects.
A policy that promotes soft and mass transport (bicycle, bus, tram, walking) in a way that will substantially improve the quality of life of citizens.
ENERGY
Energy is the basic resource for the organisation of life at various levels. It is directly linked to industry, transport, the domestic economy and, in general, is involved in all aspects of the economic and social life of a place.
Energy policy is the key to the development plans and social models towards which an organised society is directed.
The energy situation in Cyprus presents the following main characteristics:Dependence of the energy sector on imported forms of primary energy.Irrational pricing policy.Continuous increase to meet the needs of the industrial and residential sectors.
The country's heavy dependence on oil could undermine the economy and lead to tragic deadlocks as we head towards the end of the oil era.
Forms of development that take into account renewable energy solutions should be encouraged.
Research institutions (University, University of Applied Sciences, Centre for Productivity) and government agencies as well as political organisations and groups should be involved to design and operate on-site energy production plants based on Cyprus' conditions.
In Cyprus, household energy consumption is very high and reflects the neo-pluralistic behaviour in our lives.
Cultivate awareness of our energy behaviour (lighting, televisions, radios, electrical appliances, heaters, water heaters, etc.)
It is necessary to take an energy-based approach to traffic problems in order to avoid spasmodic and contradictory efforts to boost public transport.
Have an energy policy in relation to vehicles or factories with high energy-consuming machines.
Promoting energy saving.
In construction, there should be a provision for a higher thermal insulation coefficient in new buildings with similar incentives for old buildings.
The eco-proposal is a proposal for a society with lower energy levels.
For a local energy production based on local data with the potential for decoupling from exogenous factors, aiming at the European Acquis of 12% of total energy to be produced from alternative sources by 2010.
Saving 20% of total energy by 2010 by implementing a higher insulation factor for buildings. This should be accompanied by financial incentives of equal value to the 2010 savings.
Creating energy-conscious citizens.
Information and labelling of electrical appliances with energy consumption and efficiency indicators and consumer education.
WATER RESOURCES
Water resources are limited and variations in rainfall distribution are large. This is why the cost of water is very high due to the construction of dams and the transfer of water from one area to another.
The construction of the dams has caused great damage to the environment and ecosystems.
Groundwater overdraft also results in the inflow of seawater.
However, the use of water (mainly in agriculture and tourism) is indiscriminate as if Cyprus' water resources are inexhaustible and are "donated" to us without the real environmental price that Cyprus pays.
Proposed:Protection of groundwater and surface water from potential pollution from pesticides, sewage, garbage.
Strict enforcement of regulations to avoid over-pumping of groundwater.
Pricing water based on the actual cost of water (including environmental costs) to prevent abuse.
Improvement in irrigation methods for more efficient use of each water unit.
Avoiding water waste in irrigation and proper management of treated wastewater.
Not to supply water from dams for golf courses for any consideration when severe restrictions are imposed on the citizen and when there is always a risk of a prolonged drought.
Reduction of significant losses from water supply systems.
Rational use of water to avoid the need for desalination with all the environmental problems and excessive energy costs that this entails.
Water projects only if ecosystems and sustainable development are safeguarded.
Develop a timetable for changes in agricultural crops based on water data.
Prioritise environmental rather than petty political criteria.
LIQUID WASTE MANAGEMENT
The Ecological Movement believes that the current piecemeal approach to wastewater management is not effective in achieving the objectives it is: Improving the standard of living, especially in urban and tourist areas.
The protection of the natural environment (groundwater, sea).
The reuse of treated water efficiently.
 Recommendations: prioritisation based on environmental/social/techno-economic rather than party criteria.
Accelerate the establishment of sewerage systems in all cities and sensitive areas.
Standardise procedures so that projects are not delayed.
Close monitoring of the operation of wastewater treatment systems for any pollution of the receiving water.
Modernisation of legislation within the EU framework regarding toxic waste, sludge management, transport of sewage.
Fixed timeframes for polluting industries to treat their waste.
Impose a severe fine for damage caused by the discharge of industrial waste or sludge outside authorised areas.
Effective management of toxic waste water discharge.
Utilisation, to the maximum extent possible, of recycled water for agricultural purposes.
AIR POLLUTION
The main source of air pollution in Cyprus is urban transport and certain industries (power plants, cement plants, quarries, etc.).
Cyprus has a high rate of private car ownership and use and the total number of cars is growing at a high rate.
To date, no substantial measures have been taken to reduce pollution from cars and no comprehensive and systematic counting has been carried out.
The operation of some air pollution measuring stations is a start that needs to be strengthened.
We will promote:The effective functioning of the Air Pollution Control Board. This advisory body (Government - Scientists - Environmentalists, etc.) will develop programmes and recommend measures to control and reduce air pollution.
Strengthen (resources and staff) the Industrial Pollution Control Agency (Ministry of Labour).
Expanding the network of air pollution monitoring stations in cities and rural areas.
Promote traffic reduction measures/enhance alternative means of transport.
Control of motor vehicles / control of exhaust fumes on the road.
Control and adjustment of the machines.
Implement legislation to ban heavy vehicles from entering city centres.
Infrastructural measures (catalyst control, disposal sites).
Procedural policy measures to limit the use of fuel.
Establishment of standards and control methods for central heating burners.
Systematic research on the presence of lead and dioxins in food due to air pollution.
Measures to reduce air pollutant emissions from industry and livestock farms.
Adoption of an air quality standard for indoor air quality (offices, homes, industry, industry, sports facilities) and the establishment of direct measurement mechanisms.
Creation of a specialised emergency response unit.
Removing nuisance industries from areas adjacent to residents and locating them in rationally planned industrial areas.
URBAN PLANNING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
The anarchic building development due to the criminal delay in the implementation of the Law on Urban Planning until 1990 and the policy of relaxations and continuous deviations created cities without water and without scientific planning.
The result was that: Destroyed coasts of particular beauty and ecological value, under the rampant speculative effort, without sensitivity and comprehensive planning.
Zones of degraded quality of life are created in cities, combining a sharp concentration of the workforce, the abandonment of old traditional residential areas and the problematic networking of state infrastructure in these areas.
Surrender the rural settlements to abandonment and decay.
Nature and the countryside are subjected to the lack of human care and become an "opportunity" and easy "prey" for any incompatible development (quarry, road networks, land development).
Cities are trapped in suffocating road networks of low quality, with no alternative means of moving the population.
To alter the original traditional, historical character of the urban cores and to bring about an expansion of them, alien to their character, their functional structure, resulting in an urban environment that is unlivable and impersonal.
Sensitivity must be the main characteristic of the Executive and Legislative Power and all decision-makers, so that they respect and uphold, rather than circumvent, the provisions of the Law.
An integrated environmental policy must include the involvement of the views of Scientific and Environmental Stakeholders.
One of the most pivotal points of misguided development policy, which has inherited the most "evils" in the course of the urban physiognomy, is the limitation of the concept of land value to the quantitative, residential concept of land only, without the integration of the environmental value nor the quality of the produced private and public space.
Our vision is of cities:that enhance the quality of life with extensive social spaces: Green spaces, squares, pedestrian squares, pedestrian streets, popular markets, sports areas
with friendly, traffic-friendly streets, withcycle paths and pavements
with houses adapted to Cypriot conditions and with the minimum possible energy needs
respecting their architecture and historical tradition
where the needs of entertainment and commerce do not conflict with the basic needs of the inhabitants
all areas of which are easily accessible by environmentally friendly means
where modern, human-centred transport studies are applied
Our action should aim at: Integrating environmental parameters in urban planning, for human living space.
Environmental management of urban traffic and encouraging the use of public transport.
Promoting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the urban environment and their decentralisation to the countryside.
Substantial protection and revitalisation of historic areas.
Development of urban and architectural planning that provides for ecological waste management.
Promote key infrastructure projects (e.g. sewerage systems for urban waste, storm water, concrete pits and concrete processing).
Changing the current legislation so that the cabinet and the executive are not given the discretion to circumvent the legislation and grant relaxations.
ENVIRONMENTAL BODY / ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STUDIES
The presence of environmental-ecological organisations is now a given and is an indispensable factor in the management of issues relating to development and the environment.
We recommend: Promote the creation of an Independent Environmental Body that will have the capacity to coordinate decision-making processes on an organised basis. The Independent Environmental Body will also enable environmental-ecological organizations to actively participate in a positive and meaningful way in programs and problem-solving processes.
Spin-off of the Environment Agency from the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Environment and its integration into the Environment Agency.
Strengthen government departments dealing with the environment in terms of staff and resources.
The development of transparency procedures and a sense of independence among public officials, so that they can carry out their work without hindrance.
Establishment of substantial financial support for environmental and ecological organisations and the Federation of Ecological and Environmental Organisations of Cyprus, within the framework of an annual sponsorship and through specific action programmes.
DOWNLOAD
The consumer as a recipient and as a generating factor in the creation of products and services has both rights and responsibilities.
In order to improve the quality of life of every consumer-citizen, it is necessary that the rates of consumption keep pace with the rates of regeneration of our environment and resources.
It is necessary to adopt and put into practice the concept of sustainability, emphasising the concepts of avoiding waste, reuse and recycling.
Every consumer should be able to choose products and services that are healthy and safe for him or her and the environment, in the short and long term, and for which he or she should be provided with the necessary information.
Today's man, with the way he grows, prepares, preserves and packages food, endangers not only his health but also his very existence.
At the same time, the way we consume food out of season and get caught up in advertising messages results in overconsumption, wasting precious resources and creating huge amounts of waste, endangering our environment.
The chemicals used at all stages of food production, processing and preservation often end up on the plate of the consumer, who has little knowledge of their health effects. In particular, food, because of the way it is produced, can contain pesticide residues, heavy metals, radioactive residues as well as hormones, antibiotics and other toxic residues (e.g. dioxins). Large quantities of 'suspect' chemical additives are used in their industrial processing. Finally, chemicals can be transferred from the packaging to the food.
Many of these substances have been shown to be dangerous carcinogens or allergens and for most of them little research has been done on their safety for consumer health.
The interactions between the various chemicals present in food that accumulate in the human body also remain unknown.
The food industry has become one of the world's most powerful industries as a result of massive urbanisation and changing lifestyles.
Today there is a rapid increase in the consumption of processed foods compared to fresh, natural products.
Because of the processing, vital substances such as vitamins, minerals and other nutritional factors, as well as fibre, are destroyed or removed.
There is also an increased consumption of foods of animal origin (mainly meat), foods high in protein and fat, and concentrated foods (e.g. sugar, white flour and their products).
These bad eating habits and the low-quality processed foods that are stacked on the shelves of supermarkets are largely responsible for the degenerative diseases of modern civilisation: obesity, tooth decay, arteriosclerosis, heart attacks, diabetes, cancer.
The primary purpose of agriculture and food production is to provide consumers with healthy, high-quality products.
We propose:To promote ecological agriculture and the creation of decentralized food production units, with the main purpose of quality and not only the increase of production, emphasizing the seasonality of products.
Effective testing of perishables for pesticide residues, lead, etc.
The current model of development and consumption is being challenged as it undermines the ability of our natural environment to provide the essentials for every household - clean water, clean air, fertile land and a variety of species.
It is therefore necessary to shift towards a consumption model that limits destruction, avoids overconsumption and the disposal of inappropriate products, reduces waste and its toxicity, improves the efficiency of water resources, energy for domestic use and road traffic and creates ecological awareness.
Consumer awareness of what products contain, how they are produced, packaged, transported, sold and disposed of is essential. (e.g. toxic cleaning products can be replaced with non-toxic ones).
The packaging may be recyclable and/or biodegradable.
Products should be chosen to be 'environmentally friendly' or at least less harmful.
The preparation of an eco-labelling standard, its implementation and monitoring, together with continuous information and education and energy labelling, will equip consumers to make 'green' choices.
Consumer education on proper consumption, limiting consumption, reuse, recycling.
Providing relevant and timely information and information on products and services (CFC's - refrigerators, air conditioning systems).
Environmental assessment in comparative surveys and studies.
Developing a policy for the disposal of household waste (medicines, batteries, recyclable materials, organic, toxic cleaning materials).
Labelling - ecological and energy labelling
Providing alternatives to ensure the right to choose.
Provide data on exhaust pollution near sensitive areas e.g. schools, forums.
Regulating the functioning of the media and advertising. Effectively control misleading advertisements and claims and promote patterns and models of over-consumption.
There should be a relevant lesson in the very first grades of primary school that will orient children to the principles of good nutrition and respect for nature.
School canteens to have natural products in their canteens.
Advertising of products that are proven to be particularly harmful when consumed by children should also be banned.
People's health is precious, irreplaceable and worthy of respect.
Insurance organisations have a duty to inform and contribute to the prevention of disease.
We need a policy of information, awareness and prevention on nutrition because we should be guided by the logic of prevention rather than cure.
It has been proven that such a policy has the effect of reducing the cost of health care while promoting the initiative of citizens to take responsibility for their health in their own hands.
For this reason, it is necessary to create and strengthen information centres for citizens on nutrition issues, including the learning of healthy eating on a practical level.
To organise seminars to educate and inform those involved in the production and marketing of healthy food and to make environmentally responsible choices for all products.
It is necessary to: Establish quality control at all stages of production of food and other materials.
Establish regional testing laboratories.
Complete consumer protection legislation.
Modernise and orient food legislation towards consumer protection and the production of truly healthy food.
Strengthen ecological food production units.
PROTECTION OF THE MAN-MADE AND NATURAL ENVIRONMENT
Forests
Forests are a basic natural wealth for the island. Most of the forest areas (90%) are state-owned land and the responsibility for their preservation belongs to the state.
Despite the tireless efforts of the Department of Forests, forestry associations, other organized associations and citizens for the preservation of our forest wealth, unfortunately the existing legal framework governing the protection of state and private forest land is inadequate.
We note the degradation of our forest wealth by:-Conducting incompatible activities in forest areas (quarries, roads, logging, rallies, -Extensive forest fires -The carrying out of extensive reforestation in an unorthodox way or with inappropriate plants -The lack of an effective legal framework and adequate provision and information on issues concerning sensitive factors of forest wealth (endemic plants, old trees) -The granting of forest land for roads, buildings and facilities (e.g.The allocation of forest land for forestry projects and facilities (e.g. Athalassa Forest); - The inappropriate planning in some cases and the carrying out of public works by the Forestry Department itself (e.g. Athalassa Forest).
We recommend: Substantial strengthening of the Department of Forests, especially those services that deal with the study and protection of the natural wealth (forests-flora) of our country, in terms of personnel, means, infrastructure, etc.
Development of research and the creation of a data - information bank.
Changing the way forests and protected areas are managed.
Carry out environmental studies before the final design of any project in or near a forest area.
Immediate registration and mapping of all forested private land and information on the incentives available for their good management.
Informing agricultural land owners about existing financial incentives for converting their land to forest land.
Drastic restriction of the introduction of alien flora species in forest areas
Revision of quarrying zones and quarrying privileges with the aim of the permanent removal of quarries from forest areas and the preparation of studies for landscape restoration.
Taking measures against the erosion of upland forest areas
Expanding forest cover.
National parks and protected areas
The legislation for the establishment and management of National Forest Parks and protected areas is inadequate and anachronistic and not in line with international standards.
We do not consider that areas declared as such are governed by a comprehensive protection regime, since the competent services are weak and powerless due to the incomplete legal framework.
We propose:Modernization of legislation in accordance with international standards (I.U.C.N., F.N.N.P.E.)
Strengthening of the Forest Parks and Protected Areas Sector of the Forestry Department and staffing it with appropriately qualified scientific personnel
Conducting a program and studies for the declaration of Forest Parks and Protected Areas.
Carrying out studies and programmes for the management and protection of the above areas
Establishment of a management committee for Forest Parks and Protected Areas, where, in addition to the staff trained for this purpose, representatives of environmental organisations, local authorities and citizens will participate.
Akamas
The issue of Akamas is one of the issues that the Cypriot ecological movement has been dealing with since the first day of its creation.
The long delay in the implementation of a substantial protection plan for the area has resulted in the continuous gradual degradation of the Akamas environment,
but also in the justified reaction of the communities, since without a clear development framework it is very difficult for them to plan and plan for their future.
The area must finally be protected, and this is the demand of all Cypriots.
To this end, the following should be done: Establishment of a management committee with the involvement of all interested communities and stakeholders for the practical implementation of the management plan.
A substantive and nominal policy decision that excludes tourism development in the more sensitive coastal areas of Akamas, such as Toxetra Lara and Fontana Amorosa. This will remove the pressures and pretexts that prevent a consensual solution from being found with the majority of local residents.
To promote the area as an alternative destination for tourists visiting the island, not only to benefit the residents themselves, but also so that Cyprus can boast that it can offer many, meaningful and alternative options to its visitors.
Fauna-Hunting
Animals feel pain, cold and heat as well as fear and distress, so we must treat them with love, not treat them as ornaments without rights and protect them from disease, torture or abuse.
We are against the exposure of animals in zoos and their use in circuses, dolphinariums, etc.
As for wildlife and fauna in general, it is drastically declining in species and numbers, while there is no comprehensive, scientific statistics on the population of wild species and no mechanisms for such surveys.
Humans have a moral obligation to oppose the capture, poisoning and killing of wild animals and the infliction of pain and suffering on them.
Population control of the numbers of certain fauna species where this is necessary should be done by non-lethal methods but by controlling breeding or other means.
We consider the following to be unacceptable for the fauna of the area: The possibility of legal or illegal hunting during most of the year.
The mass extermination of animals (especially during the laying period) using modern technology. Figures from the Federation of Birdlife indicate that around 25 million birds are killed every year by various means (legal and illegal hunting, hunting, nets, poisoning)
The pollution of the countryside as a consequence of mass "warfare" from lead in cartridges, bag litter, scattered empty cartridges and waste materials, noise, fire lighting.
The government's failure to honour the contracts it has signed, as is the case with the practice of Spring Hunting.
The commercial import of animals and birds for hunting and ornamental purposes.
The sale of CITES-protected animals, birds, corals, shells, etc.
The poisoning of wild animals e.g. foxes and reptiles.
The behaviour of certain hunting organisations which perpetuate the unacceptable hunting behaviour of some of their members.
The practice of breeding animals by the government hunting agency and releasing them into the environment to become future victims without regard to the impact on the environment.
The public remains uninformed and therefore indifferent to our national fauna. (We urge the government to promote public education in specific areas e.g. labelling - identification of different species of birds, the interdependence of different species and the food chain).
The incomplete management of fauna habitats (e.g. Larnaca and Limassol salt marshes with the expansion of the airport and the delay in adopting a management plan for their protection).
Widespread destruction of wildlife habitats due to fires and land cleared for agriculture or other exploitation.
The excessive use of pesticides on crops and aerial spraying.
The unacceptably high number of licensed hunters and the lack of strict regulations and criteria for obtaining a licence.
The illegal hunters.
Protected areas are not usually selected according to scientific criteria, but are subject to haggling with hunting clubs.
We recommend: Long-term planning with specific objectives, policy definition and the creation of effective implementation, control and monitoring mechanisms.
The abolition of the Game Service and the establishment of a Fauna Protection Service staffed by scientific personnel to formulate thorough programmes.
Keeping in full our positions in relation to hunting, as a totally ecologically unacceptable activity in the way it is currently conducted in Cyprus, and until we as a society have managed to overcome the stage of inhuman and cruel treatment of Nature, we suggest taking measures to reduce hunting through legislative measures and environmental education.
We are not anti-hunters, but we believe that the way and scale in which hunting is currently conducted is unacceptable, exposing us as a society with backward attitudes, and perpetuating a negative and antagonistic relationship between humans and animals.
SEA - COAST
The marine area of our island faces various risks and interventions from:Pollution from land-based sources such as industrial or domestic waste, fertilizers or solid waste.Exploitative fishing and uncontrolled fishing. Construction of projects (jetties, marinas, etc.) without adequate study and without taking into account the chain reactions in marine ecosystems.Illegal beach encroachment (e.g. sanding, occupation of beaches for commercial purposes).Construction of the coast and/or destruction of the vital natural resource, by residential and tourist facilities; lack of serious study of measures to protect marine and coastal ecosystems; construction of vertical and parallel breakwaters.
We propose the:Substantial amendment of the law on beaches so that it is in line with the well-intentioned interests of all citizens and not with the personal profit of tourism and other businessmen.
Substantially strengthen the services involved in the control and protection of the maritime zone.
Take substantial measures for the redevelopment of coastal areas, particularly in areas of residential development.
Promote and implement the study of the coastal works that have already been built (some may have to be demolished).
Introduce serious legislation on beach pollution.
Encouraging initiatives by various stakeholders to prevent littering of beaches.
Revision of the coastline contour. Redesign and redefinition of the beach protection zone with measures to ensure compliance.
Adopt legislation on fishing and implement existing legislation.
Implementation of international conventions to protect the Mediterranean Sea from both marine and land-based sources of pollution.
More active participation of Cyprus in European programmes for the Mediterranean.
Marines
The marinas are seen as another spur-of-the-moment project in the path of disastrous tourism development to attract "quality" luxury tourism.
The proposed number and sizes are yet another expression of the tendency towards gigantism which will inevitably offend the landscape aesthetically as it will be at odds with the scale of the site.
Their economic viability is questionable because, among other things, the huge environmental costs are not taken into account in the investment expenditure.
The environmental destruction that will be caused by the extraction of boulders from the mountains for their construction and the ecological disturbance and degradation of the marine and submarine environment from pollution and changes in sea currents are very high.
The existence of a number of safe anchorages serving the basic needs of Cypriots and a very small number of foreign sailors is acceptable, but strictly under certain conditions.
A census of the number of sailors should be taken and their real needs should be ascertained in terms of the facilities provided by the anchorages.
These safe moorings should be built on a reasonable scale in or near existing harbours or in environmentally degraded areas.
The use and mooring fee should be unsubsidised and should fully reflect operational and capital costs.  The latter should include environmental costs.
CULTURAL HERITAGE / ARCHITECTURE
Years after the ratification by the Cypriot state of the European Convention for the Protection of Architectural Heritage, the historic architectural ensembles, unique symbols and testimonies of the historical continuity of the country, remain abandoned at the mercy of time and any small or large interests.
While in the northern part of our island, occupied by the Turkish army, the looting and alteration of our cultural heritage is taking place in a conscious and methodical manner, in the free part of the island, the Cypriot state, despite its national and international obligations, is abandoning our architectural heritage in a constantly accelerating rate of deterioration that is now leading to its extinction.
Apart from the implementation of some piecemeal measures and incentives, both the Government and the Local Authorities fail to grasp the importance for the country, in the conditions it is going through, of preserving our Architectural Heritage, this integral part of our culture, our collective memory and identity.
On the other hand, the modern architectural product is the result of the cultural product of today's man.
The transformation of the cultural component of modern life is a necessary condition for a change in the modern built environment without diminishing the importance of the role of Architecture and all the Sciences and Arts in shaping the built environment and the level of quality and responsibility at which they operate.
We recommend to: Give the necessary attention to the cultural issues of this place and properly prioritize the importance of both the architecture and our cultural tradition more broadly.
Promote the necessary coordination of all the competent bodies and the creation of mechanisms for direct intervention, protection and effective revival of our traditional heritage and essentialization of the role of the Handicraft Service.
To undertake on a systematic and broad basis the education and awareness of the public about the value of our architectural heritage.
Implement procedures for effective control of building development in traditional residential areas and programmes for their effective revitalisation in terms of quantity and quality.
Implement the provisions of the legislation concerning the protection of cultural heritage, by the Executive, the Local Government and any competent authority. This legislation includes the provisions of the International Conventions on Cultural Heritage to which the Republic of Cyprus itself is a signatory.
Establish energy planning as an integral part of the design of new building developments
and promote legislative measures that require the design of any form of building development to respect the climatic conditions, the character and physiognomy of the natural and social environment of the area, the natural resources and the sustainable operation of the built fabric of the city or settlement.
Promote measures to ensure the creation of such public buildings and spaces, which accept and do not exclude their citizen-users: whether they are students who need flexibility, creative communication in educational spaces, disabled people who need ease of movement and contact, or any citizen who needs easy information and information, welcoming waiting areas, ease of access and communication.
Redevelopment and remodelling of public open spaces and the creation of buildings to ensure quality and responsibility in their composition and construction and operation. Projects produced by the State itself must be equally subject to control in quality and integrity of operation and integration into the environment.
The cultural and architectural heritage is uniform throughout Cyprus (Ap. Andreas, Tekkes Larnaca, Armenomonastiron).
Monuments should be respected and preserved.
Promote legislation providing for the expropriation of areas of natural beauty, antiquities and cultural heritage sites.
To declare Nicosia within the walls a "Schedule B Monument".
ARCHAEOLOGIES
The care for the antiquities of Cyprus and their proper promotion and preservation are not among the priorities for the development of the island.
Discrimination against our culture and the inadequacy of legal protection have as a natural consequence the destruction of antiquities, the abandonment of culture and the equally important lack of public awareness of these problems.
The degradation of our culture and the sources of this culture have as a natural consequence the alienation of culture and tradition and therefore the loss of the character of the island.
The antiquities of Cyprus are threatened with destruction by human and natural factors. The destruction is continuing, accumulating and is a silent but real crisis since the sites at risk cannot be recreated. Much of the worsening destruction is due to the dramatic increase in tourism over the last decade.
Almost 2.5 million tourists visit Cyprus every year and around 30% of tourists visit Cyprus' archaeological sites.
The Department of Antiquities, which comes under the Ministry of Communications and Works, does not have the necessary budget and staff to deal with the growing problems associated with the maintenance of these sites that are being destroyed.
The museums, which house the archaeological treasures of the island, are outdated and are partly antiquities warehouses.
The museums do not fulfil the most important role, that of education and training. Their role in society and its development is minimal if not non-existent.
The destruction of the island's culture and character has a huge cost on the island's education and training sectors.
The field of modern Folk Art is completely neglected and in a few years the few remaining examples of authentic folk tradition will disappear.
The responsibility for the destruction of the antiquities and consequently of the culture and character of the island lies with the legislature and the Government, which decide on the development plans of the place and place the preservation of our archaeological sites, the development and improvement of our Museums, as well as the preservation of our folk art in a secondary position.
The existing legislation is inadequate and only suits development as the technocrat understands it.
The perpetuation of a legislation that not only does not protect but also does not help or support the true needs of tradition and culture will mathematically bring about the destruction and alienation of the island.
The ecological movement, which is aware of and based on the foundations of tradition and culture and not on technocratic views of sterile development that only benefits a small percentage of the local population, proposes that the legislation be amended to meet the real needs of the place.
The Department of Antiquities to be placed under the Ministry of Culture
The Ministry of Culture to become a substantial entity.
The drafting of laws that cover the practical needs of archaeological/historical sites (maintenance, signage, control)
To set up a framework of legislation and create a body for the protection of the Cultural Heritage of the early 20th century (Ecclesiastical and Architectural) To
draft laws governing excavations, their maintenance costs, publications, etc.)
The protection of our exposed antiquities and their dignified enclosure.
Extension of museum visiting hours
Creation of thematic museums in selected communities
Increase in the resources of the Department of Antiquities and scientific staffing of the Department at the headquarters and in the provincial museums
The inclusion of the preservation of our cultural heritage among the most important objectives in the five-year development plan
The appropriate staffing of the Department of Antiquities so that it can respond to the educational and social role that can be promoted through the museums, which should be
Museums should also take an active role in preserving all our cultural heritage, both built, written and oral.
Setting protective rules, numerical limits for visitors, a code of conduct to protect archaeological sites, which should not be a cheap product for sale.
The Heritage Tax proposal. Only by imposing such a measure will it be possible to carry out in time the work of preserving and maintaining the archaeological sites that is so long overdue.
The pace of destruction is such that it does not allow for the introduction of other measures that would depend solely on government funds.
It is necessary for the government to intervene to ratify the tax and arrange interdepartmental agreements so that the Department of Antiquities, as the appropriate body, has the flexibility to use the revenues and has the ability to plan for future projects to improve and maintain archaeological sites
The creation of a "Heritage Conservation Committee" as an advisory body consisting of archaeologists, historians, artists and select members of the private sector who will have as a mandate the supervision of the Department of Antiquities and the Fund, will work closely with the Department and will work to raise public awareness for the conservation and preservation of antiquities.
The participation of archaeologists and historians in the councils that decide on the tourism policy - development of the place, and in general those who draw up the five-year development programmes
To prevent any projects that degrade and commercially exploit the tradition of the place, the ancient monuments and culture in general
The prevention of activities that may in any way damage the archaeological or historical sites of Cyprus (construction of the Nicosia Municipal Hall, hotels, restaurants, etc. on archaeological sites).
CULTURE
The Turkish invasion and the continued illegal occupation of Cyprus' territories have dealt a significant blow to the development and creative process of the island.
This has created a society without balance, where everything that has to do with development projects is being advanced and evolving at the expense of the tradition and culture of the island, which have been downgraded and classified by the government technocrats as the last priorities of the country.
Therefore, a country that develops unilaterally, abandoning and neglecting the issues of culture and tradition, which alone define its specificity and character, will not be able to cope.
The Ecological Movement of Cyprus highlights this uneven development that has already brought irreparable damage to the country.
The position of the creator in Cyprus has been misunderstood and people who were pioneers in our artistic creation have left this world bitterly, without any recognition or distinction for their work.
Their work, however, is used and exploited whenever it suits them and whenever the state wants to show its face.
Contemporary cultural creation, together with the preservation and dissemination of tradition and cultural heritage, must be the main priorities.
We recommend: Separation of the Ministry of Education and Culture into two independent and autonomous units. The creation of a Unified Body for Culture, based on our proposal dated 29/1/99 and the creation of a Cultural Planning Office in the Ministry of Culture.
Organisation and staffing of Culture by specialised scientists and experts according to the sectors it will handle: e.g. Department of Antiquities, Department of the State Library, Department of Monuments Registration and Archiving, Department of Archiving, Preservation and Promotion of Popular Tradition, Department of Museums and Galleries, Department of Contemporary Artistic Creation Archiving, Department of Literature and Translations, Department of Publications, Department of Music and Dance, Department of Applied Arts, Department of Public Relations and Enlightenment, Department of Cinema and Theatre, etc. All of the above departments are awarded significant funds to promote their specific objectives.
Close cooperation between the Ministry of Culture, Foreign Affairs and Tourism.
Representation and promotion through the above ministries of contemporary Cypriot artistic creation.
Establishment of a higher school of Fine Arts (Department of Painting, Sculpture, Byzantine Iconography, Ceramics, Engraving, etc.).
Establishment of a State Higher School of Music.
Establishment of an Opera Organisation and the construction of an opera house or Music Hall, with its own opera school.
Decentralisation and delegation of active cultural work to local government and communities.
Active participation of the Ministry of Education, Culture, the University and Local Government in the Government's five-year development programme.
The culture of Orthodoxy occupies an essential part of the cultural heritage of our country. Measures and procedures should be established for its protection and proper promotion (architecture, Byzantine culture, writings, etc.).
Active participation of private individuals in the cultural development of the country, providing incentives (tax and other) for cultural projects and providing scholarships in cultural creative industries.
Establishment of a grant for artistic creation.
Special pension for the intellectual world and creators of art.
Training programme and provision of allowances and facilities for lay artisans.
A programme to revive cottage industries and small crafts and provide incentives to attract quality cultural development in villages.
Utilization of profits from OPAP games for culture
Legislative protection of private music education and dance.
Creating cultural spaces to attract young people where they can learn theatre, music, poetry, painting, sculpture, etc.
Establishment of a professional folk band with its own professional orchestra of traditional music.
Establishment of an independent Culture Authority.
Theatrical production subsidy programmes.
ECONOMY
The Movement believes that the economy must be within the framework of sustainable development.
Resources should not be wasted at the expense of future generations.
The economy should be managed without dogmatism and standards but with the overriding aim of raising living standards without encouraging consumerism.
The government should intervene in the management of the economy for the purposes of social solidarity and equitable development.
The government should require the preparation of Environmental Impact Assessments in the preparation of projects.
The environment is a national wealth that needs protection
and proper management for the benefit of all.
An environmental tax is needed to restore the environmental balance. This revenue should be spent exclusively on reducing the negative impact on the affected areas.
Economic growth is not an end in itself and economic growth is not independent of social growth but must go hand in hand in a balanced way.
Economic growth to be the driving force to support social development, education, health and environmental protection.
Privatisations and shareholdings
With the current management regime of the Semi-State Organizations and Enterprises, the consumer is not served and the business itself would not have much chance of survival in the competitive climate imposed by the EU.
By corporatizing these companies, the government maintains control with the largest percentage of shares.
One percentage of shares to be held by the employees and the rest to be retained by the private sector.
Privatisation is an alienation of state wealth and is not the solution to the problem of the semi-public organisations.
There are a number of institutional frameworks that can be implemented for the efficient operation of these organisations.
Stock Exchange
The stock market institution, with its lack of proper management and the necessary institutional framework, has become a way of gambling.
The strengthening and full independence of the Securities and Exchange Commission is needed.
Institutional amendments to the Law that will promote the stock market institution, transparency and the confidence of the investing public.
You should: Make such legislative arrangements that do not allow direct or indirect links between brokers and investment companies.
Encourage institutional investors to invest substantially in the CSE.
Lower interest rates to make equities more attractive in the long run.
To be instituted, as periodically published by the stock exchange the intrinsic value of each company per share, confirmed by its auditors.
Speed up the promotion of the Investment Services Firms Bill on issues such as the licensing of investment advisors and portfolio managers, their qualifications and the necessary safeguards they must provide.
To substantially strengthen the role of the Securities and Exchange Commission and make it fully independent from the government and any interventions.
Privatise the CSE and make the state no longer responsible for its operation.
Expedite the investigation of the Investigative Committee on the CFC.
Expedite proceedings at the Attorney General's Office to investigate any complaints made by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Euro
The implementation of the Euro must not allow opportunities for obscenity.
The Price Control Committee must inform and monitor the changeover to the Euro in a timely manner and without exploitative cases.
MISSION
The defence case is not exhausted or limited to military armaments. In most cases, the mistake is made of considering the level of expenditure on military equipment as an indicator of defence capability.
Cyprus can make more effective use of its high percentage of educated citizens in shaping a reliable, smart and technologically advanced defence.
On the other hand, increasing defence capacity is directly related to the involvement of all citizens in appropriate programmes, which, together with the acquisition of skills, experience and organisation, also contribute to forging a spirit of militancy and collectivity.
The use of the female population through conscription programmes that respect the specificity of women's social role should also contribute to this area.
