PARLIAMENTARY ELECTIONS 2006
Programme of AKEL Left New Forces
Why I am voting for AKEL Left New Forces
On 21 May we are called to the polls to elect our representatives to the new House of Representatives.
The forthcoming parliamentary elections, like any similar process, are a major political event.
An event that determines the composition of the legislature,
allows the positions of the parties to be presented and compared before the people and records their influence among the people.
It determines the balance of political forces for the next five years and thus the potential for exerting political influence on the political and social affairs of the country.
The citizen with his vote will determine the country's future course,
that is, whether we will strengthen the perspective that we opened up in 2003 with the victory in the presidential elections,
 or will this society risk regressing to the deadlocks we experienced during the decade of the government of the National Socialist Party.
The 20th Congress of AKEL set the goal for AKEL Left New Forces to maintain its leading role in the parliamentary elections, with high percentages, as the largest political force in the country.
The realisation of this goal will allow AKEL Left New Forces to continue to play a decisive role in the political-social events of Cyprus, for the good of our homeland and the reunification cause, for the good of the workers and the people in general, Greek Cypriots, T/Cypriots, Maronites, Armenians and Latins.
AKEL Left New Forces calls on citizens to honour it with their vote and to give it the strength it needs to continue fighting for Cyprus, our people and ordinary working people.
Why do we vote for AKEL Left New Forces? Because AKEL is that patriotic force, which in all the struggles of our people for freedom, for democracy, for defending the independence of Cyprus, for freedom from occupation and the reunification of our homeland has always been and is always in the front line.
His positions are constantly vindicated by history and developments.
Because AKEL is the force that over time and consistently fights nationalism-Sovinism,
fights for friendship and cooperation between Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots, has made great sacrifices on this front of struggle,
introduced and imposed with its struggles the policy of rapprochement, in which it has always been a pioneer.
Because it is the political force that for 80 years now has selflessly offered its services to our people.
The struggles, sacrifices and the contribution of the Workers' Party have indelibly marked the social and political achievements of our people.
There is no other political and social force that has contributed so significantly to social progress, democratisation and modernisation of Cypriot society.
Because AKEL Left New Forces is demonstrably the most serious, the most credible and responsible political force.
The force that with determination and courage defends and promotes the interests of Cyprus and our people.
Because AKEL Left New Forces with its positions on the Cyprus problem and the rapprochement constitutes the most credible force for the achievement of a correct, workable and viable solution to the Cyprus problem as soon as possible,
freeing Cyprus from occupation
and placing our homeland within the framework of a bi-communal, bi-zonal federation.
Because AKEL Left New Forces played a decisive role in the struggle of the democratic and progressive forces of the country for change, as the main component of the victory in the 2003 presidential elections, which saw Tassos Papadopoulos become President of the Republic.
Because AKEL Left New Forces is working with zeal, consistency and perseverance for the implementation of the pro-people's programme of the coalition government.
We are committed to continue working until the full implementation of the government's programme.
Because AKEL Left stands in the way of neoliberalism, which in Cyprus is mainly expressed and represented by DISY.
Neoliberalism is advancing against the interests of workers in Europe and the world, undermining their rights and destroying conquests achieved through many years of sacrificial struggles.
Neoliberalism serves the interests of big capital at the expense of workers, the middle classes and the welfare state.
Because AKEL Left New Forces was, is and will continue to be the defender of the interests and rights of the workers, the middle classes, the peasantry, the intellectuals and the people in general.
Because AKEL Left New Forces offers a platform and a platform for struggle to personalities and forces of the wider democratic space, cooperating with them with consistency, respect and sincerity.
Because AKEL Left New Forces as a consistent anti-imperialist force is fighting, to the extent of our own strength, against the so-called new world order which, with its wars of conquest, perpetuates oppression and misery on our planet.
Because AKEL Left New Forces as an important and vibrant part of the European and global Left actively participates in the struggles of the Left against neoliberalism, the
globalisation of monopolies and the "new world order", for a world of peace
and social justice.
Because the struggles, history and ideals of AKEL Left New Forces move, inspire and mobilise young people.
Because AKEL Left New Forces expresses and embodies the noblest ideals, values and visions. The ideals of freedom, democracy, social progress and socialism.
Because AKEL Left New Forces is a guarantee for the present and the future of the country,
it inspires security and confidence, and
guarantees serious and militant demands for the rights and rights of Cyprus, our people
and the workers.
We vote for AKEL Left New Forces because we are ALWAYS TOGETHER Defending Cyprus and our conquests
Creating a modern society
Demanding the best for our country and our people
CYPRUS
One country, one people
For AKEL Left New Forces, Cyprus and the struggle for its vindication is above all.
AKEL Left New Forces will continue the struggle for the liberation from occupation and the reunification of our country and our people both inside and outside the Parliament.
Nature of the problem and responsibilities
The Cyprus problem is one of invasion, occupation, foreign intervention and violation of the human rights of the entire Cypriot people.
It is a violation of the independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Cyprus.
It is a matter of ethnic cleansing and classical colonisation imposed by force of arms.
The Cyprus problem is also a problem of normalization of relations between the two communities.
Since 1974, all efforts to resolve the Cyprus problem have been hampered by Turkey's intransigence,
its insistence on a solution of two separate state entities and its claim to sovereignty over Cyprus.
The key to the Cyprus solution still lies in Ankara, but
this does not mean that we as AKEL Left New Forces underestimate or ignore the role that the Cypriot community and the Cypriot leadership can play.
Turkish positions have always resonated with Ankara's NATO partners, who bear great responsibility for both creating and perpetuating the problem.
Within the framework of the so-called new world order, there has been a gradual departure from the letter and spirit of the UN resolutions on Cyprus, of which the Annan plan is a consequence.
A substantial share of the responsibility for this deviation and the situation created around the Cyprus problem is borne by the ten-year government of the Coalition, with its mistakes, omissions, contradictions, concessions and commitments undertaken and incorporated in the Secretary-General's plan.
The present phase
AKEL Left New Forces will continue to work hard to create the conditions for the resumption of negotiations within the framework of the United Nations.
We seek the resumption of substantive talks as soon as possible, away from arbitration and stifling timetables, without this of course implying endless talks and a solution in the long run.
We aim for a resumption of talks leading to an agreed solution.
We will continue to work to convince the need to make those substantial changes to the Secretary General's plan that will allow the Cypriots to accept it and lead to a just, under the circumstances, viable and workable solution.
What is needed is for the Turkish and Turkish Cypriot leadership to agree to discuss with understanding the changes sought by the E/Cypriot side.
The Cypriot government and the e/Cypriot side must constantly declare their readiness to enter into a well-prepared, productive dialogue on the basis of the codified positions of the National Council which have been communicated to the UN Secretary General.
It is the duty of the UN Secretary General to convene such a dialogue if he considers that the necessary conditions exist.
AKEL Left New Forces will work to ensure that the Greek Cypriot side responds positively to such a call and presents itself in the talks with a constructive spirit and political will for a solution to the Cyprus problem.
AKEL Left New Forces will continue to work in the direction of the Cypriot political forces to understand the need for changes in the Secretary General's plan and to cooperate in this direction.
In order to force Turkey to change its philosophy and consequently to open the way for a solution to the Cyprus problem, the international actor, and especially the US-British one, should end Ankara's policy of appeasement.
They should stop breeding the separatist tendencies and expectations of Ankara and the Turkish Cypriot leadership to upgrade the occupation regime and constantly point out to them their obligation to cooperate for a workable and viable solution to the Cyprus problem.
Cyprus and the European Union
The Cyprus problem as an international problem must remain within the framework of the UN.
At the same time, AKEL Left New Forces is working for the European Union to play an important role in the efforts to resolve the Cyprus problem given that Cyprus is already a member of the European Union and Turkey aspires to join the European Union.
We will continue to build on Cyprus' accession to the European Union and Turkey's European course for a proper solution to the Cyprus problem, particularly with regard to the safeguarding of human rights and freedoms.
At the same time, we consider as damaging and destructive any approach that seeks to subvert the goal of a bizonal, bicommunal federation in the name of a vague "European solution".
Turkey, by obtaining the status of a candidate country for accession to the European Union, has assumed certain obligations towards the Union that also concern Cyprus.
Ankara's attempt to bargain away the implementation of these obligations by seeking the international upgrading of the occupying power is unacceptable and condemnable.
AKEL Left New Forces will continue the struggle so that this policy of Turkey, which leads to the upgrading of the pseudo-state and the downgrading of the Republic of Cyprus, is not accepted in the international community and the European Union.
"Isolation" of the T/Cypriots
The sole and exclusive responsibility for the "isolation" of the T/Cypriots is the Turkish invasion and occupation.
AKEL Left New Forces welcomes and supports every measure that enhances the well-being of our fellow Cypriots and opens windows to the outside world,
as long as these measures are within the framework of international and European legitimacy and do not lead to the upgrading of the pseudo-state or the downgrading of the Republic of Cyprus.
Apart from the measures that the government of the Republic of Cyprus unilaterally applies in favour of the T/Cypriots, AKEL Left New Forces considers the proposal for the return of Varosha to its legal residents and the co-management of the port of the city by the two communities under the auspices of the UN or the European Union as the right way of dealing with the problem of the "isolation" of the T/Cypriots until the final settlement of the Cyprus problem.
Cyprus and the domestic front
Unity is a prerequisite for the successful promotion of our anti-communist struggle.
Within the framework of the National Council, AKEL will continue to work in a consensual, creative spirit to achieve and consolidate the greatest possible consensus on decisions and manipulations.
The DISY leadership, which for purely oppositional reasons, constantly questions the President's political will for a solution, criticizes his every action and speaks vaguely about taking initiatives,
undermines not only the unity on the internal front but also the efforts that the Greek Cypriot side is collectively making for the resolution of the Cyprus problem.
The recent decision of the DISY leadership to suspend the participation of SYNAGRAMOS in the National Council is an additional proof of its undermining policy.
The solution is an absolute objective
AKEL Left New Forces will continue to fight with vigour, determination and perseverance for a peaceful solution to the Cyprus problem on the basis of the UN resolutions and the 1977 and 1979 High Level Agreements, which provide for a bizonal, bicommunal federation.
The solution must comply with international law, international human rights conventions and Community law.
The federal, bizonal, bicommunal Republic of Cyprus must have a single sovereignty, an international personality and a nationality.
The solution must provide for the removal of Turkish occupation troops and settlers
and the demilitarisation of the Republic of Cyprus.
The final objective remains the demilitarisation of Cyprus.
The solution must also restore respect for the independence, unity, territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Cyprus
without giving rights of unilateral intervention to any foreign country.
Restore and safeguard the human rights and fundamental freedoms of all Cypriots,
including the right of refugees to return to their homes and property.
We condemn the illegal building on Cypriot properties as a new fait accompli aimed at gaining political advantages in the context of the discussion for a solution to the Cyprus problem.
AKEL consistently supports the political equality of the two communities within the framework of the federation as described by the former UN Secretary General and adopted by the resolutions of the International Organisation.
REAPPROACH
AKEL and the Left more broadly took the lead and sealed the effort very early on to keep alive and strengthen the links between the two communities.
Based on the unwavering position that Cyprus belongs to its people, we pioneered the formulation and practical implementation of the policy of rapprochement and fought to make it a component of government policy.
For AKEL Left New Forces, the rapprochement was and still is an integral element of the anti-Cypriot struggle of our people, both Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots.
On the occasion of the developments of the last few years, the view that the role of the rapprochement has become obsolete and that this policy has nothing substantial to offer to the solution of the Cyprus problem can be heard more strongly today.  We fundamentally disagree with such positions.
In today's circumstances, rapprochement as a primarily political act can and should: Continue to serve the basic objective of our struggle, which is the end of the occupation
and the reunification of Cyprus under the umbrella of a bizonal, bicommunal federation, which is the only feasible way out in the conditions of de facto partition;
Maintain and continue to highlight the will of Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots to remove the causes of de facto partition and live together in a peaceful, reunited, common homeland; to
help restore trust between the two communities, while countering the growth of nationalism in both communities; to
help restore mutual understanding of the traumatic experiences of the two communities in the past and to help understand the positions, concerns and aspirations of the two communities in the face of the prospect of a solution.
In this direction as AKEL Left New Forces we will continue to: work to broaden the measures of support for Turkish Cypriots and develop concrete initiatives of re-engagement;
work to ensure that contacts between the political forces of the country continue and become more meaningful,
oppose the efforts of any foreign centres to guide the rapprochement and to deprive it of its anti-Cypriot, political and socio-classical content
organise or encourage mass organisations to hold meetings, exchanges, mass events, seminars, publications, etc..
organize seminars and lectures at various levels on issues of nationalism and rapprochement, in the belief that through the undertaking of specific initiatives in the field of rapprochement, the cooperation and joint action of Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots can be strengthened.
OUR PRESENCE IN PARLIAMENT IN THE PAST FIVE YEARS
Our presence in the Parliament
The Parliamentary Group AKEL - Left - New Forces was a remarkable group that contributed significantly to the promotion and modernisation of legislation as well as to the initiation and resolution of problems.
On our initiative, a series of legislative proposals were drafted, submitted and passed, which on the one hand modernise legislation and institutions
and on the other hand serve the interests of the people, especially the workers, but also vulnerable groups of the population.
Among other vital issues, we promoted legislation on: The provision of equal opportunities for the professional rehabilitation of sufferers and the children of incarcerated persons
The protection of guarantors
The prevention of domestic violence and the protection of victims
The shop assistants
The TEPC, the KYSATS, the School Taxes, Special Education, Private Universities, the State Scholarship Foundation
The private nursing homes and the control of their operation
The regulation of the professions of kinesiologists, physiotherapists, occupational therapists
The protection of minors of children of convicted or suspected mothers
The safeguarding and protection of patients' rights
The establishment of an independent water authority
Fishing
The status of ownership and protection of dogs
The establishment of impartial and meritocratic procedures in recruitment and promotion in the public sector, the army and the police
The fairer regulation of the employment status of temporary workers
At the same time, members of the Parliamentary Group AKEL - Left - New Forces, registered for discussion in the relevant Parliamentary Committees and forwarded for resolution hundreds of issues concerning organised groups, special groups of the population, productive groups, etc.
The participation of our MPs in parliamentary committees, in international missions of the Parliament and the general strengthening of the work of the Presidency, which we have the honour and the great responsibility to hold, has been productive and often of decisive importance.
As a Party we place very high on our priorities the contact with the people, the ordinary man. For this reason, we attach great importance to the extra-parliamentary activity of our MPs.
The members of the Parliamentary Group AKEL - Left - New Forces throughout their term of office developed substantial and multi-dimensional extra-parliamentary activity, particularly in relation to the initiation and resolution of hundreds of problems.
Problems faced by cities and communities, professional groups, wage earners, self-employed, women, farmers, refugees, displaced persons, young people, students, civil servants and other specific groups of the population.
Constant contact with the districts, the communities, the organised groups, but also with the individual citizen was our daily concern.
Our presence at the Presidency of the Parliament
The nomination of the General Secretary of the Central Committee of AKEL to the Presidency of the Parliament is a vindication for our Party and its long-standing struggles.
With the election of the General Secretary of the Central Committee of AKEL to the office of Speaker of the Parliament, we aspired to give a qualitatively different dimension to the institution.
The Presidency has acted in a consensual manner and promoted consensus.
The prestige of the Parliament was upgraded so that it could be heard even more at home and abroad.
In the last five years, important legislation has been passed, which has brought considerable relief to the weaker economic strata of the people, refugees, the bereaved, the large families, the bailiffs, the investors in the stock exchange.
A key objective of the Presidency was to develop and cultivate excellent relations with foreign parliaments. In this context, the Speaker of the Parliament made official visits, at the invitation of his counterparts, to many countries abroad, while many Presidents, Vice-Presidents and delegations of foreign parliaments visited Cyprus.
These visits are considered particularly important as they lay the foundations for a more systematic cooperation between the House of Representatives and other parliaments and allow, through the further development of parliamentary diplomacy, the enlightenment on the Cyprus problem, as well as the promotion of other issues concerning Cyprus.
Moreover, following Cyprus' accession to the European Union, the Presidency of the Parliament placed particular emphasis on upgrading the relations of the House with both the European Parliament and the parliaments of the member states of the Union.
Another area of action developed by the Presidency of the Parliament was the social role of the Parliament.
In the context of communication with the citizen, it established the institution of the Children's Parliament and the Youth Parliament.
It is worth noting that the Youth Parliament also includes young Cypriot Cypriots.
On the initiative of the Presidency, the Parliament developed for the first time activities in the field of culture, wishing to support and strengthen people of letters and arts.
It organised the exhibition "Politics and Cartooning", in which, despite the opposition of R. Denktash, Cypriot cartoonists participated.
It also organized cultural events on the theme of our popular culture as well as painting and book exhibitions.
Another objective of the Presidency of the Parliament was the contribution of the Parliament to the democratic education of young people and to their training in democratic institutions and procedures.
The response of teachers and students was remarkable, with a sharp increase in the number of school visits to the Parliament to inform students on the spot about the country's legislative power.
As regards the operation of the Parliament itself, working conditions have been improved and the institution of the scientific assistant has been introduced.
STATE-CITIZEN RELATIONS
Things are getting better. Much more needs to be done.
For years, AKEL Left New Forces has been highlighting the crisis of values that plagues Cypriot society.
The sacrifice of individual promotion, organised crime, drugs and prostitution, the spread of the mentality of quick and easy profit are phenomena that do not honour Cypriot society.
The root causes of these phenomena lie in the character of our social system, which deifies profit, commercialises everything, and degrades and degrades moral, cultural, spiritual values and ideals.
AKEL Left New Forces expresses the belief that Cypriot society has the strength and reserves to fight these negative phenomena.
AKEL Left New Forces also recognises the need for the modernisation of Cypriot society, which is more urgent today than ever before.
 However, the necessity for this modernization to have a human-centered character, to aim at improving the quality of life of the Cypriot citizen, is just as urgent.
and the upgrading of its participation in socio-political life.
The modernisation of Cypriot society will be achieved through radical and bold changes in the institutions, structures and perceptions prevailing in society.
AKEL Left New Forces rejects the neoliberal approach that identifies modernisation with the weakening of the social role of the state and with serving the interests of big capital.
Modernisation in the social sector can only be based on and promote the principle of social justice.
The government of Change has made substantial steps towards fighting organised crime and the spread of drugs.
It has also introduced important reforms towards modernisation.
However, much remains to be done to achieve the desired goals.
Good Governance
Good administration and meritocracy are an essential component of a modern state.
 This coalition government has shown that it has the political will to ensure that all citizens are treated equally regardless of their social status or party affiliation.
  For the further consolidation of good administration, AKEL Left New Forces proposes: the adoption of legislation on the political and civil responsibilities of Ministers and members of the Boards of Directors of semi-governmental organisations for their decisions.
The legislation should also include Public and Semi-Public Sector Officials with regard to inadequate and discriminatory performance of their duties or malpractice that they allowed to occur or mismanagement of resources.
To limit the scope for uncontrolled discretionary power at all levels of administration and to ensure that the Code of General Principles of Administrative Law is properly and effectively applied by the administrative bodies.
Implement a comprehensive Charter of Citizens' Rights.
Organise a campaign to educate citizens about their rights.
Complete, extend and consistently implement legislation on the recruitment of permanent and temporary civil servants in the public sector.
Public sector
The public sector must play an essential role in the implementation of social policy, with the main concern being to serve citizens quickly and efficiently.
For the modernization and greater efficiency of the Public Service in order to better serve the citizen, it is necessary to:
complete computerization throughout the Public Service.
We welcome the operation of the Citizen Service Centres. We believe, however, that citizen service procedures in general need to be simplified.
Further improve the working conditions of civil servants.
Ensure equal treatment of citizens in law, with consequences for those who violate this principle.
Strictly implement the institution of rotation in the civil service,
develop a permanent training programme for civil servants
and implement a system of incentives and merit-based evaluation to increase their efficiency.
The expertise of the scientific potential of the Public Service to be used as a basis for government policy decisions.
Scientific public officials should be left free to prepare their studies objectively and impartially.
Semi-public organisations
The institution of the Semi-State Organizations, as Public Utility Organizations, was strengthened with the establishment and operation of the Republic of Cyprus.
In the years that have passed, they have provided important services to the Cypriot people, contributing greatly to the development of a healthy mixed economy system in our country.
Today, several semi-municipal organisations are facing problems mainly due to liberalisation and the introduction of the acquis communautaire.
The government of the cooperating parties has prevented the privatisation of the semi-public institutions, which was being pushed by the previous government of the Coalition.
The semi-municipal organisations retain their public and social character, as AKEL Left New Forces has always maintained.
However, the need to modernise them and to operate in the new competitive environment is imperative.
To this end, we propose the following: Promoting a package of measures aimed at restructuring and consolidation. These will revolve around the issues of introducing new management systems, modern technology and computerisation, increasing productivity, reducing costs, etc.
Providing greater independence from both the Government and Parliament to the Agencies to make them more flexible in terms of strategic planning and implementation of their programmes and operations.
Apply good administration and meritocracy in recruitment and promotion.
Maintain their public character and social control to continue to serve society as a whole.
Provide incentives for staff
but also tighter control and sanctions for underperformers.
Introduce legislation to prohibit for three years the employment of retiring managers in competing organisations.
The proper functioning of the Boards depends on the smooth operation and efficiency of the Semi-State Organisations.
To this end, the composition of the Councils should be representative of the political-social spectrum, without necessarily having a party representation.
The composition of the Boards of Directors of the Semi-State Organisations should be based on objective criteria, such as knowledge of the subject matter, professional experience and relevant scientific training.
To select persons who stand out for their ethics, judgement and objectivity, so that the public interest is served.
Under the Change government, significant progress was made in this area.
Ensure that the members of the Boards of Directors do not have interests related to the semi-governmental organisation to which they are appointed.
There must be full respect for judicial decisions.
Where contempt is found, those responsible should suffer the appropriate consequences, on the basis of legislation that needs to be introduced.
SOCIO-ECONOMIC POLICY
People at the heart of our policy
It is an axiom that the living and cultural level of a society is determined by the socio-economic policy applied.
It is for this reason that we as AKEL Left New Forces have committed ourselves to the Cypriot people that we will work consistently and methodically for the implementation of the government's programme. A pro-popular, progressive and people-centred programme.
At the same time, in addition to the implementation of the programme, we demand demands that stem from our socio-political philosophy and aim to serve the interests of the workers.
Main socio-economic policy axes
The Cypriot economy, with its own particularities, is now developing in the environment of Europe and globalisation.
A globalization which attempts to impose the "neo-liberal" neo-conservative, capitalist model of development as a model of socio-economic development.
A model which unfortunately also dominates the European Union today.
Neoliberalism, in the name of "free competition", promotes market promiscuity with the emasculation of the state as the strategic agent of economic and social policy,
promotion of massive privatisations,
the deregulation of labour relations,
and in general the even more unfair distribution of the wealth produced in favour of multinational companies and big capital at the expense of labour and the economically vulnerable strata of the people.
Cypriot society, as an integral part of the global socio-economic scene, has not been unaffected by the new global economic environment.
We as AKEL Left New Forces attach immense importance to the capital called the Cyprus Economy.
A robust economy with healthy foundations and strong infrastructure is an important support in the struggle of our people for the reunification of our country.
We are working for a modern economy in which we want the social and private sectors to coexist, complement each other and cooperate.
For an economy with people-centred objectives and tailored to the needs of the broad sections of the population.
Our philosophy, which is centred on the human being and his or her multifaceted development, is based on the following principles: A modern, flexible and socially oriented mixed economy.
The distribution of economic burdens according to one's income
and on the basis of wealth taxation.
The creation of a more humane and socially more sensitive state which protects and supports the economically disadvantaged sections of society.
To regulate the uncontrolled operation of the laws of the capitalist market in such a way that this action does not come at the expense of the economically vulnerable strata of society.
Overcoming the problems left by the decade of DISY
As AKEL Left New Forces we believe that the decade of the government of the Coalition was characterised by neoliberal conservative approaches and an economic policy that was broadly identified with the goals and priorities of big capital.
It is within this framework that the reduction of the economic and social role of the state,
the undermining of the role of the public utilities with the aim of selling them off to the private sector (hence the major problems faced by e.g.Cyprus Airlines), as
well as the promotion of unpopular measures in the field of labour relations (truncation of the ATA and a ban on strikes)
and in the field of tax policy with discounts on the taxation of wealth, capital and the business activities of the church.
Despite the problems inherited from the previous government,
through the coordinated efforts of the Papadopoulos government,
through extraordinary action plans, through a targeted economy in public finances,
through the rationalisation of expenditure
and the improvement in the tax-collecting capacity of the state, through the
upgraded expenditure for development
and the high degree of implementation of development budgets, without taking additional tax measures and through the upgrading of the welfare state, the Cypriot government has been able to achieve the following
The figures speak for themselves: a growth rate of only 2% was received and an economy in a state of apnea and recession. Today the growth rate has doubled to 4%.
An inflation rate of 4.8% was achieved. Inflation today halved, falling to 2.4%.
A huge budget deficit of 6.3% of GDP was inherited. Austerity followed, resulting in a reduction of the budget deficit to 2.3% of GDP.
Public debt fell from 69.7% of GDP to 66% of GDP.
The productivity of the economy more than doubled from a meagre 1% to 2.6%.
As AKEL Left New Forces we believe that the welfare state has gradually started to strengthen.
There are, of course, still a number of structural problems that either create distortions or hinder or impede the orderly development of the economy.
Structural problems of the economy
These are: the one-sided development of the economy in the direction of tourism and the great dependence of the whole country on the tourism sector.
We believe that the main priorities in our development strategy should be:The decoupling of economic development from the tourism sector, without this meaning its degradation.
On the contrary, what is needed is the repositioning of tourism and its qualitative upgrading.
The development of new sectors in services combined with the high level of training of the workforce and the scientific workforce.
The parallel development of the production sectors through the use of modern technology, new management methods and research.
The modernisation, technological upgrading and support of small and medium sized enterprises, making use of the relevant European Union programmes.
The continuous improvement of productivity is the bet that the Cypriot economy has to win.
The budget deficit and public debt are structural problems that need a radical and permanent solution.
Several positive steps have been taken in the right direction.
As AKEL Left New Forces we believe that modernisation of the state machinery,
increasing the productivity of the public sector,
simplification of many procedures,
rationalisation of employment,
rationalisation of expenditure,
further modernisation of the tax system
and the fight against tax evasion are measures that will lead to a steady reduction of deficits to low levels.
Despite the positive steps that have been taken as a society, we need to fully address the phenomenon of poverty and social exclusion.
Further modernisation of the public assistance system,
a significant increase in minimum wages, a
further increase in pensions
and the expansion of the welfare state are measures in the right direction.
The continuous rise in land prices and housing costs further exacerbates the housing problem.
The preparation of an integrated housing policy plan by the Ministry of Interior for both refugees and non-refugees is a positive event which we as AKEL welcome.
We expect this policy to start being implemented as a key social priority. Particular attention should be paid to the implementation of specialised housing programmes for poor families and young couples.
One of the dominant issues of concern to society is the employment of foreign workers, which has reached massive proportions.
The problem has been exacerbated by the high demand for workers in mainly manual occupations and the free movement of workers, mainly from the countries that have recently joined the European Union.
Cypriot society is called upon to manage a massive phenomenon of legal and illegal employment.
As a percentage of the economically active population, foreign workers account for around 17% of the economically active population, which is the highest in the whole of Europe.
The exertion of pressure on the gains of a section of Cypriot workers who become victims of blackmail by Cypriot employers,
the phenomena of cruel and often inhumane exploitation of foreign workers, who are used as cheap labour and as a means of undermining the acquired working conditions and collective agreements,
and the illegal employment of thousands of foreign workers who are subjected to the most brutal exploitation, constitute the mosaic of employment of foreigners in Cyprus.
This is a particularly serious socio-economic phenomenon that the state and society are called upon to manage.
Illegal employment is a matter for the state.
The enforcement of legislation and the severe punishment of illegal employers, who create the problem for profit, are measures that the state must take immediately.
We as AKEL Left New Forces, as an internationalist party, will stand against the efforts of overexploitation and any phenomena of racism and xenophobia that appear within Cypriot society.
Joining the euro area
Membership of the euro area is a contractual obligation of the Republic of Cyprus towards the European Union.
However, we advocate postponing the adoption of the Euro after 2008 for the following reasons
The large fiscal deficits left by the previous government forced the government of Tassos Papadopoulos to pursue a strict fiscal and austerity policy which in some cases bordered on austerity.
During the same period, the knock-on effects of European Union membership became much more pronounced.
The heavy harmonisation taxes passed in 2001-2002-2003 led to a chain effect of price increases and precision which was exacerbated by the rise in international oil prices.
In order to achieve the fiscal and growth targets set, sacrifices and restraint were asked of workers.
Now that things have improved, AKEL Left New Forces believes that these people need to be compensated for whatever sacrifices they have been asked to make.
It is imperative that social measures, many of which are contained in the government's programme, be made possible.
The postponement of Eurozone membership for 2009 will allow the positive growth and recovery of the economy to be stabilized and consolidated, with numerous economic, social and fiscal benefits.
The economy is in a transitional stage of restructuring, a stage where it is serving in the new and unknown institutions of the European Union.
At a stage of assimilation and harmonisation with the European project.
This adjustment will be smoother and more successful if there is more time and this can be achieved by joining the Eurozone in 2009.
At the same time, the fiscal and monetary stability of the pound is further strengthened, thus avoiding any currency shocks that could possibly lead to a desperate devaluation of our currency, which would have
disastrous consequences for the economy and workers.
Adopting the euro is not an easy task. On the contrary, it requires the best possible organisation and preparation.
It requires visibility and information, change in the institutional and legislative framework that regulates many institutions, change in computerization (software, control, cash registers) of all organizations involved in the sale of goods and services.
Particular preparation is required by banks and cooperative institutions.
As much preparation and organisation will be required from the various departments of the state, especially the tax collection departments, as from the entire retail trade, auditing and accounting offices.
There needs to be the necessary leeway of time to do all this without causing problems.
Particular work will be required in terms of taking measures to protect consumers from profligacy and speculation through rounding up prices.
The Government decided to introduce the Euro from 1/1/2008.
On the same date an increase in VAT on foodstuffs from 0% to 5% is expected.
Both the introduction of the Euro and the simultaneous increase in VAT will lead to an increase in speculation and obscenity.
The postponement that we as AKEL are requesting will help, on the one hand, to take preventive measures to avoid obscenity
and, on the other hand, to introduce the necessary compensatory measures for the sections of the population that will be affected by the VAT increase.
We demand: AKEL as the main component of the forces of change will continue to work systematically and persistently on the basis of the commitment to fully implement the spirit and the letter of the governance programme.
We pledge to the Cypriot people that we will continue to demand: Even greater development openings through increased development spending.
Continuous upgrading of the welfare state.
Accelerate the introduction of the General Health Plan.
A substantial increase in funding for culture and research.
Introducing substantial changes to the tax system for the benefit of workers.
Maintain the ownership of semi-public institutions
and accelerate their institutional modernisation.
Introduction of a comprehensive housing policy with special emphasis on supporting refugees and the low-income strata of the population.
Greater financial support for local government.
Continuous vigilance of all services involved in consumer protection.  The
aim must be to keep inflation low, to
combat obscenity
and to ensure the proper functioning of the market.
Multifaceted support for small and medium-sized enterprises, also making use of the relevant EU programmes.
Promote the restructuring and restructuring of the agricultural economy in order to increase productivity,
support and strengthen producer groups,
reduce unit costs
and maximise competitiveness.
EMPLOYEES
We defend and expand our conquests
AKEL's relationship with the workers is a principled one, a relationship that stems from AKEL's character as the Party of the workers.
The result of this 80-year relationship is the workers' minor and major conquests (A.T.A., T.K.A., Right to Organise and everything else the workers reap), which bear the stamp of AKEL and the class trade union movement of the PEO, conquests that have created a high standard of living for the workers of Cyprus.
Getting rid of the DISY government, the
assumption of power by the cooperation of progressive democratic forces on the basis of an agreed pro-people's programme has put an end to neoliberal conservative policies and created better conditions for the struggles of the workers.
AKEL, with its participation in the governance of the country, is working steadily and with commitment for the full implementation of the governance programme and for the promotion of all those measures that improve the quality of life of workers.
We are already seeing tangible results: The policy of privatisation has been ended, the
imposition of new taxes has stopped,
the attempt to undermine the ATA has been stopped,
vulnerable groups of the population such as pensioners, large families, recipients of public assistance and the disabled have been supported by decisions and social cohesion measures.
There has been a substantial increase in minimum wages,
the bill banning strikes has been withdrawn, and
respect has been shown for the institution of renewed collective agreements and tripartite cooperation.
Cyprus' participation in the EU as of May 1, 2004, puts new social and economic data in front of the working people.
The policies currently dominating the EU are characterised by conservatism, neoliberalism and the attempt to shrink the European social model.
Employers and big business are constantly stepping up their attacks on workers' rights.
 A dominant position in these efforts is occupied by policies to deregulate work, as a result of the Lisbon strategy, promoting so-called flexible forms of employment, extending working hours, attacking the social character of the social security system and workers' rights.
AKEL Left New Forces is the party that has clear positions on the issues of the European Union without embellishments and without demonisation.  The
role of AKEL in the conditions of Cyprus' participation in the EU is important and decisive:
we are fighting together with the progressive left forces in Europe against these policies for a Europe of progress and social solidarity and cohesion.
We resist the efforts of local capital to transfer and implement these policies in our country.
AKEL Left New Forces is the force of consistency, stability, demand, together with the workers for the workers.
This will be the dominant feature of our action in the years to come.
We aim for a more active pro-democratic social and economic policy that supports the vulnerable groups of the population
and improves the position of workers.
We aim to preserve and strengthen the welfare state.
In particular we will work on: Promoting a fairer incomes policy that supports vulnerable groups, low and middle incomes and leads to a narrowing of the gap between high and low earners.
Support the policy of demands decided by the trade union movement in the context of the renewal of collective agreements for improvements in wages and benefits that go beyond the level of productivity.
Support for the institution of the ATA and the struggle of the class trade union movement for the gradual restoration of the ATA as it was before the implementation of the decision of the Clerides government to remove increases in consumer taxes from the calculation of the ATA.
Promote institutional and legislative arrangements through which workers can freely exercise the right to organise without interference and pressure from employers.
At the same time, bearing in mind that the free movement of community workers and the employment of foreigners in general is being exploited, wages and collective agreements are being undermined, AKEL Left New Forces will work to ensure that there are clear legislative regulations so that companies employing foreign workers have the obligation to negotiate and implement collective agreements.
Defending the system of free collective bargaining and regulated employment conditions.
AKEL Left New Forces will continue to resist attempts to deregulate labour.
Defending the social character and role of the state
and protecting the social security system.
The sustainability of the social security system must be ensured by measures that do not restrict the acquired rights of the insured.
AKEL will not agree to the possible abolition of the voluntary retirement right of private sector workers at the age of 63 or the extension of the retirement age beyond 65.
Continuous improvement of labour and social legislation and benefits.
 Specifically:Improvement of the Law on Provident Funds in order to stop the phenomenon of withholding workers' money.
Improvement of the Law on Termination of Employment so as to increase compensation to workers in case of dismissal
and the level of protection of workers from illegal unfair dismissals.
Increase in leave and maternity allowance.
A further substantial increase in the minimum wage.
Building a society of full and regulated employment where every citizen can in practice make use of their knowledge and skills.
In particular, we will work on measures to support the employment of young people, women, people with disabilities.
Effective implementation of laws concerning workers, such as the Law on Safety and Health, on Gender Equality, on Retail Workers, etc.
Workers can rely on AKEL Left New Forces to defend and extend their gains, because the demands of the workers are part of AKEL's daily political intervention in the Parliament and society at large.
Pensioners
Dignity for the champions of work.
Ensuring a decent quality of life for older people has been a key objective of AKEL Left New Forces policy throughout time.
Quality of life for our older people means: a level of pensions and social benefits that meet the ever-increasing needs of pensioners, that are commensurate with the cost of living, and that ensure a life of dignity and comfort.
Services, programmes and institutions that support the elderly in matters of health, recreation, socialisation and mobility.
AKEL Left - New Forces worked so that within the framework of the 2002 tax reform, pensions were increased through the special compensatory allowance so that today there are no pensions below £210 per month (including the special allowance), i.e. special emphasis was placed on low pensions.
More recently through the social cohesion package we have contributed to boosting pensioners' incomes by granting a £50 heating allowance to all pensioners with a pension of up to £500 and a one-off grant of £75 to pensioners on a pension of up to £225 without taking into account the special compensatory allowance.
The mother's allowance was also granted to pensioners receiving the social pension.
However, AKEL Left New Forces will work for: the granting of a Mother's Allowance to all retired mothers with many children;
the granting of an Easter Allowance to pensioners; the
incorporation of the special allowance into the monthly pension or its revision as is the case with pensions
Our efforts to ensure a satisfactory level of pensions will continue.
Our aim is to gradually ensure that no pensioner has a pension below the poverty line.
At the same time, we stress the need for a definitive solution to the issue of determining the contributions of self-employed workers, an issue that affects the level of pensions.
The continued increase in public assistance also remains one of our objectives.
On general policy issues, AKEL Left New Forces will work for the implementation of the policies proposed in the National Action Plan for the elderly, which bears the stamp of the participation of the elderly organisations themselves.
In particular we will work on the following: Upgrading and improving housing programmes for older people
for both refugees and non-refugees.
Expansion of home care programmes for the elderly
as well as open protection centres for the elderly.
Upgrading and improving the quality of services offered by nursing homes.
Strict control so that the infrastructure and services offered meet the requirements of the law.
Expansion and upgrading of the institution of regional health centres and pharmacies in both urban and rural areas.
Establishment of geriatric clinics to address the multiple health problems faced by the elderly.
Extending the benefits provided through the pensioner card.
Expanding and improving recreational and holiday programmes for older people.
Training programmes for the active participation of older people in social life.
Utilising their knowledge and skills by creating various clubs, training programmes and so on.
FARMERS - RURAL ECONOMY
Protecting rural income and the countryside
With the accession of Cyprus to the European Union, the agricultural world found itself in a completely unknown environment, unprepared to face the challenges of accession and unprepared to cope with the conditions of unfair competition that were created.
The Cypriot farmer is now paying for the mistakes and omissions of the government of the Coalition, which conducted the accession negotiations and promoted harmonisation with the acquis communautaire.
As a result, farm income is reduced.
AKEL, as a key component of the Government of Change, was a key shaper of its agricultural programme, which aims to solve structural and spatial problems of the wider agricultural sector,
to create conditions for sustainable rural development,
to stimulate credit margins by regulating agricultural debts.
Over the five years, AKEL - Left - New Forces has fought inside and outside Parliament for rational harmonisation, for a policy of assertiveness in the accession negotiations, for proper preparation of the agricultural economy,
for full information of farmers, for the
state to absorb the costs of harmonisation, for the absorption of the accession shocks.
In conditions of accession, AKEL, EKA and the People's Movement in general contributed to the promotion and resolution of a series of problems that were plaguing key sectors of the rural economy with positions, arguments and a correct assertive policy.
They promoted issues for the strengthening and restructuring of vital sectors of agriculture and livestock farming,
for the maintenance and strengthening within the limits of possible rural income,
for the exercise of developmental agricultural policy.
COPD
The creation and proper functioning of the Cyprus Agricultural Payments Agency (CAP) was a basic prerequisite for the new environment created by Cyprus' accession to the European Union to enable the disbursement of Community and national funds to the agricultural economy.
Unfortunately, the DISY Government not only did not proceed with the establishment of the CMP in time, but did not even prepare the legal framework for its operation.
As soon as the government of the cooperating parties took over and with the strong support of the Left, it started the procedures and within 14 months it managed to prepare and pass the relevant law, to create the CFCA, which was staffed, defined the procedures, accredited in the European Union and with the accession was ready to start disbursing the corresponding funds.
Agricultural debts
A long-standing demand of the agricultural world, which the government of the Coalition was unable to resolve, was the settlement of agricultural debts, which were created in the course of the production process.
Under the government of the co-operating parties the problem of agricultural debts is being settled, as there is a commitment in the government programme, and this is being done on the basis of proposals from the organised Peasant Movement.
The settlement of agricultural debts - the process has already begun - relieves the farmer of an unbearable burden and boosts his credit margins, which facilitates the implementation of new capital investments to achieve the necessary modernisation.
Modernisation leading to increased productivity and lower production costs, making our agricultural products more competitive.
The Agricultural Debt Settlement Plan has been approved by the European Union despite DISY's predictions to the contrary.
Our demands in the agricultural sector
The aim of AKEL - Left - New Forces is to implement all the commitments included in the Programme of Change.
AKEL Left New Forces will continue to fight so that: Maintain and strengthen the developmental agricultural policy
 and to upgrade capital investments,
Provide practical support for the modernisation and restructuring of the agricultural sectors by providing additional incentives,
Promote the construction of strategic infrastructure projects for the wider agricultural sector, also helping to reduce production costs,
To strengthen and develop agricultural research and agricultural applications,
To promote the education and training of producers for the application of modern methods of organization and management of agricultural units,
To promote community and regional development, combined with rural tourism,
 but also the creation of new jobs in the countryside, especially in mountainous and remote areas,
To showcase improved and innovative Projects, especially for rural women and youth,
Upgrade and improve the agricultural insurance schemes of OGA
 and at the same time to grant the farmer full protection from extreme weather events,
To create an infrastructure for a continuous flow of information and comprehensive information for rural residents.
Create an independent water body for a more rational use of water resources.
AKEL - Left - New Forces will continue to pressure the various State departments to deal creatively and not passively and fatalistically with any European Union Directives and Regulations and to act in the direction of serving the farmer and the Cypriot agricultural economy.
MIDDLE LAYERS
Common struggles against big capital
The middle classes are now facing pressure and competition from big capital as never before.
The globalisation of the economy as designed and shaped by the rich countries group and the neoliberal policy of the European Union helps big capital.
In the name of the market economy, conquests achieved through common struggles are being destroyed.
The fact that the interests of the workers and the middle classes are largely identical makes it possible to formulate common objectives and to carry out joint struggles to assert the rights and interests of small and medium-sized enterprises.
Consequently, the need for further strengthening of the middle strata on the part of the Party and the People's Movement becomes even more urgent.
AKEL Left New Forces will continue to fight for the defence and promotion of the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises against the pressure exerted by big capital.
More specifically, we will fight for adequate legal regulation and, where it exists, strict compliance with the law on retail issues such as store hours and sales.
We will work for such regulation which, while not adding unaffordable costs to small and medium-sized businesses, will at the same time allow them to compete with large businesses.  We
will work for regulations that are helpful to consumers
but also beneficial to workers in small and medium-sized enterprises.
Multifaceted support for small and medium-sized enterprises, also making use of the relevant EU programmes.
Temporal and territorial extension of the tenancy.
Legal regulation of technical professions.
Creation of an SME body.
COOPERATION
Ensuring its social role
Co-operativism is a serious social conquest of the lower-middle income strata of the city and the countryside, which through the passage of decades has a rich contribution to make in all sectors of the economic and social life of the country.
The Co-operative Movement holds a key position in the financial-credit scene in Cyprus and with its interventions and activities it offers alternative solutions and services to the Cypriot citizen.
Our goal is to protect, strengthen and empower this important conquest of the Cypriot people, so that it can continue to contribute to the country.
AKEL - Left - New Forces in the new conditions, which have been formed with the accession of Cyprus to the European Union and the compulsory harmonisation of Co-operatism with the acquis communautaire, continues to support the Co-operative Movement so that:
Maintain its social role,
Continue its activities as a counterpart of private banking capital,
Continuously upgrade the services it offers,
Coordinate through flexible structures the Co-operative Credit Institutions to operate like large financial institutions, but without losing their local character.
Within the framework of the constructive reflection developed by the Co-workers, AKEL - Left - New Forces contributes with specific suggestions, proposals and thoughts, which aim to help in the common effort to upgrade and promote structural changes in the Co-worker Movement.
The Co-operative, with its wide scope and the financial breadth it maintains, requires rigour in matters of administration, good management and timely preventive control.
The movement of the Left is in favour of the suppression of any malpractice or mismanagement with the exemplary punishment of the guilty parties, whose actions undermine and diminish the prestige and ethics of the Co-operator.
AKEL - Left - New Forces promotes the idea and works for the elaboration of a long-term planning so that the Co-operative Movement, correctly responding to the demands of the times, characterised by the full liberalisation of the financial-credit sector, creates on its own the conditions of self-protection from the ongoing attacks of banking capital and its representatives.
CONSUMERS
Protection against obscenity
The Price Commission was an institution that operated for almost thirty years, admittedly playing an important role in keeping prices down.
Without this Commission, inflation would be higher and obscenity would be rampant.
Gradually, however, the policy of price liberalisation began and intensified during our harmonisation with the European acquis.
Unfortunately, during this period there was not the necessary reaction from the government of the Coalition and the strengthening of those mechanisms and institutions that would have prepared the transition to price liberalisation more smoothly.
Many fraudsters are taking advantage of the new situation to sharply increase the prices of their products and there is a trend towards obscenity.
We are pleased to note that the cooperative government is taking action on the consumer protection chapter. The Consumer Advisory Committee is meeting more regularly, the Consumer Protection Agency has been strengthened, and consumer organisations are being financially supported to enable them to play their role more effectively.
For AKEL Left New Forces, a free market does not mean a free market.
More can be done and we will work to shield the consumer more effectively,
although unfortunately there cannot be the protection that was offered when the Price Commission was in place.
In order to codify the measures to be taken to protect consumers, we mention the following:
Continue to staff the Competition and Consumer Protection Agency so that it has sufficient staff to enable it to effectively monitor the implementation of the Laws.
Effective functioning of the Competition Protection Committee.
Accelerate the creation of the Consumer Dispute Resolution Agency.
The introduction of special programmes for consumer protection in schools,
while the state itself, through RIK, should establish such programmes on a permanent basis, in order to inform the consumer objectively.
Increase the fines imposed on offenders.
Efforts should be made to ensure that cases of obscenity and violations of the law are published in all the press
All organisations should be actively involved in informing, informing and generally educating and enlightening their members.
Encourage consumers to report violations of the law either to the organisations or to the relevant government departments so that the offenders can be charged.
BREAKING
Comfortable temporality
AKEL Left New Forces will continue to fight for the finding of a proper, peaceful and viable mutually acceptable solution to the Cyprus problem, which reunites our country,
with the right of refugees to return to their homes and properties in conditions of security and with the human rights of the refugee world guaranteed.
Until the desired solution is reached, ensuring the comfortable temporary status of all refugees has been and will continue to be our daily focus.
The government of the partner parties has done a lot of work to solve the refugee problems.
Legislation was passed that establishes the rights of refugees to housing
and introduces transparency in the operation of the mechanisms in housing projects.
The codification and improvement for the housing of refugees was completed by the Council of Ministers.
Legislation for the P.E.P. was passed and a Provisional Executive Secretariat was appointed by the Council of Ministers to conduct elections and elect elected members.
The Council of Ministers approved the new Proposals for the housing policy for refugees.
They include: A 15% increase in grants provided for housing on Government Land and purchase of housing.
Extend income criteria by 30%
Increase of the already increased assistance by 10% for Government Housing Reconstruction.
Broadening the category of homes that will be eligible for improvement grants.
Provide increased financial assistance to those refugees who leave any Government Settlement and are housed in another Housing Scheme.
For 2006 £51 million will be spent on refugees and the increase for housing is 39% compared to the previous review.
The programme for the reconstruction and radical improvement of residential and multi-family housing in Government Housing Estates is being implemented.  The total cost will be £100 million.
Construction of new housing and continuation of the policy of recovering illegally occupied refugee housing and lots.  To date, 300 houses have been recovered.
Increase in the number of plots being opened up.  300 new plots in 2006.
Increase in benefits through the CIP by £25m over the last two years and more efficient operation of closed schemes.
The government decided to grant approximately 13300 property titles to displaced persons residing in government settlements and self-housing districts,
as well as approximately 13500 plots of land to displaced persons residing in Cypriot houses or in settlements and districts built on Cypriot land that cannot be expropriated.
Implementation of the development programme of the former TC villages and districts.  £2.4m will be provided for maintenance and repair of T/C houses, £2m for improvement and construction of rural roads in T/C villages and £800,000 has been spent in the last 3 years on repair/maintenance of T/C monuments, memorials, etc.
The Trapped Housing Repair Scheme, costing £1.5 million, was promoted.
However, because of the accumulated problems, especially in the housing sector, we believe that much still needs to be done.
We note that there is a need for the Government to continue to focus on further modernising the criteria and financial allocations in most refugee housing schemes to bring them in line with the realities of the situation.
The whole situation was further aggravated during the ten-year Clerides administration because of its refugee policy.
In order to address and solve the refugee problems, AKEL Left New Forces will work for the following:
Construction of new Government Settlements to meet the needs of poor refugee families, especially young couples,
and opening of new plots of land mainly near existing settlements to meet new needs and maintain family cohesion.
To proceed at a faster pace with the radical reconstruction and redevelopment of the existing Government Settlements with specific timetables.
Provide title deeds to those who legally own homes in settlements and homesteads and address the issue of unequal treatment created by the Clerides Government in this regard.
The remaining cases should be dealt with in such a way that inequalities and injustice are not created.
To submit to the Parliament as soon as possible the Regulations for the holding of pan-Cypriot elections for the PEP.
Rent subsidy scales should be substantially differentiated to bring them in line with current standards.
The amounts given for housing repairs on low-cost housing units should be substantially increased to reflect current material costs and expanded to cover housing units on privately owned land.
The spaces saved in the Settlements, which are being redeveloped, should be used for the construction of modern apartment buildings or housing for young couples, medical centres, nurseries, homes for the elderly, parks, sports and healthy youth employment areas, citizen service areas, etc.
and to create suitable green spaces, sidewalks, parking spaces and generally to take such measures in the settlements that will change the image of the settlements and improve the life of the residents.
To strengthen even more the teams of the Provincial Administrations in order to intervene more quickly and effectively to improve the T/C districts and T/C villages.
Utilize the empty spaces for infrastructure projects such as youth facilities, clinics, nursing homes, parks, etc.
Take immediate action to remove asbestos from public buildings and residential areas in a technically and scientifically appropriate manner.
To further strengthen incentives for refugees living in settlements to move to another shelter of their own, if they so choose.
To create more and suitable craft areas to meet the professional needs of the refugee population.
To install as many lifts as possible in existing blocks of flats in the neighbourhoods to address the problem of mainly elderly refugees.
Speed up the resumption of the financial assistance scheme for the outermost regions, which has been suspended for some time.
Missing persons
The most tragic aspect of the Cyprus problem is the issue of missing persons.  Although
it is raised by the Cypriot side on a purely humanitarian basis,
however, due to the unacceptable attitude of Turkey and the Turkish Cypriot leadership
and due to the lack of determination on the part of the United Nations, the UN resolutions on the issue of missing persons remain unimplemented.
From time to time, positions have been developed for the introduction of the presumption of death and the categorisation of missing persons, which was rejected because it conflicts with the principles of international law on missing persons and with the real objective of determining the fate of each and every one of the missing persons.
The agreement of 31 July 1997 on the location of graves and exhumation of remains of missing persons has not yet been implemented.
The part of the decision in the 4th inter-state appeal concerning the missing persons and Turkey's obligations was also not implemented, so actions are underway by the Republic of Cyprus to bring Turkey into compliance.
The Missing Persons' Committee (MMP) has gone through a long period of stagnation and has shown mobility in the last two years, but not at the pace it should.
The Republic of Cyprus has proceeded with the help of experts from abroad in the exhumation and identification of remains and has rightly expressed its position to proceed with the exhumation and identification of remains of Turkish Cypriot missing persons, provided that the Turkish Cypriot side will cooperate and provide evidence of genetic material to complete the bank of genetic material that is necessary.
It is positive that there is interest on the part of Turkish Cypriots for their own missing persons, especially at the level of families.
At this stage, a process of exhumations in the occupied and free areas is underway with the help of an organisation of experts from abroad and both sides should cooperate to make this possible.
The issue of the missing persons must remain on the priorities of the Cyprus Government and in the pursuit of continuous internationalisation of the issue so that with the activation of States, Parliaments and humanitarian organisations and agencies, such pressure can be exerted on Turkey and the Turkish Cypriot leadership that can lead to the real investigation of each case of missing persons and the determination of their fate.
Trapped
The number of Greek Cypriot and Maronite internees is constantly decreasing as a result of the ethnic cleansing policy followed and as a result of the violations of the human rights of the internees over a number of years.
Basic human rights of the interned people such as movement, security of life, education, health care, health care, exercise of religious duties etc. are not implemented under the agreements and the principles of the United Nations Charter.
After the present government took power, it was possible to reopen the high school in Karpasia and to address various problems of our interned people due to the partial removal of the obstacles to movement.
On the issues of the internally displaced persons, we must continue our efforts to convince the occupation authorities and the administration in the occupied territories to respect the rights of the internally displaced persons under the agreements signed, the UN Charter and international human rights conventions.
The Government should effectively address the problems of both the interned and their children living in the occupied or free areas, with particular emphasis on the issues of pensions and benefits, home care, repair of the homes of the interned, education and vocational rehabilitation of the children of the interned.
Sufferers
The sufferers who include families of the fallen, the missing and the disabled are constantly at the centre of attention of AKEL Left New Forces.
The Party has developed specific and important initiatives inside and outside the Parliament for the solution of the daily problems of the sufferers, but also for giving them the appropriate moral and special honours they deserve.
But they remain to address various issues. We will therefore work on the following: Society and the State have an obligation to support the families of the sufferers and the disabled themselves in various ways.
The issue of the vocational rehabilitation of sufferers should be addressed as a matter of priority.
AKEL welcomes the actions of the government of the co-operating parties to recognise the Resistance against fascism, the Junta and EOKA II and the granting of promotions and moral rewards to resistance fighters.
We call on it to proceed with the resolution of problems that have arisen in the implementation of the commendable political decision.
The policy of financial support for sufferers should be continued and the benefits to them should be increased accordingly, as in other cases of our fellow human beings who are helped by the State.
To provide facilities in education up to University level, medical care, home care for those in need and generally to provide continuous human and social support to the sufferers.
To implement the Government's decision to create a monument to the heroes of the Resistance and Democracy as well as a monument to the fallen of all the struggles of the Cypriot people.
Address and resolve the issues of prisoners of war.
YOUTH
With the Left she realises her dreams
Youth and the Left are interrelated concepts because they symbolize and constitute in practice the future, the perspective and hope for our people and our country.
The forces of the right and the establishment are hostile to the specific characteristics of youth such as spontaneity, radicalism, questioning and the tendency towards novelty and renewal, pushing youth into political oblivion.
On the contrary, the Left has been and remains the most valuable ally of the young generation in their struggles to secure and extend their rights to life, education, work and entertainment.
By its nature, AKEL, as the political force of progress and perspective, was embraced and embraced by the youth, since it has always listened to the concerns, anxieties, worries, concerns, aspirations and visions of the new generation and actively supported their struggles, in which EDON was at the forefront.
In the last three years, participating in the government of Change, AKEL has had a decisive impact on the fulfilment of many of the militant goals of the youth movement, among which it stands out:
The upgrading of the social role of the younger generation and the participation of youth in the decision-making centres that concern them, an area in which real leaps forward have been made, since the era of misrecognition of youth has passed through the practice of the present government.
The institutional representation of the Cyprus Youth Organization (CYO), the Pancyprian Federation of Student Unions (PofEN), the Pancyprian Coordinating Committee of Students (PCSEM) and the organised youth movement in general in various permanent or ad-hoc committees is now an unquestionable reality.
Significant progress has also been made in the field of meritocracy, as demonstrated by the significant reduction in the number of appeals against the decisions of the NEC and the NEC, the implementation of the legislation and the introduction of objective criteria for the recruitment of temporary staff in the Civil Service, the maintenance of the list of appointees, the introduction of the point system for transfers in the National Guard, etc.
For the creative use of leisure time, among other things, the first Polycentre has been opened in Ekali, while the creation of youth polycentres in Limassol and Paphos is being promoted.
Also, the festival area in Famagusta Gate and the institution of the playgrounds have been opened and the institution of open sports areas is being promoted.
With regard to tackling juvenile delinquency, a broader effort is being made in the field of prevention in the areas of education, the family and the creation of healthy employment conditions for youth, a permanent crime commission has been established, the implementation of the institution of parental advisors has begun, while support services for prisoners in the central prison are being upgraded.
In the housing sector, the essential measure for the refund of VAT for the construction of a first home by young couples has been promoted, as well as the broadening of the criteria and increased financial support for the various housing programmes.
As far as young workers are concerned, the significant increase of the minimum wage from 280LK to 365LK and the promotion and implementation of the self-employment programme with amounts reaching 35000LK stand out.
Young conscripts have received an increase in their allowances, and improvements in the living conditions of conscripts are being made.
With regard to students and education issues in general, the promotion of educational reform, the creation of the Cyprus University of Technology (CUT) which will admit its first students in 2007,
the support of needy students with an additional special budget of 100 thousand euros,  the
introduction of the student identity card, the increase in the funds for the State Scholarship Foundation
and in particular the introduction of social criteria for scholarships, the inclusion of spouses as recipients of student grants and the consistent promotion of the Campus and the expansion of the University.
The positive assessment of the government's work for youth not only does not lead us to rest but on the contrary, it finds us ready to continue fighting for the comprehensive implementation of the government's youth programme and the adoption of measures that will further improve the position of young people in society.
In particular, AKEL - Left - New Forces will continue to fight alongside the youth movement for: Continuous upgrading of the social role of the young generation through: the full strengthening and support of the role of the UNEK
the safeguarding of the trade union freedoms and rights of students and pupils the
safeguarding of the right of young people to information
the promotion and further development of the participatory institution of Municipal and Community Youth Councils
the election of committees by soldiers who, in cooperation with the commands, will deal with issues of living conditions and entertainment.
Safeguarding the right of young people to dignity, in contrast to any past practices of despotism and bribery that force them into servitude and submission.
In particular we will seek: Extend and deepen in an institutional way, objective, impartial procedures for recruitment, promotions, secondments, transfers in the wider public sector, through which the role of the subjective factor will be minimized.
Further promote transparency at all levels and at all stages of candidate evaluation in the wider Civil Service
Maintain the philosophy and modernise the list of public education appointees
Improve the grading system for transfers of conscripts and introduce rotational service in frontline outposts.
Ensuring conditions for the creative use of young people's leisure time through: the creation of multi-purpose youth centres in all provinces
extension to all urban and regional centres of the institution of youth polycentres
strengthening cultural education in public education
upgrading the sports department at the Ministry of Education and school sport in general
creation of a Drama School and a School of Fine Arts
the rapid implementation of the programme for the massification of sport through the creation of appropriate infrastructure such as the creation of open sports fields.
Mitigate the social problem of juvenile delinquency with measures of a mainly preventive nature such as economic and social support for families with low incomes and continuous training of parents on the issues of educating their children.
Decisive promotion of the proposal for educational reform and in particular of measures that will help to address school failure such as further strengthening the department of educational psychology, the expansion of educational priority zones, etc.
Creation of a special juvenile court
Creation of a special - separate detention area for young offenders
Taking specialised measures to tackle violence in the stadiums
Specialised support to prisoners to create conditions for their social reintegration.
Rights to work and work with rights with measures concerning: the treatment of unemployment and underemployment, unpaid working time through specialized and through the general development policy of the state,
the institutionalization of professions based on the academic qualifications of workers,
the strengthening and effective promotion of self-employment programs, the substantial upgrading of the counseling service at the Ministry of Education.
Ensuring the right to organise and to conclude collective agreements.
A complete end to the policy of hiring retirees in the wider Civil Service.
Immediate termination of actions to extend the retirement age in the wider public service and especially in Public Education.
Operation of public vocational training institutes with one or two-year post-secondary education.
Continuous upgrading and expansion of training programmes by the Human Resources Development Department.
Ensuring the inalienable right to housing for young couples through measures such as: increasing the supply of land plots by including new areas in the housing zones, separating plots of land into state-owned and/or expropriated land and allocating it at cost price to young couples;
expanding the programmes of the two housing agencies,
improving loan conditions and overcoming the bureaucratic process.
Payment of a one-off allowance by the government to young couples based on income criteria.
Further strengthen the credit capacity of the Equal Burden Sharing Body.
Accelerate the construction of new refugee settlements to replace the first low-cost settlements, including young couples.
To address student problems with measures such as: extending the special sponsorship to cover all students
the extension of state student support in general, especially for students from lower income groups
extending the benefits of the student card
the creation of a student residence for the students of CUT and the extension of the University's student residence
strict control of private Higher Education Schools both in terms of the levels of study and the financial exploitation of students
and a review of the legislation regarding the for-profit nature of Private Universities
the transformation of Cyprus into a regional educational centre based on Public Higher Education
expansion of the University with new departments and faculties and timely planning for the expansion of TEPAK
increase the funds of the State Scholarship Foundation and change the criteria to benefit the neediest students with the highest academic performance
specialised financial support for needy students.
To ensure a creative service with rights for young conscripts through measures such as: a radical revision of the military regulations the
creation of conditions for the utilisation of leisure time through training programmes and the creation of an infrastructure for sports and cultural development the
complete abolition of the provision for serving disciplinary imprisonment beyond the period of normal service the
continuation of the improvement of the living quarters of the National Guardsmen at an intensified pace.
complete eradication of nationalist propaganda and chauvinist symbols and slogans
further increase the allowance received by conscripts.
DRUGS
We fight the world of illusions and death
The drug scourge is a complex psychosocial problem.
The history and evolution of drug use is directly linked to the history and evolution of our social system.
It is directly related to the economic, social and cultural context in which young people's personalities, values and life patterns develop.
We live in a social reality in which money is presented as the supreme value and the supreme goal is the acquisition of money by any legitimate or illegitimate means.  We live in
a social reality characterised by a crisis of values and institutions, by
phenomena of decay and corruption, in which a fierce and ruthless competition prevails in social relations.
We live in a social reality in which the phenomenon of human loneliness and lack of communication is becoming increasingly acute.
All of this leads people, especially young people, to addictive substances.
Addressing the socio-economic causes that make people turn to drugs is the most effective method of combating the scourge of drugs.
In the effort to tackle the major problem of addictive substance abuse by the Government of Change, the restructuring of the Anti-Drug Council and the formulation for the first time of a five-year strategy to tackle the problem have been implemented, the provision of incentives to employers for the reintegration of addicts, the creation of two rehabilitation units, Pyxis and Annisa, the operation of the prevention centre of the OCC in Limassol and the Centre for Documentation and Information on Drugs, and other preventive measures.
To tackle the social scourge of drugs, AKEL Left New Forces will continue to provide full support to the Anti-Drug Council.
At the same time we will work for: Establishment of a centre for the rehabilitation of minors
Introduction of substitute programmes in an effort to reduce deaths
Establishment of regulations on the basis of the '92 Law on Drug Addicts
Modernisation of legislation so that the attention of the law is focused on dealers and not on users
Promotion of educational reform, support for the institution of the family, ensuring social control of the media in terms of the negative patterns they cultivate, creation of conditions for healthy employment of youth.
Expand and introduce new programmes and actions for the social reintegration of young users.
WOMEN
Equality in society and the state
AKEL Left New Forces considers women's rights to be an integral part of human rights
and part of its vision for a more just, more humane society.
On the basis of this view, it continues to fight for the promotion of women as equal members of society and equal citizens.
The promotion, recognition and advancement of women in the family, at work, in social life and in public office has never been and is not only a matter for women, but for society as a whole.
Bearing this axiom in mind, AKEL Left New Forces has continued to work methodically and with specific demands for the upgrading of the role and position of women over the last five years.
We consider the main prerequisite for achieving the above to be the promotion of an integrated strategy for the implementation of our positions and proposals so that women can find the place they deserve in Cypriot society.
We will continue to work on:Adjusting society's attitude towards gender roles.
In this direction, it will seek to:Prepare training and awareness-raising programmes for teachers on equality issues.
Evaluation of textbooks from a gender and equal opportunities perspective.
Redefining school career guidance towards the elimination of the gender pay gap.
Media support for this effort.
Integrating the principle of equality between men and women into all policies
Increasing women's participation in all areas of social life and in decision-making and power centres.
The equal participation of women in public and political life should be treated by all as a matter of substance and not just as a numerical issue.
The aim must be to create the conditions that will give women the opportunity to compete on an equal footing with men, with the sole criteria for advancement being their knowledge and abilities, so that they can find their place in all bodies of power and decision-making centres.
Upgrading the role and expanding the responsibilities of the National Mechanism for Women's Rights.
Establish an Equal Opportunities Commission to deal with all issues of gender equality including the examination of complaints about all forms of discrimination against women.
Creation of mechanisms for monitoring and full implementation of the legislation adopted on equality, particularly in the context of harmonisation with the acquis communautaire, which guarantee essential rights of women workers such as equal pay, equal opportunities, parental leave, maternity protection, etc.
Ensuring the labour and social security rights of workers in informal forms of work, the majority of whom are women
, and protecting the long-term unemployed and the uninsured elderly.
Creating the necessary services and programmes that are essential to meet the daily needs of women, in order to eliminate discrimination and enhance the daily management of their multiple roles in society,
and to facilitate the combination of family and professional responsibilities.
Introducing comprehensive measures to increase women's participation in employment and tackle unemployment among women, including training and infrastructure facilities for working mothers.
Introduction of paid parental leave for both parents.  This should be provided after the end of maternity leave.
Protecting women from all forms of violence inside and outside the family.
To this end, it is necessary, among other things, to expand specialized reception centres, implement counselling programmes and provide psychosocial support and employment to women who have been identified as victims of trafficking and trafficking to
involve the state and society with more interest and affection in the problems faced by special groups of women, e.g. single parents, women with disabilities, women unable to work, immigrant women, foreign artists, etc.
LUXURY/FLAT FAMILIES
Imperceptible interest
Large families are an important asset of Cypriot society, especially in terms of maintaining demographic balance.
AKEL Left New Forces has over the years shown great sensitivity and contributed significantly to providing all possible assistance to address the multiple and serious problems they face.
Most importantly, it helped to remove a serious injustice against them, which was imposed within the framework of the Tax Reform, carried out by the previous government.
The new arrangement includes reintroduction of the age of majority for child benefit up to 25 and 23 years for boys and girls respectively.
Granting of the right to receive the Polytepone's allowance to families that became or become Polytepone after 1/1/2003.
Revise the amount of the basic child allowance and maintain the principle of income criteria for reasons of social justice.
AKEL Left New Forces also contributed to the further improvement of important demands such as an increase in the National Guard allowance for children of large families.
The extension of the entitlement to the allowance for Mothers with Multiple Births to Mothers receiving a social pension.
The introduction and improvement of housing schemes, operating through the Land Development Agency, the Housing Financing Agency and the Ministry of Interior, which are targeted at a wider section of the population and also benefit large families.
Apart from the above, AKEL Left New Forces believes that there are still several serious issues which it will consistently continue to fight for their promotion and resolution.
 These are:The extension of the entitlement to the Mother's Allowance to cover all mothers with many children.
The increase of the sponsorship for car purchase.
The formulation of a new tariff policy for electricity, taking into account the increased needs of large families.
Improving the tax system.
At the same time, AKEL, appreciating that the demographic problem is nowadays one of the most serious issues of Cypriot society, supports and proposes the creation of a Unified Body with the aim of formulating and implementing an integrated Demographic Policy Programme.
Recognition of the Polytechnic status also for Families of Five. This will be an essential and practical measure towards halting the under-birth rate and will also create a solid basis for replenishment and population growth.
As a first measure, we will work for the proportional deduction of child benefit when each of the three children reaches the age of majority.
PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES-SPECIAL NEEDS
Dignity and rights
AKEL Left New Forces consistently and consistently works so that people with disabilities have equal participation in society and work.
To achieve this goal we worked together with the organisations of people with disabilities so that there is a modern progressive law, the Law "On Persons with Disabilities", which guarantees the rights of people with disabilities to education, movement and work.
We have taken initiatives and played a key role in modernising the Law on Public Assistance,
in increasing public assistance and other benefits for disabled people,
in introducing programmes and incentives for the integration of disabled people into work.
Despite the steps that have been taken, we believe that much more needs to be done on disability issues.
Particular attention should be paid to the need for a comprehensive study and treatment of all the problems of disabled people and the creation of a strong Disability Service with increased powers.
The work that the government of the co-operating parties has started in this direction must be completed immediately and practical action taken.
As AKEL Left New Forces we will work for the following: Establishment and recognition of the role of the Cyprus Confederation of Disabled People's Organisations (KYSOA) with a bill that will establish its role and support it financially.
Adoption of affirmative action measures for the integration of people with disabilities in employment as provided for in the relevant legislation.
Modernisation and upgrading of the programmes offered by the Centre for Vocational Rehabilitation of Disabled Persons.
Modernise and improve the severe mobility allowance.
Benefits and allowances related to disability benefits should be differentiated in a way that addresses the increased needs of people with disabilities.
Strict control and effective measures to ensure that the building is accessible to people with disabilities and that they can move freely.
Creating programmes that foster the right attitudes of citizens and institutions towards people with disabilities.
The quality of life of a society is judged first and foremost by the quality of life of its most vulnerable groups.
We will stand with and alongside the organised movement of people with disabilities for a life with dignity and rights.
In recent years, society and the state have taken significant steps to integrate people with disabilities into education and society in general. These positive steps should be continued.
The amendment of the Law on Public Assistance, based on proposals that we as AKEL submitted, has helped broaden the definition of disabled, with the result that people with disabilities, mainly children, are now receiving public assistance.
Steps have also been taken in terms of financial support for voluntary organisations offering programmes to children with special needs.
There have been many instances when AKEL-Left-New Forces, both inside and outside Parliament, have lobbied for increased financial support for these programmes.
Programmes were also introduced, such as the institution of supported employment, which is particularly important for the integration of people with disabilities into employment, and the extension of community houses.
Despite the progress made, people with disabilities and their families still face many problems.
We note in particular the issues related to Improving the provision of healthcare for people with disabilities. Particular attention to be paid to preventive programmes.
Simplify and expedite the procedures for providing aids to children with disabilities
Expand the institution of community homes and improve its control so that a high level of care and services are provided
Create centers for the care and support of adults with disabilities when their parents pass away
Increase the amounts provided through the government grant scheme to the various programs
Provide incentives to consolidate programs as well as comprehensive planning for needs
As AKEL-Left-New Forces, we believe that policy on issues of people with disabilities as well as policy on people with disabilities is necessary to be placed under a single body with proper staffing and increased powers.
To achieve these objectives, it is essential to accelerate the adoption of the policy for a comprehensive response.
The views and opinions of voluntary organisations working on these issues have an essential role to play in the adoption of this policy.
EDUCATION
For a democratic and humane Education
Education is for AKEL a basic social good which must be guaranteed, with public free education at all levels
and ensuring equal opportunities for education and equal opportunities for success for all.
AKEL has for years set the goal that in order for Cyprus Education to emerge from the deadlocks and crisis that plague it and to be able to respond to the modern needs and challenges of the times, it needs a radical reform with deep cuts in both its structure and content.
A reform that opens up fronts against maintenance, anachronism and regression, bringing newness and change.
As a result of ten years of DISY rule, dangerous deadlocks had accumulated in the Cypriot education system.
The rates of functional illiteracy and school failure were appalling and, in addition to educational marginalisation, were the cause of many other social problems.
Paraeducation had become a cancer that shifted the centre of gravity of learning from the school to the tutorial, sapping the wealth of working parents and wiping out the leisure time of pupils.
The physical infrastructure of schools was inadequate and the huge shortages created suffocating conditions for teachers and learners.
This was the general picture of public education in Cyprus in 2003 when the government of Change came to power.
The Government of Change, implementing its pre-election commitments, is promoting with vision and strategy a comprehensive Educational Reform that embraces all levels of education.
The report of the Committee of University Experts on educational reform for a "democratic and humane education" is the first step towards the implementation of the government's programme declaration for a comprehensive and global reform of education.
We consider that the report in general corresponds to the positions and proposals that AKEL Left New Forces has been putting forward over the years.
It formulates a comprehensive proposal for a progressive radical educational reform.
Today, an open, structured, social dialogue is taking place on the implementation of the educational reform, through the Council of Education, the Council of Primary and Secondary Education and the Council of Higher Education, which were established for the first time.
The councils, which play an active role in the formulation of education policy, involve parliamentary parties, educational and social bodies, academics and, for the first time, representatives of the student and pupil movement.
The restructuring of the Pedagogical Institute, the establishment of a Centre for Educational Research and Evaluation, the formulation of a new system of Evaluation and a comprehensive programme of teacher training are in the process of implementation.
Public, free and compulsory pre-primary education for all children was established
and the state assumed the full cost of the maintenance and operation of public kindergartens.
The number of students per class decreased in all grades of primary school, in the first grade of secondary school and in the third grade of high school.
To address school failure, the institution of Educational Priority Zones is being implemented in 3 regions and its expansion to new areas is being pursued.
The institution of the all-day school has not only been quantitatively expanded from 80 to 150 primary schools, but the programme has been qualitatively improved and is being implemented in 12 pilot schools for children of all grades.
It is expected that in the new school year the compulsory full-day school will be piloted in primary school and extended to pre-primary and secondary school as the government declared in its programme.
In secondary education, in addition to the changes that have been implemented, the reform of the entire educational system is proceeding with the introduction of 10 years of compulsory education with a more uniform curriculum and the unification of the high school level
in order to tackle parapideia and provide more pathways and prospects for students.
As far as the material and technical infrastructure is concerned, the construction of new school buildings and the improvement of the existing ones continues at an intense pace and with better planning.
With the investments that are being made and the integrated planning that exists in this area, the image of schools at all levels will change radically in a few years.
Also, the changes made in the "Law on School Boards" strengthen decentralisation with the participation of Local Government
and broaden democratic participation by institutionalising the school committee at school level.
The University of Cyprus is expanding with new faculties, new departments and new programmes, increasing the number of students and upgrading the quality of its work.
The provisional Governing Board of the new University of Technology was appointed, which in a short period of time prepared a comprehensive programme, hired the first staff and the works are progressing so that in September 2007 the first students will be admitted.
The student identity card was established, a long-standing demand of the student movement.
AKEL Left New Forces considers that the implementation of the government's programme in the field of Education and Educational Reform must be pushed forward more decisively and at a faster pace.
The objectives set for the implementation of the Education Reform are quite ambitious.
Goals that AKEL Left New Forces must fight on all fronts, and especially in Parliament, for their implementation.
These objectives are: Restructuring, creation of a horizontal interdepartmental structure
and decentralization of the services of the Ministry of Education.
Transformation of the Cypriot school into a democratic school of citizenship.
Increase public spending to gradually reach 8% of GDP in 2008, as the change government pledged during the election.
A democratic school that works for the social inclusion of all children and to combat drop-outs from the system and social exclusion.
The elimination of narrowly ethnocentric, only cultural and by extension nationalist elements.
The incorporation of intercultural and multicultural education that links Cypriot traditions with the knowledge of the culture of others.
Revision of history textbooks, with the aim of teaching the modern history of Cyprus in a comprehensive and objective manner.
The revision and modernisation of the content of education (curricula, textbooks).
Strengthening the lesson of "civic education".
Cultivating critical thinking and humanistic values.
The extension of free public compulsory education from 10 to 12 years.
The consolidation of 10-year education through the creation of a 10-year general education module.
The unification of General Education and Technical Vocational Education in a new form of Integrated Lyceum which will organically combine general and technical vocational education.
The Single Lyceum will provide a solid general humanistic education and at the same time technical vocational education by offering fields of study (humanities, sciences, technology, economics, arts) and vocational orientations.
Modernisation and comprehensive implementation of legislation on Special Education at all levels.
The expansion of public University Education with the aim that in a few years the majority of students will study in Cyprus
and our country will become a regional centre of education and research.
The establishment of private universities of high academic quality, non-profit, with guaranteed academic freedoms and the rights of students and academic staff.
The creation of public Vocational Training Centres.
Intensify the programme of expansion and improvement of the material and technical infrastructure of schools at all levels.
Strengthening and staffing of the Cyprus Council for the Recognition of Qualifications (KYSATS) in order to carry out its work more effectively.
Strengthening, restructuring and modernising the State Scholarship Foundation.
Increase public spending on Research.
HEALTH
Social good for all
It is accepted by all that the health sector in Cyprus has continued for many years to operate through a system of regulation and planning, with occasional piecemeal corrective changes, which is a relic of the colonial years.
Cyprus, with its accession to the European Union, is among the countries where the expenditure on health care is always compared and as a percentage of the Gross National Product has great potential for growth.
Such increases have been achieved over the last few years, and the upward trend is continuing and will continue until we reach our high targets.
But just a numerical increase in expenditure does not necessarily mean greater efficiency.
A number of important structural changes and plans must transform both the quantity and quality of the wider health sector.
The comprehensive approach to health issues in a modern and efficient way on the basis of the operation of the General Health System is for AKEL Left New Forces a top priority, a debt and a commitment to our people.
We will devote our energies and continue to exert our political influence to make this goal a reality as soon as possible.
In the meantime, and as a component of this effort, a number of individual measures in this direction have already been implemented: The building infrastructure was completed with the completion of the construction of the New Nicosia and Free Famagusta Hospitals.
The new radical pricing policy for medicines was implemented, leading to a significant reduction in the prices of medicines.
The issue of supplying medical equipment and medicines was dealt with rationally.
Appreciating the positive work done by the coalition government and with our decisive contribution, AKEL Left New Forces will continue to work for the full implementation of the government's programme in the health sector as well.
Health is for us a social good that a welfare state must provide to its citizens at the highest possible level and at the time they need it.
It is for this reason that the issues of: proper organization of services,
rational use of financial resources and human resources, medical, paramedical and auxiliary,
creation of conditions for maximizing the positive results of the operation of hospital units, are constantly at the center of our attention.
It is a priority for us to create, as quickly as possible, mechanisms of organisation, control and self-regulation in the health sector so that it is able to adjust its operations in a timely and effective manner according to the requirements of each case and away from time-consuming procedures.
The evaluation of the operations of both the Bank of Cyprus Oncology Foundation, which operates at public expense, and the Institute of Neurology and Genetics and the taking of the necessary corrective measures to improve the services offered is also among the priorities for our party.
Our priority is also the establishment of a Medical School at the University of Cyprus in order to further the goal of making Cyprus a centre for the provision of medical services.
Prevention
In the context of the overall upgrading of the level of health of our people, it is recognized that the most important and least expensive way that yields at the same time the best final results is the system of preventive medicine.
A wide range of activities and organised efforts, including the prevention of infectious diseases, malignant tumours and AIDS, are the cornerstones of our efforts.
Prevention should start through specialised school hygiene programmes and be extended to sensitive age and other population groups on the basis of scientifically based data and statistically accepted indicators derived from analysis of real data.
Public and private sector
The public sector must remain the backbone of the healthcare system in Cyprus.
An important step towards the reorganization of the entire health care system and an essential step towards the preparation for the implementation of the GESY is the creation of conditions for productive and smooth cooperation between the public and private sectors.
It is in everyone's interest to complete this objective as soon as possible.
The completion of this planning with the adoption of specific measures will free the service delivery system from unnecessary repetitions
but most importantly will activate in the most efficient way all available resources both in terms of human scientific personnel and building facilities, with the final result of maximising the efficiency of the available financial resources.
Health centres
Plans for the orientation of the health system towards meeting the needs of primary care and prevention through the operation of Health Centres and its independence from hospital institutions are underway.
Human resources
An essential element for the success of all these efforts is to make the most of the human resources of the Health Services and increase their efficiency.
We will work hard and with a goal-oriented approach to create a climate of fair labour rivalry
, satisfy the just demands of workers and create conditions of industrial peace in the workplace.
ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIETY
Protecting the environment for a better quality of life
The modern environmental and ecological problems are nothing but the direct consequences of the dominant development model of the last centuries, which has also led about half of the world's population to absolute poverty and misery.
In Cyprus, environmental problems have been exacerbated as a result of the violent separation of the Cypriot ecosystem, anarchic development and the absence for years of a proper and integrated state policy.
AKEL Left New Forces believes that the environment plays a crucial role in what we call quality of life.
Environmental policy must therefore not only aim to protect but also to improve and manage the environment.
The actions of the Government of Change in the direction of strengthening the legal framework for environmental protection play an important role in promoting a model of sustainable development.
 and the modernisation of environmental management structures
but also the promotion of specialised issues such as the preparation of integrated solid and hazardous waste management plans, the use of alternative forms of energy, etc.Although, mainly due to the accumulated problems, the time-consuming procedures and the high cost of dealing with them, progress is not as fast as we would like.
Our main objective is to achieve sustainable development, to serve the real needs of society, not only for the current generation but also for the future generations, with key axes:
The creation of effective mechanisms for monitoring the implementation of environmental legislation and policy
and the promotion of fiscal measures that work in this direction.
To this end, it is necessary to effectively address the fragmentation of responsibilities related to environmental protection and to strengthen the services dealing with the environment.
The establishment of procedures for valid, comprehensive environmental impact assessments of programmes or projects.
The consolidation of procedures that will encourage citizen participation in the formulation and implementation of environmental policy
and support for an independent, organised environmental movement.
Rethinking the prevailing perception of the character of cities as the first step in addressing the continuing deterioration of the quality of life in these places.
Related to this is the issue of implementing such zoning models for the development of space that create the conditions for residential development that is affordable and qualitatively affordable to the working person and environmentally friendly.
The promotion of the use of energy saving systems and Renewable Energy Sources
and the rational use of the RES Fund as a social good.
Promoting a rural regeneration policy
and recognising and supporting the multifunctional role of the farmer through an integrated policy for balanced development.
The orientation of Education towards the cultivation of environmental awareness and the information/enlightenment and lifelong education of the public to become active citizens in the preservation and development of the natural environment.
Structured Environment
The concentration of population in urban centres, the absence of spatial planning and urban planning violations have led to a number of problems that citizens are confronted with on a daily basis.
Our main objective is to create cities that are friendly to the environment and people.
To this end, we will promote: the urban reconstruction of cities, incorporating environmental parameters
, well thought-out planning and compliance with urban development rules as a means of rational development
the extension of pedestrian and cycle paths
the preparation of plans for the regeneration and redevelopment of public open spaces and the creation of linear parks along rivers and streams
the effective protection and revitalisation of historic areas the
promotion of the implementation of the European directive on the environment
Transport
substantial measures to encourage alternative modes of transport (public transport, cycling, walking), including provisions in the road projects under consideration
special bus routes (e.g. for schools, hospitals, industrial areas, etc.)construction of modern bus stops and stations
construction of pedestrian walkways on all roads for safe and comfortable pedestrian and wheelchair traffic
financial support to encourage the purchase of buses serving rural areas
Waste management
accelerate the development and implementation of integrated solid waste management plans, in particular the establishment of a Hazardous Waste Collection and Treatment Facility
decisively tackling illegal dumping and burning of waste and restoring abandoned and illegal concrete sites
accelerating the establishment of sewerage systems
encouraging the construction of (regional and/or local) livestock wastewater treatment plants for the production of biogas and electricity with the direct involvement of local authorities
control of industrial waste treatment and support for the use of means to reduce environmental pollution (biological plants, buildings, etc.)
boost recycling efforts by setting environmental standards that specify under which conditions certain recycled waste is no longer considered waste.
Fauna and flora
recording, study and implementation of Community and international provisions for the protection of ecosystems (Larnaca and Akrotiri salt marshes, Akamas, Cape Greco, etc.) and the rich fauna and flora of Cyprus
; addressing the destruction of habitats by fires, land clearance, excessive use of pesticides and aerial spraying
; decisive action against poaching.
Forests
developing research and creating a data bank
reviewing quarrying zones and quarrying privileges and effective measures for landscape restoration
measures to prevent and respond to fires by improving equipment, extending forest roads and firebreaks and developing stricter legislation
reforestation through systematic tree planting and erosion control measures
limiting urban development in or near sensitive forest areas.
Beaches
strengthening the legislative framework on beaches to be in line with the well-established interests of all citizens.
Ensure the right of free access to every citizen;
review the contour of the coast.
Redesign and redefinition of the beach protection zone with measures to respect it;
implementation of international conventions to protect the Mediterranean Sea from both marine and land-based sources of pollution.
Akamas
Particular importance and attention must be given to the protection and preservation of the Akamas National Park.
At the same time as preserving the National Park, the State should ensure that the development of the communities in the area is supported within the framework of an integrated and balanced plan.
Energy
the gradual replacement of fossil fuels by up to 12% by 2010 through the use of renewable energy sources (solar energy, wind power, biomass, etc.) in sectors such as air conditioning in residential, industrial, tourist and other units, especially in public buildings
promoting energy saving systems (thermal insulation of buildings, etc.) in the context of the broader objective of reducing energy consumption by up to 20% of total energy consumption by 2010, including mandatory thermal insulation of buildings in mountainous areas
rational use of the Renewable Energy Fund for the benefit of the low-paid sections of the population in particular, preventing the exploitation of its social resources for the sponsorship of investment activities to the detriment of the other parties
rational use of the law "on the regulation of energy efficiency in buildings" and the definition of strict criteria for the construction of buildings, including the mandatory study of energy saving systems in existing and new buildings by qualified mechanical and electrical engineers
extending the labelling of low energy consuming electrical appliances and machines to industrial systems and machines and encouraging their use by consumers
implementation of legislation on the use of biofuels or other renewable fuels by encouraging the manufacture of biofuels in Cyprus and their use by public transport.
Water resources
creation of an independent water agency,
incentives for the installation of water reuse systems in new and existing buildings,
inclusion of water resources in decisions on land use planning and management;
representative costing of water resources use taking into account social priorities and needs;
improvement in irrigation methods for more efficient use of each water unit and proper management of treated wastewater.
Food quality, Organic farming, Food quality
strengthening quality control at all stages of food production and systematising controls for genetically modified organisms, taking into account the impact on human health and biodiversity
supporting organic agriculture and livestock farming, in particular in the field of research, know-how and funding of applied programmes
setting standards, controls at all stages of production, processing, distribution and import and clear labelling of clean products
reducing the use of pesticides and the administration of hormones and other drug mutants.
Electromagnetic fields
The issue of the effect of magnetic fields on human health is of concern to citizens around the world because of its association with various diseases.
We will promote the development of a policy framework for the issues and the application of a prudent 'prevention' approach where there is insufficient data.
Quarries, mines
strengthening of the legislative framework controlling quarrying activity
and full implementation of the law that provides for the restoration of the natural environment
objective costing of quarrying materials based on the impact of the specific activity on the environment (natural, cultural, residential).
Air pollution
expanding the network of air pollution monitoring stations in cities and the countryside;
controlling motor vehicles and controlling exhaust emissions on the road.
Implementation of legislation to ban heavy vehicles from entering city centres;
measures to promote less polluting fuels and infrastructure measures (control of catalysts, disposal sites).
setting standards and methods for the control of central heating burners;
measures to reduce emissions of pollutants from industry and livestock farms;
adoption of an air quality standard for indoor air quality and the establishment of direct metering mechanisms;
encouraging the use of hybrid vehicles in cities while creating free parking spaces for them in urban areas
LOCAL GOVERNMENT
For the citizen to have a role and a voice
The institution of Local Government, a popular institution for the support and strengthening of which we have fought many battles over the course of time, continues to be high on the priorities of AKEL Left New Forces.
A bold policy of decentralisation, not as a mere transfer of competences and resources but as a broad redistribution of political and economic power and the continuous strengthening of forms and institutions of self-government is now a prerequisite for its upgrading and development.
As AKEL Left New Forces, we believe that in this direction, a series of commitments made in the Government of Change are being promoted by the Government of Change, such as the study of institutional modernisation, starting with the creation of a Common Planning Authority,
the introduction of the institution of Public Hearings in a series of procedures,
creating infrastructure for integrated solid waste management and accelerating the creation of sewerage systems, particularly in communities, introducing the obligation to include cycle paths in major urban projects, etc.
As AKEL Left New Forces we will continue to fight for: The institutional modernisation and strengthening of the autonomy of local government, in accordance with the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, seeking, among other things:
the elaboration of an institutional framework governing cooperation between neighbouring municipalities and communities in areas of vital importance, such as urban planning, transport, waste management, etc., which require a global response.
the extension of the powers of local government.
the establishment of procedures and representative bodies to ensure that the views of local authorities are taken seriously into account in State planning on issues such as local plans, health, education, culture, sport, road projects, etc.
Ensuring the financial autonomy of Local Government, seeking beyond the guaranteed return of a percentage of the state budget:
ensuring the institutional capacity of local authorities to develop business activity and use their real estate for this purpose.
the delegation of the management of State-funded urban planning projects to the Local Government bodies with the cooperation of the central government when necessary.
supporting local authorities in the preparation of economic and technical studies and the development of human resources training programmes.
the creation of an independent, centralised audit service covering all local authorities, while strengthening their finances.
encouraging and supporting the networking of local authorities with other European cities and communities
and participation in European programmes.
Strengthening its multifaceted social and developmental role in order to ensure a high quality of life for citizens, aiming, inter alia:
the development of local government or cooperative programmes with the state, covering sensitive groups of the population, especially the elderly, young people, working mothers, people with disabilities, the unemployed, immigrants, etc.
supporting all efforts to protect and develop the environment, to create infrastructure in the fields of culture, sport, social welfare, housing and the regeneration of deprived areas.
the decisive promotion of relevant regulations to ensure access to pavements and public spaces for people with reduced mobility,
Widening the participation of citizens in local government processes
and development as a prerequisite for democratic decentralisation, seeking, among other things, greater transparency and credibility in the operation and procedures of local government.
the establishment of objective procedures and merit-based criteria for the operation of local authorities.
encouraging the creation in each municipality of integrated mechanisms to control the promotion of requests and problems of concern to citizens in order to overcome bureaucratic delays.
encouraging wider participation of citizens and stakeholders in committees and other mechanisms that will contribute to the implementation of the programme.
To achieve these goals we seek consensus and joint action with the other political forces, but also the direct participation of the people in the management of local affairs in new forms and procedures.
As AKEL Left New Forces, we want local government to be truly the closest level of government to the citizen.
CULTURE
A powerful weapon of defence and attack
Cypriot society needs cultural values and principles that will give vision, content and perspective to the human being.
That will fill him with confidence to fight for the building of a free, democratic society, where universal human values and ideals will prevail and dignity and pride will be forged.
The ongoing Turkish occupation and the strong onslaught of consumerism, the commercialization of art, etc. are factors that gradually erode the consciousness of the Cypriot citizen, which is why there is a need to plan our cultural policy.
AKEL Left New Forces seeks the cultural shielding of the Cypriot people and especially the youth, from the corrosive and soul-destroying influence of foreign and local subculture.
For AKEL Left New Forces, Arts, Letters, People's Creation, Tradition and Culture in general is an important component of the very existence of the Cypriot People.
In conditions of occupation of a large part of our country, cultural creation is a powerful weapon of defence and attack.
In cultural activity, AKEL Left New Forces has established itself in the consciousness of intellectuals and every citizen as the party with the most significant cultural contribution.
In recent years, it has organized high quality cultural events such as concerts, theatrical performances, lectures, symposia, awards for creators, etc.
As AKEL we have promoted and honoured the work of the creators with publications of literary works, poetry collections, digital discs of Greek Cypriots and Cypriots.
We got close to the theatre and the people who serve it and the artists in general.
AKEL took many initiatives, promoted issues concerning Culture and its creators,
had direct contact with people of Letters and Arts,
made specific suggestions for its further development,
and delivered to the Cypriot people a comprehensive proposal for Culture.
For the implementation of a multidimensional cultural policy, AKEL Left will work for:
The establishment of an independent Unified Authority for Culture, to which all existing public cultural organisations and services should be affiliated.
The responsibilities of the Cultural Authority will primarily include the preparation of cultural programmes at state, regional, municipal and community level with the direct involvement of creators and their associations.
As AKEL we have welcomed the government's decision to appoint a Study Committee, which will work out the framework for the creation of a Single Authority for Culture.
To create a state gallery and a music palace.
The creation of a Cultural Council and the utilization of personalities of the intellectual and artistic world, living in Cyprus and abroad, with the aim of promoting the Cypriot cultural heritage and creativity
and the promotion of the Cypriot problem through Art and Letters abroad.
To make our transnational cultural agreements more substantial and more active and to increase our cultural exchanges with other countries, especially with Greece and the European area.
To make Cyprus a cultural centre of the Eastern Mediterranean.
By joining the European Union, Cyprus can play an essential role in the field of culture. Its geographical location can be a bridge of friendship and cultural activity between Europe and other peoples with different religions, traditions and cultures.
To upgrade the teaching and cultivation of the arts at all levels of education.
To encourage and strengthen cultural exchanges between the two communities of Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots in order to help the reunification of Cyprus and its people.
With the realization that Cyprus lags behind other developed countries in terms of infrastructure, we will work to:
develop a programme for the creation of infrastructure projects such as: cultural centres, theatres, libraries, specialised museums, exhibition spaces, etc., aiming at cultural decentralization and rational cultural development.
To create a "Cultural Offer Bank" to provide assistance to amateur cultural organizations and creators so that the various cultural programs can find through them, wider access to the people.
To create a Cultural Heritage Archive, the purpose of which will be to record our cultural heritage with the aim of its preservation, conservation and study.
Furthermore, to improve and strengthen the institution of the declaration of listed buildings by providing additional incentives to owners of listed buildings for the appropriate renovation and restoration of their buildings.
The declaration of areas of special character (SACs), the maintenance and better use of ancient monuments and the encouragement of various events to familiarise the public with these sites, because culture and elements of all kinds (monuments, folk art, language, customs) are part of the human environment and should be protected and preserved.
Diversify the role of the IOC. The THOC should be responsible for theatrical development and a State Theatre should be created at the same time.
For the implementation of such a modern cultural policy, increased funds are needed, which is why the funds for culture in state budgets should be significantly increased.
At the same time, profits from LOTTO and other games of chance should be distributed as agreed with Greece.
Organised actions should also be taken to support the cultural sector financially and by the European Union, UNESCO and other international organisations.
SPORT
Aiming at the healthy engagement of the citizen
Sport is a social phenomenon that engages thousands of people in our country, of all ages and genders, but especially the youth, through practical, daily involvement and simple, enthusiastic interest.
As such it is offered and can be used for the education of youth and the improvement of the health of the people.
At the same time, sport contributes to the promotion of our country through international sporting successes and participations, which is important in today's difficult conditions.
Sport, under the right conditions, can cultivate a person's skills and character, provide creative activities and entertainment in their leisure time and contribute to the multifaceted development of their personality.
Sport, in the right conditions, cultivates consciences with universal values, promotes fair play and healthy competition, develops fraternity and solidarity between peoples and people.
The positions of AKEL Left New Forces and the objectives for which we will work for sport are the following
Democratisation - Reconciliation
The democratisation and consolidation of sport remain dominant objectives despite the obvious and important work that has been done over the last 3 years.
Phenomena such as closed circuits and behind the scenes still operate on the basis of party, financial and personal interests and the effort to dismantle them needs to continue.
At the same time, phenomena such as match-fixing, doping and hooliganism are becoming more and more prevalent and efforts must be intensified to deal with them effectively.
The K.O.A., as the highest sports authority, is called upon to play a leading role in efforts to further consolidate and address all the phenomena that derail sport.
We assess the work of the new Board of the CTO as very positive, in almost all areas of its action. It has put into practice a policy of good administration and equality towards sports bodies. It has introduced modern sports planning, both in competitive sport and in matters of sports infrastructure. It has introduced a policy of financial housekeeping and control in both the CMO and the Federations.
The Board of the COA should continue to operate within the framework of the above principles, always aiming at the scientific development of both competitive and mass sport,
the equal creation throughout Cyprus of the necessary sports infrastructure,
the further democratization and consolidation in the operation of federations and other bodies and the containment of negative phenomena that are an obstacle to its development.
In the field of football, the state, through the KOA, offers generous financial assistance to clubs to overcome the serious financial problems they face and to enable them to align with the required UEFA criteria.
However, the clubs themselves should also make immediate and tangible progress in streamlining their finances, operating rationally and within their financial means.
Apart from financial consolidation, Cypriot football faces many other problems that have plagued it over the years and keep it in bondage to various expediencies (biased refereeing, violence on the pitches, the issue of team reduction).
Only through its consolidation and proper restructuring will Cypriot football be able to develop further and fulfil its social role at all levels.
massification - Development
Within the framework of the massization of sport, the national programme of the CTO, "Sport for All", should be upgraded by redefining its role and developing new specialized programmes.
These programmes will target different groups of the population, depending on their needs. Such programmes may be targeted at adolescents, housewives and various categories of workers.
The COA to continue to support, financially and scientifically, competitive sports and to further strengthen its plans to support emerging talents in all sports, both team and individual.
To offer care and attention to high level athletes, beyond financial incentives, with the aim of their future use in the field of sport by providing educational training and specialization.
Doping and drug stimulation are acknowledged enemies of pure sport and also inhibitors to its proper development.
Efforts to address them must be further strengthened by the CMO by supporting and providing all assistance to the National Anti-Doping Commission appointed and operating under its auspices.
School sport needs to be upgraded, both at primary and secondary school level, to improve the health of students.
In this direction, the institution of the physical education teacher should be introduced in primary schools
and the number of hours of physical education in secondary schools should be increased.
To introduce the institution of the sports school for the better utilization of students' talents.
To promote the above, the Sports Department of the Ministry of Education must be upgraded and modernized.
Local Authorities to upgrade their role in the field of sport by participating in the effort to upgrade the "Sport for All" programme.
To improve the sporting conditions of the citizens by using the Social Sports Programme of the CSA to create small and simple sports facilities in municipalities and communities.
Within the framework of the declared policy of the CIO for the equal development of sports infrastructure, to plan for the construction of sports facilities that will meet the needs of Cypriot sport both geographically and for all sports.
This planning should first ensure the full utilisation of all existing spaces, as well as school sports facilities, in order to keep the resources required to a minimum.
Combating violence in sports venues
Violence in sports venues is a phenomenon that unfortunately occurs regularly with unpleasant results.
To deal with this phenomenon, AKEL Left New Forces will work to ensure that the following measures are taken by the state:
Preventive measures: These measures aim at cultivating and instilling a proper sports mentality by all those involved in sport in the country.
Government - Ministry of Education. They should take the lead so that efforts are collective.
Mutual respect, friendship, fellowship, peace are concepts that should be taught in school.
We are glad because the educational reform adopts these principles.
Cyprus Sports Organisation - Cyprus Olympic Committee. To promote the organisation of seminars, lectures and publications addressed to all the bodies involved in sport.
Federations. Their aim should be objective administration, proper problem solving, training of all involved, cultivating a fan spirit and ensuring that justice is done properly.
Unions. It is their duty to cultivate the right perception of sport, but also the right attitude towards their players and fans.
Their announcements and other manipulations, particularly with regard to refereeing, must cultivate a mild atmosphere and not be fanatical.
Athletes. Their own behavior and reaction is monitored and affects thousands of fans.
The various athletes' associations (PASP etc.) should establish a code of conduct for their members.
Fan Associations. The Fans' Associations should play their own positive role by making announcements to combat fanaticism and propagate the prevalence of a mild climate and by their behaviour in the stands.
Referees. They must be impartial in their decisions and show respect to all teams on the pitch.
Apart from that, they need to educate themselves constantly.
The Arbitration Committee must be convinced of its impartiality and make correct decisions, thus preventing any bias against it and/or against the arbitrators.
Media. Through the presentation of the games and the comments they make, they should contribute to an objective approach.
They should also contribute to education about the rules of the sports.
Apart from this, the media, and especially television stations, through the programmes they broadcast must create positive role models for youth and not promote or incite violence.
Suppressive:
Immediate and effective implementation of existing and any new legislation.
Restore for discussion and implementation the institution of the Sports Court.
Deprivation of the status of a football fan to persons who are proven to create or participate in organized and repeated incidents in sports venues.
Adequate policing of races, depending on the degree of risk.
Strict control of fans before entering sports grounds.
The entire behaviour of the police force must inspire confidence and respect and be non-provocative.
The CAA and the Police to implement the institution of the Order Supervisors in cooperation with the clubs and the fans' associations.
Promote new legislation on sporting ethics which will define how all sporting bodies operate and their responsibilities.
Sport and re-engagement
As the party of rapprochement par excellence, AKEL believes that sport can also be exploited within the framework of the rapprochement of the two communities and contribute to the contact between Greek and Turkish Cypriots.
Sport and sports meetings between Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots can help create conditions that will lead to the solution and reunification of our homeland,
The football meeting between the Greek Cypriot team of Nea Salamina and the Turkish Cypriot team of Yeni-Jami was the first between the two communities after almost fifty years of separation of sporting activity.
Sport by its very nature unites people and we should seek such meetings, despite the difficulties, as they bring the E/C and T/C closer together.
ADMISSIONS
AKEL has always stood by the expatriate Cypriots and contributed in various ways to their organisation.
It maintains close relations both with their organised groups and with our compatriots at all levels.
AKEL particularly appreciates the contribution of the expatriate Cypriots in the struggle for the vindication of our homeland.
The problems that concern our expatriates are always in the concern of AKEL Left New Forces, which is constantly working to solve them.
The state has a special role to play in solving the problems of expatriates.
To better address the issues and problems faced by expatriates and returnees, we will work to ensure that the Expatriate Service is reorganized and staffed with a Head Expatriate Advisor who will allocate time more effectively, for better coordination and utilization of expatriates.
Stabilize the assistance provided by the state through the Ministry of Education to organized groups involved in community education.
Strengthen the Federations of Paraguayan Organizations in the countries that function as coordinating bodies, with secretarial staff, in order to enhance their efforts to be more active in raising awareness on the Cyprus problem.
Advisory Committee of Expatriates.
The establishment of the Expatriates Advisory Committee is an important step for the better coordination, activation and utilization of the Expatriates for the better promotion and enlightenment on the Cyprus problem.
The Expatriate Advisory Committee in cooperation with the Expatriate Service must ensure the development of programmes by the Ministry of Education and Culture and the formulation of educational and cultural activities aimed at Expatriates and their communities for the teaching of the Greek and Turkish language
and the struggle for the preservation and promotion of our Cultural Heritage.
The strengthening of relations between Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots in the expatriate communities needs to be promoted more decisively.
A special policy should be drawn up concerning relations with Turkish Cypriots living abroad and the treatment of their problems.
RETURNEES
In recent years a significant number of expatriates have taken the road back.
Their repatriation is accompanied by many problems that constantly need to be solved. AKEL stands by the repatriates, is aware of the problems they face and works to solve them.
The state must address these problems with particular interest and affection and provide incentives to encourage return and permanent settlement.
Apart from the general problems of language learning, education, military service, medical care where some good steps have been taken, there remain serious problems of professional rehabilitation, short and unbureaucratic naturalisation procedures, as well as issues of residency, especially for those from occupied territories.
In order to better inform the repatriates, it is necessary to reissue the booklet with the rights and facilities provided by the Cyprus State.
The state should also establish a special budget line in its budget to solve problems faced by returnees.
In addition: Special rights that exist for refugees in Cyprus should be extended to refugees who would like to return to Cyprus The
same regulations for medical care should apply to expatriates as well The
support that the Cyprus State provides to families for the education of children and anything else that contributes to the smooth integration of children into Cypriot society should be continued and improved.
To amend the law to allow the registration in the social security system of persons who have not worked in Cyprus and to remove the condition that requires one year of work in Cyprus.
Youth
Continue to support the NEPOMAK Youth Movement, especially the Discover Cyprus programme.
To continue sponsoring children visiting Cyprus.
The Greek language should not be a barrier to the employment of children of the second and third generation of immigrants.
THE ACKEL KEEPS ITS WORD
In the previous pages we set out the proposal of AKEL Left New Forces to the electorate in view of the 2006 parliamentary elections.
These programmatic positions are the product of collective study and elaboration by the Special Bureaus and the Bodies of the Party.
They derive from the decisions of the recent 20th Congress of AKEL, they are positions and proposals that come from the long-standing struggles and experiences of AKEL and the Popular Movement.
AKEL Left New Forces, as the largest component of the coalition government, has made the most significant contribution to the implementation of the government's programme to date.
At the same time we renew our contract of honour with the people that we will continue to fight for the full implementation of this programme.
But we do not stick to the government programme.
We present our own positions and proposals and we pledge that with assertiveness and determination we will fight together with the people, inside and outside the Parliament, to make them come to life and become reality.
The 80 years of AKEL's life and action, the struggles of the organisations of the Popular Movement, the consistency, militancy and responsibility of the Left, the integrity of the people who adorn the ballot papers of AKEL Left New Forces are the best guarantee that this proposal will not remain on paper, because we keep our word.
AKEL Left New Forces proceeds with confidence and assurance towards the electoral contest of 21st May 2006.
Together with the people we will fight the battle, the victorious outcome of which will be a win-win for our Cyprus, our people and our workers.
