FOREWORD - HISTORY OF 15 YEARS OF RACING
In February 1996 a small group of citizens who were active in environmental, animal welfare and other organisations decided to form a political movement to claim representation in the Cyprus Parliament. In the parliamentary elections of May 1996, seventeen members of this group represented the electoral combination "ECO-Environmentalists" and received 3710 votes or 1% of the total votes. This percentage did not discourage them. On the contrary, they continued their efforts and participated in the municipal elections in the same year, electing the first ecologist councillor, Dora Konstantinidou, in the Nicosia Municipality. Until 2001, the Environmentalist Movement fought hard for the environment, the most important being the opposition to the use of the Akamas peninsula as a training ground for the British troops, which was finally successful (14 January 2000). During this first period of the Environmentalist Movement's history outside of Parliament, committees were established in all the provinces of free Cyprus, registration with the European Federation of Green Parties was successfully completed, and an office for the promotion of environmental complaints and problem-solving was successfully operated. The consistent and steady contribution of the Environmentalist Movement brought the great success of the 2001 parliamentary elections when with 8128 votes they exceeded the set threshold for admission to the Cyprus Parliament and made history with the election of the first environmentalist MP, George Perdikis. At the same time, in the same year, the Ecologists managed to elect more councillors in cooperation with independent municipal movements in the local elections of December 2001. They repeated and extended this success in the 2006 elections. In the same year, the President of the Republic appointed Charalambos Theopeptou to the new position of Environment Commissioner.In the 15 years of the course of the Ecologists in the political life of Cyprus, world-historical events have taken place. The Cypriot people went from the S-300 missile crisis, to the Annan plan, to the referendum and to the accession to the European Union.It managed to survive in the political arena when in the same period 1996-2011, fourteen political initiatives, movements and parties were either dissolved, absorbed or simply disappeared. The Environmentalist Movement maintained its political autonomy and its complete independence from the various parties in power. At critical times, it lent its support to policies - not individuals - with the sole aim and purpose of protecting the rights of our people. But it has kept itself firmly away from the cobble of power. Since 1996, the Environmentalist Movement has remained a staunch defender of the rights of ordinary citizens, for freedom, justice, meritocracy, good administration, transparency, protection of the environment, quality of life and health for us and our children.
CYPRUS AND POLITICAL ECOLOGY
GeneralEcology as a science deals with the rules of Nature, the chains of life, the food pyramids, the ecosystems in which the species of flora and fauna survive. Political Ecology brings the principles of sustainability and respect for the rules of Nature to human communities and ecosystems.
So just as Nature functions on the basis of rules of the natural order, so human societies must function on the basis of rules and values. These values and rules are recorded in what we call "principles of natural justice", "values of human civilisation" and "international law".
The Cyprus problem for the Environmentalist Movement is mainly a problem of invasion, occupation and violation of rules, laws and human values, not a problem of a bicommunal dispute.
Political Ecology must take a stand in the case of the Cyprus problem and propose the removal of injustice, the restoration of the natural order and respect for human (natural) values.
Furthermore, it must put forward proposals that are viable and functional, thus obviously, legitimate and compatible with the above values and rules.
The main element of the ecological solution of the Cyprus problem is the unity of the Cypriot space, the people, the society, the ecosystem.
The solution must provide for a state, with a single international personality, a people and a nationality, a single economy, society and ecosystem,
fair representation of national communities in the collective governing bodies in a rule of law and a justice system based on European principles and the security mechanisms of the European Union,
elements necessary to ensure the viability of any solution, federal or otherwise.
The withdrawal of the Turkish occupying troops is necessary before the solution is reached.
The abolition of all foreign guarantees, interventionist rights and British Bases is imperative.
The cornerstone of the Cyprus settlement is the establishment of the right of all refugees to return to their homes.
Settlement is a war crime.
As a matter of principle, therefore, no Turkish settler can be legalised before the Cyprus settlement or through the provisions of the agreement.
We demand the non-participation of settlers in the Cyprus settlement process (e.g. referendum) as unfortunately happened in 2004.
The geographical separation of Cypriots on the basis of origin or religion cannot support a peaceful perspective for Cyprus and the region and therefore will not serve the well-meaning interests of Greek and Turkish Cypriots but only Turkey's plans.
Therefore, respect for the human and political rights of citizens, dignity, social justice, independence and the abolition of all foreign interference and aggression are the main and inviolable elements of the ecological approach to the solution of the Cyprus problem.
Trapped
The Movement stands with admiration before the struggle of the interned against the Turkish plans to eliminate every trace of Greek element in occupied Cyprus.
The interned Greek Cypriots and Maronites, with their voluntary stay and their long and multifaceted sacrifices, have offered the political leadership unique weapons to expose Turkey's plans against Cyprus. Unfortunately, their valuable contribution has not been exploited.
The Movement recognizes the need for a substantial and continuous improvement of the living conditions of the interned and promises to contribute to the immediate utilization of their sacrifices through enlightenment and denunciation to the international factor.
Missing persons
The issue of the hundreds of missing persons has not been handled properly so far. The Movement argues that the issue of the missing persons should not be politically exploited or associated with any kind of expediency and proposes to intensify efforts to investigate the fate of all missing persons throughout Cyprus and beyond in Turkey itself.
We support the work of the Missing Persons' Committee.
Enlightenment
The non-resolution of the Cyprus problem is due to Turkey's declared plans against Cyprus.
 Unless Turkey abandons its expansionist plans, the Cyprus problem will not be solved through bicommunal talks.
 Turkey will abandon its expansionist plans only if it is effectively pressured by the international community and by its obligations arising from its accession path towards the European Union.
Otherwise, instead of the occupying Turkey - the perpetrator - being pressured, our side - the victim - will be pressured to make further concessions beyond those it has already made.
Securing the necessary support can only be done through costly, systematic and organized enlightenment, without interruptions or suspensions, involving and utilizing all concerned citizens, politicians, organizations and other actors in denouncing human rights violations.
For a common vision of all Cypriots - A united society
The contact and rapprochement between Greek, Turkish, Maronites, Latins and Armenians is an urgent priority in order to rebuild bridges of communication.
 To this end, we propose the creation of unified social and political bodies with a view to abolishing any separatist concept that separates people on the basis of their ethnic or religious characteristics.
Freedom and peace cannot exist without democracy and social justice, without respect for human rights, culture and the environment.
Our goal is to build a free multicultural society
with dignity and respect for Man and his Rights!
British Bases
The presence of the British Bases in Cyprus is a remnant of colonial situations. Such vestiges have been condemned for decades by the UN (1947).
It is necessary to promote a process of renegotiation of the British Bases and Britain's other "rights" in Cyprus.
This necessity is reinforced by international developments. This necessity is reinforced by international developments and information about the use of the British Bases in Cyprus in the HAARP programme and the suspicious chemical aerial spraying.
What we suggest:
To summarise the above, we make the following specific recommendations: Reconsider the proposals for a rotating presidency with weighted voting on the basis of collective decisions and with the help of constitutional experts.
Involvement of the European Union at technical level in the direct talks to check the compatibility of the proposals with the existing acquis (European solution).
Preventing the adoption of the so-called regulation on direct trade with the proposal for the port of Famagusta, resettlement of legal residents in the city and ecological reconstruction (green Famagusta).
Otherwise, exercise the right of veto on ALL chapters of Turkey's accession path.
Consider legal action through the European Court of Justice.
Bringing forward the issue of settlers.
International mobilization for an independent census of the population and property in the occupied territories.
Promote the proposal for direct negotiations between Cyprus and Turkey.
Invitation to international organisations and personalities to take on the role of mediator between Cyprus and Turkey.
Upgrading Cyprus' intervention in the process of Euro-Turkish relations
and promoting elements of the Cyprus settlement (e.g. withdrawal of troops, ending colonisation and the sale of Greek Cypriot properties) as preconditions for the continuation of Turkey's accession course.
Use of European mechanisms to exert pressure on Turkey.
To this end, the proposal for membership of the Partnership for Peace should be promoted in a way that enhances the prospect of a viable solution to the Cyprus problem and safeguards the rights and security of the Cypriot people.
Determination of key parameters of the Cyprus settlement (red lines) and their popular ratification through a referendum.
Opening of roadblocks (e.g. Kokkina, Pyroi, Lefka) and creation of demilitarized zones (e.g. within the Nicosia walls)
and operation of the "Green Line Regulation" in a way that does not legalize the occupation data.
Supporting the struggles of Turkish Cypriots for liberation from the political, economic, social and cultural control of Turkey.
INTERNATIONAL REALITY
We live in the era of the "New Order", i.e. the era when the American leadership took over the fate of humanity under its "protection".
This is after the Cold War era and the competition between the superpowers and the so-called balance of terror. The main feature of this omnipotence is direct external intervention and the resolution of local disputes according to the plans of the big interests.
The development model followed has as its main objective the maximisation of profits without taking into account all the negative impacts on nature and human beings. It is this model that for decades has been depleting natural resources, dangerously polluting nature with its waste, creating millions of unemployed and condemning a significant part of humanity to hunger and misery.
Our role is to connect with the global ecological movement and to inform, raise awareness and mobilise Cypriots in the context of an international mobilisation with key objectives:
respect for the autonomy and independence of each people and movement
participation in international mobilisations
and halting the course leading to the global environmental crisis
engaging and lobbying for funds for environmental protection in poor countries
participation in international economic "embargoes" for ecological purposes. Public awareness is a key prerequisite
the struggle against globalisation that disrespects people, societies and nature.
PRINCIPLES
Since its birth, the Ecological Movement has taken a clear position on nuclear issues. It opposed the view that wanted to divide them into war and peace.
This movement grew after the Chernobyl accident, where it became clear that the danger of nuclear power is enormous.
In our region, a number of countries (Syria, Egypt, Israel), with Turkey being the most dangerous, are promoting nuclear plans. As an ecological movement we have an obligation to continue the struggle for the global abolition of nuclear weapons and the denuclearisation of the Mediterranean.
SOCIAL INSTITUTIONS - DEMOCRACY
In order to sustain life on our planet, sanitation must begin in human society itself.
We can hope to build a new society of people who do not express aggression and rivalry.
This can be achieved through the establishment of democratic institutions that guarantee the full implementation of human rights.
The freedom of the individual must be respected.
The right of expression of individuals or groups to be fully guaranteed.
 The equality of citizens - regardless of gender, religion, ethnicity, language, sexual habits, social or income level, culture, mental or physical disability - must be expressed through the provision of opportunities and rights to all.
To make the above a reality we will fight for:
The universal, not selective, application of laws, which creates inequality among law-abiding citizens.
Protecting citizens' privacy
- rejecting electronic envelopes and interference with citizens' personal data (Echelon).
Ensuring the confidentiality of telephone conversations.
Abolition of violence and abuse of power by the police,
 limiting the activities of private security groups (securities) through the establishment of an adequate legislative framework.
Institutionalisation of referendums in a way that promotes direct democracy.
Transposition of the European "citizen initiative" into Cypriot law so that a number of citizens' signatures oblige the government and the House of Representatives to promote legislation.
Strengthening legislation that enshrines women's rights for equal treatment and protection of women's biological rights such as maternity leave and parental leave (for both men and women).
Establishment of an allowance for each child and strengthening of benefits for large families.
Implement social support programmes for all vulnerable social groups.
Amend the Family Law legislation so that spouses who happen to be guarantors of loans are not victimised.
By issuing a divorce to distribute both the property and debts of the couple.
Assumption of maintenance obligations by the Social Insurance Funds in cases where it is impossible for the divorced person to fulfil the obligations.
Abolition of all forms of discrimination against ethnic or religious minorities, people with special needs or characteristics and the sick (e.g. AIDS).
Formation of social institutions and technical infrastructure for people with disabilities.
Implement and further modernise legislation on facilities for people with disabilities, their integration into society and the avoidance of institutionalisation and social exclusion.
Radical suppression of the bribery, corruption and corruption that undermine the development of society
and successful legislative prohibition of the practice of bribery by individuals, organisations or political parties and the corresponding punishment.
Intensifying efforts to keep young people off drugs and alcohol and helping them to get off them.
 Establishment of detoxification institutions in Cyprus.
Protect legal foreign workers from exploitation by employers and "traders".
The promotion of equal pay and the establishment of equal professional and social rights so that the rights of local workers are also protected.
Effective implementation of community service in response to the need to safeguard the right of conscientious objectors.
Strengthening psychological support services for soldiers
and promoting institutions for self-organisation and self-expression of soldiers and police officers.
Strengthening social care (pensions) for needy families, pensioners, large families, disabled people, young couples and elderly people.
Acceleration of the evaluation of applications for Public Benefit,
increase of Public Benefits for a decent living for our fellow human beings in need of assistance,
increase of the minimum pension
and setting of a minimum income per family.
Promoting young people into work and decision-making centres.
 Not hiring retired people in the public service for better employment opportunities for young people.
 Implement the law prohibiting civil servants from exercising a second profession at the same time.
 Abolition of double high pensions.
Protecting children and young people from violence and pornography.
 Strict enforcement of regulations to prevent the showing of advertisements and shows of erotic degeneration on television in zones suitable for children.
 Strengthening the service of educational psychologists.
Providing psychological support to young and old people (in schools and nursing homes)
Elimination of bureaucracy through the application of new technologies and proper training of civil servants.
Redistribute the number of civil servants according to the needs of the new circumstances.
Safeguarding the civil rights of civil servants.
Strengthening the services of the Commissioner for the Environment, the Commissioner for Administration, the Commissioner for Human Rights and the Commissioner for Data Protection.
Extend the powers and strengthen the Audit Office.
Creation of the institution of the Consumer Commissioner.
Reform of the prison system and modernisation of prisons to transform them from places of detention and punishment and encouragement for new criminal offences to places of rehabilitation, with practical respect for the dignity of those who live there.
Abolition of all privileges of politicians (e.g. police guards).
Abolition of consecutive terms of office in any public office (setting a maximum number of terms).
Promote legislation on the operational framework of opinion polls (credibility, solvency, timing of elections).
Promote regulations that require the media to promote and treat all political parties, groups and citizens equally
and protect journalists working in accordance with the principles of journalistic ethics.
Modernisation of Public Service Broadcasting.
Modernise the institution of the Attorney General by strengthening his independence from the executive.
Creation of a legal service in the Chamber of Deputies.
Protecting small and medium-sized shopkeepers from competition from supermarkets.
 Improving working conditions for shop assistants, especially during the festive season.
Promoting measures to prevent the increase in crime.
Implement effective legislation for the functioning of political parties and financial support for all political organisations.
 Promote legislation to make it illegal to accept contributions from foreign financial institutions to Cypriot political parties
and requiring parties to declare where their financial resources come from and how they are spent.
 Promote horizontal voting and enshrine proportional representation.
De-partitioning of public life through the legislative application of criteria for participation in the boards of semi-governmental organisations.
 De-partisanization of the Civil Service Commission and the Educational Service Commission.
Legislating the right to information and access to public service information.
Direct citizen involvement is a key tool for achieving these objectives.
 The establishment of institutions of direct democracy and the functioning of "civil society" (and not of politicians) is the only safeguard of freedom and democracy.
PRELIMINARY COMMENTS ON AN EFFECTIVE IMMIGRATION POLICY
Introduction
We believe that the Republic of Cyprus has been hopelessly delayed in drawing up a strategic plan to deal with the problem of economic and political refugees.
The issue was not addressed on the basis of respect for human life and dignity
, but also taking into account the particular circumstances of Cyprus.
An integrated strategy must be based on the following key principles: Hosting and supporting refugees until their departure from the country in humane conditions.
Expediting the procedures for the examination of applications of economic and political refugees for the reduction of the costs of accommodation and the risk of illegal stay in Cyprus.
Modernise and modify immigration policy so that it does not provoke the feelings of the natives.
Implement measures against nationalism and racism.
Establish a policy to resolve coexistence problems.
Promotion of psychological and social support for foreigners in order to integrate them smoothly into the social environment of our island.
A subsidy policy that covers the basic needs of refugees without provoking the justified feelings of the locals, nor being an incentive and lure to attract new economic migrants.
Implement border and Green Line management measures.
Achieve bilateral agreements with surrounding and other countries from which migrants originate on preventive measures and on return measures.
Promote European policies on return (especially with Turkey) and on sharing the burden of migrant presence.
Promote European policies to remove the causes that drive these people from their homes and are the real root causes of the migration problem.
Immigration policy should take into account that our country is under occupation.
The real needs of the Cypriot economy, especially in times of economic crisis, and its capacity to receive migrants should be assessed.
There should be a limit to the number of migrants a small semi-inhabited country can accept.  Unfortunately, none of this has been taken into account to date.
Individual comments
1. Subsidy policy
Benefits for applicants for political asylum can be reduced and replaced by in-kind assistance or the creation of reception facilities.
Public benefits for unemployed and destitute political refugees or beneficiaries of subsidiary protection status may also be reduced and replaced by assistance in kind without infringing the relevant European legislation.
2. Gatekeeping
Many problems are created precisely because of ghettoization (e.g. in Nicosia, Larnaca) and the State refuses not only to address the problem directly and urgently but is not even willing to accept the magnitude of the problem.
Strict enforcement of the legislation governing the renting of premises (shops and slums in most cases) is required and strict measures must be taken against the owners of the premises that rent them.
Continuous checks on the number and living conditions of migrants in a guesthouse.
3. Employment
Set strict conditions for the residence of migrants and community workers, e.g. learning the Greek language within a regular period of time for a smoother integration, legal employment, respect for the society where they live, etc.
Stricter legislation to crack down on illegality, both for migrant and community workers and employers.
Regular auditing of private employment agencies, studying the criteria for employing migrants and identifying occupations where there is a real demand.
4. Domestic workers
The numbers are too high. There is a lot of money and nowadays, circuits have been created to exploit both their arrival and their stay in our country.
Redefining the policy as written is not sufficient (economic growth, etc.). Barriers should be put in place to ensure that only those in real need (elderly, disabled, etc.) are licensed.
5. Re-marketing with Turkey
Foreigners through Turkey-descendants is a completely controlled and directed situation by Turkey.
We should demand from the European Union that Turkey accept their immediate repatriation to the occupied territories or else we should veto any Turkey-EU agreement.
In the meantime, those who come through the occupied territories should be automatically and immediately driven through the barrier of Ledra Palace to the occupied territories.
6. Preventive measures
A campaign can be undertaken in countries of origin (e.g., newspaper advertisements) that Cyprus is not their choice because things have become stricter.
Also an exhortation not to pay the circuits because in most cases they are exploited and abandoned.
7. Rights of political refugees
One of the major problems created by the situation is that the uncontrolled flow of foreigners and the indiscriminate reaction of society deprives the truly persecuted and the fugitives of the support and protection they need and deserve.
8. Trafficking in persons
To fight trafficking in human beings more vigorously.
Stop the licensing of female artists.
To crack down on human trafficking rings.
The activities of certain lawyers also constitute trafficking in persons (there is a legal vacuum to combat this form of trafficking).
9. Frontex
Request the European force FRONTEX to patrol the northern, southern and eastern borders of the Republic of Cyprus.
10. Reception infrastructure
Suitable accommodation for the reception of asylum seekers and for the "detention" of those whose applications have been rejected and are awaiting deportation or refoulement.
WOMEN - EQUALITY
The participation of Cypriot women in decision-making centres, in political and public life, remains extremely low not only compared to other European countries but also compared to poor third world countries.
The very small number of women in Parliament and in government is a substantial democratic deficit, as half of the population is under-represented.
At the same time, the absence of women limits the quality of political life and deprives it of a more holistic and human-centred approach.
The pay gap between men and women in Cyprus (around 22%) is still one of the largest in the European Union (average 17%, with 7 countries below 10%)
and very few women are in managerial positions in both the private and public sector.
Women constitute the majority of persons below the poverty line in Cyprus as well as globally.
At the same time, violence in all its forms affects women of all ages and social classes the most:
the most brutal violation of human rights does not only affect women victims, it undermines and traumatizes the whole society.
The extent of violence in Cypriot society has not yet been documented in comprehensive surveys, but the Council of Europe's figures are indicative: 20-25% of women have suffered physical violence at least once, while 12-15% face violence in their homes on a daily basis.
More tragic is the impact of domestic violence on children.
The exploitation and trafficking of women has not yet been effectively addressed in Cyprus.
Recognition of refugee status for maternal refugees is an obligation of the state.
Since the Turkish invasion, the Cypriot state, under various pretexts, does not recognize as refugees the children of female refugees, but only of male refugees. A key historical point is the legislation on the population register passed in (2002) on the population register, which recognised as refugees only those who are of patrilineal descent, despite the opposition vote of the Environmentalist Movement.
The root cause of all these phenomena is deep-rooted notions of inequality and power structures against women.
A practical obstacle limiting women's equal participation in all areas is the difficulty of combining family life with professional and wider public life.
We welcome the action plans recently adopted by the Cypriot state to combat domestic violence, to promote equality in education, and to combat trafficking in persons.
We look forward to the implementation of the action plans, with the necessary coordination and resources from the government.  The Ecologist Movement actively contributes to the implementation of the national plans.
Measures for equal participation of women in decision-making centres
In the political and social arena there are equal players of women and men, but at this stage, with the accumulated effects of centuries of inequality, temporary compensatory measures are needed to address discrimination: quotas (50-50) on the boards of public and semi-governmental organisations, on electoral ballots and in senior management positions, and the promotion of women to public office.
Technical training for women to participate in politics.
Measures to eliminate inequality in employment
Improving and putting into practice legislation guaranteeing women's rights to equal pay and equal treatment at work.
Improve legislation on the prohibition of dismissal of pregnant women, with increased penalties, and effective enforcement.
Systematically informing women about their rights guaranteed by legislation and collective agreements, so that they are able to claim them effectively.
Training programmes for the integration or reintegration of women into the labour market.
Equal opportunities for recruitment and career development.
Awareness-raising for children to choose non-traditional "female" and "male" occupations through school career guidance.
Reconciling family and professional life
Extending maternity leave from 18 to 20 weeks, with full pay, in line with new European standards (European Parliament legislative resolution of 20 October 2010).
Improving the functionality of parental leave, for mothers and fathers, with full pay for 2 weeks (currently parental leave is unpaid).
Improving childcare and elderly care facilities at an affordable cost for working mothers
and strengthening the role of local government.
Expansion of the all-day school.
Flexible working hours and the creation of part-time work opportunities.
The spread of teleworking.
Support for large families, with an increase in benefits.
More substantial support for single-parent families.
Developing community gyms, clubs, sports and green spaces for healthy activities for children.
Creating a safe network of cycle paths, pavements and pedestrian walkways for the safe movement of children.
Expansion and improvement of the school bus service.
Preventing and combating all forms of violence against women
Implementation of the National Action Plan for the Prevention and Combating of Violence in the Family, with measures in the 5 main axes:
Prevention of violence, starting with education: changing behaviour patterns and stereotypical roles, empowering children by developing social skills and resistance to violence and discrimination.
Develop and implement a media code of conduct against violence and gender stereotypes.
Support and protection of victims of domestic violence.
Monitor the problem of violence through scientific research and develop a comprehensive statistical database.
Awareness raising and training of professionals (teachers, doctors, nurses, police, judges, etc.) and the general public.
Improve the implementation of legislation on domestic violence,
including repressive and treatment programmes for perpetrators.
Effectively tackling the problem of sexual exploitation and trafficking, which was not limited by the abolition of the special visa for "artists" but rather changed its form and moved to cafes and bars.
Criminalisation of the "client" in cases of prostitution offences.
Protecting children from all forms of violence
Protecting children from physical, sexual or psychological abuse and neglect.
More effective staffing of Social Welfare Services, so that there is an immediate response to incidents of violence against minors.
Protecting children from scenes of violence on TV.
Strengthening the service of educational psychologists.
Strengthening public hospitals with child psychologists and child psychiatrists.
ECONOMY
We believe that the economy should be treated as part of sustainable development.
 Resources should not be wasted at the expense of future generations.
 The economy should be managed without dogmatisms and standards but with the overriding aim of raising living standards without encouraging consumerism.
 The government should intervene in the management of the economy for the purposes of social solidarity and equitable development without turning the state into a businessman.
The government should require the preparation of Environmental Impact Assessments in the preparation of projects.
The environment is a national wealth that needs protection
and proper management for the benefit of all.
To restore the environmental balance, an environmental levy is needed. This revenue should be spent exclusively on reducing negative impacts on the affected areas.
Economic growth is not an end in itself and economic growth is not independent of social growth but must go hand in hand in a balanced way.
 Economic growth to be the driving force to support social development, education, health and environmental protection.
Green Economy - Green Jobs
In our present political situation, the dominant element in any socio-political analysis and social proposal is its economic dimension.
The economic crisis, which has been intensifying since 2008, is a reality that dominates social and political developments.
More important than the fluctuations of the stock markets and the course of the big companies, of course, are the effects on the lives of ordinary people, where numerous jobs have already been lost and even more are threatened by the development of the crisis.
The answers to the economic crisis are neither easy nor given.
In Cyprus, the crisis has not so far caused spectacular failures of financial institutions, as in other countries. However, its development directly affects the so-called "real economy", which shows much greater weaknesses compared to most European countries.
These weaknesses were created over time by: Reliance on "easy money" (such as from the stock market, real estate), as well as over-inflated private consumption, which in recent years has in turn relied on excessive borrowing.
The disproportionately central role of the "engine of the economy" in the construction sector.
The very high level of public debt, which remains unabated as a short-term, short-term solution to the situation emerges without real and long-term answers on how to reduce deficits substantially and how to recover the economy.
Over-reliance on sectors directly affected by the international crisis, such as tourism and construction.
Excessive dependence on imported energy (oil and gas), energy waste and a polluting energy model
The alarmingly increasing rate of expenditure on pensions, both for civil servants and social security, which, as indicated by actuarial studies, could be catastrophic in the medium term.
The absence of effective protection of natural resources in areas such as water, forest land, natural areas and biodiversity.
The delay in the transition to the digital economy, and in the implementation of new technologies.
 The government's policy to date: It focuses exclusively on the temporary maintenance of monetary liquidity in the economy, ignoring the fact that a large part of citizens depend on almost doomed jobs in construction or tourism, which threatens to drag down a large part of the rest of the economy.
It is not taking the opportunity created by the crisis to rationalise the operating costs of the state apparatus
and to accelerate structural changes to lead to a fairer society.
The gap between the private and public/public sector is widening and tends to create two tiers of citizens, those who enjoy high wages, privileges and job security and the rest who are plagued by unemployment and poverty.
In addition to measures to reduce the fiscal deficit, the countries hit hardest by the crisis have turned to the New Economy and new areas of growth, with a focus on Green Growth.
At a time when "Green Growth" is becoming a central issue in the economic policy of all national governments and the European Union, the absence of a coherent, coherent and ambitious framework for "green growth" in government economic policy is a negative impression.
The central issue is therefore the creation of new quality and decent jobs in sectors that promote sustainability, in order to provide a way out for those who lose their current jobs.
Development projects must contribute to economic and environmental sustainability,
be based on the use of new technologies
and activate human resources.
Typically, we have proposed and put forward specific proposals such as investing in the digital economy through the full computerisation of the state apparatus and cheap and affordable broadband, which should be the major development project.
It will bring economy, efficiency and more meritocratic operation of the state machinery
and will create thousands of employment opportunities for young people.
Investment in renewable energy, which is in any case necessary and urgent for energy security, tackling climate change and the transition to the post-oil era.
The shift to sustainable transport and transportation since in recent years, the transport sector has had the most uncontrolled increase in greenhouse gas emissions. Without a decisive shift towards public transport, it is impossible to improve the situation.
The creation of a residential environment with a substantial quality of life with small and large public works that can provide new jobs, upgrading the quality of life of citizens and even improving their economic prospects
The rational management and protection of water resources and
The change of orientation in tourism, towards new forms such as agrotourism, ecotourism and so on.
The economy is not limited to indicators and numbers, but focuses on the well-being of every citizen and the responsibility of all of us towards future generations.
It is therefore worth trying proposals that go beyond the philosophy of the present social and economic system.
Taxation and Pensions
Taxation of citizens must be fair
and protect the low paid.
Ecological or sustainability criteria must also be taken into account.
Tax evasion must be clamped down on and severely punished as it undermines the economy of the state.
Indicatively you should: Revise the legislation on tax evasion.
The revision of the legislation on tax evasion should be revised.
Abolish the right to collect more than one high pension.
Tax all officials' allowances.
The amount of benefits should not be included in the calculation of the amount of the pension.
Regarding the pension system, the sustainability of the Social Security Fund should be immediately ensured so that future generations are not left exposed to pension risks.
A total overhaul of the pension system is needed.
Privatisations and shareholdings
With the current management regime of the Semi-State Organizations and Enterprises, the consumer is not served and the business itself has little chance of survival in the competitive climate imposed by the European Union.
By corporatising these companies, the government retains control with the largest percentage of shares. One percentage of shares to be held by the employees and the rest to be retained by the private sector.
Privatisation is an alienation of state wealth and is not the solution to the problem of the semi-government organisations. There are a number of institutional frameworks that can be implemented for the efficient operation of these organisations.
Stock Exchange
The stock market institution has been transformed from a dynamic role in promoting the economy to a gambling mode due to the lack of proper management and the necessary institutional framework.
The strengthening and full independence of the Securities and Exchange Commission is needed.
 Institutional amendments to the Law are required to promote the stock exchange institution, transparency and the confidence of the investing public.
You should: Make such legislative arrangements that do not allow direct or indirect links between brokers and investment companies.
Encourage institutional investors to invest substantially in the CSE.
Lower interest rates to make equities more attractive in the long run.
To be instituted, as periodically published by the stock exchange the intrinsic value of each company per share, confirmed by its auditors.
Speed up the promotion of the Investment Services Firms Bill on issues such as the licensing of investment advisors and portfolio managers, their qualifications and the necessary safeguards they must provide.
To substantially strengthen the role of the Securities and Exchange Commission and make it fully independent from the government and any interventions.
Privatise the CSE and make the state no longer responsible for its operation.
Expedite the investigation of the Investigative Committee on the CFC.
Expedite proceedings at the Attorney General's Office to investigate any complaints made by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
The complex concerns of global society in relation to the environment and natural resources, biodiversity, health and quality of life have led to the concept of sustainability, or more simply sustainability.
It was preceded by the experience of intensification of production and competition, especially after the industrial revolution and the overexploitation of natural resources which, in the colonial era, led to the plundering of Asia, Africa, Latin America and the Third World and the wars for oil, water, etc. This model of development is still practiced in many less developed countries.
The development model followed in Cyprus after independence could not have been wiser than the international trend in the preceding years.
If such an excuse is acceptable for the first years after 1960 and for the years after the Turkish invasion, it is unacceptable that the development plans of successive governments have continued to move in the same outdated frameworks which may feed the conventional economic indicators with positive figures, but as a rule they stress and alter the environment.
 The great importance of the tourism sector is dictated by economic data, but the orientation of economic policy towards mass tourism with the exclusive aim of high numbers of visitors and beds without a real analysis of the benefits for Cyprus has led to the squandering of environmental resources, undermining the prospects even for tourism itself.
The degradation of agriculture, with land-use change, urbanisation and the reduction of industry to the level of small-scale manufacturing, without adequate planning for quality, energy and environmental criteria, bodes pessimistic for the future.
The directions for agriculture and industry need to be redefined in today's competitive and environmentally sensitive international climate.
There is an immediate and urgent need to understand and adopt the model of sustainable management based on the ecological use of resources to serve the real needs of society and the ability to serve future generations.
EDUCATION
Education, inside and outside educational institutions, is called upon to make use of knowledge, history and culture and, by cultivating thinking, criticism and research, to consolidate existing knowledge and produce new knowledge, to create culture.
In essence, education, by building on yesterday, creates today and paves the way for tomorrow, serving the vision of society.
For us, this vision includes the formation of informed, creative, critical, participatory, assertive and above all free citizens who know how to fight for their rights.
These objectives require the educational process to be essentially democratic,
 based on respect for individuality,
 the national and cultural specificity of each member/group
and supports the cultivation of humanistic and ecological awareness.
In the case of Cyprus, with the ongoing Turkish occupation and all its consequences on man, the environment and culture, education has a more complex and decisive role.
 Our conclusion is that our education, regardless of the substantial contribution of educational institutions and individuals, does not meet the specific needs of the country.
 This is due to the lack of vision and the fact that our society has deified size and subverted human and cultural values.
It has highlighted as models and "values" imitation, xenomania, over-consumption, profit maximisation and commercialisation.
Democratic education requires equality of opportunity in education.
The blossoming para-education is called upon to fill the gaps in the content of educational programmes and their distortions.
This process increases the inequality of educational opportunities that is already intensified by the differences between "good" and "bad" schools, private and public.
Our suggestion is to reduce the material to less and more substantial and the books to avoid redundancy.
The sheer volume of material is one reason why the course cannot be taught at a pace adapted to all students so that they can assimilate the material.
We also suggest that the textbooks should be written in such a way as to be an alert teacher.
We consider it possible to abolish stagnation in all compulsory education as soon as the school will be able to deal with school failure in a meaningful way, after having first identified the needs of each pupil individually and after having taken into account the individual learning rate of each pupil in order to be able to ensure for all pupils a minimum level of knowledge, attitudes and skills in at least the "basic" subjects, which the state must define.
In order to improve the educational work provided and the school units, we consider self-evaluation necessary, which should be based on its own "legs".
Our position is that the school units should become the actors of educational policy formulation and practice and that the state should provide the decentralised and relatively autonomous school unit with a stable orientation for a democratic and humane school, financial resources, teaching staff and continuous support for the school's efforts for improvement and change.
A key point for the success of the above we consider the institutionalisation of research teacher promotion positions within the school units, where the teachers in question will have both teaching and research tasks at the same time.
Apart from the necessity of having the above promotion positions, which we have described very clearly to the Ministry and to the Middle and Elementary Board, the teacher will gain respect and esteem and increase his/her prestige in society.
We reject the proposed evaluation system for promotion purposes with external - comparative evaluation of teachers because we consider it as a continuation of the existing anachronistic evaluation system, because it reduces the dignity of teachers, because it does not allow the existence of an open communication climate in the school unit.
That is why we are in favour of the establishment of the Academy of Education Executives.
The operation of the University of Cyprus, the Open University and the Cyprus University of Technology is undoubtedly an important development for the country. It is expected that the University as a living institution should respond to the pulse and needs of society, through freedom of thought, expression, research and reflection, through an interaction with the society as a whole and at the same time with the global intelligentsia.
We do not want an elitist and isolated island of the "chosen ones" nor a foreign body in society but a living part of society that actively participates in the social, cultural and economic life of the country.
Education and environmental awareness
In a rapidly changing world, with the small and big environmental and other problems in the Cypriot area, a renewed education and a lively, genuine, consistent education must be promoted.
An environmental theme has been defined in schools which, fortunately, has not been limited to the framework of a single lesson but, rightly, extended through a set of lessons.
Environmental awareness is the basic basis for the formulation and promotion of any environmental policy.
 The establishment in society of values opposed to extreme consumerism and the development of quantitative factors, concerning quality of life and sustainability, remains the main concern of the environmental-ecological movement.
It is essential to acquire a comprehensive environmental sensitivity, because no measure of environmental protection or ecological management can and should not be based on coercion and imposition, but on substantial social consensus and acceptance.
 Environmental awareness-raising bodies should be everywhere.
Particularly important is the role of the media, which, while they have so far shown a great deal of sensitivity when it comes to the environmental movement's highlighting of environmental scandals, have generally proven to be weak in promoting real efforts to investigate, present and consistently promote the problems.
We recommend: Funding of environmental awareness programmes through the possibilities provided by the EU.
Promoting incentives for the overall engagement of citizens and the media on environmental issues.
Creating a real framework for environmental education in educational institutions, in cooperation with environmental-ecological volunteers and expert scientists.
Removal from school textbooks of references that glorify the current development model (e.g. mass tourism, genetically modified, nuclear) and the addition of an environmental approach to curricula and artistic activities for children e.g. music, art.
Possibility of further training of teachers on environmental issues.
You should: Revise the objectives and role of Vocational Education and Training and the Apprenticeship System.
To create institutionalised institutions and a flexible and effective body to set objectives and continuously monitor and adjust the course in the context of the needs of the place and the developments in the European area.
Provide funds for the functional and aesthetic upgrading of the schools' premises.
The state should provide funds to build classrooms in schools and equip them so that they can be used for creative activities for students.
To establish incentives for teacher training.
Enable teachers to be trained in communication to be more effective in their work.
To win someone, and therefore the student, you need to keep your distance from your system of perceptions, to put yourself in the student's shoes and understand him.
To reduce the "violence" exerted by the school on students
and to increase students' participation in decision-making that affects them.
Psychologists and sociologists should be appointed in schools, not only to solve problems on the spot but also to teach courses in their speciality.
To give all prospective teachers of secondary education and secondary technical education the opportunity to receive pedagogical training before their appointment, in accordance with the principles of adult education,
under humane conditions, without having to leave their possible jobs and without having to travel several kilometres from their place of residence to the place of teaching, suffering on the one hand the inconvenience
and on the other hand polluting the environment.
To protect the autonomy of the Universities while ensuring their connection with the specific needs of the country.
To actively support the Open University, once its operation has been rehabilitated and made compatible with the principles of open education.
To safeguard academic freedoms through a democratic function and dialogue within the University community, with institutionalised and meaningful participation of faculty, students and staff.
Ensure full transparency in both the recruitment and promotion of the administrative and teaching staff of Higher Education Institutions.
HEALTH
One of the negative effects of the tremendous change in living conditions, refugeeisation and urbanisation of a large part of the population is the decrease in the adaptability of the human organism resulting in an increase in chronic diseases (rheumatological, allergic and other autoimmune diseases).
The health system that exists in Cyprus and the proposed General Health System represents the established medicine as opposed to preventive medicine. The current impasse in the health sector is due to the commercialisation that exists in this sector.
There is a huge gap between what is useful, sensible and economical for the Social Welfare System and what is profitable for a medical practice, for the Health Funds and for private hospitals.
Top-down politics, pandering to individual interests, has led to painful deadlocks in the health sector.
The political leaders are unable to show a pioneering spirit with the aim of providing ideal medical care by using existing financial resources sparingly.
The State, essentially wanting to withdraw from its funding obligations in this area, proposes a modern Health System without changing anything in the philosophy of established medicine.
It simply distributes the financial burden to those who have had 'free' health care up to now, the poor, pensioners, the sick and the weak, and attempts are made to create a number of barriers (civil servants).
A General Health Plan must be created that sees man, social and environmental conditions as communicating vessels, with the aim of reducing and ultimately overcoming social inequality in this area as well.
 The substitutionary solution is that Health Care System that works without profit, that is able to take care of the weak and the needy, that can work really efficiently with low costs.
 To overcome the deadlock of established medicine we suggest: Promotion of an Insurance Fund and a General Health System with universal participation of all the people, without leaving any windows for exceptions.
 Democratic control of all procedures
and limiting the self-reliance of doctors.
Control, restriction and gradual closure of Private Medical Funds.
Consistent implementation of a proactive environmental policy with enforcement and strict adherence to health standards through appropriate planning. In matters relating to General Health, Environmental Impact Assessments need to be complemented by Health Impact Assessments.
Creating institutions to promote and monitor the quality of medical education and care
and at the same time give mass organisations the opportunity to participate in the formulation of state health policy.
 Associations of patients and friends with critical knowledge of specific conditions can play an important role in this.
Creation of autonomous decentralized Health Centres in which medical and paramedical staff will cooperate equally with other specialists (social workers, psychologists, engineers, etc.) in order to implement preventive and consultative medicine and the comprehensive approach to the issue of General Health and the promotion of health education.
Promote and implement alternative and other forms of medical care and study to encourage folk/traditional medicine.
Combating the social reasons that lead people to self-destruction through mass drug addiction, i.e. the epidemic-scale addiction to legal toxins (alcohol, nicotine and psychotropic drugs), by supporting the creation of rehabilitation/detoxification units that operate with harmless, non-toxic, holistic methods based on collective community, social engagement and addressing the psychological factors that lead to addiction.
Genetically modified organisms and products
Ban all cultivation of genetically modified organisms on our island.
To declare Cyprus a country free of genetically modified organisms.
Ban the use and import of genetically modified feed and seeds.
Promote ecological agriculture and organic farming.
Promote the cultivation of fodder plants suitable for the production of feed free of genetically modified organisms.
Make it mandatory to place products containing Genetically Modified Organisms on separate shelves in supermarkets.
Health in old age
The health problems faced by the elderly do not receive the attention and interest that the State and the Ministry of Health should have.  The
institutions that exist for the care of the elderly are few and unsuitable to offer decent living
and are accessible only to people with high financial incomes (even in the new Nicosia General Hospital there is no geriatric ward).
Smoking
Lung cancer is the leading cause of death and smoking the biggest culprit.
Nicotine addiction, and particularly addiction to smoking among young people, is a problem that needs to be addressed immediately.
The Environmentalist Movement endorses the following conclusions of the World Conference on Lung Cancer held in Tokyo. Promote new methods to prevent smoking among children and thus prevent them from becoming addicted to nicotine.
An increase in the tax on tobacco products.
 A ban on smoking in all enclosed public places.
Public education and anti-smoking education on the harmful effects of smoking.
Promote enforcement and awareness-raising in the workplace, learning and leisure areas, and protect passive smokers.
Implementation of an overall strategic plan to address the consequences of smoking.
Electromagnetic fields (EMF)
Epidemiological studies abroad show an increased risk of leukaemia in children aged 14 and 15 living near high-voltage pylons and telecommunication antennas.
With the possibility that the health of the person near EMFs is affected, the approach of prudent "prevention" is adopted, i.e. avoiding the proximity of people to EMFs.
Telecommunications antennas should be banned from being placed less than 300m from schools and areas frequented by children and the elderly.
Patients' rights
With the evolving situations in the medical system, patients need to be legally protected.
The Movement supports the faithful implementation of the legislation on the Charter of Patients' Rights, which must also practically guarantee the rights of all patients and improve their service by creating a service within hospitals to serve patients and reduce the inconvenience they suffer.
Heart disease
In Cyprus, heart disease is the biggest cause of loss of life and the costs of care are enormous.
Prevention will save lives and therefore we ask for the creation of local clinics at public expense with the aim of a) guiding and educating citizens on how to live a better life, b) teaching physical exercises to improve heart function and c) diagnosing heart diseases.
Cancer
Cancer is increasing in Cyprus and worldwide, mainly due to environmental factors.
It affects men, women and children of all ages and social classes and is now the leading cause of death worldwide.
The Environmental Movement played a leading role in the adoption by the government of the national cancer strategy in Cyprus, after long discussions.
Although it does not fully reflect the ecological approach to cancer, the national strategy emphasises prevention as the most effective and efficient method of dealing with cancer.  It also foresees actions in the areas of early diagnosis, treatment, palliative care and research.
However, the government has not only failed to implement the measures foreseen in the national cancer strategy, but has often acted contrary to the spirit and letter of the national strategy: for example, it allows the operation of carcinogenic facilities (e.g. petrol stations) in residential areas, and "disappears" radiotherapy machines instead of equipping public hospitals, thus creating reasonable suspicions that it favours private monopolies.
With the aim of substantially reducing cancer morbidity and improving the quality of life of cancer patients, the Environmentalist Movement will continue to dynamically promote the implementation of measures for the treatment of cancer, giving priority to the following:
Application of the precautionary principle to drastically reduce the exposure of the population to carcinogens
Creating a comprehensive cancer registry to support the design of cancer prevention and treatment policies
Operation of a tertiary oncology reference centre at the Nicosia General Hospital, since it is the only one that includes all specialties
Creation of a specialised breast centre, based on the relevant European guidelines
Gradual creation of regional oncology units in public hospitals
Strengthening palliative care
Promotion of alternative treatments, scientifically documented
Poison Control Centre
The lack of an organised Poison Centre at the Nicosia General Hospital is an unacceptable absence. For the Environmentalist Movement, the establishment and operation of the Cyprus Poison Centre is a priority.
YOUTH
Youth is the hope for the future of the country on which all the visions and aspirations that were not realized by previous generations are invested and projected.
Thus, youth bears a great burden, it must realise its aspirations for a better tomorrow and fill the gaps and shortcomings of the past, but at the same time it must find its own way, set its own goals and priorities.
In today's Cypriot society, it is not difficult to recognize a confusion of identity, external patterns and culture becoming established and the new generation, more flexible, moving towards new ways of expression, becoming familiar with new techniques and possibilities (e.g. the use of e-mail), but also becoming captive to virtual reality, the individualism of our time and the race for power and material goods.
Added to all this is the burden of a semi-inherited homeland and the narrow framework within which one can work towards the vision of a free and united state,
not saying anything more about the destruction of the natural environment and the ecological nightmare it is wreaking over our heads.
In this climate, youth must be equipped to claim a better tomorrow for themselves and for future generations.
First and foremost we must: Gain a voice and get involved in the decision-making centres.
To fight against the buffoonery that makes the job search process a humiliating and degrading experience for young people.
Acquire new role models and become actively involved in civic and voluntary groups.
To combat insecurities, self-doubt and self-destructive paths with addictive substances.
To receive a comprehensive and all-round education (with a reduction in non-education) and to be advised on study and career issues.
To be educated about the environment in which they live (integration of environmental education in schools) and to be informed about the global environmental situation (climate change, hunger, globalisation, human rights abuses, development model).
The most important chapter of unemployment and underemployment that afflicts the young people of Cyprus must be opened up to open and honest social dialogue and prioritise employment and training issues.
SPORT
Sport is part of our very lives, so we should all have the opportunity to play sport.
This will be ensured by the creation of open spaces for sports and recreation, the construction of a network of pavements and sidewalks with the necessary safe access, cycle path networks, open local gyms, the integration of sports activities into everyday life - walking, cycling in daily commuting, legislation to transfer financial resources from taxation to open sports projects with a local character.
This we propose in contrast to the prevailing policy of closed (for use by athletes only) stadiums or sports grounds, or the construction of huge sports centres which, apart from the environmental impact where they are built, take away significant funds from mass sport.
Sport as a spectacle must be viewed very carefully because of its social dimensions. In order to make it accessible to the general public who can watch it without physical and mental danger, the ideology and mentality that govern it must be overturned from the bottom up.
In school, the concept of fighting properly, respecting the opponent in the first place, needs to be inculcated.
Schools should also have locker rooms and other facilities to encourage sports among students.
It has become a habit in Cyprus to talk about sports and to mean football. It's what the CAA invests most of its funds in, it's what all the sports programmes in the media deal with, it's what all the newspapers write about in their sports columns.
On the contrary, we have a lot to say about sports that nobody has invested almost nothing in and successful athletes who can talk about them even if the glory of football does not let them raise their heads.
We insist on a fairer distribution of state funds in many sports and an end to deficit funding of football.
Unfortunately Cypriot Sport and especially football is suffering from hooliganism, violence and the dominance of organised fans (gates).
Unfortunately, the big parties are comfortable with this situation since the fan organisations are places for recruiting party supporters.
There is also a distinction between men and women in sport.
The men's teams get the lion's share of the funds in sponsorships and the visibility and importance that the state gives.
On the other hand, women's sport is used by the state to cover its debts or contractual obligations to the European Union and other organisations.
TOURISM
Need for a review of tourism development policy
The environmental movement has warned for many years that uncontrolled tourism development with an emphasis on increasing quantities and numbers, without assessing the real benefits, would result in the deterioration and degradation of the Cypriot environment and would kill the "golden goose". Unfortunately, we have been confirmed.
No matter how much the need for environmental protection and the need for balanced development of all sectors of the economy based on the available natural resources and human potential of the country was stressed, these needs were ignored.
The tourism sector was constantly growing and became the mainstay of the economy. At the same time, however, the unbridled development of tourism eroded and destroyed the unique natural environment which was mainly what made Cyprus an attractive tourist destination.
Today, even if belatedly, there are voices from others calling for urgent measures to be taken to save the tourism industry
and to counteract further environmental degradation.
We propose: Planned restructuring of the tourism sector, with reference to the benefits derived from it, but also taking into account the environmental costs.
Promoting other types of alternative tourism, such as agrotourism, cultural tourism and special interest tourism.
Staffing the Board of Directors of the CTO and the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Tourism with scientists relevant to ecology and alternative forms of tourism activity.
Defining strict tourism zones based on criteria relating to environmental and social characteristics of the areas.
Environmental upgrading of the operation of existing tourist units in terms of energy saving, biological treatment facilities, waste disposal, noise pollution, installation of Renewable Energy Sources units and general micro-environmental management.
Stopping the subsidies to hoteliers.
Elimination of the funds spent by the CTO on advertising abroad and aimed at mass tourism, and focus on features that promote the specificities of Cyprus, and escape the vicious circle of competition with other similar markets.
Charging the ecological costs of tourism activity (depletion of natural resources, environmental destruction, desalination and air pollutants from golf courses, etc.) to operators in the sector.
The revenue from this fee can be used to improve the environment, which will again benefit those who pay it.
Compulsory escort of tourist buses by licensed tour guides, especially for buses carrying tourists in the occupied territories.
Creating infrastructure in the hotel industry for people with disabilities, disabled people, handicapped people and so on.
A clear policy change of the CTO that focuses on the protection of the remaining natural environment of Cyprus.
Allocation of funds from the CTO for the protection and conservation of nature mainly in areas that attract Special Interest Tourists and Rural Tourism.
AGRICULTURE - LIVESTOCK FARMING
The contraction of agriculture was the result of both the Turkish invasion and the development model that placed a one-dimensional emphasis on tourism and the sale of holiday homes (real-estates development) and the removal of import restrictions due to the European course.
Other reasons for shrinkage are the continuous effort for quantitative growth and the emphasis on monoculture, e.g. potatoes, vines, olives and citrus fruits.
The result of this trend is that the majority of the products produced are of poor quality: a) large quantities of chemical residues from the use of pesticides, b) new varieties that taste and nutritional properties have nothing to do with the corresponding traditional ones
The irreversible effects of the use of fertilisers, pesticides and biocides on land, water, air and health are raising concerns about their necessity.
We believe that the aim should be to maintain and expand the non-intensive (extensive) agriculture that exists on the island in order to preserve the agricultural mosaic that is very important for biodiversity, the good condition of the soil, not to pollute the water, etc.
This requires a restructuring of the incentives provided through CAP subsidies, and systematic implementation of legislation on prohibitions (e.g. grubbing up of bushes, etc.).
Opportunities are also provided through the implementation of Multilateral Compliance with regard to subsidies from the first pillar of the CAP and the implementation of legislation for the protection of birds (Birds Directive 2009/147/EC) and habitats (Habitats Directive 92/43/EEC).
The lack of a serious and long-term policy and the relatively "non-existent" legislation create a major problem on the premises of livestock farms.
This is a problem which will exacerbate the reactions of the residents affected by the operation of livestock farms in large numbers.
All intensive livestock farms should be assessed against environmental legislation to ensure that they meet all environmental criteria (which many certainly do not currently meet), including waste management.
In addition, they should also be assessed in relation to legislation concerning animal welfare, which several also seem to fall short.
We recommend:
Georgia
Substantial funds for research, the introduction of know-how and the financing of applied bio- and eco-farming projects.
Setting standards, testing and labelling of clean products.
Continuous information and incentives for organic farmers.
Informing the public about the importance of consuming such products (organic farming) and the important role of seasonality.
 Until the vast majority of agricultural production is clean, the aim must be to reduce pesticides and fertilisers immediately.
Removal of all pesticide outlets from residential areas (towns and villages).
Livestock
Our society, if it wants to continue to have meat in its diet, will have to pay its true cost.
It is essential that all farms producing livestock products have all the means to minimise environmental pollution (biological stations, buildings, etc.).
What we say about agriculture in relation to "clean" products also applies to livestock products. In this sector, however, in addition to plant foods, which should be free of pesticide residues, particular attention needs to be paid to the area of antibiotics and certainly to refraining from administering hormones and other drug mutants.
Parliament must amend and complete the legislation and take measures to implement it in relation to the operation of livestock units in designated areas, as well as social control by all stakeholders.
Developing a policy for the use of livestock wastewater.
Countryside
The main objective is the revitalization of our villages (mainly the mountainous ones) not only as places for weekend excursions or holidays but as living everyday places for their permanent residents.
The basic precondition is the safeguarding of economic life.
Agrotourism can be a source of livelihood for some villages.
Substantial incentives and facilities are needed for the implementation of eco-economy and bio-culture.
A number of infrastructure projects that need to be done as well as financial incentives for young couples will encourage young people to return to the villages (e.g. subsidies for accommodation in mountain villages).
A prerequisite, however, is the discharge from bourgeois ideology and the consolidation of human values.
Informing rural farmers not to grub up traditional fruit trees or spray weeds uncontrollably.
INDUSTRY
In 50 years of independence, successive governments have failed to create the right infrastructure for industry, both in terms of technology and in terms of preventing environmental problems.
In addition, there is currently a shortage of labour (especially of skilled labour), since on the one hand the orientation of the educational system and on the other hand the prolonged and almost exclusive subsidisation of tourism has not allowed the creation of wage and other incentives for workers in the industrial sector.
The industrial sector should be addressed on the basis of a practical acceptance of the need for a balanced development of all three sectors of the economy, in the perspective of sustainable development and taking into account environmental, social and cultural costs.
In this direction we should: The institution of the Environmental Impact Assessment should be applied to industry in a substantial way.
Ensure the operation of industrial units on the basis of correct quality and environmental procedures, by employing the appropriate scientific and technical staff, installing environmental control systems and effectively addressing the problem of air emissions and liquid and solid waste.
Implement a comprehensive policy on the management of toxic and other hazardous waste.
Promote closed system waste management procedures with priority given to minimisation, reuse and recycling.
Promote the design of environmentally friendly (or more environmentally friendly) products, using appropriate technology while creating reception areas for processing and recycling or energy recovery from waste and other materials discarded after first use.
Promote the use of renewable energy sources in industry as well.
Avoid overexploitation of local natural resources for the sake of exports (e.g. cement)
and avoid the establishment of industries that create nuisance and pollution.
Provide incentives for "clean" technologies.
Expand the Industry Support Plan for pollution prevention.
Incentives should be given to recycling plants, provided that the whole process is realistic and without other environmental impacts. In cases where this is not feasible, the possibility of cooperation with neighbouring countries and the export of materials for processing/recycling to them should be exploited.
Incentivise small industries to set up in communities where this can be done using local labour and local materials (decentralisation for revitalisation).
To promote the cooperation of the University of Cyprus and the Cyprus University of Technology with the industry to investigate problems that exist and to study ways to adapt the solutions offered.
Create properly staffed and equipped laboratories to fill existing gaps and meet additional needs.
To put in place the appropriate infrastructure to properly assess their reliability.
To create the necessary metrological infrastructure taking into account the specificities and needs of Cyprus.
To strengthen the field of applied research in order to stop the simple introduction and adoption of ready-made solutions that are not always realistic for the Cypriot reality.
To make effective use of local scientific potential and stop the massive import of foreign experts.
Promote without further delay the creation of a high-tech industry.
CONSTRUCTION - MAJOR WORKS
The construction of large projects is often the cause of ecological disasters in our country. Most large or small projects (motorways, ports, ports, building complexes, etc.) are designed and executed without any care for the impact on the environment.
Many projects suffer from grand idealism, i.e. they have been done on the basis of sensationalism and populism rather than functionality and economy.
There is great waste and frequent irregularities and scandals, while the operating costs of major projects are not taken into account in the initial planning (energy, maintenance, etc.). Examples of uneconomic projects with irreversible and serious environmental impacts are the proposed Paphos - Polis Chrysochou road, the Limassol Marina, Eleftherias Square, etc.
The over-expansion of quarrying activities has led to a number of serious environmental disasters. Many quarries operate near or in areas of outstanding natural beauty or importance (forests, gorges, canyons, rocky habitats, bat habitats), near residential areas or archaeological sites. Still, in many cases, damage persists after the end of quarrying operations. Unfortunately, it seems that due to the 'essential' function of quarries in the whole construction system, very little has been done to control quarrying activities in an effective way.
We recommend: A full and comprehensive environmental study of any project, as a necessary condition during its design and before its implementation. Control of the implementation of the terms of the environmental study, as a prerequisite for any project or project as a matter of priority.
Implementation of environmental liability legislation.
Objective costing of quarry materials based on the impact of the specific activity on the environment (natural, cultural, residential).
Transparency and public presentation of the initial proposals for any project.
Change the legislative framework controlling quarrying activity.
Strengthening the Mining Agency to make it work effectively.
Recycling of aggregates to reduce the amount of quarrying.
Full implementation of the law that provides for the restoration of the natural environment where quarrying activities are terminated and the return of the original owners of the land.
SYNOPSIS
In the transport sector, Cyprus still holds a sad record in Europe.
We are the country with the largest percentage increase in greenhouse gas emissions from transport over the period 1990-2008.  Specifically, the increase in GHG emissions from transport in Cyprus (mainly private cars) in this period was 180%, while the average in Europe was not more than 20%. Indeed, in recent years, due to the economic crisis, a stabilisation of greenhouse gas emissions in the European Union has occurred.
This dismal performance should give us serious cause for concern.  The Cypriot traffic management model has led to the great vicious circle: more cars - bigger roads - even more cars, with the well-known negative consequences.
The traffic problem in Cypriot cities has been exacerbated in recent years, causing a number of problems, such as:Substantial disuse of the road network due to traffic congestion. Inconvenience, stress and loss of time. Environmental pollution from car exhaust fumes. Expenditure of a large part of the Development Budget of the Republic of Cyprus every year on road works without rational traffic management. Waste of tens of millions of pounds every year as a result of excessive fuel consumption and wear and tear on vehicles. Road accidents, causing huge human, material and social damage. The above problems are mainly due to the failure to implement planning law, local plans and urban traffic infrastructure projects in a timely manner, the unregulated development of cities, the lack of a specific policy to encourage alternative - more environmentally friendly - means of mass transport for the population and the pressure to expand development areas, resulting in dispersed development and dependence on the private car.
Traffic management measures
Staggered working hours: Staggering the starting and ending hours of different sectors of workers and schools can help in the right direction.
More efficient use of the main roads, with strict enforcement of traffic regulations, especially with regard to illegal parking.
Adopt a policy to encourage alternative soft modes of transport (public transport, cycling, walking) and build cycle paths and pedestrian routes.
Increase the number of special route buses (e.g. to schools, industrial areas, etc.) to reduce the need for extensive use of the private car in the city.
Allowing public transport priority lanes for buses, taxis and cars with three or more passengers, for fast passenger transport, without widening roads at the expense of existing pavements and yards.
Reorganisation of traffic lights with systems that give priority to public transport and fire and ambulance vehicles.
A broad public awareness campaign and institutional measures to raise the level of road and environmental awareness of citizens.
Study of the creation and movement of intercity public transport - train, tram between cities.
Ensuring the safe movement of persons with disabilities.
Promoting eco-driving.
Measures for the development of public transport
A well-organised network of urban, interurban and provincial public transport services must be built to meet the modern needs of Cypriot society, so that citizens can be served safely and reliably to the extent that they do not need their private car for their travels.
Post timetables at public transport stops, publish information leaflets available at airports and other public places as well as on the internet, so that both the local population and visitors have the necessary information about all means of public transport.
The network should have the infrastructure to accommodate all disabled people, as well as people on bicycles.
There should also be strict oversight of the companies providing public transport to ensure the uninterrupted operation of an efficient transport network that is dynamic to serve the ever-changing needs of passengers.
Priority should be given to public transport when regulating traffic.
Strengthen the institution of the school bus
The public transport routes should also serve workers in industrial and craft zones.
Creating park & ride stations at the entrance to cities, where people can leave their cars and use buses to get to work in the city.
Measures for rational urban development
Dense, mixed development of towns and settlements.
When changes are made to urban zones, plans should be made at the same time to extend the public transport network and the cycle/pedestrian network.
To create settlements, streets or neighbourhoods where there will be no cars.
Rational location of government services.
Preparation of environmental impact assessment studies before the final design of traffic infrastructure projects.
Repeal outdated government plans to build highways in forest and residential areas: Cancellation of the planned extension of Academy Avenue through the Athalassa and Pedagogical Academy National Forest Parks.
Measures to reduce emissions from motor vehicles
Create zones where only low-emission vehicles will be allowed to circulate, especially in city centres.
Imposing higher road taxes on cars - including trucks - that emit high levels of pollutants into the atmosphere or even a complete ban on the circulation of such vehicles.
Incentives should be given for the withdrawal of all old vehicles.
Create pedestrian streets in shopping centres and traditional squares in towns and villages.
Disseminate teleworking and teleconferencing in the culture of business and the public sector.
Changing the way we drive to a safer and greener, more environmentally friendly way of driving,
with respect for pedestrians, cyclists and other drivers.
This will be achieved by introducing traffic education in school curricula and by organising public information and education campaigns on these issues.
Introduction of staggered working hours for different sectors of workers and for schools.
Measures to promote the use of electric, hybrid and low-consumption cars.
Measures to protect the rights of pedestrians and disabled persons
Strict measures on illegal parking.
Impose very stiff fines to crack down on parking on the pavement, in disabled parking spaces and near pedestrian crossings.
Create safe pedestrian crossings on all roads at distances of no more than 300 metres apart, regulated by traffic lights with traffic lights and audible signals for the blind.
On roads with dual carriageways, install dividing islands.
Implement speed control measures on all roads passing through residential areas.
Build sidewalks everywhere, especially in areas where young children are moving around.
Sidewalks are for the exclusive use of pedestrians. Legislative and other measures should be taken immediately to keep sidewalks free of any obstructions.
Create safe networks of cycle paths in all towns and villages.
Creation of dedicated cycle/pedestrian networks for the safe passage and access of pupils to primary and secondary schools.
To achieve the above requires proper planning and adoption of a long-term sustainable strategy in the vital transport sector.
Measures to reduce pollution
Adopting modern methods of technical control of cars in a way that minimises emissions. Addressing the problems caused by the removal of the unleaded petrol catalyst.
Construction projects
Special provisions in the road projects under study for the movement of buses, bicycles and pedestrians.
Design and construction of modern bus stops and stations.
Review of existing plans for routing sections of the road network through sensitive residential and commercial areas, in the light of environmental impact studies.
Design and construction of extensive and functional networks of cycle paths within cities.
Construction of sidewalks on all streets for safe and comfortable pedestrian and wheelchair traffic.
Completion of urban transport infrastructure projects.
Ensuring that traffic infrastructure projects are compatible with local conditions.
Promotion of soft means
Promote a specific policy to develop the use of bicycles.
Establish a special lane for bicycles on main avenues and interurban roads.
Improving the road surface of the roads.
Creation of bicycle parking spaces on the periphery, at the starting points and stops of urban transport.
Setting up bicycle rental stations for short trips in city centres.
Extensive network of cycle paths.
Modern bus service between the airport and the cities.
Solutions to reduce the price (e.g. loans, subsidies) of bicycles.
Strict observance of traffic rules by car drivers.
Prohibit parking cars in the street or on the sidewalk.
To instil traffic behaviour in car drivers.
 Streamline the system of training and testing of learner drivers.
Implementation of urban planning law - quality of life
Strict application of the planning law as a means of rational development. Uncontrolled development leads to an exacerbation of the problem and makes it more difficult to take corrective measures.
Rational zoning of government services and public spaces. Rejection of the plans to concentrate government buildings in Egomi.
Preparation of Environmental Impact Assessment Studies, prior to the final design of traffic infrastructure projects.
A policy that promotes soft and mass transport (bicycle, bus, tram, walking) in a way that will substantially improve the quality of life of citizens.
ENERGY
Energy is the basic substrate for the organisation of life at various levels.
It is directly related to industry, transport, the domestic economy and generally enters into all aspects of the economic and social life of a place.
Energy policy is the key to the development plans and social models towards which an organised society is directed.
The energy situation in Cyprus presents the following main characteristics:The energy sector's dependence on imported primary energy sources (currently oil, in the future natural gas).Non-rational pricing policy and inability to introduce new forms of ecological pricing. Continuous increase in energy to meet mainly non-productive needs.
In Cyprus, household energy consumption is very high and reflects the neo-pluralistic behaviour in our lives.
The country's heavy dependence on oil is undermining the economy and leading to tragic dead ends as we head towards the end of the oil era.
The extraction of Cyprus' potential oil reserves should be of serious concern to us as it carries the risk of permanent damage to the marine ecosystem, biodiversity and even tourism. The same applies to the much publicised import of natural gas.
The decision to exploit potential hydrocarbon deposits must be accompanied by the application of the most stringent environmental protection standards.
More forms of development that take into account renewable energy solutions should be encouraged.
Under no circumstances should the use of nuclear energy be considered as an option.
Research and scientific institutions (University of Cyprus, CUT, CUT, ETEK, Productivity Centre) and government agencies as well as political organisations and groups should be involved in order to design and operate as many on-site energy production units as possible based on Cyprus' conditions, such as photovoltaic and solar thermal parks, wind farms and others.
The above mentioned actors should be involved in the strategic planning of our country on energy issues.
We recommend: Create an Energy Strategy Board.
Cultivate awareness of our energy behaviour (lighting, televisions, radios, electrical appliances, heaters, water heaters, etc.).
It is necessary to take an energy-based approach to traffic problems in order to avoid spasmodic and contradictory efforts to boost public transport.
Have an energy policy in relation to vehicles or factories with high energy-consuming machines.
Promoting energy saving, in all sectors (e.g. desalination).
In construction, there should be a provision for a higher thermal insulation coefficient in new buildings with similar incentives for old buildings.
For a local energy production based on local data with the potential for decoupling from exogenous factors, aiming at the European Acquis of 20% of total energy to be produced from renewable sources by 2020.
Exceeding the stifling targets set by Cyprus for the development of Renewable Energy Sources (13%) and setting at least 20% as a target for 2020.
Saving 20% of the total energy by 2020 by implementing a higher insulation factor for buildings.
Creating energy-conscious citizens through continuous information campaigns as well as through programmes and sponsorships.
Information and labelling of electrical appliances with energy consumption and efficiency indicators and consumer education.
Re-establishment of the Renewable Energy Grant Scheme and in particular incentives for solar systems (5000 solar roofs project for needy/large families).
Reintroduce the plan to scrap polluting and energy-intensive old cars.
The eco-proposal is a proposal for a society with lower energy consumption and a renewable energy economy.
WATER RESOURCES
Water resources are limited and variations in rainfall distribution are large. This is why the cost of water is very high due to the construction of dams, desalination plants and the transfer of water from one region to another (even from Greece).
The construction of the dams has caused great damage to the environment and ecosystems.
Groundwater overdraft also results in the inflow of seawater.
However, the use of water (mainly in agriculture and tourism) is indiscriminate as if Cyprus' water resources are inexhaustible and are "donated" to us without the real environmental price and the tens of millions of euros fine that Cyprus pays to the EU.
It is proposed that the Department of Water (now operating under the heavy title of "Water Authority") be strengthened with staff and resources to enable it to deal effectively with the additional responsibilities assigned to it.
Protection of ground and surface waters from the potential for pollution from pesticides, sewage, garbage.
Strict enforcement of regulations to avoid over-pumping of groundwater.
Pricing water based on the actual cost of water (including environmental costs) to prevent abuse.
Improvement in irrigation methods for more efficient use of each water unit.
Avoiding water waste in irrigation
and proper management of treated wastewater.
Not to supply water from dams and other government irrigation or water works for golf courses for any consideration when severe restrictions are imposed on the citizen and when there is always the danger of a prolonged drought.
Reduction of significant losses from water supply systems.
Rational use of water to avoid the need for desalination with all the environmental problems and excessive energy costs that this entails.
Water projects only if ecosystems and sustainable development are safeguarded.
Develop a timetable for changes in agricultural crops based on water data.
Prioritise environmental rather than petty political criteria.
LIQUID WASTE MANAGEMENT
The Ecological Movement believes that the current piecemeal approach to wastewater management is not effective in achieving the objectives it is: Improving the standard of living, especially in urban and tourist areas.
Protection of the natural environment (groundwater, sea).
The reuse of treated water efficiently.
Recommendations:
Prioritisation based on environmental/social/techno-economic rather than party criteria.
Accelerate the establishment of sewerage systems in all cities and sensitive areas.
Standardise procedures so that projects are not delayed.
Close monitoring of the operation of wastewater treatment systems for any pollution of the receiving water.
Modernisation of legislation within the EU framework regarding toxic waste, sludge management, transport of sewage.
Fixed timeframes for polluting industries to treat their waste.
Impose a severe fine for damage caused by the discharge of industrial waste or sludge outside authorised areas.
Effective management of toxic waste water discharge.
Utilisation, to the maximum extent possible, of recycled water for agricultural purposes.
Creation of an Independent Water Body.
AIR POLLUTION
The main source of air pollution in Cyprus is emissions from urban transport and certain industries (power plants, cement plants, brickworks, quarries, etc.) and dust in the atmosphere.
Cyprus has a high rate of private car ownership and use and the total number of cars is growing at a high rate.
To date, no substantial measures have been taken to reduce pollution from cars and no comprehensive and systematic counting has been carried out.
Cyprus also has high levels of suspended solids and consequently poor air quality. The operation of some air pollution measuring stations is a principle that should be strengthened.
We insist on: The substantial operation of the Air Pollution Control Board. This advisory body (Government - Scientists - Environmentalists, etc.) will develop programmes and recommend measures to control and reduce air pollution.
Strengthen (resources and staff) the Industrial Pollution Control Agency (Ministry of Labour).
Expanding the network of air pollution monitoring stations in cities and rural areas.
Promote traffic reduction measures/enhance alternative means of transport.
Control of motor vehicles / control of exhaust fumes on the road.
 Control and adjustment of the machines.
Implement legislation to ban heavy vehicles from entering city centres.
Infrastructural measures (catalyst control, disposal sites).
Procedural policy measures to limit the use of fuel.
Establishment of standards and control methods for central heating burners.
Systematic research on the presence of lead and dioxins in food due to air pollution.
Measures to reduce air pollutant emissions from industry and livestock farms.
Adoption of an air quality standard for indoor air quality (offices, homes, industry, industry, sports facilities) and the establishment of direct measurement mechanisms.
Creation of a specialised emergency response unit.
Removal of nuisance industries, laboratories and other businesses (e.g. oil disposal stations) from areas adjacent to residents and their relocation to rationally planned areas outside towns and villages e.g. Astrasol.
URBAN PLANNING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
The anarchic building development due to the criminal laxity in the application of the Planning Law and the policy of relaxations and constant deviations has created cities without water and without scientific planning.
The result was that: Destroyed coasts of particular beauty and ecological value, under the rampant speculative effort, without sensitivity and comprehensive planning.
Zones of degraded quality of life are created in cities, combining a sharp concentration of the workforce, the abandonment of old traditional residential areas and the problematic networking of state infrastructure in these areas.
Surrender the rural settlements to abandonment and decay.
Nature and the countryside are subjected to the lack of human care and become an "opportunity" and easy "prey" for any incompatible development (quarry, road networks, land development).
Cities are trapped in suffocating road networks of low quality, with no alternative means of moving the population.
To alter the original traditional, historical character of the urban cores and to bring about an expansion of them, alien to their character, their functional structure, resulting in an urban environment that is unlivable and impersonal.
Sensitivity must be the main characteristic of the Executive and Legislative Power and all decision-makers, so that they respect and uphold, rather than circumvent, the provisions of the Law.
 An integrated environmental policy must include the involvement of the views of Scientific and Environmental Stakeholders.
 One of the most crucial points of a wrong development policy that inherited the most "evils" in the course of the urban physiognomy, is the limitation of the concept of land value to the quantitative, residential concept of the land plot, without the integration of the environmental value and the quality of the produced private and public space.
Our vision is cities: that enhance the quality of life, with friendly, traffic-friendly streets, with cycle paths and pavements,
with houses adapted to Cypriot conditions and with the minimum possible energy needs,
that respect their architecture and historical tradition,
where entertainment and commerce do not conflict with the basic needs of the inhabitants, where
all areas are easily accessible by environmentally friendly means,
where modern human-centred transport studies are applied.
Our action should aim to: Integrating environmental aspects into urban planning for human habitat.
Environmental management of urban traffic and encouragement of the use of public transport, but also the mandatory creation of adequate private parking spaces within the premises of apartment buildings.
Promoting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the urban environment and their decentralisation to the countryside.
Substantial protection and revitalisation of historic areas.
Development of urban and architectural planning that provides for ecological waste management.
Promote key infrastructure projects (e.g. sewerage systems for urban waste, storm water, concrete pits and concrete processing).
Changing the current legislation so that the cabinet and the executive are not given the discretion to circumvent the legislation and grant relaxations.
Include the use of Strategic Impact Assessment in relation to land use and urban planning changes to avoid problems and conflicts with nature and biodiversity protection policy.
ENVIRONMENTAL BODY / ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STUDIES
The presence of environmental-ecological organisations is now a given and is an indispensable factor in the management of issues relating to development and the environment.
We recommend: Promote the creation of an Independent Environmental Body that will have the capacity to coordinate decision-making processes on an organised basis. The Independent Environmental Body will also enable environmental-ecological organizations to actively participate in a positive and meaningful way in programs and problem-solving processes.
Detachment of the Department of Environment from the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Environment and its integration into the Independent Environmental Agency.
Strengthen government departments dealing with the environment in terms of staff and resources.
The development of transparency procedures and a sense of independence among public officials, so that they can carry out their work without hindrance.
Establishment of substantial financial support for environmental and ecological organisations and the Federation of Ecological and Environmental Organisations of Cyprus, within the framework of an annual sponsorship and through specific action programmes.
DOWNLOAD
The consumer as a recipient and as a generating factor in the creation of products and services has both rights and responsibilities.
In order to improve the quality of life of every consumer-citizen, it is necessary that the rates of consumption keep pace with the rates of regeneration of our environment and resources.
It is necessary to adopt and put into practice the concept of sustainability, emphasising the concepts of avoiding waste, reuse and recycling.
Every consumer should be able to choose products and services that are healthy and safe for him or her and the environment, in the short and long term, and for which he or she should be provided with the necessary information.
Today's man, with the way he grows, prepares, preserves and packages food, endangers not only his health but also his very existence.
At the same time, the way we consume food out of season and get caught up in advertising messages results in overconsumption, wasting precious resources and creating huge amounts of waste, endangering our environment.
The chemicals used at all stages of food production, processing and preservation often end up on the plate of the consumer, who has little knowledge of their health effects.  In particular, food, because of the way it is produced, can contain pesticide residues, heavy metals, radioactive residues as well as hormones, antibiotics and other toxic residues (e.g. dioxins). Large quantities of 'suspect' chemical additives are used in their industrial processing. Finally, chemicals can be transferred from the packaging to the food.
Many of these substances have been shown to be dangerous carcinogens or allergens and for most of them little research has been done on their safety for consumer health.
The interactions between the various chemicals present in food that accumulate in the human body also remain unknown.
The food industry has become one of the world's most powerful industries as a result of massive urbanisation and changing lifestyles.
Today there is a rapid increase in the consumption of processed foods compared to fresh, natural products. Due to processing, vital substances such as vitamins, minerals and other nutritional factors, as well as fibre, are destroyed or removed.
There is also an increased consumption of foods of animal origin (mainly meat), foods high in protein and fat, and concentrated foods (e.g. sugar, white flour and their products).
These poor eating habits and the low-quality processed foods that are stacked on the shelves of supermarkets are largely responsible for the degenerative diseases of modern civilisation: obesity, tooth decay, arteriosclerosis, heart attacks, diabetes, cancer.
The primary purpose of agriculture and food production is to provide consumers with healthy, high-quality products.
We recommend: Promote ecological agriculture and the creation of decentralized food production units, with the main purpose of quality and not only increasing production, emphasizing the seasonality of products.
Effective testing of perishables for pesticide residues, lead, etc.
The current model of development and consumption is being challenged as it undermines the ability of our natural environment to provide the essentials for every household - clean water, clean air, fertile land and a variety of species. A shift towards a consumption model that limits destruction, avoids overconsumption and disposal of inappropriate products, reduces waste and its toxicity, improves the efficiency of water resources, energy for domestic use and road traffic and creates ecological awareness is therefore essential.
Consumer awareness of what products contain, how they are produced, packaged, transported, sold and disposed of is essential. (e.g. toxic cleaning products can be replaced with non-toxic ones). Packaging may be recyclable and/or biodegradable. Products should be chosen to be 'environmentally friendly' or at least less harmful.
The preparation of an eco-labelling standard, its implementation and monitoring, together with continuous information and education and labelling on energy consumption, will equip consumers to make "green" choices.
Consumer education on proper consumption, limiting consumption, reuse, recycling.
Provide relevant and timely information and information on products and services (CFC's - refrigerators, air conditioning systems).
Environmental assessment in comparative surveys and studies.
Developing a policy for the disposal of household waste (medicines, batteries, recyclable materials, organics, toxic cleaning products).
Labelling - ecological and energy labelling.
Provide alternatives to ensure the right to choose.
Provide data on exhaust pollution near sensitive areas e.g. schools, forums.
Regulating the functioning of the media and advertising. Effectively control misleading advertisements and claims and promote patterns and models of over-consumption.
Promote the ban on plastic bags (e.g. plastic bags given out in shops and supermarkets) that is now in force in many EU countries, such as Italy, England, Belgium, as well as countries in the rest of the world such as Kenya. The ban on free bags within a short period of time has brought about major changes in consumer behaviour.
There should be a relevant lesson in the very first grades of primary school to orient children to the principles of good nutrition and respect for nature.
 School canteens to have natural products in their canteens.
 Advertising of products that are proven to be particularly harmful when consumed by children should also be banned.
People's health is precious, irreplaceable and worthy of respect.
Insurance organisations have a duty to inform and contribute to disease prevention.
We need a policy of information, awareness and prevention on nutrition because we should be guided by the logic of prevention rather than cure.
It is proven that such a policy has the effect of reducing the cost of healthcare while promoting the initiative of citizens to take responsibility for their own health in their own hands.
For this reason, it is necessary to create and strengthen information centres for citizens on nutrition issues, including the learning of healthy eating on a practical level.
To organise seminars to educate and inform those involved in the production and marketing of healthy food and to make environmentally responsible choices for all products.
It is necessary to: To create without delay the institution and the position of Consumer Commissioner.
Establish quality control at all stages of production of food and other materials.
Establish regional testing laboratories.
Complete consumer protection legislation.
Modernise and orient food legislation towards consumer protection and the production of truly healthy food.
Strengthen ecological food production units.
Strengthen and make the Competition Protection Commission (CPC) more flexible and faster in its decisions.
Implement the legislation on the cap on basic consumer products.
To implement the proposal of the Ecologists for a law on the separate labelling of genetically modified foods.
PROTECTION OF THE MAN-MADE AND NATURAL ENVIRONMENT
Forests
Forests are a basic natural wealth for the island.
Most of the forest areas (90%) are state land and the responsibility for their conservation lies with the state.
Despite the tireless efforts of the Forestry Department, forestry associations, other organized groups and citizens to preserve our forest wealth, unfortunately the existing legal framework governing the protection of state and private forest land is inadequate.
We note the degradation of our forest wealth by:Extensive forest fires.The conduct of incompatible activities in forest areas (quarries, roads, logging, rallies, aerial spraying).Climate change.Extensive reforestation in an unorthodox way or with inappropriate plants. The lack of an effective legal framework and of adequate provisions and information on issues relating to sensitive factors of forest wealth (endemic plants, perennial trees). The allocation of forest land for roads, buildings and facilities (e.g. Athalassa Forest). Inappropriate planning in some cases and the carrying out of public works by the Forestry Department itself.
We recommend: Substantial strengthening of the Department of Forests, especially those services that deal with the study and protection of the natural wealth (forests-flora) of our country, in terms of personnel, means, infrastructure, etc.
Development of research and the creation of a data - information bank.
Upgrading the management of forests and protected areas.
Carry out environmental studies prior to the preparation of the final design for any project in or near a forest area.
Immediate registration and mapping of all forested private land and information on the incentives available for its protection and good management.
Intensify the information of agricultural land owners about existing financial incentives for conversion to forest land.
Restricting the introduction of alien flora species into forest areas.
Review of quarrying zones and quarrying privileges with the aim of permanently removing quarries from forest areas and preparing studies for landscape restoration.
Taking measures against the erosion of upland forest areas.
Expansion of forest cover by declaring gravel land as State Forests and reforestation.
Strengthening fire-fighting measures by increasing the number of direct fire-fighting stations.
Recognition and support for voluntary firefighting groups and associations.
National parks and protected areas
The legislation for the establishment and management of National Forest Parks and protected areas is inadequate and anachronistic and not in line with international standards. We do not consider that areas declared as such are governed by a comprehensive protection regime since both the relevant agencies are weak and powerless due to the incomplete legal framework.
We recommend: Modernization of legislation according to international standards (I.U.C.N., F.N.N.P.E.).
Strengthening the Forest Parks and Protected Areas Sector of the Forestry Department and staffing it with appropriately qualified scientific personnel.
Carrying out programme and studies for the declaration of Forest Parks and Protected Areas.
Carrying out studies and programmes for the management and protection of the above areas.
Establishment of a management committee for Forest Parks and Protected Areas, which, in addition to the staff trained for this purpose, will include representatives of environmental organisations, local authorities and citizens.
Reform of the Nature Commission and implementation of management programmes for Natura sites.
Completion of the Natura 2000 network on land by 2011 and at sea by 2014.
Completion of Management Plans for Natura 2000 network sites indicating the Conservation Objectives for the species and habitats of the sites, the permitted and prohibited actions and accompanied by financial measures to implement the management and monitoring of the sites. With regard to the Natura 2000 network, it is noted that it includes both Bird Areas (Birds) and Habitats Areas (Habitats).
Monitoring of sites and species present in Natura 2000 sites.
Strict application of the Due Diligence procedure for projects and programmes that may affect the conservation objectives of Natura 2000 sites and provision of compensatory measures if the conditions of overriding public interest are met.
Implementation of management measures for Natura 2000 network sites.
Financial measures and funds for the implementation of management and monitoring in Natura 2000 sites.
Campaign to inform the public about the benefits of Natura 2000 and to dispel the negative myths about the network.
Modification of the financial measures, mainly from the Rural Development Fund, in order to favour landowners within the Natura 2000 network and to manage their land in a favourable way.
Akamas
The issue of Akamas is one of the issues that the Cypriot ecological movement has been dealing with since the first day of its creation.The long delay in the implementation of a substantial protection plan for the area has resulted in the continuous gradual degradation of the Akamas environment,
but also in the justified reaction of the communities, since without a clear framework for development it is very difficult to plan and plan for their future.
The area must finally be protected, and this is the demand of all Cypriots.
 To this end, the following should be done: Establish a management committee with the involvement of all the communities and stakeholders for the practical implementation of the management plan.
A substantive and nominal policy decision that excludes tourism development in the more sensitive coastal areas of Akamas, such as Toxetra Lara and Fontana Amorosa. This will remove the pressures and pretexts that prevent a consensual solution from being found with the majority of local residents.
To promote the area as an alternative destination for tourists visiting the island, not only to benefit the residents themselves, but also so that Cyprus can boast that it can offer many, meaningful and alternative options to its visitors.
Fauna - Hunting
Animals feel pain, cold and heat as well as fear, distress and hunger so we must treat them with love, not treat them as ornaments without rights and protect them from disease, torture or abuse.
We are against the exposure of animals in zoos and their use in circuses, dolphinariums or any scientific experiments for the pharmaceutical or cosmetics industry etc.
As for wildlife and fauna in general, it is drastically declining in species and numbers, while there is no comprehensive, scientific statistics on the population of wild species.
Humans have a moral obligation to oppose the capture, poisoning and killing of wild animals and the infliction of pain and suffering on them.
Population control of the numbers of certain fauna species where this is necessary should be done by non-lethal methods but by controlling breeding or other means.
We consider the following to be unacceptable for the fauna of the area: The possibility of legal or illegal hunting during most of the year.
The mass killing of birds (especially during the nesting season) using modern technology. According to figures from the Bird Association, approximately 1-2 million birds are killed every year by various means (legal and illegal hunting, trapping, nets, poisoning).
We support efforts to tackle the illegal bird trapping that has plagued and exposed our country for years.
The pollution of the countryside as a consequence of the massive "warfare" from the lead in cartridges, bag litter, scattered empty cartridges and waste materials, the noise, the lighting of fires.
The government's failure to honour the contracts it has signed, as is the case with the practice of Spring Hunting.
The commercial import of animals and birds for hunting and ornamental purposes.
The sale of CITES-protected animals, birds, corals, shells, etc.
The poisoning of wild animals e.g. foxes and reptiles.
The behaviour of certain hunting organisations which perpetuate the unacceptable hunting behaviour of some of their members.
The practice of breeding animals by the government hunting agency and releasing them into the environment to become future victims, without regard to the fact that they have not acquired those skills to survive in the wild and without regard to the impact on the environment.
The public remains uninformed and therefore indifferent to our national fauna. (We urge the government to promote public education in specific areas e.g. labelling - identification of different species of birds, the interdependence of different species and the food chain).
The incomplete management of fauna habitats (e.g. Larnaca and Limassol salt marshes with the expansion of the airport and the delay in adopting a management plan for their protection).
Extensive destruction of wildlife habitats due to fires and land clearance for agricultural or other exploitation (e.g. Lake Paralimni).
The excessive use of pesticides on crops and aerial spraying.
The unacceptably high number of licensed hunters and the lack of strict regulations and criteria for obtaining a licence.
The illegal hunters.
Protected areas are not usually selected according to scientific criteria, but are subject to haggling with hunting clubs.
We recommend: Long-term planning with specific objectives, policy definition and the creation of effective implementation, control and monitoring mechanisms.
Upgrading the Game Service to a Wildlife Protection Service, strengthened in scientific and other staff to formulate thorough programmes for the protection of wildlife and not "game".
The fight against poaching and illegal bird trapping needs particular support.
Abandon any idea of allowing the hunting of wild boar.
Keeping in full our positions in relation to hunting, as a totally ecologically unacceptable activity in the way it is currently conducted in Cyprus, and until we as a society manage to overcome the stage of inhuman and cruel treatment of Nature, we suggest taking measures to reduce hunting through legislative measures and environmental education.
We are not anti-hunters, but we believe that the way and scale in which hunting is currently conducted is unacceptable, exposes us as a society with backward attitudes, and perpetuates a negative and antagonistic relationship between humans and animals.
SEA - COAST
The marine area of our island faces various risks and interventions from:Pollution from land-based sources (such as industrial or domestic waste, plastics, fertilizers and other waste) and pollution from ships (such as oil, oil and other waste).Exploitative fishing and uncontrolled fishing. Construction of projects (jetties, breakwaters, breakwaters, marinas, etc.) without adequate study and without taking into account the chain reactions to marine ecosystems; illegal beach encroachment (e.g. sanding, occupation of beaches for commercial purposes).Construction of the coast and/or destruction of the vital natural resource, by residential and tourist facilities; lack of serious study of measures to protect marine and coastal ecosystems; construction of vertical and parallel breakwaters.
We recommend: Substantial amendment of the law on beaches so that it is in line with the well-intentioned interests of all citizens and not with the personal profit of tourism and other businesses.
Substantially strengthen the services involved in the control and protection of the maritime zone.
Take substantial measures for the redevelopment of coastal areas, particularly in areas of residential and tourist development.
Promote and implement a study of the coastal works that have already been built (some may have to be demolished).
Implement serious legislation on beach pollution. Encouraging initiatives by various bodies to prevent littering of beaches.
Revision of the coastline contour. Redesign and redefinition of the beach protection zone with measures to ensure compliance.
Establish more effective fishing legislation and implement existing legislation.
Implementation of international conventions to protect the Mediterranean Sea from both marine and land-based sources of pollution.
More active participation of Cyprus in European programmes for the Mediterranean.
Implementation of the Barcelona Convention on Integrated Coastal Zone Management.
Marines
The marinas are seen as yet another spur-of-the-moment project in the path of disastrous tourism development for the arrival of "quality" luxury tourism.
The proposed number and sizes are yet another expression of the tendency towards gigantism which will inevitably offend the landscape aesthetically as it will be at odds with the scale of the site.
Their economic viability is questionable because, among other things, the huge environmental costs are not taken into account in the investment expenditure.
The destruction of the environment caused by the extraction of boulders for their construction and the ecological disturbance and degradation of the marine and submarine environment from pollution and changes in sea currents is very high.
The existence of a number of safe anchorages to serve the basic needs of Cypriots and a number of foreign sailors is acceptable, but strictly under certain conditions.
A study had to be made of the potential number of sailors and their real needs in terms of the facilities available in the anchorages.
These safe anchorages should be built on a reasonable scale in or near existing harbours or in environmentally degraded areas.
The usage and mooring charge should be unsubsidised and fully reflect operating and capital costs. The latter should include environmental costs.
At the same time, the deliberate and continuous degradation of Larnaca Marina must be stopped.
CULTURAL HERITAGE / ARCHITECTURE
Years after the ratification by the Cypriot state of the European Convention for the Protection of Architectural Heritage, the historic architectural ensembles, unique symbols and testimonies of the historical continuity of the country, remain abandoned at the mercy of time and any small or large interests.
While in the northern part of our island, occupied by the Turkish army, the looting and alteration of our cultural heritage is taking place in a conscious and methodical manner, in the free part of the island, the Cypriot state, despite its national and international obligations, is abandoning our architectural heritage in a constantly accelerating rate of deterioration that is now leading to its extinction.
Apart from the implementation of some piecemeal measures and incentives, both the Government and the Local Authorities fail to grasp the importance for the country, in the conditions it is going through, of preserving our Architectural Heritage, this integral part of our culture, our collective memory and identity.
On the other hand, the modern architectural product is the result of the cultural product of today's man. The transformation of the cultural component of contemporary life is a necessary precondition for a change in the contemporary built environment without diminishing the importance of the role of architecture and all the sciences and arts in shaping the built environment and the level of quality and responsibility at which they operate.
We recommend to: Give the necessary attention to the cultural issues of this place and properly prioritize the importance of both the architecture and our cultural tradition more broadly.
Promote the necessary coordination of all the competent bodies and the creation of mechanisms for direct intervention, protection and effective revival of our traditional heritage and essentialization of the role of the Handicraft Service.
To undertake on a systematic and broad basis the education and awareness of the public about the value of our architectural heritage.
Implement procedures for effective control of building development in traditional residential areas and programmes for their effective revitalisation in terms of quantity and quality.
Implement the provisions of the legislation concerning the protection of cultural heritage, by the Executive, the Local Government and any competent authority. This legislation includes the provisions of the International Conventions on Cultural Heritage to which the Republic of Cyprus itself is a signatory.
Promote measures to ensure the creation of such public buildings and spaces, which accept and do not exclude their citizen-users: whether they are public employees or students who need flexibility, creative communication in educational spaces, or disabled people who need ease of movement and contact, or any citizen who needs easy access to information and information.
We also recommend the creation of welcoming waiting areas, ease of access and communication.
Redevelopment and remodelling of public open spaces and the creation of buildings to ensure quality and responsibility in their composition and construction and operation.
Projects produced by the State itself must be equally subjected to quality and integrity control in terms of operation and integration into the environment.
The cultural and architectural heritage is unified throughout Cyprus (Ap. Andreas, Tekkes Larnaca, Fragoe Church, Armenomonastiron). The monuments should be respected and preserved.
Promote legislation providing for the expropriation of areas of natural beauty, antiquities and cultural heritage sites.
ARCHAEOLOGIES
The care for the antiquities of Cyprus and their proper promotion and preservation are not among the priorities for the development of the island.
Discrimination against our culture and the inadequacy of legal protection have as a natural consequence the destruction of antiquities, the abandonment of culture and the equally important lack of public awareness of these problems.
The degradation of our culture and the sources of this culture have as a natural consequence the alienation of culture and tradition and therefore the loss of the character of the island.
The antiquities of Cyprus are threatened with destruction by human and natural factors. The destruction is continuing, accumulating and is a silent but real crisis since the sites at risk cannot be recreated. Much of the worsening destruction is due to the Turkish invasion and occupation and the dramatic increase in tourism over the last decade.
Almost 2.5 million tourists visit Cyprus every year and around 30% of tourists visit the archaeological sites.
The Department of Antiquities, which comes under the Ministry of Communications and Works, does not have the necessary budget and staff to deal with the growing problems associated with the maintenance of these sites that are being destroyed.
The museums, which house the archaeological treasures of the island, are outdated and are partly antiquities warehouses.
 Museums do not fulfil the most important role, that of education and training. Their role in society and its development is minimal if not non-existent.
The destruction of the island's culture and character has a huge cost on the island's education and training sectors.
The field of modern Folk Art is completely neglected and in a few years the few remaining examples of authentic folk tradition will disappear.
The responsibility for the destruction of the antiquities and consequently of the culture and character of the island lies with the legislature and the Government, which decide on the development plans of the place and place the preservation of our archaeological sites, the development and improvement of our Museums, as well as the preservation of our folk art in a secondary position.
The existing legislation is inadequate and only suits development as the technocrat understands it.
The perpetuation of a legislation that not only does not protect but also does not help or support the true needs of tradition and culture will mathematically bring about the destruction and alienation of the island.
The ecological movement, which is aware of and based on the foundations of tradition and culture and not on technocratic views of sterile development that benefits only a small percentage of the local population, proposes that the legislation be amended to meet the real needs of the place.
The Department of Antiquities should be placed under the Ministry of Culture, which should be established without delay.
The Ministry of Culture to become a substantial entity.
Adopt laws to cover the practical needs of archaeological/historical sites (maintenance, signalling, control).
To set up a legislative framework and create a body for the protection of Cultural Heritage (Ecclesiastical and Architectural).
Establish laws governing excavations, their maintenance costs, publications, etc.).
We also propose: The protection of our exposed antiquities and their decent fencing.
Extending the opening hours of museums.
Creating thematic museums in selected communities.
Increase of the resources of the Department of Antiquities and scientific staffing of the Department at the headquarters and the provincial museums.
The inclusion of the preservation of our cultural heritage among the most important objectives in the five-year development programme.
The appropriate staffing of the Department of Antiquities so that it can respond to the educational and social role that can be promoted through the Museums, which must popularize the subject of archaeology.
Museums should also take an active role in preserving all of our cultural heritage, both built, written and oral.
The setting of protective rules, numerical limits for visitors, a code of conduct to protect archaeological sites which should not be a cheap product for sale.
The introduction of a Tax and the creation of a Heritage Fund. Only by imposing such a measure will it be possible to carry out in time the work of preserving and maintaining the archaeological sites that has been so long overdue.
The pace of destruction is such that it does not allow for the introduction of other measures that would depend solely on government funds.
Government intervention is needed to ratify the tax and arrange interdepartmental agreements so that the Department of Antiquities, as the appropriate body, has the flexibility to use the revenue and be able to plan for future projects to improve and maintain archaeological sites.
The creation of a "Heritage Conservation Committee" as an advisory body composed of archaeologists, historians, artists and select members of the private sector whose mandate will be to oversee the Department of Antiquities and the Fund, work closely with the Department and work to raise public awareness of the conservation and preservation of antiquities.
The participation of archaeologists and historians in the councils that decide on the tourism policy - development of the place, and in general those that draw up the five-year development programmes.
To prevent any projects that degrade and commercially exploit the tradition of the place, the ancient monuments and culture in general.
The prevention of activities that may damage in any way the archaeological or historical sites of Cyprus (construction of the Nicosia Municipal Hall, construction of the House of Representatives, Eleftherias Square, hotels, restaurants etc. on or next to archaeological sites and other cultural heritage sites).
CULTURE
The Turkish invasion and the continued illegal occupation of Cyprus' territories have dealt a significant blow to the development and creative process of the island. A society without balance has been created, where everything to do with development projects is being advanced and developed at the expense of the tradition and culture of the island, which have been downgraded and classified by the government technocrats as the last priorities of the country.
Therefore, a country that develops unilaterally, abandoning and neglecting the issues of culture and tradition, which alone define its specificity and character, will not be able to cope.
The Ecological Movement of Cyprus highlights this uneven development that has already brought irreparable damage to the country.
The position of the creator in Cyprus has been misunderstood and people who were pioneers in our artistic creation have left this world bitterly, without any recognition or distinction for their work.
Their work, however, is used and exploited whenever it is convenient and whenever the state wants to show its face.
Contemporary cultural creation, together with the preservation and dissemination of tradition and cultural heritage, must be key priorities.
We recommend: Separation of the Ministry of Education and Culture into two independent and autonomous units.
The creation of a Single Culture Body, and the creation of a Cultural Planning Office in the Ministry of Culture.
Organisation and staffing of Culture by specialised scientists and experts according to the areas it will handle: e.g. Department of Antiquities, Department of the State Library, Department of Monuments Registration and Archiving, Department of Archiving, Preservation and Promotion of Popular Tradition, Department of Museums and Galleries, Department of Contemporary Artistic Creation Archiving, Department of Literature and Translation, Department of Publications, Department of Music and Dance, Department of Applied Arts, Department of Public Relations and Enlightenment, Department of Cinema and Theatre, etc. All of the above departments are awarded significant funds to promote their specific objectives.
Close cooperation between the Ministry of Culture, Foreign Affairs and Tourism.
 Representation and promotion through the above ministries of contemporary Cypriot artistic creation.
Establishment of a higher school of Fine Arts (Department of Painting, Sculpture, Byzantine Iconography, Ceramics, Engraving, etc.).
Establishment of a State Higher School of Music and a professional choir as decided 5 years ago.
Establishment of an Opera Organisation and the construction of an opera house or a Concert Hall or a Cultural Centre with its own opera school in accordance with international standards.
Decentralisation and delegation of active cultural work to local government and communities.
Active participation of the Ministry of Education, Culture, the University and Local Government in the Government's five-year development programme.
The culture of Orthodoxy occupies an essential part of the cultural heritage of our country. Measures and procedures should be established for its protection and proper promotion (architecture, Byzantine culture, writings, etc.).
Active participation of private individuals in the cultural development of the country,
providing incentives (tax and other) for cultural projects
and providing scholarships in cultural creative industries.
Establishment of a grant for artistic creation.
Special pension for the intellectual world and creators of art.
Training programme and provision of allowance and facilities for lay artisans.
A programme to revive cottage industries and small crafts and provide incentives to attract quality cultural development in villages.
Utilising the profits from OPAP games for culture.
Legislation for private music education and dance.
Creating cultural spaces to attract young people where they can learn theatre, music, poetry, painting, sculpture, etc.
Establishment of a professional folk band with its own professional orchestra of traditional music.
Establishment of an independent Culture Authority.
Theatrical production subsidy programmes with transparency and meritocracy.
Application of the international treaties on geographical names.
MISSION
The defence case is not exhausted or limited to military armaments. In most cases, the mistake is made of considering the level of expenditure on military equipment as an indicator of defence capability.
Cyprus can make more effective use of its high percentage of educated citizens in shaping a reliable, smart and technologically advanced defence.
On the other hand, increasing defence capacity is directly related to the involvement of all citizens in appropriate programmes, which, together with the acquisition of skills, experience and organisation, also contribute to forging a spirit of militancy and collectivity.
The utilisation of the female population through conscription programmes that respect the specificity of the social role of women is expected to contribute to this area.
OPTIONS
What we claim:
We demand a solution to the Cyprus problem that provides for a state with a single international personality, a single people and a single citizenship, a single economy, society and ecosystem, fair representation of national communities in the collective bodies of administration in a rule of law and a justice system based on European principles and the security mechanisms of the European Union, elements necessary to ensure the viability of any solution, federal or otherwise,
without foreign armies and bases.
We demand the implementation of our election commitments to strengthen the Environment Commissioner and create an Environment Agency.
We demand that the Akamas Peninsula be protected as a National Park.
We denounce the shrinking of the area proposed for inclusion in the European network of Natura 2000 habitats by 75% to satisfy development ambitions and petty political expediencies.
We demand the protection of natural habitats and species.
We fail to understand why the protection of the wetlands of Lake Oroklini and Paralimni is delayed, while the most important wetlands of the Larnaca and Akrotiri Seas are under constant pressure and affected by destructive interventions.
We demand the protection of public health from the dangers caused by electromagnetic fields (pylons, transformers, mobile phone antennas), oil stations, asbestos, smoking, nuclear energy, genetically modified food, excessive use of drugs in agriculture and livestock farming, etc.
We demand the investigation of suspected overflights and chemical spraying.
We demand a wise water policy based on sustainability. Treated wastewater and rainwater are not sufficiently utilised.
Why does the waste of scarce water resources on water-intensive crops and developments such as golf courses continue?
We are still demanding respect for animal rights, an end to poisoning and abuse,
protection of forests and evergreen trees, the
abolition of the advertising dog pound and the implementation of a modern policy of waste volume reduction and rational waste management.
We demand the expansion of the use of Renewable Energy Sources and especially solar energy.
We demand respect for the legislation on environmental impact assessments.
Therefore, we also demand the recognition of the refugees by birth
and the full investigation of the fate of the missing Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots.
We demand the adoption of horizontal voting.
We demand an integrated health care system, with special emphasis on prevention and food security
We demand the implementation of the strategic plan for cancer prevention and treatment and the operation of a full oncology department in all state general hospitals.
We demand a genuine educational reform free of party blinkers
We demand respect for the rights of disabled people and especially the application of the principle of "positive discrimination".
We demand the extension of social policy to people in real need, large families, single-parent and three-parent families, the sick and the elderly.
We demand the abolition of inequalities and party politics.
We demand the rule of law, the
fight against police violence or overstepping of duty by all kinds of authorities.
We demand justice for victims of crime
We demand respect for the rights of ordinary citizens
The Environmentalist Movement claims the continuation of its presence and action in the House of Representatives through its success in the elections of 22 May 2011.
You too can give power to the Green. Give strength to Hope.
