The parliamentary elections of next May take place at a particularly important and critical period for Cyprus, the Republic of Cyprus, the Cyprus problem, the Cyprus economy, the Cyprus society.
The Democratic Party sends a message of honour and appreciation to the Cypriot people
and invites them to join together on the basis of common visions, common aspirations, common concerns and common goals.
for a just, honourable, dignified, democratic, viable and sustainable solution to the Cyprus problem,
for the full integration of Cyprus into the European Union, for the
enlargement of democracy and the strengthening of its institutions, for the
consolidation of the rule of law and the welfare state, for the
consolidation of politics, the economy, public administration and public life, for the
reform and modernisation of structures, reform of the structures,processes and functions of the state, the economy and society, for the
realisation of meritocracy,
equality
and egalitarianism, for the
consolidation of social justice,
social solidarity
and social cohesion,
for the continuous improvement of the quality of life,
for ensuring the basic social rights of the citizen to health, education, work and security,
for the support of civil society.
The Democratic Party remains first and foremost committed to the principles it has proclaimed since its foundation and which it has consistently followed and supported for 30 years.
The principles of freedom, democracy and justice are the guiding beacon and constant objective of the struggles, the offer and the policy of the Democratic Party
and the debt to the homeland and the people is the guiding principle of its political action.
Faithful to the visions of the National Lord Makarios and Spyros Kyprianou and with the agonistic and assertive leadership of Tassos Papadopoulos, with insight and knowledge, the Democratic Party continues steadily on the path of honour and duty and the struggle for the vindication of Cyprus and its people.
The Democratic Party also remains committed to work for the promotion and implementation of the principles, objectives and policy proposals contained in Tassos Papadopoulos' Governance Programme.
We support the government of Tassos Papadopoulos, we assess as particularly positive the work it has done in its three years in office
and we will work for the implementation of all the provisions of the Governance Programme.
At the same time, the Democratic Party controls power.
It calls for an acceleration of the pace and an increase in the productivity and efficiency of the government and the state apparatus
and will work to make the government do even more and better things for the benefit of society as a whole, always in the public interest.
More, especially for underprivileged groups of the population. For the needy, the low paid, the low pensioners, the elderly, the inhabitants of mountainous areas.
More and better things for young people.
More and better things for the small and medium-sized enterprises
and, more generally, for those groups of the population that should receive state assistance and support.
The Democratic Party is identified, on the one hand, with President Tassos Papadopoulos and his government and, on the other hand, with society.
It serves society. He has at the centre of his attention and political action the man, the common man, especially the underprivileged man, his problems, his worries, his anxieties and his aspirations.
We have declared war on corruption, corruption and favouritism.
We are firmly in favour of transparency, meritocracy,
we are not interested in the interests of a few.
We serve and support the interests of the many, the public interest,
the national interest.
The Democratic Party addresses the Cypriot people with full awareness of its debt to the country and the people
and with full awareness of its responsibility to work for a better future for Cyprus and its people.
We consistently continue our 30 years of assertive policy on the Cyprus problem, as an extension of the struggle and assertion of the rights and rights of Cyprus and its people.
We say NO to any plan or method to impose an unjust or illegitimate solution.
We say NO to unjust.
We say NO to dishonesty.
We say NO to the undignified.
We say YES to a just, honest, workable and viable solution to the Cyprus problem.
We remain firmly committed to a solution to the Cyprus problem on the basis of the United Nations resolutions and decisions on Cyprus,
the principles of international law, the decisions of international courts,
the principles on which the European Union was built.
A solution that serves and safeguards the rights and interests of the legitimate inhabitants of Cyprus and no foreigner.
The solution to the Cyprus problem must end the occupation,
ensure the independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity and unity of the Republic of Cyprus, the Cypriot people, the Cypriot economy and the institutions of the Cypriot state.
The Democratic Party, which took the lead in the rejection of the Annan plan, fully responds to the popular mandate of April 24, 2004
and works for the creation of a pan-Patriotic, militant and patriotic fighting front to claim and defend the rights and rights of the Cypriot people as a whole.
We stand with and join the refugees, the stranded, the relatives of the missing and the vast majority of Cypriot Hellenism in the course of struggle and claim.
We do not have national suicidal tendencies like some who called on the people to accept the Annan plan because, ostensibly, it was a blessing for Cyprus and its people.
The dilemma facing the Cypriot people in the parliamentary elections and every Cypriot voter must answer with their vote and their choice on May 21 is: do we move forward on the course that 76% of the Cypriot Hellenism charted on April 24, 2004 or do we go back to the Annan plan and before April 24?
We are in constant dialogue with history.
At the same time, we look to the future with confidence and optimism.
We are learning from the past and envisioning a better future.
We remain the guardians of the principles and values of our people
and we conduct our politics in the national and public interest.
As a force for responsibility, consistency, democracy and social justice, the Democratic Party is moving into the new era with national dignity, political credibility and social sensitivity.
We envision, plan and work for a better future for Cyprus and our people.
We are building a better tomorrow.
Together with Tassos Papadopoulos we are shaping and building a better future.
We aspire to lead Cyprus and its people to a better future.
We are determined to bring better days.
Cyprus and its people deserve and deserve better days.
Together we will bring even better days.
We remain steadfast in our course of honour and duty.
On the road to progress, to growth, to prosperity.
We are working for the reform, the modernisation, the reconstruction, the reconstruction of the Cypriot state, the Cypriot economy, the Cypriot society, the public life, the political life.
We move forward with confidence, with vision, with goals, with method and determination.
Without wavering and doubt.
Without illusions and wishful thinking
With respect and appreciation to every Cypriot citizen,
with a high sense of responsibility
and with full awareness of the debt owed to the homeland and the people,
the Democratic Party asks for the vote of the people in the parliamentary elections of next May.
A strengthened Democratic Party means a more effective armouring of the Republic of Cyprus.
A strengthened Democratic Party means a strengthened Tassos Papadopoulos.
Strengthened and armoured in the management of the Cyprus problem.
Strengthened, to consolidate change.
A strengthened Democratic Party means stopping bipolarity and ensuring conditions of political balance by strengthening the predominant power of the centre.
A strengthened Democratic Party also means more active participation of the people in political life.
We go together with Cyprus in our hearts and our eyes to the future.
Let's go together into the new era.
Nicosia, 19 February 2006
