we are addressing you with this program.
We want to win you over for a different, for a better policy in the federal election on September 22.
We address our program to all those who think that we have to change things in our society now in order to create a good, a secure future.
If we stop the climate catastrophe as far as possible and realize the energy transition,
If we want to live in a fair and modern society tomorrow, we cannot wait and see - we have to take political action today.
We Greens have always tried to make policies that think beyond the day, since the founding of the Greens in the Federal Republic in 1980 and in the East since 1989/90 as the Green Party in the GDR and as Bündnis 90.
In doing so, we have been courageous and ambitious, and sometimes we have been wrong.
But we have learned from our mistakes, our ambition has made us strong and with our courage we have advanced society.
We wanted to get out of nuclear power when all the powerful were still nuclear fans.
We fought for organic food when no wholesaler even thought of selling these products.
We were feminists, we lived the quota, while predominantly male alliances ruled, preferring to see women at the hearth.
We fought alongside lesbians, gays, trans and intersex people when they were socially ostracized in many ways.
We were conscientious objectors and peace movements in East and West when the Cold War and the nuclear arms race were considered a political necessity.
We already showed responsibility for the One World when the mainstream still distinguished between three worlds and only the national good counted.
Today, we also invite you to think beyond the day with us - to discuss with us what needs to change and where it should go.
Germany is on the way to a greener economy
and a more open society, but in many ways we have only just begun.
1. it is time to decisively drive forward the green transformation
We have to change something today so that future generations can also freely decide how they want to live.
We want to make a change today to move to an economy that benefits everyone, not just a few
- that is built on renewables instead of oil, coal, nuclear and gas,
that protects our environment instead of destroying it.
We urgently need to change something to stop the disintegration of our society into inside and outside, rich and poor, top and bottom.
And we want to change something today so that tomorrow we will finally live in a diverse society in which children, women and men, people of different sexual identities, different religions, from different cultures or different origins can finally live with equal rights and have equal opportunities.
We want to convince everyone of the need for change.
We will resolutely oppose lobbying and patronage interests and put them in their place.
That, too, is the task of democratic politics.
Politics needs ideals, principles and values, a comprehensible direction - but that is exactly what we and many others are missing from this black-yellow government.
Without a compass, there is no orientation, and political steps depend only on day-to-day political needs and power interests.
We address this program to all idealists, because we also believe: A better society is possible.
We address this program to all realists, because we too know that the best ideals are of little value if we do not look for feasible proposals to realize them.
We set out in our program what ideas, what principles and values guide green policy - and make clear how we translate these values into concrete policy.
2. why we need the green transition
At first glance, the economic situation in Germany is good.
Our country has many impressive, technologically strong companies, well-educated employees and many creative minds.
They have brought Germany through the financial and economic crisis better than many other countries, primarily through export success.
This economic success alone is not sustainable, because our way of doing business still contributes far too much to the destruction of the natural foundations of life.
The production of our food, cell phones, cars, clothes or furniture still involves immense emissions and resource consumption.
The earth's climate continues to heat up unabated.
No one seriously disputes that anymore.
The consequences of the climate catastrophe have already reached us in part, not only in Australia and at the North Pole.
Droughts, storms, and periods of extreme heat and cold are already on the rise, and millions of people worldwide are already fleeing the effects of the climate catastrophe every year.
The consequences of this development will soon become even more noticeable.
We still waste raw materials whose reserves are limited and whose extraction poisons the rivers, contaminates the earth, pollutes the air and drives people off their land.
People in many countries of the world lose their livelihood due to our lifestyle, they grow fodder soy on their fields for our meat consumption, they work under terrible and dangerous conditions for our cheap clothing.
Children also toil under terrible conditions for our consumption.
Forests are being cleared, soils are being overused, and biodiversity is shrinking at a rapid pace.
Thus, our prosperity undermines its own foundations.
Our economic success is not sustainable because the one-sided export orientation has contributed to massive imbalances in the European Union and because the imbalances in our society have become ever greater.
The income and wealth gap has widened more and more.
While a few earn high profits, more than one in five employees works for a low wage, 6.8 million of them well below 8.50 euros.
Although more and more people are in work, poverty is nevertheless on the rise.
10% of households in Germany have well over half of all net assets.
The bottom 50 % of households in Germany together own just 1 % of net assets.
In the last ten years, public debt has grown by 800 billion euros - while unequally distributed private wealth has more than doubled from almost five to over ten trillion euros.
Dilapidated schools, closed swimming pools, disused train stations, a lack of daycare places, too few all-day schools - most municipalities lack money for our public facilities.
This development calls the cohesion of society into question.
We are damaging our future when more than 2.5 million children and young people grow up in poverty in a rich country like Germany.
Not only that, but their chances for advancement are poor.
In Germany, it is usually decided at birth whether a child will later graduate from high school or even graduate at all, whether he or she will have a chance to get an apprenticeship, to live an independent life in dignity.
The sad truth is: poverty is inherited in our country.
Our children should be better off one day.
Today, many hope that at least they will not be worse off.
It is no less scandalous that parents still have to fight for a childcare place when they want and need one.
There are still far too few all-day schools and good, all-day daycare centers in Germany.
We have been talking about the compatibility of family and career for decades, and for decades far too little has been done.
Freedom of choice in child care really only exists for those who can financially afford it.
Family is where children are.
And family is, of course, where people stand up for each other and take responsibility for each other.
Children need parents and people who love them.
And it must not matter whether the parents are lesbian, straight or gay.
The ideological denial of adoption rights and marriage to same-sex couples is discriminatory and must be overcome.
It is unworthy that the necessary modernization is being driven by the Federal Constitutional Court and not by parliament.
Women and men still do not have equal rights in Germany.
Women are paid less, even for comparable jobs, and are less likely to rise to management positions.
Much more often than men, they are employed on low wages and in precarious jobs that offer no scope for independent security; they are therefore also more often at risk of old-age poverty.
And they bear much of the domestic care work and child rearing.
Little has been done here for years.
Even a woman as chancellor does not make a good gender equality policy.
It is frightening that a right-wing terrorist group, driven by a blind hatred of everything that did not correspond to their crude worldview, was able to roam our country unhindered with bomb attacks and cold-blooded murders for over ten years.
Trust in our security authorities has been deeply shaken.
Real consequences from this governmental failure have still not been drawn.
We are deeply concerned that under Merkel's leadership the Europe of nation states has been reactivated at the expense of the European Community.
With the motto "Let Europe be healed by Germany's nature," Angela Merkel's coalition is endangering not only further integration, but also peaceful coexistence in the EU.
With its nationally focused view, under the guise of austerity dictates, black and yellow has, in just a few months, shaken cornerstones of the EU peace project that have been built up over decades - such as trust, solidarity and unity in diversity.
We don't think this can continue.
We want our democracy
and strengthen civil rights.
Together, we want to create a green transformation towards an economy and society that does not come at the expense of the planet, future generations or economically weaker people in other regions.
A green change that restores trust in state institutions.
Germany has all the means to achieve this: the people, the technologies, the knowledge.
And also the will.
Because society is further along than Merkel and her cabinet would have us believe.
The vast majority want things to be fairer in our society, for
more participation to be possible
and for us to finally take responsibility for our future.
The majority of citizens have long understood that we need to be more careful with our natural resources, that
we need a new social balance and a real promise of participation, that
we need to preserve our democracy and do something about it.
But these social majorities are opposed by a black-yellow coalition whose chancellor is protecting patronage interests instead of taking the side of change.
So let's finally turn the social majority into a political majority.
Another, a better policy is possible!
3. our goal: a better tomorrow
Together, we can create an economy that creates quality of life for all without destroying the environment, nature and our natural resources.
Together we can create a just society in which no one is excluded from education and work and a life of dignity.
With the energy transition, we are taking on a pioneering role worldwide.
In this way, we in Germany can show that a successful industrial nation can manage the transformation to a climate-friendly energy supply.
In this way, we can give new impetus to the faltering international climate protection and avert the impending climate catastrophe.
At the same time, innovative entrepreneurs can create hundreds of thousands of new jobs
and old dependencies on the import of expensive raw materials such as coal, oil and gas are eliminated.
This saves a lot of money and makes our production clean.
The new, clean energy will be generated by many small, citizen-owned companies, not just a few large corporations that are slowing down change today because they want to sell us expensive electricity without fearing competition.
We are finally drawing the conclusion that natural resources are limited and that an energy supply of the future must not be based on coal and oil - and certainly not on nuclear power.
The industrialized and emerging countries' hunger for resources is partly responsible for the conflicts on our planet.
Equitable access to energy and the use of natural resources is active peace policy, as is the replacement of finite raw materials with renewable ones.
The economy we need is to create prosperity for all.
We are committed to a sustainable economy as our guiding principle.
So far, our economy has been judged almost exclusively on the basis of its growth.
The fixation of politicians and the media on gross domestic product (GDP) alone has led us astray.
GDP says nothing about the most important things that make life worth living.
If growth is bought with environmental destruction and injustice, it can actually make us poorer on balance.
That is why we need a new yardstick for prosperity and quality of life - a new prosperity indicator that includes the social and ecological dimensions of prosperity.
We want an economy that puts people, not markets, at the center.
It is in our hands to shape our society in such a way that all people can participate in it fairly, that rich and poor are not unattainably far apart, that the few do not enrich themselves at the expense of the many, and that all have access to the resources for a self-determined life.
We want everyone to be able to develop according to their abilities and potential - in good daycare centers and schools and
not depending on the parents' wallets.
We want a society based on solidarity, in which strong shoulders carry more than weak ones.
But we also provide clear information on how we intend to use the funds to achieve good public institutions that benefit everyone.
We are thus working on a social and ecological re-foundation of our market economy.
We are finally creating clear rules for the financial markets.
Good work,
good wages,
more employee participation - all of these can and must contribute to economic and social success.
We want to live in a modern society where people have equal rights, opportunities and chances - women and men, people with disabilities, refugees, people of different origins and ages, people of different faiths and sexual identities.
We want to revive our democracy so that, in addition to elected parliaments, it is above all the citizens who have a say - and not powerful lobbies for whom the common good is not a criterion.
We want a respectful approach to nature that protects biodiversity, soil, air and water.
We want forest management that is close to nature.
We want an agriculture that is no longer characterized by cruel factory farming and climate-damaging meat and milk production.
We want informed consumers with secure rights - not a series of food or data protection scandals.
We do not align our policies with points of the compass.
Neither East and West nor North and South may be played off against each other.
We tackle the problems where they exist.
Our goal is equal opportunities, possibilities and comparable living conditions in all regions.
This is another reason why solidarity between the East and West German states is still needed more than 20 years after the peaceful revolution.
We can still learn a lot from each other and develop together.
Green politics also thinks and acts locally.
Cities and villages are central places of public coexistence.
It is time for the municipalities to be put back in a position to perform their tasks, because living together and democracy get their face here.
We want a European Germany - not a German Euro-pa.
The Federal Republic has benefited more than any other country from the growing together of Europe.
But the crisis has shown that Europe needs reforms.
We are certain that we need more Europe to meet the major challenges.
But we also need a different Europe: a Europe that does more together against youth unemployment and poverty,
that goes together the way to renewable energies,
that protects refugees instead of arming the borders of Europe to deadly walls.
A Europe with common social standards and more cooperation on fiscal and financial issues.
We need a democratic Europe of citizens instead of a Europe of governments, administrations and expertocracy.
We stand for a policy that thinks and acts globally.
Our ambitious domestic reform agenda goes hand in hand with globally thought-out policies.
Climate protection, conservation of natural resources and biodiversity can only be achieved globally.
Our goal is to implement human rights,
reduce poverty,
Securing peace
and gender equality
and democracy.
We believe that many in Germany think this way, perhaps even most.
But to get to that goal, we still have to change a lot of things.
And we must do it soon, because a wrong way of doing business and an unjust society cause damage that cannot be repaired.
We believe green change is the right path to that better tomorrow.
4. participate. Get involved. Creating the future - engines of green change
Better policies let people participate.
For only those who are part of this society, who have access to the public goods, will not be left behind and can live self-determined lives.
A better policy needs people who get involved and does not see them as a disruptive factor.
Better policies look ahead and create the future - today.
Participate. Get involved. Creating the future - that is the direction of green change.
Participate. Get involved. Creating the future - these are also its engines.
Participate: Your voice for more justice
Let's create a green change for more social participation!
Participation is an elementary condition for justice: participation in
the labor market, participation in
education, participation in
social security, participation
in a health and care system that makes no distinctions between people and their income or origin -
but also participation in economic development and economic success.
A policy of participation requires, in addition to a decent basic income,
the renewal and strengthening of our public institutions.
We want to return them to the public: the public places, spaces and networks.
Whether daycare centers or schools, colleges or vocational schools, hospitals or care facilities, job centers or employment agencies, public spaces or district centers, youth or cultural institutions: Everywhere it is decided whether participation is possible.
The renewal of all these public institutions needs higher quality,
openness to all and
better opportunities for participation.
In the chapters of our program, we describe exactly how the renewal of these places, spaces and networks can look.
This is where we invest money - and above all our ideas.
We want an inclusive society where it is normal to be different, where everyone has access.
Regardless of gender, sexual identity or origin, age or parental background, physical or mental condition: we break down the barriers.
We want a society in which all people have equal rights of freedom, opportunities for participation and possibilities for a self-determined life and are desired.
Whether it's schools or the job market, neighborhoods or cultural institutions, health or care, our goal is a permeable society that breaks down barriers, where effort is rewarded and no one is slowed down or excluded by closed doors and glass ceilings.
Participation - this requires a solid and solidarity-based financing basis in which the stronger shoulders bear more than the weaker ones.
Therefore, the small incomes should be relieved and the higher ones should be included more.
We want to relieve the burden on low and normal earners through a higher tax-free subsistence level
and stabilized contributions for illness and care through a citizens' insurance scheme.
Heirs should make a greater contribution to funding education and culture in the states.
Earnings from financial investments should again be taxed at the same rate as earnings from work.
And we want a wealth levy on the richest one percent of the population, which will be used to pay down the mountain of debt that has grown enormously as a result of the financial crisis - so that our tax money can be used not to pay interest, not to pay interest, but for more participation and better public goods for all.
The basis of our fiscal and tax policy reforms, which we propose in this program, is a transparent fiscal and budgetary policy that takes into account the overall burden on citizens and businesses.
The yardsticks for the development and implementation of these reforms were and are fairness and efficiency
as well as the preservation of operational investment capability.
It is against these benchmarks that we have developed and reviewed our fiscal and tax policy reforms and will continue to do so in the future.
Participation - this applies not only within Germany, but also across Europe and worldwide.
We want to contribute to a funding base for participation across Europe through a European tax pact to close tax havens and end tax dumping.
Participation - this is only possible with fair wages and good work for all.
That is why we want to curb precarious employment,
replace mini-jobs,
prevent the abuse of temporary work and contracts for work and services,
and strengthen the collective agreement system.
Participation - this requires a fair distribution of income and assets.
Because a society with great inequality cannot use its potentials - it loses the support of its members and thus the cement that holds it together.
Our society must once again benefit from economic development, not just the top 10%.
In addition to taxes and social security contributions, this also requires a different economic policy that pushes back the dominance of individual players.
Participation - in the 21st century, that also means having access to fast Internet.
Social and economic participation depends not least on broadband Internet access.
We want to ensure by law that everyone can participate in the fast Internet.
Participation - this requires a social climate free of discrimination in which all people get their chance and can contribute.
We want to shape our immigration society in such a way that people of different origins can live together on an equal footing.
We want a modern integration policy that recognizes that every naturalization is a success.
Participation - this also aims at justice between the sexes.
Sexism and the discrimination of women are still sadly part of everyday life in many cases.
We are putting an end to the scandal that many women still do not have an independent livelihood, that they have to put up with poorer career opportunities and lower wages.
To achieve this, we need an Equality Act for the private sector, an Equal
Pay Act,
a quota on supervisory boards
and a legal right to all-day childcare.
In addition, we want to convert spousal splitting into individual taxation.
Let's turn the social majority into a political majority: for good public institutions,
for a fairer distribution
and a social security system that really deserves its name.
For a just society in which everyone participates.
Get involved: Your voice for more participation
Let's create a green change for more democratic participation!
Get involved!
That was our credo when we founded the party in both East and West.
And our democracy needs interference today, too.
We know what citizen movements can achieve, even across entrenched structures and party lines.
We want our policies to make it easier to get involved.
Democracy is one of the most valuable things we have.
And that is precisely why we want to revive it, give it new strength.
This is only possible if citizens can get involved and assert their democratic rights.
In our program, we describe what a new democratic culture can look like.
We rely on a policy of listening, making heard and co-decision-making, in which interference is desired and politics discloses the reasons for its actions and puts them up for discussion.
Intervening first requires new opportunities for co-determination.
We create more citizen participation in planning procedures and better opportunities for citizens' petitions and referendums.
The introduction of the European Citizens' Initiative, for example, has been a great success.
We also demand the same when it comes to our heart's desire, the new climate-friendly energy supply.
Interference is welcome, even if the wind blows in our faces from time to time.
If you want people to get involved and actively shape change, you not only have to fine-tune the procedures, but also create the conditions for getting involved.
Getting involved - this requires, for example, strong communities and local participation.
People are committed and competent - especially where they are at home, in their community:
parents' initiatives that are leading the way with self-managed daycare centers and showing how urgently care for under-threes is needed; citizens who are "doing the nuclear phase-out themselves" and switching energy suppliers because progress is too slow for them; sports clubs that are showing politicians that a new way of living together is sometimes so easy to implement.
Getting involved - but that also means removing the barriers to participation.
We want all those who have lived here for a long time to be able to have a say, and to change the electoral law for this purpose.
Our democracy must not exclude anyone on the basis of origin, skin color, sexual identity, gender, disability, religion and ideology or age.
That's why getting involved also means opening up opportunities for young people to make democratic decisions.
We want to lower the voting age to at least 16.
Intervening also means that people should not be excluded from their right to vote simply because they have a disability.
Intervening - but that also doesn't work without fair representation.
We fight for an inclusive democracy where everyone has a say and can participate.
This is precisely why we are fighting for fair democratic representation.
In the parliaments, in the administration, but also in the parties.
For this, we need parties that open up to the citizens.
We need strong parliaments and transparent governance.
For example, it is unacceptable that German weapons are sold all over the world - without sufficient parliamentary and civil society control.
To interfere - that means to have the freedom to do so.
The dismantling of our civil rights must end.
Security must be guaranteed,
freedom must be strengthened after more than ten years of restrictions imposed under the impact of the terrorist attacks in the USA.
We want an open society in which people do not have to feel that they are being monitored - whether by the state or, increasingly, by companies.
Protecting our privacy and strengthening informational self-determination are therefore all the more fundamental in the 21st century.
Intervening - that lives from empowered consumers.
We finally need a consumer policy again that protects our rights.
Because we can only have an impact if we know what's in it, whether it's in the food or the insurance package.
Getting involved - this must also apply to the world of work.
Workers are not working machines or a cost factor, but the most important productive force we have.
That is why we want to strengthen their rights and promote their ideas and commitment.
For us, getting involved means resolutely opposing every form of right-wing extremism and group-based misanthropy.
The NSU murders and, above all, the scandalous handling of the investigation by the Office for the Protection of the Constitution, the police and the judiciary show how much still needs to be done here.
We must repair this immense damage and restore confidence.
We strengthen the resistance against Nazis with all constitutional means and raise our voice even when racism or anti-Semitism come from the middle of society.
For us, getting involved means creating an open society in which everyone can participate without discrimination,
can live, work and act without fear of oppression - be it by the state, by movements hostile to human rights and democracy, by private institutions, by their own family.
Getting involved - that means using the participation opportunities of the Internet and making them accessible to everyone.
We rely on the new digital possibilities to create more participation and more transparency.
Intervening - that means making decision-making structures fairer at the international level as well.
We therefore want to further democratize the United Nations as the international organization with the most legitimacy
and strengthen the International Criminal Court and international criminal law.
Let's turn social desire into reality: for more opportunities for participation, for fair representation, and for a new politics of listening.
For a democratic society in which it pays to intervene.
Creating the future: Your voice for a better tomorrow
Let's create a green change for a better tomorrow!
Sustainable management means not consuming more than can grow back - not living from the substance, but from the yields.
In the meantime, we have long known that this motto should not be limited to ecology.
Creating the future - that means first and foremost creating the energy transition.
We achieve 100% secure energy - without nuclear, coal and other fossil fuels.
To this end, we want to reform the Renewable Energies Act (EEG), free it from expensive industrial subsidies and thus make electricity prices more socially responsible.
We need to organize the electricity market in a way that supports the transition to renewables, so that it will still work when coal and nuclear have finally disappeared.
We want to transform Germany from a laggard to a pioneer in climate protection - here, in Europe and in the world.
We want a climate protection law so that there is energy security and planning certainty.
We are also ensuring that the energy turnaround is also reflected in transport policy.
With right of way for pedestrians, bicycles, electric drive and rail transport, we are enabling a new, sustainable mobility for all
- independent of fossil fuels and free of noise that makes us sick.
Creating the future - that means giving the economy a green direction.
We are on the verge of a gigantic transformation of our industrial society towards an ecological, i.e. resource-light and low-emission, economy.
This requires a new framework that includes ecological guard rails and political goals for social justice,
a sustainable economy
and balanced public finances.
We can reduce our dependence on the world market by using scarce raw materials less, reusing them and replacing them with cheaper and more environmentally friendly raw materials.
In this way, we contribute to environmentally compatible and equitable global development.
Creating the future - that means intergenerational justice:
We want to actively involve young people
and need equal opportunities from the beginning to old age.
With diverse support services, a better and more socially just education system,
and policies that always keep equal opportunities in mind, we are creating a future in which everyone has an equal chance to benefit from society's opportunities.
Creating the future - for us, that means focusing on education and science.
We are still a long way from a sustainable education republic.
A good education and science system is a prerequisite for mastering the major social, ecological and economic challenges.
A sustainable society and green economy needs the knowledge and creativity of its people, needs well-trained specialists and university graduates,
lifelong learning as well as the innovations and know-how from science and research,
and the courage of entrepreneurs and companies to implement sustainable innovations in economic practice
Creating the future - that means supporting families.
Families take on central social tasks - in their responsibility for children, but also in their responsibility for relatives in need of care.
This applies to all families; whether homosexual or heterosexual, married or not, patchwork or single parent.
Therefore, all families must finally be treated equally.
We think that all lived family models belong under the protection of Article 6 of the Basic Law.
We also want to ensure that all families receive the support they need so that children are perceived as an enrichment for the family and society and raising children does not become a burden.
To achieve this, ensuring childcare is just as important as recognizing that family also takes time, which must be protected.
Creating the future - that means promoting the work of the future
and distributing it fairly between the sexes.
With a third, a green industrial revolution and with more work by people for people - whether in education, health, care or culture - we will create the jobs of tomorrow and thus secure prosperity and social participation for all.
The work of the future is a more equitably distributed work.
We want an inclusive society in which, on the one hand, people without a living wage are not socially marginalized and, on the other, "burnout" is a mass phenomenon among employees, leaving many with hardly any time for family or social tasks.
We will develop new models for how we can better reconcile time to live and time to work in the future.
Creating the future - that means affordable housing for all.
If speculative rents are curbed, the displacement of many households from their neighborhoods can be prevented.
Energy-efficient building refurbishment must be adequately and continuously promoted.
Creating the future - that means making provisions.
This applies to budgetary policy, where we want to pay off the gigantic mountain of debt, in particular with the asset levy.
This applies to labor market policy, where we want to enforce framework conditions for age- and age-appropriate working conditions so that employees can work healthily until retirement.
This applies to pension policy, where we also want to give future generations back their confidence in old-age provision with the guaranteed pension.
But this also applies to health policy, which must focus on prevention and not wait until we are already ill before taking action.
Creating the future - that means preserving the environment.
We need more protected areas for biodiversity and a new animal protection law.
We need agriculture without genetic engineering and without industrial animal production.
Animal-friendly instead of mass-produced - this is how we create a future for people, animals and also for the climate.
Creating the future - this can only be done with Europe.
Our common Europe.
We therefore strengthen democracy, solidarity, soundness, sustainability and human rights in the EU.
In doing so, we are arguing for an ecological-social restructuring of Europe instead of relying solely on one-sided austerity policies in the crisis countries.
We want a banking union and independent banking supervision.
We are supplementing economic and monetary union with political union, so that it is not just the financial markets that dictate what can and cannot be done.
And we want a strong European Parliament that puts an end to Mrs. Merkel's backroom politics and puts transparency before lobbying interests.
Creating the future - we can only do that if we keep the entire world in mind.
Our One World.
That is why we want to drive the great transformation toward a peaceful, just and sustainable globalization.
This also means taking the promise to devote 0.7 % of gross national income to development cooperation just as seriously
as civil crisis prevention, where the concept of the responsibility to protect is implemented.
But that also means introducing a new control law to oppose arms exports and using a new control law to limit the export of weapons from Germany.
Act now for a better tomorrow!
This is our answer to the Merkel coalition, which is driving the energy transition completely against the wall, always postponing the rescue of the euro, and simply ignoring growing poverty and inequality.
Instead of tackling challenges and finally giving the economy a new, sustainable foundation, the wrong decisions are being made or problems are being put on the back burner.
5. vote GREEN on september 22nd
Dear voter, it's time for a change.
Instead of social division, we need a new togetherness.
Instead of unleashed capitalism, regulation of the financial markets.
Instead of old growth, real quality of life.
Instead of a democracy that conforms to the market, a democratic renewal in which people have something to say and politics can shape.
Instead of a backward roll, a secure energy transition and the preservation of our livelihoods.
Instead of globalization at the expense of the poor, a social and sustainable world economy.
Those who vote GREEN vote for a way out of the crises.
With compass and values and realistic solutions.
Our Green Minister President Winfried Kretschmann and many other GREENS in responsibility in the states and municipalities show what GREEN can do when GREEN governs.
And our top candidates Katrin Göring-Eckardt and Jürgen Trittin also stand for this:
realism and foresight, anchored in clear values.
Just in time for the election campaign, the black and yellow coalition is pursuing a policy of mere announcements, but in reality its policies oppose a real minimum wage, a binding women's quota, a decisive energy turnaround and the actual equality of same-sex partnerships.
This puts the black-yellow government in opposition to the social majority in this country.
That is why it should be replaced.
We fight independently for our ideas and content.
In this federal election campaign, we are fighting for strong GREENS in a government coalition with the SPD, because we see this government alliance as having the best chance of implementing the Green transformation.
This federal election is not about a direct election of the chancellor.
It is not about the absolute majority of one party.
It is about which coalition will govern Germany for the next four years.
We want to achieve green change with a red-green coalition.
Red-Green is the alternative to the Merkel coalition.
Coalitions are not a matter of color or ideology.
Coalitions are temporary alliances for the implementation of common goals.
Only those who want to go in the same direction with us GREENS, only those who want to enable the green transformation, with whom we can govern, with whom we want to form a coalition.
Anyone who wants to go in a different direction, we cannot govern with and we do not want to form a coalition with.
And there is no mistaking it: the CDU and the CSU are pushing back the energy turnaround.
The CDU/CSU is opposed to a statutory minimum wage and
to greater participation by the rich in financing our commonwealth.
It stands against equality for women and full equality for lesbians and gays.
Time and again, the CDU/CSU campaigns with resentment against minorities and against a modern immigration policy.
The CSU is openly hostile to Europe.
CDU and CSU block green change.
The Left Party makes dubious social and financial policy promises, so that a breach of promise is inevitable.
It rejects compliance with the debt brake enshrined in the Basic Law.
The Left Party refuses to accept any international responsibility and even debates UN-mandated peacekeeping missions abroad.
In the deepest crisis of the European Union, it stands on the sidelines, stirs up sentiments and refuses to show solidarity.
The left stands apart from green change.
The FDP absurdly represents the patronage interests of a few.
It wants to abolish the Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG), it
refuses to adopt a solidarity-based tax policy,
rejects minimum wages
and is against the women's quota.
The FDP is a fighting chance for green change.
For us, it is clear that on the key issues - the energy turnaround, a fair tax policy, a modern social policy - there is not only common ground but also differences with the SPD.
Sometimes the SPD is not a driver, but a brakeman.
Only with strong GREENS will it be a partner for green change.
That's why strong Greens are needed in 2013.
Participate. Get involved. Creating the future - together, these form the basis for green change in politics and society - for more social justice, for
more democratic participation, for a better tomorrow.
Participate. Get involved. Creating the future - this describes a new path out of the crises
and the departure toward an open, modern society
and an economy that makes better and more economical use of our natural resources.
Select GREEN.
For more justice.
For more participation.
For a better tomorrow.
For the green transition.
B. 100% safe energy
How we make the energy transition a success
When we first stood for election to the Bundestag in 1980, we opposed all the other parties and called for an end to nuclear power and a change in energy policy toward sun, wind, water and greater energy efficiency.
At the time, these ideas were dismissed as "crackpotism."
Today, a generation and two nuclear catastrophes in Chernobyl and Fukushima later, the nuclear phase-out is largely a reality and the start of the energy transition has been achieved:
Of the 26 nuclear power plants that were in operation in East and West Germany at the beginning of 1990, only nine are still running.
In June 2011, the Bundestag passed the final nuclear phase-out by 2022 with a broad majority.
This contrasts with the success story of renewables that began under the Red-Green coalition:
they grew from 5% in 1998 to 25% today, making them the second most important generator of electricity.
This is a key success of Green policy.
Every nuclear power plant still in operation remains a danger.
That's why we want to raise safety requirements nationally and internationally, enforce appropriate retrofits at nuclear power plants, and thus change the framework conditions so that operators shut down the last nuclear power plant well before 2022.
We also want to improve bilateral cooperation on nuclear safety
and involve citizens in Germany in nuclear power plant planning in neighboring countries.
We want the energy transition to move from being a test case to a model for success.
But the completion of the energy turnaround will not happen on its own:
CDU/CSU and FDP are proving every day that they are reluctant to expand renewable energies.
With excessive industrial privileges, they counteract the ecological transformation of the economy and burden consumers with unfair electricity prices.
Black-Yellow would obviously prefer to reverse the nuclear phase-out.
They are assisted in this by relevant lobby organizations with advertising budgets worth millions, which want to bring the expansion of renewable energies to a standstill.
But there is a broad consensus in society that runs counter to this interest.
Most people want the last nine nuclear power plants to be shut down soon and coal-fired power generation to be phased out.
We have ushered in the age of renewable energies and now the energy transition must be driven forward with passion, enthusiasm and creativity - also globally.
It is about providing affordable energy for all,
without - as in the past - our children being saddled with nuclear waste, a climate catastrophe and ecological debts.
Only Alliance 90/The Greens stand for this.
And we want the energy transition to succeed worldwide.
Because the answer to energy poverty and a globally growing demand for energy is renewable energy for all, combined with energy efficiency and energy conservation.
The path away from fossil energies and nuclear power is also a forward-looking peace policy.
Germany must live up to its responsibility as a role model for a climate-friendly global switch to renewables and be a reliable partner in the fight against energy poverty.
That's why we have to help develop solutions for the energy hunger of metropolitan areas and at the same time promote decentralized approaches for rural areas.
The German energy transition is in the global spotlight.
If successful, other major countries will follow our lead and create a new global climate policy dynamic.
Together with the citizens, we want to make the energy transition a success.
This also brings a breakthrough in the fight against global climate change - because Germany is seen internationally as a test case for whether climate protection and renewable energies can be combined with economic reason and profit.
We want the energy turnaround to succeed because it will create the future.
We want to leave our children a good legacy - an energy supply free of nuclear hazards and climate-damaging CO2 emissions,
a future without climate catastrophe leading to millions of climate refugees.
We want the energy turnaround to succeed because that is how energy moves out of the hands of corporations and into the hands of citizens.
This way, everyone can finally get involved and participate in supplying our society with energy.
We want the energy turnaround to succeed because it is the only way to secure social participation in energy supply in the long term.
While the prices for coal, oil and gas are continuously rising, the sun does not send a bill.
In order to better coordinate the energy turnaround, we are advocating an expansion of the competencies of the Federal Ministry for the Environment into a Ministry for the Environment and Energy.
Renewable energies, nuclear phase-out, grid expansion and electricity market reform must finally be thought of together.
1. the future deserves our passion
Especially in the industrialized nations, daily life has been based on the use of coal, oil and gas for more than two centuries.
Currently, the share of renewable energies in electricity consumption is just under 25 %.
We want to produce 100% of our electricity from renewable sources as early as 2030.
In the buildings and heating sector, we are aiming for a switchover by 2040 if possible.
To this end, we want to cover at least half of the electricity supply from renewable energies by 2022, when the last nuclear power plants are taken off the grid at the latest.
It is clear to us that 100 % energy supply from renewable energies is a technological challenge.
However, we are relying on the passion and creativity that generates technological innovation - and how it is already tangible in many companies, at universities and in large sections of society.
The experience of other industrial developments gives hope: Technological leaps are possible and feasible.
In 1885, for example, the first power plant in Germany was built in Berlin, and by 1900 practically all cities had electricity.
While computers were still working on a punch card basis and filling halls in 1970, 25 years later many households already had their own PC at home.
The electrification of cities by 1900 or the spread of the Internet took only a few years.
If we want it and push it, we can also make the leap to a world of clean energy.
Only Alliance 90/The Greens stand for implementing the necessary policies and distributing the costs fairly.
We therefore want to intelligently develop the Renewable Energies Act we introduced in 2000, which triggered the technology boom and has been copied by many countries around the world.
The EEG has triggered intense global competition among turbine manufacturers, reduced the cost of generating solar power by 80%, and enormously increased the electricity output of wind turbines.
We want to maintain investment security through feed-in and connection priority as well as the principle of feed-in tariffs,
However, the EEG should be freed from special regulations that drive up costs and the burden should be shared fairly between all electricity consumers.
In addition, we want to readjust the parameters of the Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG) in order to further promote the cost-efficient expansion of green electricity and to provide incentives for demand-driven generation, for example in the case of biomass.
Since the EEG levy shows much higher costs than the actual additional costs of the EEG, we want it to be honest in the future and will restructure it appropriately.
We want to promote an efficiency revolution that avoids the threat of rebound effects, i.e., the loss of efficiency gains through increased consumption.
But measures to increase efficiency must not be limited to the electricity sector.
In the heating and transport sectors, the major savings potentials must also be better exploited.
In doing so, we make sure that companies do not shirk their responsibility by so-called greenwashing.
We want to realign the electricity market.
In the future, wind and sun will form the basis of our power generation.
During periods of low sun and low wind, existing storage facilities and highly efficient gas-fired power plants can fill in the gaps.
However, other innovative technologies already need to be expanded, such as biomass power plants, load management, new storage systems and batteries, linking with the heating sector and electromobility, and, in the longer term, gas generated from wind and solar power ("power-to-gas").
In order to make it worthwhile to provide power plant capacity that is not always called upon, the electricity market must be adapted to this.
What is needed, therefore, is a changed electricity market design that is not geared to the sale of coal and nuclear power.
We want capacity mechanisms that ensure security of supply, climate friendliness, cost efficiency, and flexibility in the electricity market.
We want to make Germany a model region for intelligent networks (smart grids).
2. continuing the energy transition from below
More than 90% of the boom in renewables in Germany to date has been driven by private individuals and municipal utilities, not by the big four utilities.
We want the energy supply of the future to be more decentralized and closer to the people.
This was initiated by the EEG with its feed-in priority and guaranteed remuneration.
Those who torpedo this successful foundation today want to place it exclusively in the hands of large corporations.
We will prevent this by gradually developing the EEG and focusing on low-cost technologies.
At the same time, we will formulate company law in such a way and continue to work to ensure that the energy transition can continue to be driven by broad participation by small investors in the future.
We want to actively support cities and municipalities in drawing up municipal climate and energy concepts,
expanding renewables and high-efficiency cogeneration,
bringing local energy supply and local distribution networks back into municipal hands, and promoting citizen-owned energy generation and public participation.
This strengthens local crafts and jobs and
ensures that people's energy spending stays in the region.
Today, it is still much cheaper to transport electricity than to store it.
The decentralized expansion of renewable energies in particular requires the transformation of the power grid.
Optimization and reinforcement measures must be exhausted and precede expansion.
We are therefore committed to sensible network expansion - even if we know that we are imposing considerable burdens on some of those affected locally.
Therefore, all optimization and reinforcement measures in distribution and transmission networks must be exhausted.
When it comes to grid expansion, the priority of RES-E and a grid connection obligation are essential.
In the case of new routes, it is essential that planning is transparent and carried out jointly with environmental associations and the communities and citizens affected.
We want to use underground cables as a widely accepted alternative to overhead lines.
New 110 kV lines must always be constructed as underground cables, and new 380 kV lines must be constructed at least in sensitive areas with regard to the population and nature.
We also want to take into account ambitious precautionary values under immission protection law.
We want the federal government to become involved in a German grid company to be established, with the majority in public hands, in order to reduce the current difficulties faced by grid operators in implementing projects.
To this end, the four network control zones are to be merged.
But we will also develop participation opportunities for citizens in affected areas so that they can benefit directly from the guaranteed returns from the power grids.
In the expansion of renewables, we also rely on the intensive participation and involvement of those affected
and on the consideration of nature conservation requirements.
To enable full supply from renewables, we also need intelligent distribution networks (smart grids) and new electricity storage systems; we need to link the consumption categories of electricity, heat and mobility.
Gas-fired power plants are to be used as a temporary solution to compensate for fluctuations.
The various storage technologies can all do something to help balance the fluctuations in generation from wind and solar at different points in the grid.
That's why we want to promote them, apply them in parallel and let them compete in an open technology race.
Gas storage must be limited to stable reservoirs.
The federal states have a responsible task, especially in the spatial and temporal management of the further expansion of renewable energies and the necessary grid and storage infrastructures.
To this end, spatial planning instruments and procedures must be strengthened with early citizen participation.
All participants in the energy market - whether small municipal utilities or large corporations - will have to make their contribution.
The energy transition must not be at the expense of global food or nature conservation.
That is why we are committed to tying the production and import of biomass to compliance with strict environmental, social and human rights standards.
In Germany, too, further biomass use is very limited due to land competition with food production, material use, and nature conservation and recreation purposes.
The limited amount of biomass available for electricity generation must primarily serve to balance the fluctuating electricity production from wind and sun.
We want to counteract the excessive cultivation of corn, for which misguided agricultural and energy policies of recent years are to blame.
Therefore, we will change the framework conditions in the EEG so that the promotion of biogas plants will focus on the utilization of biogenic residues in the future and incentives will be created to switch from monocultures to cultivation in crop rotations and to ecologically and scenically attractive energy crops (e.g. flowering plant mixtures, clover grass).
3. 100% safe energy without coal and oil.
Coal has no future.
Lignite and hard coal cause very high climate-damaging CO2 emissions, and opencast lignite mining is ruining our landscapes over large areas.
We can only solve the global climate problem if coal stays where it is: underground.
We want to amend mining law in order to finally establish comprehensive democratic opportunities for participation and legal action, to
better protect local residents and the environment, and to prevent new opencast lignite mining.
And we will campaign internationally for compliance with environmental and social standards in hard coal mining.
Of the fossil fuels, gas has the lowest CO2 emissions and the greatest flexibility, and can thus assume the function of a bridging technology into the age of renewable energies.
Nevertheless, we are aware that gas is also finite and harmful to the climate.
Wherever possible, we want to use gas in combined heat and power (CHP)-that is, the simultaneous use of electricity and heat-and thus increase the share of CHP in electricity generation to at least 25% by 2020.
To this end, we want to amend the CHP Act and, in particular, improve incentives for mini- and micro-CHP ("electricity-generating heating").
We reject carbon capture and storage (CCS) at fossil-fuel power plants and the extraction of unconventional natural gas, in particular by means of toxic chemicals ("fracking"), because of the incalculable risks to health and the environment.
They also hinder climate protection and the energy transition.
Toxic reservoir water must not be re-injected.
We want a climate protection law that points the way to the age of renewable energies.
The law will organize the phase-out of coal-fired power generation and set a binding target of reducing climate-damaging greenhouse gas emissions in Germany to 40% below 1990 levels by 2020, 60% by 2030, 80% by 2040 and 95% by 2050.
The law will include binding targets for the transport, heat and power sectors, as well as agriculture and forestry.
Progress is reviewed annually.
If targets are missed, the excess CO 2 emitted must be offset and climate protection stepped up.
To this end, concrete measures and effective sanctions must be provided for in the Climate Protection Act.
Investors thus have security for their long-term strategies with regard to renewable energies and energy efficiency.
Financed by cuts in environmentally harmful subsidies, we want to underpin the Climate Protection and Energy Transition Act with a €3.5 billion investment program for an energy-saving fund, a market incentive program, renewable heat and smart grid technologies, and for research, and to
increase the program for energy-efficient building refurbishment to €2 billion.
We will create an appropriate financial framework for the development of efficiency and the highest safety standards in smart grid technology.
The production of crude oil cannot be increased worldwide with traditional production methods for years.
At the same time, however, demand continues to grow unabated.
Even fracking will not slow the upward price trend in the long term.
We GREENS know: We must "get away from oil" before it leaves us.
This is because the increasing scarcity and price of fossil resources can lead to drastic increases in energy and mobility costs, food and nutrition crises, and even geopolitical tensions and the collapse of entire sectors of the economy.
We want to consider the aspect of drastically rising raw material prices in the future as an important guideline and decision-making principle in all public-sector planning and infrastructure projects.
We want to lead the discussion about new economies and lifestyles in the transition "away from oil" in an interdisciplinary and offensive way.
4. seal nuclear phase-out safely and quickly
The energy turnaround will only succeed with the nuclear phase-out - the nuclear phase-out will only succeed with the energy turnaround.
Safety must be the top priority for nuclear power plants still in operation.
In particular, the two boiling water reactors still in operation at Gundremmingen continue to pose a major risk.
There are no security discounts with us.
We want to set the framework conditions so that the use of nuclear power is ended safely, quickly and definitively.
We will increase safety requirements - in contrast to the coalition government - and bring them back into line with the state of the art in science and technology.
If these standards cannot be met, the nuclear power plants in question must be taken off the grid, which will accelerate the nuclear phase-out.
We will ensure that all nuclear power plants still have at least one periodic safety review and require precautions against aircraft crashes.
The nuclear industry has so far pocketed the profits and socialized the risks.
In contrast, we want to significantly expand compulsory insurance.
In addition, the provisions for decommissioning and dismantling are to be transferred to a public fund.
In our view, the nuclear phase-out will not be complete until all facilities in the nuclear fuel cycle, such as the Gronau uranium enrichment plant and the Lingen fuel element production facility, have been closed; that is our goal.
Nuclear power plants beyond our borders also pose high safety risks.
In a future federal government, we will therefore conduct negotiations with the neighboring countries concerned on safety standards and offer support for the energy transition.
We will transpose the Aahus Convention into German law in such a way that citizens have access to information and opportunities to object.
The nuclear phase-out is implausible if Germany simultaneously supports nuclear power plant projects abroad.
We therefore want to put an immediate and definitive stop to Hermes guarantees for nuclear power plants.
The energy turnaround must also take place in research.
Research into the further use of nuclear energy and nuclear fusion is not sustainable.
Instead of squandering money on nuclear transmutation and the ITER nuclear fusion project, we will use public research funds for transformation research that supports technological innovations and the social anchoring of the energy transition.
That is why we are also advocating an end to the EURATOM Treaty and fusion research through the ITER project.
If it is not possible to reach a consensual agreement with the other contracting parties, Germany should withdraw unilaterally.
The nuclear waste that will continue to radiate for another million years is the waste of us all - whether we wanted its production or not.
This generation must take responsibility for this and finally search for the most suitable repository site nationwide, openly, according to scientific criteria and transparently, with broad citizen participation.
The nuclear industry and political forces that continue to try to impose the unsuitable Gorleben site will meet our resolute resistance.
The search for a final repository must be financed entirely by the polluters of nuclear waste.
We want to ban nuclear waste exports.
5. affordable heat and electricity for all
Energy is the elixir of life - a warm home and a secure power supply are elementary for everyone today.
Energy policy is therefore also a question of social participation.
However, an energy supply based on coal, oil and gas is a poverty risk for large parts of the population.
For example, 2011 and 2012 were by far the most expensive oil years in history, with a price of $107 per barrel in each, and coal and gas import prices have also risen significantly recently.
With the energy turnaround in the heating market, we are creating energy participation for all.
Finally, heat costs are a bigger factor than electricity costs.
It is our goal that gradually all houses in Germany will be renovated to low-energy house level
and the remaining heat demand will be covered by renewable energies.
Because the sun does not send a bill.
We want to anchor in the Renewable Energies Heat Act that, in addition to new construction, renewable heat must also be used proportionately after modernization of heating systems in existing buildings.
We want no new oil heating systems to be installed from 2015.
New buildings that are built as plus-energy houses are to be promoted.
Electricity and heat supply - e.g. through CHP - are to be coupled.
We set the framework so that the renovation rate increases from 0.7% today to 3% a year.
At the same time, however, the investment costs associated with energy refurbishment must not lead to rents that are no longer affordable for tenants.
Rather, our goal is to harmonize ecology and affordable housing with our measures.
We therefore want to set up an energy-saving fund with which we can specifically promote the energy-efficient refurbishment of residential neighborhoods and support low-income households in the process.
Financially weak households are also to benefit from better energy consulting services and the market launch of particularly energy-efficient appliances.
We are making further fund resources available for the introduction of a climate housing allowance to prevent social hardship.
We also want to redesign the Renewable Energies Heat Act, the modernization levy and the Energy Saving Ordinance so that they provide effective incentives for building refurbishment.
Further information on energy-efficient building refurbishment can be found in the chapter "Our local policy".
The price of electricity must also remain affordable for everyone.
Financially weak households in particular are to benefit from better energy consulting services and the market launch of particularly energy-efficient appliances.
Fair electricity prices require fairer financing of the energy transition.
The energy turnaround is currently only being financed by consumers and non-privileged companies, leaving the real electricity guzzlers out in the cold.
We want to abolish gifts to industry.
We limit subsidies to those companies that actually compete internationally and can demonstrate measures to increase energy efficiency.
We will work internationally to remove electricity price subsidies.
The benefits are the opposite: wind and solar power reduce the price of electricity on the stock exchange, but this relief does not reach normal electricity consumers.
We want to change that.
We want to finance the energy turnaround on the basis of solidarity,
dismantle excessive privileges for industry and other large consumers,
and make electricity suppliers pass on lower stock market prices to their customers.
This will reduce the burden on consumers by more than 4 billion euros.
Given the average electricity consumption of a family of four, this corresponds to a reduction of 35 euros per year.
The courts and the EU Commission have rejected the exemption of large electricity consumers from the costs of electricity grids.
The federal government nevertheless wants to continue this unjustified benefit.
We want to dismantle them, because large companies in particular are dependent on a functioning power grid and cannot have this financed by private households.
The standard rates of unemployment benefit II, basic pensions, social assistance, BAföG and other transfer payments must be adjusted more quickly to reflect increased electricity prices so that there are no social imbalances.
We want to ensure an energy subsistence level.
Gas and electricity cut-offs for private households must be restricted by law
and the suppliers are obliged to offer an installment payment agreement or the use of prepayment meters instead of blocking electricity or gas.
But the truth is also that electricity prices would rise even without the energy turnaround, because there is a great need for investment in the German electricity system due to the outdated power plant fleet and the old grids.
And last but not least, the cost of fossil fuels will continue to rise.
The easiest way we can all reduce electricity costs ourselves is by reducing our electricity consumption.
As stipulated by the EU and already successfully applied in some European countries such as Denmark, we want to create a legal basis for a market for energy efficiency measures in industry, commerce and households.
The goal is to save 15% of electricity consumption by 2020.
In this way, we make kilowatt hours instead of people unemployed and reduce the burden on citizens.
In recent years, efficiency policy has come to a virtual standstill.
Many proper European initiatives have failed because of the black-yellow coalition.
We want Germany to once again become a pioneer in energy efficiency and energy saving.
We Greens will therefore focus much more on the issue of energy savings.
To this end, it is necessary to constructively advance European initiatives such as the Top Runner approach.
There is still enormous potential for efficiency in the economy in particular.
Instead of always inventing new subsidies in the energy sector, stricter standards must finally take effect.
The standards in force in the U.S. for electric motors in industry alone could lead to electricity cost savings of up to 50%.
This could enormously reduce the burden on companies for their energy costs without burdening consumers.
However, advancing energy efficiency and energy conservation also requires a critical societal debate about how we use energy.
We GREENS are rising to this challenge.
6. driving forward climate protection - at european and global level
For us, the threat of climate catastrophe has never been a purely ecological issue.
Rather, we establish the global context.
In particular, the countries that have contributed least to climate change suffer first and most severely.
But it is becoming more and more apparent that there is also a massive danger and threat to the industrialized countries and their economies themselves.
Those causing climate change will also be more affected by extreme weather events such as storms, droughts, and heavy rainfall in the future.
If all efforts should be fruitless and a heating of far more than 2 degrees takes place, another world would be the consequence, for which there is no example in human history.
This would threaten the very foundations of our food supply and human civilization.
We want to pull out all the stops to ensure that an ambitious successor agreement to the Kyoto Protocol is adopted by 2015.
We must limit the consequences of climate change and try not to let global warming rise above 2 degrees.
But even if we succeed, significant action will be needed to adapt to climate change, even more so if we exceed 2 degrees.
To prevent the brakemen from continuing to block global climate protection, we advocate a "climate policy of different speeds" with Germany in an alliance of ambitious pioneers within and outside the United Nations.
We will make climate policy and energy transition a focus of our foreign policy.
We will expand and consolidate existing climate protection alliances such as the Transatlantic Climate Bridge.
Climate policy pioneers can bring new momentum to the international negotiation process by establishing climate clubs.
We stand for a policy that aims for climate justice.
Climate justice includes prioritizing the obligation of those countries and populations that contribute and have contributed most to climate change to provide assistance and support to those affected by it.
Whether CO2 is emitted in Germany, in China or in the USA, the atmosphere does not care.
A global framework is therefore needed to regulate the emission of climate-impacting gases.
But if a price is put on nature in order to regulate these issues with market mechanisms, we need strong social, environmental and human rights guardrails for this.
We will work nationally and internationally to reduce subsidies that are harmful to the climate and the environment, and will also press the world's major economies to do the same.
Purely technological approaches such as geoengineering are not a solution to the climate problem; they do not address the causes, but only attempt to combat symptoms - at the cost of high, unresolved risks.
Europe must become the Union for Renewable Energies and Energy Efficiency.
Our goal is for the European Union to increase its climate protection target to 30% emissions reduction (without counting foreign projects) by 2020.
The contribution of emissions trading to climate protection has so far fallen short of its expectations.
We want to strengthen European emissions trading through a shortage of pollution rights, higher standards and a minimum price for CO 2 .
Until agreement is reached at European level, Germany is leading the way by introducing a national minimum price that creates incentives to shut down old coal-fired power plants and invest in climate protection.
Instead of expanding emissions trading, we want energy taxes in other emissions sectors to be more closely geared to CO2 emissions.
We also advocate a binding further development of the European Union's climate, renewables and energy efficiency targets for the target year 2030:
By then, EU greenhouse gas emissions are to fall by 45% and the EU share of renewable energies is to rise to 45%.
To strengthen renewable energies in Europe, we advocate an EU treaty for renewable energies.
In order to leave our children a world worth living in, we must do far more to protect the climate.
So far, all measures have been insufficient.
Drained, intensively used peatlands release huge amounts of CO2.
We want to turn peatlands back into CO 2 sinks with a large-scale program for peatland restoration.
We want Germany to finally honor its international pledges and therefore spend an additional 500 million euros annually to enable the poorest countries to undertake climate protection and adaptation measures.
Because the weak are always hit first and hardest by the consequences of climate change and the wrong energy policy.
In the form of a climate protection budget, we will present a tax and budget concept with which we can solidly and reliably finance the necessary future investments in climate protection and renewable energies by consistently reducing subsidies that are harmful to the climate and the environment.
Who votes GREEN ...
9 votes for a successful energy transition with affordable prices and 100% renewables in the power sector by 2030.
9 puts the energy transition in the hands of citizens.
9 wants more jobs through renewables and efficiency.
9 ensures that nuclear power is phased out quickly and definitively without safety discounts and that the disposal of nuclear waste is tackled swiftly and responsibly.
9 votes against coal-fired power plants and for a coal phase-out by 2030.
9 wants consistent climate protection, including a climate protection law with binding targets.
9 wants to make the energy turnaround an international success model.
Key projects
100 % Renewable Energies - for a fair energy transition in the hands of citizens
The expansion of renewable energies from 5 to 25 % of electricity production in a short time was a significant contribution to sustainable energy supply, climate protection and resource conservation.
We want to at least double the share of renewables by 2020 and switch Germany's electricity supply to 100% renewables by 2030.
We are thus continuing the most successful economic democratization project in Germany.
Local citizens, cooperatives and small businesses, together with municipalities and public utilities, are the backbone of the energy transition - that is the result of green energy policy.
Unlike the black-yellow lobbying policy for the energy companies, we will ensure that the energy transition remains in the hands of the citizens.
To ensure that this "energy transition from below" continues, we defend the feed-in priority for renewables,
create planning security for investors,
participation opportunities for citizens, and thus also initiate the coal phase-out.
We want to revise the regulations of the EEG for the expansion of renewable energies in such a way that there continues to be a dynamic expansion of renewables and that the costs are distributed fairly.
Because the energy turnaround needs investment.
The burden must be shared fairly and the price of electricity must remain affordable for all during the switchover.
To achieve this, we will first reduce industrial privileges
and cut energy costs for SMEs and private households by 4 billion euros.
Making climate protection reliable - passing a climate protection law
The lack of commitment in climate and energy policy hinders the energy transition and consistent climate protection.
Until now, climate and energy policy has been steered by individual measures that were quickly forgotten.
However, all stakeholders need a reliable investment framework.
That is why we will ensure that a climate protection law is passed.
In it, we formulate binding targets for climate protection such as greenhouse gas reductions of 40% by 2020 and 95% by 2050 below 1990 levels, with concrete targets and measures for the electricity and heating, industry, transport, agriculture and forestry sectors.
The federal government will be required to present a package of measures for the individual sectors every two years, and independent experts will review this annually with a view to effectiveness and cost efficiency.
This will create a permanent structure for solving the generational project of climate protection and energy transition beyond the often short-lived legislative periods.
Driving forward the energy transition - implementing the coal phase-out by 2030
The biggest climate killers among energy sources are lignite and hard coal.
If we want to stop global warming and the energy transition is to be organized on a decentralized basis, coal must stay where it is: underground.
That means no new coal-fired power plants and no expansion of opencast mines.
The overexploitation of nature is particularly visible in Brandenburg, Saxony and in North Rhine-Westphalia, where huge open-cast mines devour landscapes and villages and displace people.
We want to find sustainable alternatives for these regions.
In showcase regions for renewables, the transformation can happen without loss of local value creation.
To enable German industry to plan for the coal phase-out, we will accompany it with a climate protection law.
Increasing demands on emissions, efficiency and flexibility of power plants must flank the expansion of renewables in order to make the energy transition a success.
Permanently fed-in coal-fired power also prevents economic runtimes for urgently needed flexible power plants.
C. Doing business differently
How we re-found our market economy ecologically and socially and overcome the financial and euro crisis
We need a change of course in economic policy.
The climate and financial crisis are also an expression of blatant market failure.
Economic policy must be committed to ecological, social and economic goals.
We advocate for a green transformation of our economy.
In the long run, nothing can be economically reasonable that is ecologically and socially unreasonable.
We need to re-found our market economy socially and ecologically.
Much of the scientific economic modeling has failed.
The basic assumptions of the models must be critically reviewed.
We need pluralistic approaches in economic policy advice again.
The European project is severely threatened by deep economic and social divisions.
The massive impoverishment and youth unemployment of up to more than 50% in Europe is unacceptable for us GREENS.
The German economy has come through the financial crisis reasonably well so far and is benefiting from its export strength.
But this strength is not sustainable.
The recession in 2009 was significantly mitigated by the Economic Stimulus Package II and short-time working allowances.
The scrappage premium for the automotive industry was a missed opportunity to promote ecological modernization.
Many millions of people are employed in low-wage jobs and cannot share in the strength of companies; too much of production is based on products that pollute the environment or have a lousy carbon footprint.
In addition, Angela Merkel has accumulated 500 billion euros in debt during her time in government, which subsequent generations will have to pay off.
A further increase in income and wealth inequality also jeopardizes the sustainability of our market economy.
We do not want to accept this any longer.
We will set the course for a transformation toward a sustainable economy.
Germany should be a pioneer of this future economy and advocate a European industrial policy that creates the framework conditions for the southern European countries to also participate and benefit from it.
Germany and Europe need a green industrial revolution that is largely driven by small and medium-sized enterprises.
And we need an offensive of social services, from education to care.
This will create hundreds of thousands of new jobs.
We set clear social and ecological guidelines for the markets with a value-oriented regulatory policy.
Prices must speak the environmental and social truth.
Under these conditions, markets can provide a boost to innovation for the economical use of energy and resources and for new technologies that are in demand worldwide.
It is thanks to a highly innovative SME sector and its employees that their products are in demand all over the world.
This innovative strength must be maintained and expanded.
That is why Germany must now exploit its lead in efficiency and environmental technologies.
Doing business differently means putting an end to black-yellow clientelism.
Good economic policy does not mean advancing the interests of a single company, but seeking sustainable solutions in the interests of society as a whole.
Doing business differently means strengthening economic participation.
Re-founding our market economy means putting people back at the center of the economy.
Our economic productivity should serve the prosperity of all.
The economy may be growing - but at what price?
Growth of the economy, measured by the increase in gross domestic product, is therefore neither the goal of our political action nor an adequate means of achieving our political goals.
That's why it's also about a foundation for good work - with minimum wages and a higher tax-free subsistence level.
People must be able to live well on their income
and have the possibility of a poverty-proof pension.
Doing business differently also means redesigning the distribution of work so that more people can participate,
and advocating humane working conditions and hours.
Doing business differently means intervening to assert the primacy of politics.
By this we mean that democratically legitimized institutions should set the framework for economic action.
To this end, the interrelationships between politics and economics must also be analyzed and taken into account.
A simple contrast between "good" politics and "bad" economics falls short.
We must finally put a leash on the financial markets in Europe by correcting the misguided economic and financial policies that for years have placed deregulation and short-term profit maximization above sustainable development.
At the same time, economic laws must be observed.
This is the only way we have a chance of preventing the crisis from becoming a permanent one.
In contrast to the German government, which repeatedly slams on the brakes in negotiations in Brussels, we want to strengthen Europe and do more to promote common regulations and help advance them.
A common internal market and a common currency cannot function in the long term without a coordinated financial, budgetary, economic and fiscal policy and without bindingly agreed social standards.
We Greens want to remedy this design flaw: The euro states must coordinate their economic and fiscal policies more closely.
Doing business differently means creating the future.
The journey to the economy of the future is long and requires many, often small, steps.
In the case of renewable energies, we GREENS have shown how green technologies and new markets can become job engines.
New green jobs are also emerging in sectors such as tourism, healthcare and food production, as well as in professions that can help green lifestyles through knowledge transfer, consumer education, consulting or eco-certification.
Whether mechanical and plant engineering or the chemical industry - the traditional industries are also benefiting from the ecological turnaround.
1. green transformation of industry - in Germany, Europe and worldwide
Our current economic model with its enormous hunger for energy and raw materials has had its day.
Renewable energies, regenerative materials, recycling, better reparability of products and sustainable use of resources are the foundations of ecological transformation.
Fossil energies as raw materials must be used sustainably and maintained as reserves.
Green ideas make it possible to make money - in Germany and in Europe, which can take on a global pioneering role here.
There is no contradiction between value creation and ecological and social responsibility.
This is the core of Green economic policy.
We need nothing less than a green industrial revolution that focuses on people, the environment and the climate.
An efficient and competitive industry, sustainable jobs and resource-compatible production go hand in hand.
However, this change will not come naturally.
This requires an active policy that uses both regulatory measures and market mechanisms to channel the creativity and innovative power of companies into ecological transformation.
To this end, we are developing an overarching strategy that gives direction to structural change and takes companies into a new start-up age.
Companies are agents of change.
Without entrepreneurial diversity, the ecological modernization of the economy cannot be accomplished.
We need their creativity and flexibility and their investment power.
This transformation strategy requires various instruments.
While an environmental and social regulatory framework sets incentives for sustainable development
and public investment creates the infrastructures,
green industrial policy will moderate change in individual industries.
With targeted funding and research programs, with
precise ecological guard rails
or demand stimuli, we create new investment opportunities for companies and can thus trigger the necessary transformation momentum.
Green industrial policy takes all sectors into account.
All companies must undergo this structural change in order to remain successful on the market in the future.
We want to give industrial production an impetus to renew itself overall in terms of energy and material efficiency, and drive forward forward-looking technologies - whether in the renewable energies, automotive or chemical industries.
The expansion of renewable energies has already created hundreds of thousands of new jobs.
And there is potential for significantly more if we drive this innovation process forward: Wind power plants, solar and photovoltaic systems, energy storage systems all need to be designed, produced, installed and maintained.
New smart grids need to be developed and built across the country.
The highest security standards must be developed and implemented very quickly.
Houses have to be insulated, building services modernized, and production processes converted to save energy.
New jobs are therefore being created not only in the renewable energy industries, but also in mechanical engineering, in the skilled trades, in the construction industry, and in engineering offices.
The switch to resource-light management and closed material cycles not only benefits the environment, but also strengthens the competitiveness of our economy
and secures jobs.
That's why we're introducing the top-runner approach to ensure that environmentally friendly technologies are deployed quickly.
This works, for example, by having the washing machine with the lowest power consumption set the standard that all others must meet after a certain period.
Up to now, only the reporting of key financial figures has been mandatory for companies.
We want reporting on social and environmental indicators to become mandatory for companies above a certain size.
The experience gained to date with the voluntary standards of the Global Reporting Initiative serves as a frame of reference.
As an innovative industrial location, Germany must abandon its blocking role in the European resource efficiency strategy and instead support common European targets, milestones and assessment benchmarks for resource efficiency.
We want to further expand the material efficiency impulse program, add energy efficiency and thus make efficient production more attractive.
The efficiency gains are then available for investment in ecological resource efficiency.
Binding and ambitious recycling quotas, longer product shelf lives, and take-back obligations for manufacturers are intended to contribute to better closure and conservation of material cycles.
Ecological modernization triggers enormous financing needs.
We want to open up new ways to channel private financial flows into ecological transformation.
In the case of project bonds, for example, the public sector assumes part of the high risks that cannot be borne by the private sector in return for a stake, thus enabling important investments to be made.
Hundreds of thousands of jobs in Germany depend on the mobility industry as a whole and on the automotive industry in particular.
Only those who are present on the international market with environmentally compatible concepts and vehicles have an economic future and remain competitive.
That is why it is important that the most innovative and efficient vehicles roll off the production line in the future.
By setting ambitious upper consumption limits, we create binding framework conditions and planning security.
But we Greens also know that this is not enough.
In view of climate change, it is not a question of more and more cars, but of a traffic turnaround toward less motorized individual transport.
And it is also about new mobility concepts based on social and ecological innovations.
In car-sharing models, for example, "owning" is replaced by "using".
Nowhere else are the challenges we face more concentrated than in the chemical industry.
However, the chemical industry also has enormous potential for solving pressing problems.
To achieve this, it must rely more heavily on the use of certified renewable raw materials.
Green raw materials policy focuses not only on efficiency but also on recycling and does not rely on imports of raw materials of often dubious origin.
Recycling is rarely possible without chemical processes.
Chemistry can help insulate buildings, generate solar power or make traffic cleaner.
An electric car will only be able to compete successfully on the market with a powerful and efficient battery.
To this end, the chemical industry should become even more part of the problem-solving process and also face up to the ecological challenges in product development.
In our view, the exemption of the chemical industry from mineral oil tax can no longer be maintained; as an environmentally harmful subsidy, we want to abolish it as part of our ecological financial reform and thus provide incentives for innovation away from oil.
This requires an active industrial policy that attempts to negotiate fair competitive conditions with global trading partners
and a loan and business program from KfW
and launch a research program for the German solar industry.
The generation of electricity from renewable energies has developed from an energy policy niche into a boom market.
Other countries such as China have recognized the importance of this industry.
The black-yellow federal government has failed to set a corresponding focus.
ALLIANCE 90/THE GREENS see renewable energy production as a key to a sustainable economy
and want a competitive solar industry as an industrial focus in the EU.
We want a European industrial policy for renewable energies.
Such support must also be accompanied by appropriate financing instruments to build a powerful renewable energy industry.
A European response must be found against unfair dumping practices.
The maritime economy is of strategic importance for the entire Federal Republic.
After years of boom, it is in crisis.
Tax-saving models have turned ship financing into a speculative business in which many investors have lost their money.
We want to put the maritime alliance and ship financing on a new footing.
The federal, state and local governments spend around 360 billion euros on public contracts every year.
That is over 14% of gross domestic product (GDP).
We also want to use this lever to drive the transformation of the economy forward more strongly, with the public sector focusing more consistently on innovative products in procurement.
These products and services purchased by public bodies should be produced in an ecologically sustainable manner and under humane working conditions in accordance with the core labor standards of the International Labor Organization (ILO) and meet the criteria of fair trade.
We will lobby for a corresponding change in the legal rules on procurement.
We also call for an action plan for ecological and social procurement with clear targets based on the principle of gender budgeting,
standardized working aids,
training and networking opportunities,
and a central service and advice center.
Diversity management activities and initiatives are to be supported and promoted.
Broadband expansion is the basis of a modern economy.
With fair framework conditions and targeted support measures, we are driving forward the establishment of a universal service and the roll-out of a nationwide high-performance network.
Network neutrality also guarantees equal access for small providers.
Industrial production in Germany is no longer characterized solely by milling, soldering and drilling, but is closely linked to research, development and software application.
Today, research and development, design and especially software are becoming increasingly important for this purpose.
Industry and services are not antagonistic, but condition and complement each other.
Green economic development is adapting to this.
A new understanding of innovation, suitable courses of study and the permeability of training are important for the new requirements.
Demographic change is also a major economic challenge.
A family-friendly corporate culture is necessary,
Qualification offers
as well as good framework conditions for age- and age-appropriate jobs in order to counter the impending shortage of skilled workers.
This also includes special efforts to give women and men equal access to sustainable jobs.
We recognize foreign degrees more easily,
promote lifelong learning and the continuing education activities of small and medium-sized enterprises.
With good universities, we become attractive for foreign students who see their future in Germany after their education and contribute to economic success or are bridge builders in their countries of origin.
We are committed to sustainable and equitable international trade and investment policies.
The following principles must apply in all EU investment and trade agreements: comprehensive transparency,
mandatory human rights, social and environmental impact assessments before and after the conclusion of agreements,
binding human rights and environmental clauses also relating to the impact of the agreement itself,
recognition of the protection interests of weaker countries,
promotion of local and regional trade and
the expansion of value creation in developing countries.
We want to exercise greater control over the international financial and commodity markets and
call for binding rules for companies to comply with social, environmental, transparency and human rights standards.
This also includes the introduction of country- and project-specific reporting obligations for transnational corporations.
People who are victims of human rights violations by transnationally operating companies should have better access to courts and constitutional legal proceedings.
In German commercial law and at EU level, liability of parent companies for their subsidiaries in the event of human rights violations must be established.
One cause of the financial crisis was disproportionately high manager and supervisory board compensation geared only to short-term success.
We want to effectively limit excessive salaries, bonuses and fancy compensation.
In the future, the compensation of executive board members of listed companies is to be subject to the binding approval of the Annual General Meeting.
Tax deductibility is to be limited to 500,000 euros so that the general public no longer has to help finance exorbitant salaries.
Bonus payments are to be based on profits and, together with other variable salary components such as bonuses and stock options, may in future account for a maximum of one quarter of total salary.
In future, profit-sharing schemes are to be based on a long-term perspective and are to be matched by a share in the company's losses.
In order to achieve greater transparency in compensation, the compensation of all members of governing bodies must be disclosed annually.
2. overcoming the crisis - through a Europe based on solidarity and ecology
The European Union is in a fundamental crisis.
At the heart of the crisis, however, is not the euro but an economic development model that is unsustainable and undermines its own competitiveness.
The collapse of largely unregulated financial markets has ruthlessly exposed the flaws and weaknesses of this economic model.
Black and Yellow claims that the countries in Southern Europe have been living beyond their means for years and now have to shrink their way back to health via massive wage cuts and spending cuts.
Merkel, however, conceals the fact that the borrowing was used quite substantially to bail out banks.
German banks, life insurers and other creditors in particular have also benefited from this.
Some European countries have also imported more than they have exported for years.
But foreign trade deficits in parts of Europe also contrast with years of massive export surpluses in other countries.
Both developments threaten the existence of a common currency area.
These problems were exacerbated by the increased inequality in the distribution of income and wealth across Europe and an excessively large financial sector.
This has led to unsustainable credit growth in recent decades.
Political and economic undesirable developments in individual member states have exacerbated the problems.
The hesitant, contradictory, socially unbalanced European crisis management has ruthlessly exposed the inadequate coordination within the eurozone, which is not sufficiently controlled by parliament.
Banks were stabilized with sums of billions, modest approaches to stronger European financial market regulation were tackled, over-indebted public budgets were propped up with new loans, drastic spending cuts were imposed on countries, debt limitation was enforced as the new golden rule, social cuts and wage dumping were forced, and new growth was somehow vaguely promised.
But as in the past, the disastrous effects of unilateral austerity policies are becoming increasingly apparent - they are leading Europe deeper and deeper into crisis and jeopardizing social cohesion.
This crisis is not simply a sovereign debt crisis.
To solve them permanently, Europe needs a new perspective.
We need a renewal of the European economy in the sense of a European Green New Deal.
Sustainability must become the basis of European competitiveness.
Central to this is the financing of ecological renewal investments and European networks.
We need more common European economic policy.
This includes a strong European banking union.
We also call for a European tax pact against tax dumping, tax avoidance and tax evasion.
To combat youth unemployment, an immediate program is needed for the education and training of young people in the crisis countries.
We defend fair wages,
trade union rights and
living social guarantees.
Europe can emerge stronger from the crisis if it succeeds in pushing through an alternative to Merkel's strategy, which mainly maltreats the crisis countries with austerity policies, social cuts and wage dumping.
Because one cannot simply save one's way out of such a crisis, the crucial focus must be on how to create new economic momentum.
The economic imbalances in the European Union are caused by both deficit and surplus countries such as Germany.
A European economic policy must do more to ensure that the economic strength of the member states develops more evenly.
To achieve this, the domestic economy in the surplus countries must be strengthened.
In recent years, however, real wages have stagnated or even declined.
As a result, both the imbalances within Europe and the unequal distribution of market incomes in Germany have increased significantly.
We want to reverse this trend and make adequate wages the norm again.
To this end, we also need a statutory minimum wage in Germany at long last to put a stop to the downward wage spiral,
flanked by further measures to strengthen the collective bargaining system.
In this way, we also want to ensure that in the future real wage development is once again oriented to productivity progress.
At the same time, it is important to ensure that crisis countries invest more in sustainable industries and thus increase their competitiveness.
We also want to improve sales opportunities for companies from the crisis countries.
We call for a European debt redemption pact based on the debt redemption fund proposed by the German government's Council of Economic Experts.
First, it shows market players that the euro area is sticking to its commitments.
Second, we achieve interest rate reductions through joint borrowing and transparent debt reduction through clear rules.
We base the debt repayment pact on secure financing.
We want to support these by means of asset levies in the European countries and thus solve the debt problem in a socially just manner.
Third, we replace the already de facto liability union with a European solidarity union with binding rules.
We want to transform the ESM into a European Monetary Fund (EMF) and thus make it a genuine crisis response instrument.
Clear conditions for participation, especially with regard to budget consolidation, are necessary
but must be socially balanced.
The ESM/EMF should be subject to democratic control by the European Parliament.
Eurobonds remain our goal, even if they are not feasible overnight.
European bonds, including strict conditions, are the best way to put an end to the crisis of confidence and financing in the eurozone with a joint liability commitment by all member states (Eurobonds).
However, the introduction of Eurobonds requires a treaty change.
In the future, when dealing with sovereign debt crises, the private sector will have to share in the costs of the crisis much more comprehensively than in the past.
We therefore advocate worldwide for a fair and independent, orderly and stabilizing sovereign insolvency process.
In the euro area, this is to be applied only after the introduction of eurobonds for then still possible nationally guaranteed debt instruments.
With the newly created office of an EU Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs, we want to anchor the necessary increase in decision-making competence at the European level in terms of personnel.
He/she should chair the Eurogroup and ECOFIN, but not be allowed to legislate without the consent of the European Parliament.
In addition, he/she shall be individually electable and removable by the European Parliament.
We sharply criticize Merkel's European policy course.
It is negligent how the monetary union is being put at risk by the German government.
The German economy in particular has benefited from this, and German banks have made excellent profits for years in the economic and monetary union.
The black-yellow federal government has exacerbated the crisis in the EU, driven the member states apart and made the bailout considerably more expensive at taxpayers' expense.
Merkel repeatedly acts too slowly and too short-sightedly - with her hesitation and dithering, she has set in motion an expensive spiral, and not only in the case of the Greek crisis:
Uncertainty on the financial markets was followed by a flight from government bonds of the crisis countries, which as a result either have to pay exorbitant interest rates on the capital market or have been cut off from it altogether.
However, it would have been even worse - with dramatic repercussions for the European Union and the global economy - to allow the crisis countries to go bankrupt unchecked and to do nothing to counter the speculative attacks on the euro by the financial markets.
That is why we approved the rescue packages and the fiscal treaty in the Bundestag.
In the overall assessment, this was the best possible decision for us.
Without a bailout, the social and economic impact in the crisis states would be much more devastating - which is another reason why we have repeatedly called on Angela Merkel to act more quickly and decisively.
We succeeded in wringing a commitment to the financial transaction tax from the German government.
In contrast, the promises made in 2012 of an investment and growth package have largely remained hot air.
We are not satisfied with that.
3. put a leash on financial markets
Mass unemployment in Southern Europe, the crisis in Europe and exploding public debt also in Germany - the collapse of some banks in the USA, Great Britain and Germany has turned into the biggest economic crisis since the 1930s.
The financial markets have their central task as service providers for the real economy.
If they become an end in themselves, they serve as (gambling) casinos and can plunge entire economies into the abyss.
With strict regulation, we want to anchor a sustainable and socially just economic order.
Up to now, it has all too often been the case that losses are borne by taxpayers, while shareholders and creditors continue to pocket the profits.
This is neither fair nor in line with market principles.
We want a common banking supervision with a uniform set of rules.
Internationally active banks should be directly supervised by the new European banking supervisor; small institutions with exclusively regional business need not be supervised on an ongoing basis by a European institution.
However, we need a harmonization of supervisory standards and, even for small institutions, a right of intervention and final decision in the event of failure on the part of national supervisors.
In our view, the European banking union will be supplemented by common mechanisms for the resolution of crisis banks
and a common framework for European deposit guarantee schemes.
The Banking Union is the Green response to the Merkel government's hesitation and dithering, which allows taxpayer liability to continue, and shows that more Europe offers real added value.
We GREENS believe that the current, overly complex regulatory regime is unsuitable in the medium term to prevent a renewed outbreak of financial market-induced crises.
The focus of financial market regulation must change.
The enormous complexity of the current requirements entails the risk of losing sight of the actual objective of the measures, namely to stabilize the financial system.
The most important step toward more transparent and simpler rules is a debt brake for banks.
Only if the capitalization of the financial system as a whole increases will its vulnerability to unexpected shocks decrease.
To this end, higher equity capital resources restore the principle of liability that is fundamental to a market economy, in that those who have also received the profits in good times are liable for losses first.
Switzerland and Great Britain have already set an example here, while the black-yellow federal government has allowed itself to be harnessed to the cart of the German banks.
Banks are no longer allowed to use unrealistic risk weightings to understate their capital requirements.
As a first step, we want to set a debt ceiling of 3% equity in relation to the risk-unweighted balance sheet total by 2017 at the latest.
In the long term, a significantly higher rate is necessary.
The scientific advisory board of the Ministry of Economics, for example, advocates a quota of 10%.
In the academic discussion, even higher quotas are also being discussed.
We will carefully examine what is necessary and possible here and in what timeframe it is feasible.
This debt brake will significantly stabilize the financial system.
The debt brake for banks that we are calling for starts here and puts the financial sector back on its feet.
The size brake for banks goes in a similar direction: the larger an institution, the higher the capital requirements and supervisory intensity.
Thus, above a certain size, banks receive a strong economic incentive to shrink and divest parts of their business.
Beyond that, we will develop mechanisms in Germany as well as in Europe to guide large banks toward smaller financial institutions.
We want banks to finance themselves more on a long-term basis so that a banking panic like the one in 2008 cannot happen again.
We will therefore examine whether a bank levy for a European bank restructuring fund can be designed in such a way that banks have the incentive to finance themselves on a more long-term basis.
With this levy, we are creating funds for a European bank restructuring fund so that taxpayers will no longer be asked to foot the bill in the event of another banking crisis.
To ensure that risks can no longer be outsourced from the regulated sector, the shadow banking sector must be regulated in the same way as the regular banking sector.
All companies that engage in banking business in the broader sense, i.e. in particular grant long-term loans and take on short-term debt themselves for this purpose, must be subject to the same regulations as credit institutions.
Creditors must be held more accountable.
For this reason, it should be possible to partially convert bank bonds into liable capital if a credit institution becomes distressed.
This should usually happen automatically.
A competent authority is to decide on the amount of the necessary conversion.
Deposits within the statutory deposit insurance scheme may not be involved under any circumstances.
Sight balances above the legally secured limit may only be included after offsetting possible liabilities.
A statutory deposit insurance promise is fair, protects savers, and stabilizes banks by preventing bank runs.
The power of rating agencies has become rampant in recent years.
We see agencies helping to decide the fate of entire states.
Rating agencies are not liable for misclassifications and are not bound by political and economic benchmarks.
Therefore, the liability bases must be expanded and the influence of rating agencies in financial market regulation must be curbed.
We will increase agency transparency and end conflicts of interest.
In particular, debtors are no longer allowed to pay for their own ratings.
That is why we will work at European level to establish a rating agency that is independent of the banks.
We call for a separation banking system because it makes markets more stable.
Business areas in which banks conduct trading activities for their own account are therefore strictly separate from real economy financing and deposit-taking business.
Effective liability is constitutive of a market economy.
For the management of funds, banks and insurance companies, this means that the captain is going down with the ship.
He is liable for his own mistakes and those of his subordinates; liability insurance for managers may therefore not fully cover the risk.
The same applies to capital providers, i.e. the owners and creditors of banks.
They must fear for their commitment, because only then will they effectively control management.
If their use is guaranteed by the state, management will be increasingly risky, as profits flow to the capital providers while losses are socialized.
Only when they have to fear for their commitment does an incentive arise for owners to effectively control management.
We want to structure the remuneration of managers and traders in the financial sector in such a way that it is geared to the long-term success of the company rather than to short-term profits.
But we also need a powerful merger and competition control system in the financial market that is committed to the guiding principle of full competition in all sub-financial markets and takes action against market power and market concentration.
We want to significantly improve the balance of power between regulators and regulated parties in favor of financial supervision: materially, legally, in terms of personnel, organization and information.
Many financial transactions do not take place on regulated trading venues, but directly between players.
The disadvantage: the supervisor has no chance to intervene.
That's why these shadow markets need to come to light.
European and, in the long term, international rules should ensure this.
High-frequency trading with super-fast computers also needs a speed limit, so that each order must be maintained for at least 1 second.
This helps to make the financial markets more stable and thus safer.
At the same time, the financial transaction tax has a regulating effect here.
The bursting of credit-financed asset bubbles has enormous economic, social and also ecological consequences.
To prevent the emergence of such bubbles, the instruments of the European Central Bank and financial market supervision must be further developed.
To this end, and in view of its massive increase in importance, there is also a need - while preserving the central bank's independence - for an open debate on its role and instruments.
We want to channel more private capital into sustainable and climate-friendly investments.
Public-sector banks play a particularly important role in this context.
Investing money is also an ethical issue - we therefore want to ban investments in cluster munitions manufacturers, for example.
In addition, the following applies: You do not play with food!
Funds, major banks and other institutional investors should therefore be prohibited from speculating on these markets.
Similarly, all traders must be subject to strict reporting requirements, as well as undiluted position, price and speed limits.
Land grabbing should also be outlawed.
We are vehemently committed to ensuring that Germany, through national legislation and international agreements, helps ensure that investors and government institutions comply with the voluntary guidelines of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations on land rights, fishing grounds and forests.
In addition, the granting of development loans must be linked to compliance with the guidelines.
Monitoring the soundness of financial institutions often has a conflict of interest with consumer protection.
We therefore call for an expansion of consumer protection for financial products.
Today, financial advice through commission-based financial products is often not provided in the interest of customers, but in the interest of financial intermediaries for high commissions.
We want to prevent commission-driven false advice.
We call for consumer-protection-oriented regulation of commissions so that advice is generally provided regardless of the amount of the commission.
A complete ban on commissions, which already exists in other European countries, is also under discussion.
As a real alternative, we want to strengthen fee-based consulting, e.g. by creating a uniform professional profile.
Furthermore, private end consumers need to be better informed about the risks of financial products.
At the same time, we want to advocate for greater financial literacy for all.
Only by understanding the structures and instruments of the financial markets can we further strengthen the demand for sustainable forms of investment and increase the transparency of the markets.
Stabilizing the financial markets has entailed huge costs, which the sector has hardly contributed to so far.
A financial transaction tax that includes all financial market transactions can pay for some of the costs.
We Greens continue to stand by our call for a large proportion of revenues to be invested in the fight against global poverty.
and global climate protection
and the financial transaction tax into EU law and the EU budget.
The decision in initially eleven European countries to introduce a financial transaction tax is a success of the globalization-critical movement and green politics.
In the further development of this tax, we want to work towards ensuring that all financial transactions, including over-the-counter transactions, are taxed across Europe wherever possible.
We want to differentiate the amount of the financial transaction tax according to product type and risk.
This also includes the government finally ensuring transparency in the bank bailouts and publishing how much the bailout of the banks has cost taxpayers so far.
Only a stable financial sector can provide businesses and consumers with credit.
The German three-pillar system of savings banks, cooperative banks and private banks has proven its worth here.
Micro banks should therefore be relieved of bureaucratic requirements.
This also means that sufficient staff can finally be deployed for banking supervision.
Since the financial crisis, the sustainable banking sector has been growing rapidly.
They show that a different financial sector is possible.
These banks set themselves strict rules for sustainable behavior and generally let their customers decide on their activities.
Most are organized as cooperatives and do not act primarily for profit.
Green policies provide regulatory support for sustainable banks.
4. strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises
Small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of our economy.
The many small and medium-sized companies research and develop innovative and creative solutions.
We are therefore making them the focus of our economic policy and supporting a society in which self-employment is a realistic option.
We will work to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises and family-run businesses in Germany continue to enjoy good locational conditions.
To this end, we have the needs of these companies in mind not only in economic policy, but also in infrastructure, education and tax policy.
This also includes putting an end to the unfair competitive advantages enjoyed by international corporations through tax structuring models.
Craft has golden soil - craft has green soil!
The skilled trades have a central role to play in climate protection and resource conservation.
Hundreds of thousands of well-qualified craftsmen and women are needed to ensure that houses are better insulated, that more is repaired than thrown away, and that more solar modules are installed on roofs.
To achieve this, the skilled trades need good training conditions and opportunities for further training.
Fair and comparable conditions are the prerequisite for small and medium-sized enterprises to be able to compete.
We therefore want to create the possibility of forcing individual suppliers to give up company and market shares in the event of excessive market power.
Competition law needs new tools to prevent companies from gaining competitive advantages by shifting environmental and social costs to the environment and society.
Consumers are harmed by antitrust violations, so their rights under antitrust law must be strengthened.
We want to strengthen the Federal Cartel Office in regulating oligopolistic and monopolistic markets by amending the ARC and examine how changes in the law against unfair competition can counteract the passing on of private costs to the community and the failure to account for environmental damage caused by an economic entity (externalization).
We also promote the social climate of innovation by reducing bureaucracy and providing advice through pilot services.
It is also clear to us that the chambers, as representatives of the interests of the entire economy, must become more transparent, intercultural and democratic.
In addition, we expect them to step up their efforts in the future to attract more small and medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurs with an immigrant background and women to their boards.
Otherwise, mandatory membership is no longer justifiable.
We want to abolish dual membership in chambers without replacement.
We are improving the conditions for business start-ups by removing obstacles to start-ups.
For us, new ventures are not a bureaucratic act, but a creative departure that makes innovations and jobs possible and realizes personal freedom.
In return, however, we are calling for more needs-based funding for start-ups
and targeted offers for women setting up businesses, including and especially for women returning to work.
Support into self-employment must also be guaranteed for all job seekers willing to start a business.
And we need better counseling services.
Especially the respective potentials of people with migration history as well as the potentials of people with disabilities have to be promoted individually.
We have designed our asset levy concept in such a way that self-employed persons and entrepreneurs who are not covered by the statutory pension insurance system are enabled to receive a poverty-proof and adequate retirement income from their own assets.
In addition, we want to include self-employed people who do not have sufficient provision elsewhere in the statutory pension scheme in such a way that it does not overburden them financially and thus also opens up a path to the guaranteed pension for them.
We want to provide tax incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises.
We are abolishing the possibility of pool depreciation for low-value assets and increasing the limit for immediate deductibility in order to improve liquidity.
Tax incentives for retained earnings are to be structured in such a way that this form of strengthening equity and investment capability is also available to small companies.
A 15% tax credit for research expenditures for companies with up to 250 employees is intended to strengthen the innovative forces of small and medium-sized companies in an unbureaucratic manner, for which we are budgeting 200 million euros in the federal budget alone.
Project funding is administratively too costly for small companies and is therefore hardly used.
A tax credit for these companies can reduce a disadvantage vis-à-vis large corporations.
Since the fall of the Berlin Wall, a different, much smaller corporate structure has developed in eastern Germany than in western Germany.
This also has significant consequences for the research landscape in eastern Germany, which must be much more of a state-supported one because the average company sizes in the east do not allow for in-house research.
This is also a challenge for the federal government, because the East needs an innovation and research offensive as well as support for technology transfer and cluster formation.
We are improving access to venture capital and the broader supply of microcredit.
This should be just as possible for a creative business idea that is perhaps only convincing at second glance as it is for someone who has already failed with a business and is now looking for a second chance.
We want to examine a revision of the restructuring clause that complies with EU law and, in addition to preserving jobs, also allows innovative companies to continue operating.
The restructuring clause must be designed in such a way that abuse is prevented and, at the same time, the continuation of companies with a positive going concern prognosis is made possible.
Business incubators can use their marketing and financial expertise to help young companies and start-ups succeed on the market or, if necessary, pull the ripcord in time before over-indebtedness if there is no prospect of market success.
The cultural and creative industries are an important economic factor that creates jobs and contributes to value creation.
But the framework conditions for the usually very small enterprises need to be improved through social security and easier access to loans or microcredits.
We are continuing to develop patent law, because it should promote the culture of independence and not inhibit it.
Patent protection should be limited to new products and ideas and should not be able to be used as a tool against start-ups.
We need to regulate this within the EU:
We advocate a reform of the European patent system and control by the European Parliament.
Patents on living beings must be banned.
5. there is much to do - by people for people
High-quality social services in health, care and education are crucial to the quality of our social coexistence.
Moreover, they are themselves a significant and dynamically developing branch of the economy.
By 2020, the healthcare system alone will employ over six million people.
However, neither the direction of economic policy to date nor the modest salaries and stressful working conditions do justice to this importance.
While high bonuses are paid out in other industries, salaries and work environments in social services fall short of their social value.
A culture of recognition is completely lacking in this area.
Nurses, midwives, nurses or kindergarten teachers create the basic conditions for successful business.
Green policy for social services secures their funding in the long term,
promotes research and innovation,
increases the attractiveness of health, care and education professions, and combats wage dumping.
We are creating new, good work by offering all parents a binding, high-quality early childhood care service,
the expansion of all-day schools
and more staff at universities
and the expansion of prevention as the third pillar of the healthcare system.
We are expanding the concept of innovation to include social innovations and will give greater weight to services as a field of research.
Social services are often provided by non-profit agencies, churches and charities.
Central to this is that when awarding a contract, not only the cost but also the quality of the service is ensured.
The procurement of social services cannot be based on the same criteria as the procurement of computers, envelopes or pencils.
We have described how we want to change labor law in such services in the chapter "Participation in good work".
6. promote solidarity economy
For us, solidarity-based economy means aligning our actions with the guidelines of social, ecological and economic sustainability.
We promote the various approaches of solidarity-based economy because they combine freedom of self-determined action and democracy with social justice.
In doing so, we build on successful examples such as citizen energy cooperatives or local consumer and producer communities.
The direct marketing of green electricity from cooperatives and citizens' association plants is to be strengthened in order to create incentives for decentralized electricity generation.
A key factor here is the cooperative movement.
We want to facilitate start-ups in this area, make cooperative services accessible to a wider circle, and promote their further development.
To this end, we are reducing the bureaucracy of the cooperative legal form, e.g. by easing the burden of auditing obligations.
At the same time, we are ending the discrimination against joint ventures, especially in start-up and funding programs, and facilitating access to financing services.
In addition, we want to promote resource-efficient business and service models with collaborative use that focus on use rather than ownership.
These include car-sharing models as well as cross-generational shared apartments, which offer a solution for increasingly scarce living space in large cities.
We therefore want to create legal certainty for providers and consumers of sharing, partial sharing and lending services, as well as for the open source and free software movement.
We also support solidarity-based trade networks and regional money initiatives to promote regional value creation.
The takeover of a company facing or in the process of insolvency by its employees can be a suitable instrument for securing jobs on the basis of sustainable management.
We want to support this, for example through a right of first refusal in the event of a transfer of operations.
Appropriate financing instruments are required to enable employees to exercise their right of first refusal.
By promoting the solidarity economy, we are opening up new opportunities for economic participation and co-determination.
7. sustainable management instead of blind growth
The one-sided fixation on GDP growth as a criterion for economic and social success is no longer acceptable.
This indicator reflects prosperity and quality of life only very poorly, and social security, gender equality, good education and an intact environment not at all.
High accident rates, real estate bubbles or wasteful consumption of resources with accompanying environmental destruction increase growth, but are highly detrimental to prosperity and quality of life.
Growth of the economy, measured by the increase in gross domestic product, is therefore neither the goal of our political action nor a sufficient means of achieving our political goals.
On the issue of decoupling economic growth and environmental consumption, the challenge is to reduce current global resource consumption in absolute terms.
We are committed to far-reaching efficiency improvements and to political, economic, social and cultural frameworks within which they can take effect.
Society's appreciation of a person must not depend primarily on their material possessions or property.
And we are committed to accelerating the ecologically transformative processes of the economy and society with the aim of anchoring climate and resource protection comprehensively in everyday life.
This requires binding social and ecological guard rails for the actions of companies and consumers.
We need new indicators that reflect not only the economic aspects but also the ecological and social state of our country.
As part of the German Bundestag's Commission of Inquiry on "Growth, Prosperity, Quality of Life," which we initiated, we have therefore developed a new prosperity indicator, the "Green Prosperity Compass.
It measures prosperity in terms of the quality of life of all people and the state of our environment by including, among other things, the ecological footprint as a measure of resource consumption.
Economic policy must also be aligned with the goals of sustainability.
To this end, we want to draw up a new Prosperity and Sustainability Act to replace the outdated "Stability and Growth Act".
However, the question of the importance of economic growth also arises in the long term.
If growth fails to materialize, social distribution conflicts threaten.
Recessions cause unemployment to rise, put pressure on social systems and lead to higher government debt.
Against this backdrop, we have to ask ourselves how we are going to deal with steadily declining growth rates such as those that have been achieved in the industrialized world for decades.
We therefore aim to reduce our economy's dependence on growth in the long term.
The discussion about the right means to this end was already initiated by us in the Enquete and should be continued in the parliamentary arena, with academia and the forces of civil society.
Alliance 90/The Greens have always been committed to accelerating the ecologically transformative processes of the economy and society with the aim of comprehensively anchoring climate and resource protection in everyday life.
Through innovative regulatory legislation, the
abolition of subsidies that are harmful to the climate and the environment,
public investment,
and market incentive
and research programs, green policies are creating the framework conditions for a regenerative economy.
In order to orient economic cycles toward long-term regenerative and sustainable development, it is also necessary to anchor the principle of sustainability even more firmly in a central position by making adjustments to competition and property law,
and it should also be extended to cultural and social common goods in order to protect their full diversity from exploitation and thus long-term destruction by economic processes.
Whoever votes GREEN ...
9 advances green business, in industry and services, in the Federal Republic and in Europe -
and thus creates many new jobs.
9 effectively regulates the financial markets so that they are once again at the service of people and companies.
9 creates fair conditions for competition,
promotes innovation
and is not afraid of confrontation with the big players.
9 works for a democratic Europe based on solidarity, in which the burden of reform is not offloaded onto the poorest.
9 supports a policy that focuses on the quality of life of people today and tomorrow and on an economy based on solidarity instead of an outdated idea of growth.
Key projects
For a resource efficiency alliance - introduce top-runner principle
Resource efficiency means: We do not want to continue to consume the substance of our earth instead of living from its yield.
Resource efficiency is an ecological innovation strategy that reduces the need to import raw materials and increases competitiveness by cutting the cost of materials rather than wages.
That's why we want to bring about a resource efficiency alliance involving business, research, NGOs, politics and administration.
It is intended to help companies pay even greater attention to resource and material efficiency.
In the Top Runner principle, the most environmentally compatible and efficient product sets the standard that all others must achieve in a given time.
We want to further develop the hitherto toothless resource efficiency program (ProgRess) and supplement it with binding and ambitious recycling quotas and take-back obligations for manufacturers.
We support this, among other things, through a fair and sustainable public procurement policy.
Reorganizing the financial markets - a debt brake for banks
Poor regulation of financial markets has plunged the world into a historic financial and economic crisis.
Since then, hardly anything has happened.
Taxpayers should not have to pay again for the misconduct of the financial industry.
In addition to a European banking union with effective supervision and a bank-financed rescue fund, we need above all a binding debt brake for banks.
Banks must hold at least 3% equity in relation to their total assets by 2017.
This debt brake will make the highly speculative transactions of the past effectively impossible and significantly stabilize the financial system.
Economic growth is not the measure of things - new indicators for prosperity and quality of life
The fixation of politicians and the media on gross domestic product (GDP) has led us astray.
The overexploitation of people and nature was sold to us as a growth success.
But GDP says nothing about the most important things that make a country successful and life worth living.
If growth is bought with environmental destruction and injustice, it actually makes us poorer on balance.
That is why we need a new yardstick for prosperity and quality of life.
To this end, we are establishing a new prosperity indicator.
The "green prosperity compass" also includes the social and ecological aspects.
Accordingly, we call for mandatory sustainability reporting on social and environmental indicators for companies above a certain size, in addition to the mandatory financial reporting.
In this way, we can give economic development a green direction.
D. Better budgeting
Why we must not finance a state capable of acting on credit
There is a lot to do.
But the ecological transformation, the educational awakening and the social balance can only succeed with a state that is capable of acting.
To achieve this, the state needs solid, solidarity-based financing, because we can no longer afford a policy on credit.
The federal and state debt brakes say nothing other than that spending and revenues must be in stable balance.
The enormous debt of all public budgets is also the result of the dishonest fiscal policy of the past decades, which the neoliberal government under Merkel is taking to extremes:
Despite rising tax revenues, the Federal Republic's debt has increased by 500 billion euros during Merkel's chancellorship.
Instead of financing important reforms, it is frittering away taxpayers' money and putting it into a nonsensical childcare allowance or - even worse - using it to supply a single interest group by lowering the VAT rate for the hotel industry ("Mövenpick tax").
However, the debt is so high that there is no way around spending cuts, subsidy reductions and tax increases to meet common challenges.
Anyone who tries anything else is acting negligently.
Conversely, however, not everything that is desirable can be financed immediately.
That is why we are setting clear priorities for financially effective projects for a government takeover.
If you want to finance important projects for the future and put public budgets on a sound footing, you have to set priorities.
Green budget policy therefore stands for a thorough task review that avoids unnecessary spending.
We can save billions by reducing undeclared work, introducing a minimum wage, abolishing environmentally harmful subsidies such as the company car privilege or the tax exemption for kerosene, abandoning prestige construction projects, abandoning expensive and nonsensical armaments projects, and further downsizing the Bundeswehr and streamlining procurement.
Green budgetary policy protects the climate.
With a green climate protection budget, we want to reduce subsidies that are harmful to the climate and thus reduce ecological debt.
We intend to use the additional revenue to solidly finance important energy transition and climate protection programs and
also make a contribution to budget consolidation.
Green budget policy is gender-responsive.
We want to introduce gender budgeting in the federal ministries so that public funds are used in a more targeted, equitable and economical way.
To this end, we want to analyze which funds benefit men and women and then use this as a basis for developing steering instruments for budgetary policy.
A functioning public infrastructure, a well-educated population and a functioning community are prerequisites for entrepreneurial success and the accumulation of private wealth.
Private wealth in Germany has grown extremely strongly over the last 20 years.
Taxes on high incomes as well as wealth and inheritances have declined over the past two decades.
At the same time, the public sector is indebted at all levels and structurally underfunded.
It's time we put an end to this disparity.
We can no longer rely on limitless growth or new debt to finance public goods.
We must therefore moderately increase the state's revenues.
The scope for this is there in view of private wealth and income development; private wealth must once again contribute more to financing the community and thus to financing its own prerequisites.
Anyone who wants to govern with us must therefore end the underfunding of the state at the federal, state and local levels through higher taxes on large incomes and assets.
We know that simply increasing government spending is not a sustainable solution.
Government spending must also be efficient and scrutinized accordingly.
We will conduct efficiency reviews of all government spending programs.
The aim is to reduce bureaucracy at all levels of government and streamline decision-making processes.
We will review programs with a high administrative burden as a matter of principle.
We in ALLIANCE 90/THE GREENS are the only party to offer a program in which additional spending is counter-financed by cuts, savings and tax increases.
Specifically, we say: some people pay too little tax, whether on income, wealth or environmental consumption.
Others collect subsidies that cost the state billions, such as the pharmaceutical and agricultural industries.
We are not afraid to eliminate unfair and harmful subsidies and to impose reforms and savings on individual interest groups.
Those who vote GREEN do not get a fiscal pig in a poke, but clear and honest policies.
Citizens agree: we need a state that is capable of acting - and for that we need solid finances.
Active local policies can only succeed with municipalities that are not deprived of their ability to act due to over-indebtedness and insufficient financial strength, the educational awakening can only succeed with strong state finances and social equalization can only succeed with a federal budget that is capable of acting.
Let's finally create a political majority for this.
We therefore keep revenues and expenditures in balance
and ensure fair financing of our community in which everyone participates and strong shoulders bear more than weak ones.
A sound financial policy opens up democratic room for maneuver and thus makes interference possible in the first place.
High debt exposes the public sector to lenders in the financial markets.
Debt reduction is therefore an essential element in restoring the primacy of politics.
We want sound finances to create a good future:
Anyone who does not invest in education now is committing a serious omission.
Those who do not push ahead with the ecological transformation now will have to spend a lot of money later on cleaning up environmental damage.
Those who allow people to live in poverty ensure a lack of perspective.
Anyone who fails to ensure sound public finances today is blocking a good future for us.
1. ecological, fair and economically reasonable: the green tax policy
Green tax policy is ecological because it helps prices tell the ecological truth.
To this end, we want to push ahead with ecological financial reform.
However, the share of revenue from environmental taxes in total tax revenue has fallen in recent years due to inflation, and with it the incentive for ecological behavior.
We want to reverse this trend by gradually phasing out environmentally harmful subsidies.
This includes a reform of the air traffic tax, the motor vehicle tax and the taxation of diesel and heating fuels, as well as an ecological taxation of company cars and the elimination of exemptions from the eco-tax.
We also want to extend ecological financial reform to non-energy raw materials in order to reduce the environmentally harmful waste of fertilizers, building materials and packaging.
We advocate the harmonization of energy and environmental taxes in Europe.
Green tax policy is fair because stronger shoulders bear more than weaker ones.
In this way, it contributes to social balance.
Fairness is often simple: if
we clean up the tax code and improve its quality, this will reduce the scope for resourceful tax dodgers.
At the same time, we enable the tax offices to enforce applicable tax law - a contribution to tax justice.
Better tax enforcement and the fight against tax evasion is a central component of Green tax policy.
According to estimates, Germany loses tax revenue of 150 billion euros every year because the complicated tax law opens up loopholes, especially for high incomes, because large companies can shift their tax burden internationally, and because the tax audits and tax investigations of the federal states are often inadequately staffed or outstanding debts are not consistently collected, such as the contractual penalty and damages from Toll Collect amounting to almost 5 billion euros.
It is the honest citizens who have to pay more taxes or receive fewer public services as a result.
And it is the smaller and nationally active companies that are thus burdened more than their larger competitors.
In order to effectively prevent tax dodging by multinational companies, we need more transparency.
We therefore call for country-specific disclosure requirements.
In parallel with the political commitment to a binding EU regulation, we also want to implement these disclosure requirements nationally as a first step.
We are committed to ensuring that internationally active companies must pay tax on their profits in the countries in which they are generated.
We want to combat tax havens effectively:
To this end, we will advocate, among other things, a European blacklist and sanctions against banks and countries that are unwilling to cooperate.
Effective tax auditing and tax investigation are in the spirit of tax justice and a contribution to sound public finances that takes into account the interests of all three levels.
We are committed to staffing and organizational improvements in the tax administration
and want a federal tax administration to replace the coexistence of state tax administrations.
The federal powers contained in the Financial Administration Act should be used to establish and enforce uniform minimum standards for tax collection and auditing.
Tax structuring models are to be made reportable and disclosed in order to prevent abusive tax structuring.
Fiscal banking secrecy must be abolished and replaced by a basic control notification obligation for banks, as already exists today in most OECD countries.
Financial transactions to and from low-tax countries are subject to a penalty tax in France.
We want to make this the general rule for all EU states.
Double taxation agreements must include an automatic exchange of information and be designed to prevent aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition between states.
For this reason, we want to switch from the exemption method to the imputation method in German double taxation agreements.
We want to achieve an even tax burden for companies, regardless of size, industry or international orientation.
We want to review, further develop and, if necessary, refine instruments against abuse and for the preservation of national tax revenues.
Following the latest changes made by the black-yellow coalition to the transfer of function taxation and the interest barrier, it must be ensured that the original objective and revenue effect of these regulations are also achieved.
Green tax policy makes good economic sense.
We are raising taxes that have little impact on economic activity and generating new economic momentum with the public investments they finance.
Local SMEs benefit directly from an efficient public infrastructure, such as a good transport network, access to broadband Internet and good schools.
A higher inheritance tax is incentive-neutral because inheriting has nothing to do with performance.
Only the federal states benefit from the revenue; additional income can be used for urgently needed investments in better education and childcare services.
In this way, we also support the states with higher revenues in their consolidation efforts.
We aim to double the revenue from inheritance tax to EUR 8.6 billion.
To this end, we are putting an end to the unconstitutional and antisocial confusion of the previous regulations.
We want to limit the preferential treatment of inheritances and gifts over other income by restoring the allowances to a reasonable level and thus broadening the tax base.
We still do not want to tax small inheritances.
The exemption of business assets introduced by the grand coalition is unjust and unconstitutional.
Instead, we rely on separate allowances and deferral arrangements to avoid liquidity bottlenecks during business transfers.
We will take into account cases in which inheritance tax and wealth tax would start in parallel in such a way that no double burdens and no taxation of assets can occur, e.g., by spreading them over time.
Instead of municipal investment backlogs, we need money for good local policies.
In addition to their shares of income tax or value-added tax, local authorities should be able to count on their own sources:
We want to press ahead swiftly with the reform of the property tax.
To this end, we have discussed a model under which property taxes would be calculated according to current, flat-rate market values.
For us Greens, the guard rails are: constitutionally sound, fair taxation without ecological disincentives.
The right of assessment lies with the municipalities.
The trade tax is to be expanded into a municipal economic tax with a broad tax base.
This also applies to freelancers and takes interest, rents and license fees into account in the calculation to a greater extent than before.
Since they can offset the trade tax against their income tax, they would no longer be burdened as a rule, but in the future they would make their contribution to financing the municipal infrastructure as independent entrepreneurs.
We adhere to the crediting of trade tax against income tax.
In this way, tax revenue is more stable and distributed more evenly among the municipalities.
In a necessary discussion on the reorganization of the Länder fiscal equalization system, the issues of separate sources of revenue for the Länder, the reorganization of fiscal equalization, problems of connexity and the transfer of financial resources between the levels, old debt assistance also for over-indebted municipalities and a minimum municipal budget must be clarified as soon as possible in another federalism commission between the federal government, the Länder and the municipalities, especially against the background of the debt brake.
The debt of states and municipalities has reached a level that calls into question the fulfillment of services of general interest and prevents necessary investments in education and climate protection.
Many municipalities and states lack the money to shoulder the interest burdens and start repaying the principal and comply with the tough conditions of the debt brake.
And that's why Green fiscal policy always keeps an eye on the cash situation at all levels of government.
Our proposals to reduce subsidies and increase taxes will provide state and local governments with substantial additional revenues that they urgently need for current spending and debt service and reduction.
With the expiry of the solidarity surcharge, we want to develop a new legal basis for levying a surcharge on income tax as part of a Federalism Commission III.
The aim is to build up an old debt redemption fund that will relieve the burden on state and local governments so that they can reduce their structural deficits and comply with the debt brake.
Until then, however, it is incomprehensible that the federal and state governments have to pay different interest rates - even though they are in a de facto joint liability.
German bonds that conform to the constitution can be an instrument for organizing joint borrowing.
The EU Commission notes that member states lose around €1 trillion in tax revenue each year.
This makes it clear that Europe's financial problems do not lie unilaterally on the expenditure side.
At the same time, the distribution of the tax burden has worsened.
Less and less revenue is coming from property-related taxes and corporate taxes.
The European single market enables borderless economic activity, while tax policy mostly stops at borders.
Tax avoidance and tax fraud are the result.
We are countering this with a European tax pact so that those who have so far shied away from a fair distribution of the burden will also ensure compliance with the European fiscal pact:
A Europe-wide coordinated wealth levy serves to reduce debt.
A common corporate tax base reduces tax dodging
and creates opportunities for smaller companies, which will then be subject to only one tax law.
We also want international corporations to have to disclose their tax payments, profits, turnover and employees by country.
Then it will be obvious to everyone if a company does business in Europe but shifts its profits to a low-tax country and no taxes are paid on them.
Profit taxation of at least 25% avoids ruinous tax competition.
The EU tax directives must be revised in such a way as to prevent tax structuring with the aim of low or no taxation.
We also want the EU to agree on minimum standards for taxation in relation to third countries.
The fight against tax havens in the EU is a justice issue with massive fiscal implications.
The same applies to the automatic exchange of information on investment income to combat tax evasion.
If banks repeatedly and seriously violate tax laws, they are to be threatened with license revocation throughout the EU.
Like the U.S., we want to link tax liability to nationality and thus prevent tax avoidance by moving away.
Ultimately, the eco-tax also needs a European foundation in order to curb fuel tourism, for example.
Tax policy in particular makes the added value of the European Union clear.
National sovereignty is often just an empty shell at this point.
Together, we can achieve more than with a side-by-side approach to tax policy.
2. strong shoulders create more than weak ones: the green income tax
The level of income tax rates has known almost only one direction in recent years: down.
At the top end of the scale, this was neither fiscally prudent nor socially just:
government debt increased as a result, as did income and wealth concentration.
To counteract this, the top tax rate is to be extended on a straight-line basis to 45% at EUR 60,000 taxable income, and then to 49% at EUR 80,000.
At the same time, we want to raise the tax-free subsistence minimum for everyone to at least 8,700 euros.
This leaves a net additional revenue of around EUR 3 billion for the federal, state and local governments.
Thus, everyone with an income of less than 60,000 euros per year pays less, and the rest pay more.
Thus, the tax increase for less than three million high earners finances the tax cuts for many low earners.
But we are also concerned with simplifying the income tax.
The numerous exceptions and subsidies are not always justified.
To this end, we will examine the introduction of a negative income tax.
Because simple is often also fair, because only the rich and the big companies can afford resourceful tax consultants.
3. reducing debt: the green asset levy
A high concentration of wealth is explosive for social cohesion and an imposition in terms of fiscal policy.
While the state is sitting on breathtakingly high mountains of debt, private wealth is growing seemingly inexorably.
It is fair for the community to take a contribution from the very high assets in order to reduce the mountain of debt.
This is the only way we can come down from the gigantic pyramid of debt and wealth that has thrown the global economy into chaos in recent years.
The one-off, temporary asset levy under Article 106 of the German Basic Law is expected to raise a total of around EUR 100 billion over several years.
Money that goes exclusively to reducing the federal debt.
These have risen massively as a result of economic stimulus packages and bank bailouts, by around 500 billion euros during Angela Merkel's chancellorship alone.
The bank bailout has not least secured the property of the wealthy.
It is therefore fair and just to demand a contribution from them.
The green wealth tax will affect less than 1% of citizens with net assets of more than €1 million each.
For business assets, we limit the levy to a maximum of 35% of profits and prevent companies from being hit in their substance.
In the medium term, our goal remains the revival of a wealth tax in conformity with the constitution, the revenue from which is due solely to the federal states.
The wealth tax is to be levied after the levy expires.
It should be linked to the assessment basis of the capital levy and, like the latter, avoid the taxation of business assets and cause as little administrative effort as possible.
We will drive this forward at all levels and seek and use majorities in the Bundesrat and the Bundestag for a reintroduction of the wealth tax in conformity with the constitution.
4. plug unfair tax loopholes: green subsidy reduction
We are abolishing VAT reductions such as for hotels, fast food, cut flowers or ski lifts.
This is a bureaucracy reduction program that will generate more than 3 billion euros in additional revenue for all levels of government.
At the same time, we advocate a European reform of value-added tax.
We are combating fraud and reducing bureaucracy through greater harmonization and a reverse charge.
This will generate additional revenue for the budgets of all EU member states, which, according to the EU Commission, miss out on hundreds of billions of euros annually due to VAT fraud.
Cutting ecologically harmful subsidies - for example, company car taxation, air traffic privileges or exemptions from the eco-tax - will generate 7.5 billion euros.
The flat tax favors capital income over labor income and thus privileges pensioners at the expense of the general public.
This subsidy of financial investments over real investments and of debt over equity should be abolished and capital income should be taxed progressively again.
We want to limit the deductibility of salaries and bonuses as operating expenses to 500,000 euros so that high incomes are not further subsidized.
By standardizing deduction and benefit rules in income tax and social insurance, we are making a contribution to reducing bureaucracy.
We want to examine the extent to which existing tax deductions can be replaced by tax credits so that tax savings are based on actual costs and not on tax progression.
We Greens want to initiate a process at the federal-state level that establishes the principles required by the Basic Law for the replacement of the old-law state benefits.
We will negotiate this with the religious communities concerned.
There is an imbalance in family policy benefits.
Lack of investment in education and care infrastructure has reduced the permeability of society and exacerbated the disadvantage of women.
We want to eliminate this imbalance - instead of marriage, we want to promote children.
We therefore want to replace spousal splitting with individual taxation with a transferable subsistence minimum.
This increases women's incentives to work and thus makes an important contribution to securing an independent livelihood, thereby reducing the risk of poverty for women and families.
We want to treat existing and new marriages equally in this regard.
This can be achieved primarily by capping the splitting benefit, which would limit the burden from the reform of the marital splitting at the outset to households with a combined income of at least 60,000 euros.
We currently consider it realistic to gradually dismantle this splitting cap within ten years.
In doing so, we will examine how our reforms change the quality of life of families and, in particular, the employment situation of women.
We want to use the revenue that the state has so far lost as a result of the marriage splitting to finance good daycare centers,
All-day schools
and use it for basic child protection.
The basic child allowance can help to avoid an excessive burden on families with many children by reducing splitting.
We want to make it easier for women who have left the workforce due to existing regulations to re-enter the workforce with a comprehensive action program.
5. a different policy is possible: the green spending priorities as of 2014
Green budgetary policy is moderate.
It is clear that the debt brake applies, as do the European stability criteria.
We GREENS are reliable.
We have shown this many times in municipalities and countries.
In terms of fiscal policy, we do not promise anything that cannot be delivered.
Therefore, we say what we can fund immediately, what we need to defer, and where subsidies and other expenditures can be reduced.
Good policy consists of the courage to set priorities.
We have that courage.
We want to drive the green transformation - for an ecological awakening of the economy
and for good work.
We are fighting for a social and democratic awakening.
We describe not only the destination, but also the way to get there.
The guiding principles here are: participation,
social balance,
ecological conversion,
Equal opportunities
and global justice.
The bottom line is that in 2014, as a result of green revenue improvements, subsidy reductions and savings, 12 billion euros will be available for green projects with a budgetary impact.
The applicable federal financial plan forms the basis for this calculation.
In line with the principle of prudence, we create a buffer for interest rate and economic risks.
The specific projects, ranging from climate protection and labor market policy to integration assistance in the municipalities, can be found in the corresponding chapters of the election program.
Whoever votes GREEN ...
9 gets an honest and solidary financial policy, so that public services are finally financed without debt again.
9 does something to reduce debt.
100% of the green asset levy goes toward debt repayment.
9 can be sure that the federal, state and local governments benefit from green fiscal policy.
Only in this way is an active policy possible on the ground.
9 knows that not everything can be financed at the same time.
Our priorities are balanced, well-calculated and thus a reliable offer to voters.
9 can be sure that we will not overburden anyone financially.
Key projects
Reduce public debt - introduce asset levy
Germany has accumulated a huge mountain of debt.
Between 2007 and 2012 alone, the national debt grew by 500 billion to over 2 trillion euros.
Our tax dollars are needed to service the debt.
They are missing for the social and ecological restructuring that is supposed to prepare our society for the future.
We are the only party to make a concrete and socially balanced proposal for debt reduction.
We are introducing a temporary wealth tax that will affect the richest one percent of the German population.
We protect the business assets and a taxation of assets is avoided.
Revenues are used solely to reduce the level of old debt.
That's how we lower the national debt.
Low taxes for low-wage earners and the middle class - fair reform of income tax
The current income tax system is unfair.
We are therefore increasing the basic tax-free amount to 8,700 euros.
This benefits low-income earners in particular.
High earners should contribute a little more to the financing of public services.
We therefore want to increase the top tax rate for incomes of 80,000 euros or more to 49%.
In addition, we want to tax capital gains like all other income.
Up to now, capital gains, whether 10,000 or 1 million euros, have been taxed at a fixed rate of 25% and thus privileged over income from work for no good reason.
All those with an annual income of less than 60,000 euros will be relieved.
Those who earn more will contribute more to the financing of our community in the future.
This is fairer.
Continue ecological financial reform - reduce environmentally harmful subsidies
Tax law is still teeming with environmentally harmful tax subsidies.
The Federal Environment Agency puts the volume of these ecologically harmful subsidies at up to 48 billion euros.
We will change that.
We cannot abolish everything in one fell swoop, but cutting ecologically harmful subsidies - for example, company car taxation, air traffic privileges or exemptions from the eco-tax - will bring us 7.5 billion euros in the next legislative period.
This reduces environmental consumption
and improves the financing of our community.
E. Sharing in good work
How we create work under good conditions for all
Gainful employment is of central importance in our society.
Volunteer and family work is also an important area.
Good gainful employment is the basis for an adequate income and for security; it is also a prerequisite for development and recognition.
For us, healthy working conditions, strong employee rights, employee data protection and co-determination are characteristics of good work.
Profession comes from vocation - a good job can mean fulfillment.
In the same way, however, a lousy job is a great burden.
And unfortunately, crappy jobs have increased massively.
Jobs that are adequate and offer security are out of reach for more and more people, as new jobs are mainly temporary, temporary work, low-paid jobs or mini-jobs.
Angela Merkel has not only allowed this devastating development, but has massively reinforced it with her policies.
At first glance, the number of unemployed has decreased significantly.
But a closer look reveals that the labor market is deeply divided.
It is split between employees and the nearly three million unemployed.
It is split between people who have relatively secure jobs and precariously employed people.
It is split between women and men, as women receive unequal pay for equal work of equal value.
It is divided because there are many older and disabled people who want to contribute their professional and life experience, only no one asks for it.
It is divided between people who are allowed to take up employment and those who are excluded from the labor market because of their origin.
It is split between people who suffer from overwork and those who would like to work more.
And it is still split between East and West Germany, especially with regard to the number of unemployed people as well as wage levels.
While the incomes of a few continue to rise, the real wages of many employees have been falling for more than a decade.
The gap between small and large incomes is widening, and in many occupational groups we are seeing a deterioration in working conditions and pay.
And in hardly any other country are social background, educational opportunities and professional success as closely linked as they are here.
Things have started to slip a bit.
Participation and opportunities for advancement for all can no longer be taken for granted.
There has long been a broad consensus in society that everyone must be able to live well and adequately from their own work.
Let's finally get this done.
With our Green economic and labor market policy, we want to overcome the divisions in the labor market, make good and secure work possible for everyone, and remove barriers to advancement.
We are committed to co-determination and to people being able to get involved - also at the workplace and in the job center.
To achieve this, we want better employee rights,
strong trade unions
and, for the unemployed, job placement services on an equal footing.
We are pushing open the doors for the jobs of the future - through a green industrial policy and the development of a green infrastructure,
through the expansion of education
and social services.
1. good work needs fair wages and security
We must finally achieve fair conditions on the labor market.
Poverty despite work is unacceptable.
20% of employees in Germany work for a low wage, 6.8 million of them for less than 8.50 euros per hour.
Many need a second job.
And more than 330,000 full-time employees rely on ALG II benefits in addition to their wages.
There are still collectively agreed wages that no one can live on, like the hairdresser in Thuringia with 3.18 euros per hour.
Many people work as temporary employees and have no prospects of finding permanent employment.
Collective wage evasion is on the rise, also increasingly through contracts for work and services.
Half of the new contracts are fixed-term.
We need social guard rails on the labor market again.
That is why we are fighting for a nationwide statutory minimum wage of at least 8.50 euros.
The exact level is to be determined by a minimum wage commission composed of trade unions, employers' associations and experts from academia.
The minimum wage is adjusted by the Commission, taking into account employment effects, inflation, and macroeconomic effects.
At the same time, it must become easier to declare industry-specific minimum wages and industry collective agreements to be generally binding.
In this way, we are strengthening the collective agreement system and combating wage evasion.
This benefits both employees and companies that comply with collective bargaining agreements.
Women in Germany still earn on average 22% less than their male colleagues - partly because professions in which mainly women work are often not paid in line with their requirements.
In order to end the discrimination of women in the labor market, we call for an Equal Pay Act with binding regulations, effective sanctions and a right of action for associations.
In this way, we want to breathe life into the principle of "equal pay for equal work of equal value" and at the same time raise the social status of occupations typically performed by women.
An Equality Act for the private sector is intended to oblige companies and collective bargaining partners to take active measures to promote equality.
25 % of employees in Germany are now employed atypically, almost three times as many women as men.
That's 7.8 million people who are either trying to make ends meet with small part-time jobs, with temporary work, with fixed-term employment or with mini-jobs.
In addition, there are bogus self-employed and on-call workers.
Of course, not all of these jobs are problematic.
However, it is evident that these employment relationships are often insecure, poorly paid, lead to poverty in old age, and far too rarely represent bridges to adequate, secure employment.
However, the rise in precarious employment not only has negative effects for employees, but also consequences for the world of work as a whole.
In companies where more and more permanent employees are being displaced by external temporary workers or contract workers, workforces are fragmenting.
Above all, these forms of employment circumvent co-determination, protection against dismissal, collectively agreed standards and thus the social protection of employees.
As a result, collective achievements that have been hard-won over a long period of time are now only on paper.
The decades-old social consensus of the social partnership
and the principles of the social market economy are thus being abandoned.
Many new jobs are being created only as temporary jobs or as cheap jobs under contracts for work and services.
It's clear that companies need a certain amount of flexibility for peak orders.
But temporary work must be structured fairly.
We Greens demand that temporary workers receive at least the same pay as permanent employees, starting on the first day, plus a flexibility bonus.
Temporary workers should have the same rights as permanent employees and the works councils in the user companies should have improved co-determination.
There also needs to be a clear distinction between temporary work and contracts for work and services, as well as effective controls, because dubious contracts for work and services must not continue to replace temporary work and collectively paid work.
Temporary jobs show another undesirable development in the labor market.
Many people shimmy from one short-term job to the next.
They are practically permanently on probation and can hardly gain the necessary security for their life planning.
This is a particular burden on young people.
We want to reduce the reasons for fixed-term contracts and abolish fixed-term contracts without a material reason.
In the education sector in particular, we want to avoid permanent tasks being covered by temporary and honorary contracts.
The public sector serves as a role model for fair, modern and sustainable employment.
In addition, we stand by the existing protection against dismissal, although it is important to close existing loopholes, for example in the case of dismissals for minor reasons.
Change also requires new responses in social insurance.
We in the Alliance 90/The Greens party want to transform the current unemployment insurance system into a comprehensive employment insurance system in the medium term.
All employed persons, i.e. also flexibly employed persons and solo self-employed persons, are to be included.
Unemployment benefit can also be claimed by employees who have not been in continuous employment if they have paid contributions for at least four out of 24 months.
In addition to coverage in the event of unemployment, the focus of green employment insurance is on in-service qualification, especially for people threatened by unemployment.
2. good work needs effective occupational safety and strong co-determination
Work is only good if it doesn't make you sick.
The changing world of work is leading to new stresses.
Mental illness is now the main reason for early retirement.
Women are disproportionately affected.
More personal responsibility, pure goal orientation with free organization of work - this suits many, but others are burdened by the constant deadline pressure and the many overtime hours that are not compensated.
However, many employees also suffer from rigid specifications, little flexibility, too little variety and increasing intensity.
An increasingly stressful development for many employees is the constant accessibility by cell phone or e-mail, even outside working hours, or the increase in shift and night work.
For us Greens, this means on the one hand that occupational health and safety must be revised to take account of the new hazards.
That is why we are calling for an anti-stress ordinance to protect against stress in the workplace.
On the other hand, regulators and social partners need to be made more aware and empowered to identify new health risks and address them.
We want to drive forward measures to promote health in the workplace, including in areas where precarious employment, part-time work and temporary employment dominate.
Good work for all can only be created with strong co-determination.
We want to preserve and expand the tried-and-tested right to participate in operational and corporate decision-making.
In the coming legislative period, we Greens will work to ensure that co-determination rights in sheltered training and employment facilities, such as workshops for people with disabilities, are further developed and improved.
Co-determination rights must reflect the changing world of work.
This applies to the use of temporary work and contracts for work and services in the workplace, and we want equal co-determination on supervisory boards of companies with 1,000 or more employees, including in foreign legal forms, and an expansion of the co-determination rights of works councils in restructuring.
We want to strengthen European works councils and make cross-border co-determination the centerpiece of the European social model.
Likewise, we want the same co-determination rights regardless of the sector, i.e. also in the public sector and in tendentious companies.
In addition, we will introduce employee data protection that does justice to the changed work processes in an information society and takes comprehensive account of the employees' relationship of dependency.
Employees in church institutions are subject to the special features of church labor law.
This means that they are not entitled to essential employee rights.
This practice is also increasingly meeting with criticism within the churches.
This is because loyalty requirements on the part of employers, even outside areas of proclamation, which relate to the private lives of its employees, do not fit into a democratic society.
We will enter into a dialog with the churches, the unions and other social stakeholders to improve the situation of employees.
We want church employees outside the preaching areas to have the same rights as other employees.
Therefore, we want to abolish church employment law for all employment relationships beyond the area of preaching.
This includes the right to form works councils and the fundamental right to freedom of association, including the freedom to strike.
We will amend the General Equal Treatment Act (AGG) with the aim of ensuring that its provisions also apply to employment relationships in church institutions, as in other tendentious businesses.
3. good work needs access
More and more people are left behind or excluded from the labor market.
We are reversing this trend by breaking down the blockages.
Mini-jobs were associated with expectations that they would act as a bridge into the labor market.
This is not the case.
Almost seven million people currently have a mini-job.
Two thirds of them are women.
To be sure, not all of them are in precarious living situations.
There are students, pensioners and pupils who earn extra money.
For many, however, the mini-job is a poverty trap, at the latest in old age.
This is because an independent livelihood and the accumulation of one's own pension rights is not possible with a mini-job.
Many would like to work more, but can't get another job.
For others who switch and work slightly more hours, the social security taxes result in them earning little more.
ALG II recipients also often want to work more, become independent of state aid and stand on their own two feet through their work.
The so-called AufstockerInnen, who are dependent on ALG II despite working, do not earn enough in their job - often even full-time - to be able to live on it.
The aim of our policy is to give all people the opportunity to earn their living independently and not to be dependent on state support.
To be able to live from one's own work means a great deal of dignity and justice.
As a first step, we want to curb mini-jobs and noticeably improve the situation of current mini-job employees immediately.
With the introduction of a statutory minimum wage, we will make low wages of less than 5 euros an hour in some cases impossible and automatically introduce an effective maximum hourly limit for mini-jobs.
In addition, we are removing the opt-out clause from the pension insurance scheme, so that in the future a mini-job will always entitle the employee to a pension.
In order to prevent mini-jobbers from being deprived of their employee rights and entitlements, marginally employed workers must in future be informed in writing of their rights when concluding a contract.
In addition, inspections at the farms are being stepped up.
In a second step, we will comprehensively reform the entire low-wage sector,
push back precarious employment
and replace mini-jobs with employment relationships subject to social security contributions.
Our reform proposals are not aimed at abolishing additional earnings for pupils, students and pensioners.
Our goals are to promote employment that is subject to social insurance contributions and provides a living wage,
and to remove obstacles to employment and advancement, especially for women.
To this end, we want to provide targeted relief for small incomes so that it finally pays to work more without creating unreasonable additional burdens for employees.
Strengthening upstream social security systems at the same time not only makes it easier for people to leave the unemployment benefit II system, but also significantly reduces the financial burden on local authorities.
In order to prevent household-related services in particular from slipping back into undeclared work, the simplified registration procedure for household-related services in private households is to be retained.
Our reform will make it easier than before for people in gainful employment to earn their own living independently of the basic welfare system.
This gives more people the chance to lead a self-determined life outside the ALG II bureaucracy.
Origin, skin color, disability, age, religion, sexual identity and gender must not play a role.
The reality today is different.
Existing structures are entrenched.
The initial opportunities of too many young people with and without an immigrant background are worse than those of their peers from birth.
This starts in daycare and school and continues when looking for an apprenticeship or a job.
However, discrimination under immigration law also obstructs access to the qualified labor market.
Young refugees in particular must be given easier access to training and a qualified start to their careers.
In addition to language challenges and social background, hidden racism and prejudice are often barriers to successfully gaining a foothold.
We GREENS oppose discrimination of any kind with all our might.
That is why anonymous application procedures should become more widespread in the public sector.
People run into blocks and obstacles in this country for many reasons.
Good public institutions that can be used by all are the key to overcoming this.
Good vocational schools and training centers are indispensable for people and for Germany as a business location.
In a number of occupational groups, dissatisfaction with the quality of training is very high.
We want to improve the quality control of training by the chambers.
In addition, works councils themselves are to be given the opportunity to initiate proceedings in the event of doubtful training quality at a company.
We will also examine the need for legally regulated minimum wages for apprenticeships, because apprentices are abused as cheap labor in some industries.
The dual education system has proven its worth, but it is reaching its limits.
We rely on DualPlus.
In this way, we are expanding the conventional system of dual training to include inter-company learning venues, especially for disadvantaged young people.
Despite all the concern about the looming shortage of skilled workers, neither the coalition government nor employers have yet taken steps to improve the quality and fairness of internships.
Clear minimum conditions must also apply to internships - a written contract, a certificate, a minimum expense allowance and a defined time limit.
Although there is already a shortage of skilled workers everywhere, access to the labor market is still closed to many people.
We want to build on the different skills, strengths and qualifications of these people.
Above all, we want to open up new opportunities for the low-skilled, single parents, migrants, people with disabilities, younger and older people.
A labor market policy that integrates these people effectively and fairly relies on tailored and individualized support strategies in which intermediate goals that have been achieved also count as successes.
Our goal is sustainable labor market integration, not short-term statistical effects.
Many unemployed people have little chance of finding a new job because they are not or no longer sufficiently qualified.
We want to open the way for them into future professions and fields of work with a shortage of personnel by offering more retraining and apprenticeship programs.
Too many people are permanently without a chance on the labor market despite the good economy.
That is why we want to create participation with a reliable social labor market and finance work instead of unemployment.
To this end, passive benefits are to be converted into active benefits.
Unemployment benefit II and the costs of accommodation are thus converted into a salary for an employment relationship subject to social insurance contributions.
Jobs in the social labor market can be offered by all employers.
We are thus saying goodbye to the criteria of "additionality," "public interest," and "competitive neutrality."
Local consensus takes their place.
With our social labor market, we offer the long-term unemployed a new, reliable and voluntary service with prospects.
It is the chance for those who have been abandoned by the Merkel coalition for years.
Good work requires professional participation of people with disabilities.
People with disabilities are still disproportionately affected by unemployment and lack of educational opportunities.
The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities establishes the right for persons with disabilities to earn their living through work in a labor market and work environment that is accessible and open to them.
Instead, for many people with disabilities in Germany there is a strong automatism that sooner or later leads them into the special world of the workshop for disabled people.
We want to strengthen the alternatives to workshops and focus on company-integrated employment in all forms such as integration companies and departments, supported employment, work assistance, personal budget for work, performance compensation, but also external workplaces for workshop employees.
We are committed to increasing the employment rate to 6%.
Women with disabilities experience additional disadvantage in the education and labor markets.
Therefore, women-friendly conditions must be created in training, work and rehabilitation centers that also take into account the needs of mothers with disabilities.
We will work towards significantly improving the occupational participation of women with disabilities in employment and training,
further aligning occupational participation and rehabilitation services to the needs of women with disabilities,
and also promoting suitable training opportunities in attractive and promising occupations.
4. good work needs good job placement
A good job center is key to getting people into good jobs.
Job centers often don't offer half of what we expect them to.
People are often not promoted, but treated according to a "pattern".
We need to change that.
Job centers must have the flexibility to set up local labor market programs and link them with community employment initiatives.
The job center we envision listens to people, supports them on their journey, recognizes people's potential, and helps them take the next step.
Employment agents and job seekers work together to determine which training or job is right for them.
The aim is to encourage jobseekers' own initiative by taking their suggestions seriously and giving them the right to choose between suitable measures.
We also propose setting up independent ombudsman offices in all job centers to mediate in the event of conflicts.
The motto must be to actually promote rather than just demand.
To this end, the support instruments of SGB II must be geared more individually and more closely to practical needs.
Job center counselors only have so many cases so they know who is sitting in front of them and can develop solutions that fit.
Access to training and qualifications support them in their consulting work.
Schematic recommendations, for example based on traditional gender roles, are a thing of the past.
This is not an unrealistic vision; it is a justified aspiration.
The agencies and job centers must provide all unemployed people with access to suitable qualifications, support, retraining and training opportunities.
We want to make reliable start-up support for the unemployed possible again, as this was a recipe for success in the past.
Following the financial cutbacks in employment promotion by the coalition government, we want to make sufficient funds available again for start-ups and training.
New criteria for awarding funding must ensure that the focus is on the quality of integration and education work, not on prices.
The Job Center is a critical piece of the puzzle in our institutional strategy for greater equity.
Because only a good job center creates real opportunities for participation.
5. good work in new jobs
Green policy creates good framework conditions for more jobs.
But we want good work, which means fair wages,
decent working conditions
and equal pay for work of equal value by men and women.
The green transformation in the economy is a jobs machine.
This is demonstrated by hundreds of thousands of new jobs in renewable energies, building renovation in the trades or in engineering offices.
The energy transition to 100% renewables will create new jobs.
Already today, more than 1.4 million people work in the field of environmental technologies.
Green transformation in the economy, energy, energy efficiency, transport, heat, and industry can add up to 2.4 million jobs by 2025.
Our standards of good work also apply here.
The quality of our social coexistence is decided precisely in the areas of education and health.
Both sectors have the potential to create more jobs:
In an aging society, an increasing number of people rely on services ranging from shopping services to skilled nursing care.
The educational revolution, from daycare centers to universities and lifelong learning, can only be achieved with more staff.
Many new educators, specialists and teachers are needed to provide high-quality early childhood care, expand all-day schools and improve higher education.
Many of these jobs are publicly funded services.
Through our fiscal policy, we ensure solid financing of the public coffers.
This enables us to realize a more extensive daycare offer
and expand all-day schools.
Today, a lack of childcare is far too often an obstacle to (full-time) employment.
Citizen insurance lowers health insurance contributions and thus non-wage labor costs.
This makes labor cheaper - and thus more attractive for employers and employees.
At the same time, it also creates more room for employment in the healthcare industry.
Reducing taxes creates new jobs, especially in the service sector or in labor-intensive areas, which previously could not be created because of the costs.
6. good work for good professionals
While around three million people are still unemployed, there is an acute shortage of skilled workers in parts of the economy.
This shortage is an obstacle to the development of the German economy.
Both in regions with full employment and in structurally weak rural areas, companies have considerable difficulties finding engineers, doctors, but also nurses and educators.
To address the shortage of skilled workers, it is not enough to rely on a single instrument.
Natives and immigrants, young and old, and employed and unemployed must not be played off against each other.
In addition, qualification must increasingly take place in those areas where skilled workers are in demand.
We want to mobilize unused skilled labor potential with a smart mix of education, qualification and support.
That is why we must enable all those who are able to work to obtain qualifications in line with their skills and potential.
To achieve this, we are focusing on good training,
customer- and competence-oriented job placement,
increased vocational training,
access to post-qualification
and lifelong learning, supported by a further training BAföG.
Uniform and unbureaucratic recognition of professional qualifications acquired abroad and the expansion of post-qualification offerings are also necessary.
The necessary qualification measures must be adapted to the needs of migrants and be accessible and affordable in different life situations.
In this way, we enable all people to have career prospects in line with their qualifications and reduce the shortage of skilled workers.
One important lever is the better integration of women into the labor market.
We want to dismantle barriers to employment and disincentives for women, such as the splitting of income between spouses and - as part of the citizens' insurance scheme - free co-insurance, and thus overcome discriminatory structures that stand in the way of women working more and securing their own livelihoods.
We are also calling for, among other things, a fixed quota of 50% for women on supervisory boards.
The nationwide expansion of daycare centers, all-day schools as well as outpatient and semi-residential care services and care facilities is also of great importance in order to support women in particular in their desire to pursue gainful employment.
At the same time, the integration of women into the labor market should not be a one-sided adaptation to a concept of work that includes a lot of time for work and hardly any time for family, commitment and leisure.
Especially when it comes to the inclusion of women in the labor market and the fairer distribution of care work between men and women, we need new time models.
We follow the guiding principle of full-time part-time work for women and men, which also leaves room for fairly distributed care and nursing work and for breaks in employment.
Our society needs older employees, because they have an important function in the company through their wealth of experience and knowledge.
Business must rethink and once again rely more heavily on experienced employees.
Age- and age-appropriate working conditions are necessary, because demographic change will become a problem above all if employees do not hold out until retirement.
Therefore, employees' skills, strengths and opportunities must be the focus of working conditions.
Politicians must provide the legal framework for this.
However, better promotion of domestic labor alone will not be enough to meet the growing demand for skilled workers.
Against this background, we want to simplify the influx of foreign specialists and make it more transparent.
This includes, above all, the introduction of a liberal and transparent points system and the establishment of a genuine culture of welcome.
Whoever votes GREEN ...
votes for a nationwide statutory minimum wage of at least 8.50 euros per hour.
gets fair rules for temporary work, curbs temporary employment and limits mini-jobs.
relieves the burden on small incomes and gives more people the chance of a self-determined life without unemployment benefit II.
improves the rights of jobseekers in job centers.
strengthens the rights of employees in church institutions.
creates prospects for long-term unemployed people by establishing a social labor market.
Key projects
Abolish low wages - introduce a general minimum wage
Many work and still can't make a living.
We no longer accept the intolerable dumping wages that have to be topped up by the state.
That is why we are calling for a general minimum wage of at least 8.50 euros.
The exact level of the minimum wage is set by a minimum wage commission composed of trade unions, employers' associations and experts from academia.
At the same time, the possibilities must be created for more industry-specific minimum wages and generally binding collective agreements that then apply to all employees in an industry.
In this way, we are strengthening the collective bargaining system and combating collective bargaining evasion.
This is the only way we can ensure that everyone can make a living from their work.
End wage dumping - equal pay for temporary work
Many new jobs are only created as temporary jobs.
While companies need flexibility for peak workloads, temporary work must be structured fairly and we reject the undesirable developments in temporary work.
We demand "equal pay for equal work" from day one.
Temporary work must not be used for wage dumping.
Temporary workers are not second-class workers either.
They should have the same rights as the core workforce from day one.
Work must not make people ill - further development of occupational safety and health
Many employees experience rigid guidelines, little flexibility and too little variety at work.
On the other hand, some working relationships today are increasingly characterized by high flexibility requirements, working hours that cannot be planned, and the need to be constantly available.
Together with the social partners, we will adapt the requirements of statutory occupational health and safety to the new mental stresses.
To protect employees and in view of demographic change, age- and age-appropriate working conditions are the order of the day, because employees should be able to work in good health until retirement.
That's how we create work that doesn't make people sick.
F. Participating in good education
How we make daycare centers and schools, universities and training better
Education opens up the future.
Getting to know the world, understanding what is happening around you, shaping your own life, taking responsibility for yourself and others, realizing desires and goals - this should be open to everyone.
That is why free access to education is a key justice issue.
It must not fail because of the parents' origins, circumstances or money.
We are demanding a lot from part of the population with our plans in tax policy.
But in return, we are committed to working with states and communities to make our daycare centers and schools inspiring places to learn and live, where every child is accepted with their talents and potential and can receive the best possible education.
And we are ensuring that access to training, higher education and continuing education is opened up more and that transitions are made easier.
Education is a prerequisite for a life in freedom.
It is the key to the free development of the personality and a prerequisite for self-determination and participation.
At the same time, education is an investment in the future of our society and must not be designed primarily according to economic aspects.
We ensure that it does not remain a privilege, but is truly open to all.
Education should be based on the best interests of the child.
Education creates justice.
We fight for an inclusive and socially just education system in which everyone participates.
For a permeable society that breaks down social barriers and affirms the diversity of people.
Education creates democracy.
We advocate for open educational institutions in which the involvement of learners, teachers, parents and the social environment is desired.
For us, this also includes institutional elements such as constituted student bodies and committees with equal representation at schools and universities.
Education begins in the family.
That is why it is important for us to strengthen parents - by expanding early help and family counseling,
parent-child centers as a support structure for all parents, and early language courses.
Good educational institutions work closely with parents and are networked.
Education creates the future, for our children, for ourselves.
But first we must create a future for our educational institutions.
1. renewal of educational institutions
The quality of daycare centers and schools is central to improving children's opportunities for participation.
The importance of strengthening educational institutions directly and without detours is demonstrated by the federal government's failed education and participation package - much of the money does not even reach where it is needed.
Instead of strengthening daycare centers and schools, the education and participation package finances new bureaucratic structures and private tutoring.
The high number of educational losers is alarming:
there can be no educational justice and no all-clear as long as every fifth 15-year-old is considered functionally illiterate, every twentieth young person drops out of school and almost every fourth drops out of vocational training or university, as long as almost 300,000 young people are parked in waiting loops in the transitional sector and over two million young adults have no vocational qualification.
These are figures that call for a new education offensive for an education system that teaches and promotes not only cognitive skills, but a wide range of competencies.
The German education system suffers from a performance
and equity problem.
Good educational institutions are inclusive, showing respect and appreciation for all the diversity of children and young people.
No one should be discriminated against at our educational institutions.
They harness the potential of this diversity for inclusive pedagogy that provides individualized support and collaborative learning.
It is not the children who must be adapted to the school, but the school to the learning and development needs of the children.
Daycare centers are already pioneers of inclusion.
In many places, it is normal for children with and without disabilities to go to daycare together.
We want this opportunity to be open to all children in the future.
We want to enable daycare centers and schools to build up mixed pedagogical and socio-pedagogical teams,
to open up to people with disabilities and to deal constructively with the diversity of all students, so that previous special and remedial schools will become dispensable in the future or open up to all children.
Not least, the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities signed by Germany obliges us to do so.
The German school system is still a long way from achieving this goal.
This also applies to universities and adult education institutions.
We want to change this.
Good educational institutions are participatory.
There, children, pupils and students are not scheduled, but they can get involved and help shape things, and that is desired.
Such institutions see parents as partners in accompanying young people and offer support and advice.
A culture of cooperation at eye level with other educational or extracurricular institutions must become a matter of course.
Schools and universities must be democratically constituted, with equal representation on their boards.
Pupils or students should be represented by self-governing structures such as pupil councils or constituted student bodies.
This also includes dealing with currents and ideologies that are hostile to human rights and democracy.
Good educational institutions produce good results.
The work in daycare centers and schools is extremely responsible.
Many professionals fulfill this responsibility with a high level of commitment.
In order to fulfill this responsibility, they need a framework that supports their high level of commitment.
Educators have a very demanding job.
But social recognition lags behind.
Also the too low remuneration does not reflect the claim and the performance.
We want to support the states in qualifying educators, who are urgently needed in large numbers.
We need minimum standards for the specialist-child ratio in order to improve quality in daycare centers.
Dual training can also be a good way to make the profession more attractive for educators.
In the future, each group will be staffed by a specialist who has been trained at university level.
We need a culture of continuing education that takes "lifelong learning" seriously for educators and teachers as well.
Gender competence, intercultural competence, sensitivity to the diversity of sexual identities, forms of self-determined learning and knowledge of curative and special education must be part of initial and further training.
For us, this also includes more professionals with a migration background, with their own disabilities, and more men, especially for the daycare and elementary school sector.
In general, a more comprehensive teacher education with the same length of study for all types of schools is our goal.
Responsibility for good daycare centers, and even more so for schools and universities, lies first and foremost with the states and local authorities.
The federal government can support and co-finance if you let it.
That is why the ban on cooperation between the federal government and the states must be lifted.
We want to support digitization in education to promote access to knowledge.
Teaching and learning material should be made available under free licenses in order to break up knowledge monopolies and support the diverse usability of corresponding content.
The standards for Open Education Resources should be used as a guideline.
Vocational schools are to be further developed into competence centers for sustainability.
In accordance with the UN Decade of Education for Sustainable Development, we need daycare centers, schools, vocational schools and universities to provide the competence to analyze, evaluate and help shape the major ecological and social challenges of this century.
2. enabling success: for good daycare centers and schools
The task of educational institutions is to maintain enthusiasm and thirst for knowledge and to encourage children in all their diversity.
But this is precisely where our education system fails far too often.
The opportunities for children and young people to educate themselves and take control of their lives later on are not the same for everyone.
Worse, although this injustice is well known, change is too slow.
Educational poverty is inherited because the German education system fails to decouple educational success from socioeconomic background.
Far too often, it is already clear at birth where the child's path will lead.
Children and young people from low-income or educationally disadvantaged families often struggle with prejudice and inadequate support, especially if they have an immigrant background.
But we do not want to leave any child behind.
We want to remove the blockages and show ways to develop the potential of all children and young people.
To achieve this, we first need more and better daycare places to support children from an early age and better qualified childminders.
We want to adequately finance the legal entitlement that will come into force in August 2013, introduce a legal entitlement to a full-day place, set minimum standards for the quality of childcare services nationwide in a law,
and support the training of more educators.
We will provide an additional 1 billion euros in federal funding per year to the states and local authorities to ensure that things move forward quickly.
The childcare allowance decided on by the coalition government sets the wrong incentives, because it rewards families who keep their children away from daycare centers - we therefore want to abolish it again in favor of better equipment for daycare centers!
Parents should be able to choose between a place in a daycare center and daycare.
Our schools too rarely succeed in equalizing unequal starting opportunities.
Sorting is done too early instead of supporting children individually and giving them time to develop.
We are convinced that it is good for children to learn together at one school for longer.
However, we do not want to impose this from above, but invite teachers, parents and students to set out together on the path to better schools.
Everyone benefits from this, the stronger students as well as the weaker ones. Students and teachers also need more time, because successful learning and individual support do not take place every 45 minutes and do not end at lunchtime.
Our goal is to establish all-day schools that are barrier-free and where all children can learn with and from each other in the afternoon, deepen their knowledge, develop their creativity and discover new things.
An all-day school can better incorporate extracurricular sports, cultural and youth activities.
We will therefore negotiate with the states on a second all-day school program so that the good changes spurred by the first program in 2004 can continue.
Social workers make an important contribution to shaping a school that provides individual support for children and young people, especially during difficult phases of their lives.
School social work provides prevention and should be strengthened as part of the expansion of all-day schools.
In addition, we want to strengthen language education in daycare centers and schools.
Language education must start early, be integrated into children's and young people's everyday lives, and include their family languages.
For children diagnosed with learning disorders, we want to open up avenues of therapeutic help at an early stage.
3. opening up access to training, studies and further education
For many young people, the road from school to training, university and work is very long - often too long.
Every year, around 300,000 young people are dragged from one measure to the next, supposedly in preparation for a career.
The German model of in-company training is rightly recognized internationally.
However, too few young people make the leap into in-company training, too few companies participate and the permeability leaves much to be desired.
With DualPlus, we want to further develop the vocational training system so that all those interested in training can obtain a recognized vocational qualification.
We are retaining the successful dual training principle, while vocational schools and companies are to be supplemented by inter-company learning centers.
For young people who have left school without a diploma, production schools can facilitate the transition to vocational training.
To ensure that it is always possible to switch to conventional in-company training, we want to gradually divide training into training modules that are recognized across occupations and countries and build on one another.
Smaller and specialized companies can thus also participate in DualPlus.
The advantage is: more companies can participate in the training, more young people find a training place, supporting measures are integrated, no educational step is left without a connection.
And this would also save the jungle of measures costing at least 4 billion euros and give many young people a real chance.
Education support for non-EU citizens is also to be improved.
At the same time, training to become good professionals is encouraged.
Fear of the cost keeps too many from studying.
Better student financing must therefore reach more students and, above all, those at the top of their education.
This is especially true for young people from non-academic homes who do not have appropriate role models.
As a first step, we want to improve the situation of students from low-income families by changing BAföG and increasing it by 300 million euros annually.
We also want to make it possible for independent study programs throughout the European Higher Education Area to receive BAföG abroad.
In the next step, we will establish a student financing system consisting of two pillars: a student grant that everyone receives and a needs grant to attract those to study who have not yet done so.
Both grants - unlike the current BAföG - do not have to be repaid.
Tuition fees have now been abolished almost nationwide.
We continue to reject it.
We criticize the Deutschlandstipendium and the education savings account.
Both are inadequate to provide educational equity.
Germany's shortage of skilled workers can only be remedied if more people become better qualified and study.
But colleges are not well prepared for the fortunately more numerous freshmen pushing into higher education.
There is a lack of fully funded study places.
We want to open the doors wide to prospective students and invest an additional 1 billion euros a year in the Higher Education Pact - for more study places and better study conditions.
We want to make the Higher Education Pact permanent and develop it into a permanent, needs-based system of higher education funding.
We endorse the vision of a European Higher Education Area, but we advocate for reform of academic reform.
Because so far it is not delivering on its promises.
Examination density must be reduced, curricula must be de-branched, recognition of credits earned abroad must be improved, and support and advising services as well as the social infrastructure on campus must be strengthened.
We want to establish the bachelor's degree as a degree that qualifies students for a profession and create sufficient study places for those who want to pursue a master's degree.
To ensure that people can afford learning in later stages of their lives, we will introduce an annual 200-million-euro training subsidy.
It knows no age limit, and financing for living expenses and the costs of measures is provided by a mix of grants and loans - depending on the situation of the beneficiaries.
This allows school-leaving qualifications and qualifications to be made up.
In this way, we want to attract those to continuing education who have not been reached enough by the offerings to date:
Older people, women, people with a migration background and the low-skilled.
In addition, we will ensure that the issue of illiteracy is no longer ignored by society, and accordingly, in cooperation with the states, municipalities, and the Federal Employment Agency and employers, we will step up efforts to improve literacy and basic education.
We provide people with disabilities with all the necessary support and assistance for further qualification and education.
4. green science policy: freedom and responsibility
Research means thinking about tomorrow's world today, wanting to understand interrelationships and better grasping what we don't know.
Science is a basic prerequisite for addressing the social, cultural, economic and ecological issues of the future.
For this, we need a shared responsibility among all disciplines.
The right to freedom of research, which is enshrined in the constitution, is a valuable asset.
At the same time, science must be aware of its responsibility in research and teaching.
We want to use government research funding to provide incentives for universities and research institutions to make their contribution to solving the major challenges facing society.
For this, we also need strong basic research.
For without setting out into the unknown, the unknown and the uncertain, real breakthroughs in knowledge cannot succeed.
This also requires money and time.
That is why we are concerned about the consequences of the decline in basic funding for universities.
This puts non-program curiosity research in particular at risk.
Sustainable and social innovations require far-reaching impact assessments, accompanying risk research and an understanding of the complex technical and social interrelationships if new technologies are to be implemented for the benefit of all.
We need to move from a science for to a science with society.
We want to support inter- and transdisciplinary research in order to broaden knowledge and to be able to recognize social and ecological interactions at an early stage.
This requires strengthening research for sustainable development.
However, the protection of the environment and animals also makes it necessary to draw boundaries.
We want to consistently reduce animal testing.
We call for a national competence center for non-animal methods.
We want at least half of the ethics committee for the evaluation of animal experiments to be made up of representatives of animal protection.
We want to strictly prohibit experiments on great apes.
We seek a broad ban on testing on non-human primates.
We want to strengthen peace and conflict research and welcome public science institutions developing peace clauses as guiding principles on the ground.
Good science needs good working conditions at all levels of the scientific career.
Beyond the professorship, scientists today have extremely uncertain career and life prospects.
We want family-friendly universities and science institutions.
Fixed-term contracts have proliferated, often with terms of less than a year.
The Wissenschaftszeitvertragsgesetz (German Act on Temporary Scientific Contracts) has exacerbated the trend toward precarious employment.
In Germany, even seasoned scientists are among the dependent offspring until their fifth decade of life.
Independent research is not provided here.
Teaching is increasingly covered by low-paid teaching positions.
We call for a long-term "Pact for Sustainable Personnel Structures and Young Scientists".
These include changes to the Wissenschaftszeitvertragsgesetz (German Act on Temporary Scientific Contracts), minimum standards for reasonable employment relationships, and new categories of personnel beyond the professorship.
Universities and non-university research institutions should make binding commitments to sustainable human resources development.
Control mechanisms should be put in place to prevent universities from using teaching assignments as a means to dispose of extremely low-cost teachers who lack rights and protection.
In addition, we want to initiate 1,000 new junior professorships with tenure track with the new edition of the Junior Professorship Program.
This means that after a positive evaluation, a permanent employment relationship is to be opened.
For us, such a pact also includes improving the qualification and supervision conditions for doctoral students.
To achieve this, minimum qualitative standards and a uniform doctoral student status must be implemented nationwide.
We want to preserve the diversity of pathways to doctoral degrees.
We also want to promote colleges for cooperative doctorates between universities of applied sciences and universities in the future.
Women continue to be significantly underrepresented in the science system - with each qualification level increasing.
This is not only a serious equity problem, it also threatens to cause significant losses in innovation and quality in research and teaching.
We want to oblige universities and non-university research institutions to set target quotas at least in line with the cascade model.
If these are not met, there should be consequences for the allocation of funds.
We also want to tie institutional and project-based research funding to gender equality policy commitments, so that in the medium term there are at least 50% women at all levels.
The insufficient basic funding of universities increasingly threatens a particular strength of the German science system, namely its broad-based quality.
We want to counteract a separation into "research universities" and "training universities" and improve teaching quality.
The federal states must provide their universities with better funding and the federal government must take on greater responsibility - for example in the joint funding of non-university research.
The federal government can relieve the states by assuming 70 % of the costs of the Max Planck Society and the Leibniz Association in the future instead of the current 50 %, and by gradually increasing the program allowance of the German Research Foundation.
The states are to contractually commit to using the freed-up funds to strengthen the basic financing of their universities.
We are striving for an orderly phasing out of the Excellence Initiative.
In doing so, we want to maintain and further develop the instruments of graduate schools and clusters of excellence.
For us, the Europe-wide agreed target of investing 3% of gross domestic product in research and development is only a minimum.
If the EU as a whole is to achieve its goal, economically strong countries like Germany will have to aim for significantly higher values.
We want to supplement the tried-and-tested system of research funding from publicly funded research institutions and competitive project funding with tax-based research funding for small and medium-sized enterprises.
We want the results of publicly funded research to be made widely available quickly and therefore support open access and open data in the field of science, so that the exchange within science, but also the transfer of knowledge to industry and society, is improved.
Scientific publications financed by public funds must also be freely accessible.
The independence of scientific research and teaching at university and non-university institutions must be guaranteed.
The greatest possible transparency about research at colleges and universities provides the basis for critical discourse at universities and for the public accountability of universities to society.
Clear and binding transparency rules help to identify research, e.g. on military deployment or ethically controversial issues such as animal testing, and to address them publicly.
This includes comprehensible information for citizens on who receives what funding for what research activities in the publicly funded science sector and who cooperates with whom.
We also want to strengthen approaches to make research policy decision-making processes more participatory.
5. sharing responsibility: lifting the ban on cooperation
The federal and state governments have pledged to invest at least 10% of gross national product annually in education and research.
Although the goal has not yet been fully achieved, we say: We must not stop there.
The target must be at least 7% for education and 3.5% for research and development by 2020.
Because others have long since moved on.
Education and research spending is therefore a priority for us.
And through a reform of the inheritance tax and our proposals for a different financial and tax policy, we will give the states further financial leeway for their tasks in education and science.
We want better education funding and a better education and science system that is also more efficient.
To this end, constitutional blockades must also be cleared.
It must once again be possible for the federal government to provide financial support to the states, e.g. for the expansion of all-day schools and university places.
We want to amend the Basic Law to lift the ban on cooperation in education and facilitate cooperation in science.
Our goal is an enabling constitution for better education and science.
In order to strengthen both fields of the future and promote equal opportunities, we need a cooperative educational federalism, a genuine partnership of responsibility between the federal, state and local governments, and a new culture of cooperation and trust.
Until the ban on cooperation is lifted, we will work to ensure that the federal government contributes to the costs of education and that
and the federal states are given financial leeway for their tasks in the areas of education and science through our proposals for a different financial and tax policy.
We advocate uniform and binding graduation-related educational standards in all subjects nationwide.
The aim is to ensure that, despite different school systems, students in all federal states acquire comparable subject knowledge and master the same core competencies.
We also want to prevent them from suffering disadvantages when they change schools across federal state borders.
Whoever votes GREEN ...
invests in more, better and inclusive daycare centers.
promotes extended joint and inclusive learning.
promotes all-day schools with high quality education for all.
provides good training for all,
creates additional study places
and improves the quality of teaching and studies.
creates scope for better basic funding of universities
and offers young scientists more reliable prospects.
wants to abolish the ban on cooperation in education.
Key projects
Establishing a green republic of education - building good all-day schools nationwide
The German education system is unfair and needs to be renewed.
We want better education and equal opportunities for all children.
All-day schools are at the heart of an equal-opportunity and inclusive education system because they provide the framework in which individualized and creative learning takes place.
That is why we are building all-day schools across the country.
To this end, we are negotiating with the states to lift the ban on cooperation in education and are supporting them with at least 500 million euros per year.
In this way, we create schools in which all children can learn with and from each other, deepen knowledge and discover new things, even in the afternoon.
Strengthen universities - 1 billion euros more federal funding annually
The states must better equip their universities and the federal government must assume greater responsibility for funding.
We want 3.5% of GDP to be invested in research and development by 2020.
For more study places,
better study conditions,
a higher quality of teaching
and reliable prospects for young academics, we want to invest at least an additional 1 billion euros a year in our universities.
By changing the funding ratios for non-university research, we also want to give the Länder leeway to strengthen the basic funding of their universities.
This is intended to curb precarious employment and ensure that student places are fully funded.
Better support for students and further education - increase BAföG
Too many people choose not to go to college because of financial barriers.
We want to improve the situation of students from lower-income families by reforming and increasing BAföG.
As a first step, we are making at least an additional 300 million euros available for this purpose.
After that, we want to gradually expand BAföG into a green 2-pillar model that combines basic coverage and a needs grant to enable more educational advancement.
To ensure that people can afford learning and further education in later phases of their lives, we want to introduce a further education and training subsidy worth at least 200 million euros a year.
It knows no age limits.
Funding for living and measure costs is provided through a mix of grants and loans, depending on the situation of the beneficiary.
G. Participation in social security
How we create a safety net for all
We live in one of the richest countries in the world.
Nevertheless, material poverty is not a marginal phenomenon, but affects millions of people.
One in four children under the age of 15 in Germany lives in a low-income household.
Unemployment, raising children, illness, disability, old age or fateful events must not be the cause of a life in poverty in our rich country.
Our goal of participation includes everyone.
Inclusive policy does not ask about people's supposed deficits, but aims to promote and support individuals' abilities and their participation.
We can achieve this with the instruments of a socio-cultural minimum income and good public institutions,
but also through a generally anchored mindset that opens up the freedom for all people to live as they are in our democracy.
It is normal to be different.
Those born poor are more likely to become ill more often, earlier and more seriously, and have a significantly shorter life expectancy.
This is compounded by poor access to health care.
The growing number of people who work under precarious conditions or have interrupted employment histories are also inadequately protected in old age.
Many affected people are unable to organize or finance good care when needed.
Let us finally heed society's desire for a resilient safety net for all:
even the socially disadvantaged must not fall through the net.
Only those who know that they will be supported if necessary and have social rights are citizens and not supplicants.
Social security is the prerequisite for social engagement, for all those who want to and can get involved.
Social security and participation are two sides of the same coin.
It is therefore important that the socio-cultural subsistence minimum is actually guaranteed for all.
By making the social security systems fit for the new challenges, we are also creating a future for solidarity.
Green basic security, green
citizens' insurance,
green guaranteed pensions
and a green care concept are the key to this.
In this way, we create a solidarity-based safety net that everyone can rely on when they need it: quickly, unbureaucratically, and to secure their livelihood.
We also want to ensure that insured persons are better able to claim their social benefits throughout Europe.
We are also campaigning for the insured to be heard more in the security systems and to be given stronger representation.
Whether unemployed or pensioners, whether patients or those in need of care: here, too, interference is welcome.
1. green basic security
Basic benefits for jobseekers are a crucial safety net.
In addition to material security, this basic security must also ensure the possibility of socio-cultural participation in our society.
Human dignity is and remains the yardstick of our policy.
Despite years of criticism of the calculation of the Unemployment Benefit II standard rate, the Merkel government did not react and received the receipt for this from the Federal Constitutional Court in 2010.
We want to increase the standard rate for adults to 420 euros and review it annually to see whether it is still appropriate.
We want to implement this recalculation in dialog with the social associations.
The calculation must be designed in accordance with the constitution.
On the one hand, this means removing the so-called hidden poor and small supplementary earners (additional income of up to 100 euros) from the reference group that is the yardstick for calculating the standard rate.
And second, to include the main expenditure items that are important for participation and maintenance of interpersonal relationships and also cover average energy costs.
In addition, the 2014 standard requirement must be adjusted for inflation and wage trends on the basis of the new statistical data.
To ensure that the increase in unemployment benefit II can be financed and to prevent more and more working people from having to draw unemployment benefit II as a supplement due to poverty wages, the introduction of a statutory minimum wage is an indispensable part of a reformed basic income support system.
We are counting on saving money through a minimum wage so that we can use it to offset part of the ALG II increase.
The bureaucratic education and participation package means that many children are unable to exercise their constitutionally guaranteed right to education and participation.
We want to abolish the nonsensical education and participation package.
Instead, as a first step toward a basic child allowance, we want to increase the standard child rates
and invest in the education and participation infrastructure.
We want to change the basis of calculation for ALG II from the needs-based community to individual subsistence.
The principle of "need-based communities" disadvantages women in particular and cements their financial dependence.
This change will not happen overnight, but we will tackle the shift to individual livelihood security in the coming legislative period and initiate it with concrete steps.
This also applies to asylum seekers.
That is why we are abolishing the Asylum Seekers' Benefits Act, transferring their entitlements to the SGB and ending the undignified voucher practice.
Sanctions for recipients of unemployment benefit II are mostly humiliating, unnecessary and counterproductive.
We want to immediately abolish the stricter sanctions for people under 25, which can lead to homelessness.
The offsetting of parental allowance against unemployment benefit II, which was pushed through by the coalition government, puts low-income families at a disadvantage.
In the reorganization of family policy benefits that we are seeking, we want to eliminate this injustice and reverse the crediting of parental allowance.
Our goal is a basic security system that focuses on motivation, help and recognition instead of punishment.
The payment of a basic social security benefit should continue to be linked to the willingness to give something back to society and to strive for an independent livelihood.
As a rule, this is the search for a new job, education and training or retraining.
We need a right of choice for jobseekers in the job centers,
a right of action for associations, and ombudsman offices to resolve conflicts at an early stage, avoiding unnecessary and expensive court proceedings, and on an equal footing.
To this end, we want to ensure, for example, that integration agreements are not replaced by an administrative act.
Such a principle of partnership is not compatible with today's sanctioning rules and mechanisms.
Until new fair rules are established, we call for a sanctions moratorium.
Social benefits are good law.
But those who want to make use of them often experience a blue miracle: when jobseekers have to call a telephone hotline with questions to the job center, only to receive no information; when the care insurance fund does not provide sufficient support for elderly people who need an outpatient service; or when the health insurance fund delays the follow-up treatment of a patient after a stroke.
These examples are exemplary for the way authorities and social insurances often deal with their "customers".
The rights to counseling, to adequate services, to participation in social life fall by the wayside.
We want people to get their rights.
It is time to strengthen those entitled to benefits in enforcing their legal rights, also through a right of action by associations and the creation and promotion of counseling centers independent of offices.
We want to discuss further the idea of a basic financial security or that of a negative income tax.
Especially in the debate about basic security and an unconditional basic income for all, it must be about combining our guiding principles of justice and emancipative social policy, the importance of public institutions and financial viability.
We want to bring this debate into society.
We therefore believe it would make sense to set up an Enquete Commission in the German Bundestag to discuss the idea and models of a basic income as well as fundamental reform perspectives for the welfare state and social security systems.
In such an enquete, we want to give the necessary space to the discussion about an unconditional basic income and related changes in the social security systems.
The aim is to close the gap between rich and poor and to
realize the basic individual right to participation.
2. green citizen insurance: fair financing of the health care system
In the statutory health insurance system, healthy and sick, young and old, as well as high and low earners stand in solidarity for each other.
Children are also insured free of charge.
But the solidarity community is not complete.
Our healthcare system is in disarray.
Privately insured patients are often privileged and receive preferential treatment.
High-earning employees, civil servants, many members of parliament and most self-employed persons belong to private health insurance.
As privately insured persons, they insure only their own, usually below-average risk of illness.
Thus, they do not contribute to the solidarity balance.
We want to end this 2-class medicine in our health care system.
Our alternative is the green citizen insurance: one for all instead of every man for himself.
On the other hand, the coalition government wants to further dismantle the solidarity-based equalization system within the statutory health insurance system.
The rising health care costs are to be borne solely by the insured via flat-rate additional contributions.
We, on the other hand, want more solidarity, not less.
The Green citizens' insurance scheme includes all citizens in the solidarity community.
At the same time, equal financing between employers and employees will be restored.
However, the Green citizens' insurance scheme does not only ensure that solidarity is strengthened.
It is a crucial step toward solid financing of the health care system, because we are broadening the financial basis.
In the future, we want to treat all types of income equally and use them for financing.
In other words, in addition to earned income and pensions, there is also capital income, for example from stock gains, interest, speculative gains and rental income.
In addition, we are raising the income threshold to the level applicable to pension insurance.
This creates more equity in the health care system by involving high-income earners more fairly, makes financing future-proof, and creates room for contribution rate reductions.
The green citizen insurance is not a one-size-fits-all insurance.
Both public and private health insurers can offer citizens' insurance.
However, a common fee schedule applies.
After all, the type and extent of treatment patients receive must no longer depend on whether they have private or statutory insurance.
In doing so, we will ensure that the higher fees that now flow to physicians and other health care professionals through the privately insured are preserved overall and distributed more equitably.
Competition among providers should not be based on the contribution rate, but primarily on quality and patient orientation.
Health insurers, as stakeholders, are supposed to have the best interests of each member in mind.
Under no circumstances should there be risk selection.
Insured persons must not be disadvantaged because of their age, gender or possible pre-existing conditions.
Contributions are to be levied strictly on the basis of income.
Co-payments are abolished.
The green citizen insurance supports families with children.
Children are covered free of charge, and for a limited period also married persons or partners who are not gainfully employed but are raising children or providing care.
Contribution splitting will be introduced for all other married couples and for registered partnerships.
This ends the preferential treatment of single-earner couples with above-average household incomes and abolishes the negative work incentives for wives.
3. green health policy: local and needs-based, inclusive and preventive
We want to further improve health care close to home
and ensure access regardless of age, income, gender, origin, disability, social situation and place of residence.
The core must be primary care in which family doctors, pediatricians and other healthcare professionals work together as equals.
This requires, among other things, the upgrading of primary care physicians and the professional image of nursing, a change in the distribution of tasks between the health care professions, and a remuneration system that takes into account the special services provided by primary care, such as patient counseling and support.
Family doctor contracts can be a contribution to ensuring primary care close to home and improving the quality of care.
In order to meet the care needs of the growing number of chronically and multiply ill as well as mentally ill patients, close cooperation between the various healthcare institutions and professions is necessary.
We want to remove the financial and legal barriers that stand in the way of "hand in hand" health care.
The willingness and ability to work together must be fostered during training.
The nursing staff must be strengthened in their personal responsibility.
When organizing healthcare provision, the municipalities should
and regional and local associations of patients and healthcare professionals will play a greater role in the future.
In this way, care structures can be more closely aligned with local needs and medical care, prevention and health promotion can be linked with community social services.
Hospital care is an important part of the provision of public services.
Hospitals must be seen as part of the regional care system and must be financed according to need.
Public hospitals must be able to hold their own with their social objectives alongside non-profit and private operators.
But with its zigzagging hospital policy and failure to implement structural reforms, the German government has driven many municipal hospitals in particular into the red.
This is detrimental to patients.
This is because diagnoses, therapies and length of hospital stay are increasingly determined by business considerations in hospitals.
And this also affects employees, especially in nursing, who have to care for more and more patients with ever greater support needs.
Alliance 90/The Greens therefore want a course correction in hospital policy as well.
We want to address flawed economic incentives in the current financing system that can lead to inappropriate or ethically questionable treatment decisions.
The remuneration hospitals receive for treating patients must take appropriate account of rising personnel and material costs.
The quality of treatment as well as the patient benefit should increasingly be included in the remuneration.
Appropriate consideration must be given to the holding costs of emergency care and the cost structure of different hospital sizes.
In order to improve working conditions in hospitals, in addition to the creation of additional nursing positions and an improvement in the financial situation of the nursing professions
, a family-friendly work organization, more team orientation and equal cooperation between all health care professions working in the hospital are necessary.
Existing occupational health and safety and working time regulations must be consistently implemented and precautions taken against excessive mental stress.
To enable regional care networks to form and to ensure needs-based hospital care even in rural and structurally weak regions, we want to improve the conditions for cooperation among hospitals and with local outpatient structures.
To this end, we are striving, among other things, for a uniform reimbursement system for all specialist services, regardless of whether they are provided in a hospital or in a specialist practice.
The application of information technologies can make an important contribution to better health care.
However, the principles of data protection and the patient's right to informational self-determination must be strictly observed.
Patients should also be able to take advantage of offers of special therapy directions.
To do this, complementary medicine must provide evidence of efficacy.
Appropriate methods for the proof of efficacy for complementary medicine as well as other medical fields (e.g. physiotherapy or psychotherapy) have to be developed.
Public research funds must be made available for this purpose.
Patients should be informed in an understandable form about the diagnosis, type and scope of the service in a patient letter after treatment has taken place.
Whether it's artificial hip joints, pacemakers or breast implants, the safety, efficacy and benefits of medical devices must be improved.
These include a uniform Europe-wide government approval procedure for high-risk products,
strict requirements for clinical trials,
a medical device register
and better benefit assessment of new examination and treatment methods.
Product liability for medical device manufacturers is also necessary.
The recently introduced benefit assessment of new drugs is an important step.
It makes it possible to base the price of a drug on what patient benefit is associated with it.
We will resolutely oppose any attempts by the pharmaceutical industry to block the process.
To ensure that all information on a drug can be included in its evaluation, we will require pharmaceutical companies to register all drug studies and publish their results.
Research projects on the specific tolerability of drugs in children and on gender-specific tolerability must be expanded.
Medical research must be made transparent, and dependencies on third-party funding sources in research must be consistently disclosed.
We want to improve access to medicines for people in developing and emerging countries.
To this end, we also want to improve the legal framework and see public research institutions as having a responsibility to develop socially acceptable licensing and distribution models.
In the long term, we aim to harmonize price regulation and quality transparency rules for pharmaceuticals within the EU.
The fight against corruption needs clear legislation with consistent enforcement to finally end the manipulation in the health care system by influences that are not oriented toward patient welfare, including efforts by pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers.
This includes the introduction of a criminal offense for corruption by health care providers,
the expansion of independently funded medical research,
and a continuing education system free of economic influence.
People with disabilities are more likely than others to be subjected to paternalism and decisions over their heads in the health care system.
We strive for an inclusive health care system that responds to the needs of people with disabilities and enables all necessary preventive, diagnostic, therapeutic as well as rehabilitative measures.
This includes the quality of support, for example by providing highly specialized aids for communication and mobility.
We advocate the consistent implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in Germany and a corresponding revision of the legal basis.
We want an intercultural opening of the regular health services and, if necessary, a counseling service in the language of origin.
Access to basic health care must be ensured for refugees and people "without papers".
We want to focus on patient benefits - especially the improvement of quality of life - and therefore pay more for treatment results and not just for the volume of treatments.
Informed patients who can confidently represent their needs and help shape their treatment contribute to efficient health care.
To do this, they need reliable information about the quality of therapies and care services.
However, the lack of quality transparency is one of the major weaknesses in the German healthcare system.
What is needed is a kind of "Stiftung Warentest" in the healthcare sector that collects reliable quality information and presents it in a generally understandable way.
We advocate the further expansion of independent patient counseling.
We advocate for evidence relief for harmed patients.
We want to set up a liability and compensation fund for patients who have suffered serious damage to their health in connection with their treatment without it being possible to clearly prove a treatment error.
In addition, it is necessary to strengthen patients' rights
and the rights of patients' representatives in the self-governing bodies.
Patients must be given more rights in court in cases of medical malpractice.
In order to move closer to the goal of good health for all, preventive efforts are needed above all in a wide range of policy areas.
From nutrition to urban planning, environmental and transportation policy to school, sports and drug policy.
Health stresses arise in people's living environments and everyday lives.
This starts already around the birth.
We want a good start in life for all children.
That is why we want to strengthen midwives, pay them better for their work and give the profession more recognition.
At daycare, at school, at work, or in the neighborhood.
And these burdens are unevenly distributed socially.
Studies repeatedly show that health risks are already concentrated among children and adolescents in the 20% who come from socially disadvantaged families.
We want to counteract this.
We want to promote health, not just treat illness.
And we want to reduce the inequity of health opportunities.
We want to ensure that health promotion and prevention measures are better geared to target groups and that more gender-specific and culturally sensitive offers are made.
That is why we are creating a reliable basis for good, local, accessible and affordable healthcare with a Prevention Act.
Effective health promotion takes place locally in communities.
In this context, we also consider sports and exercise to be important preventive measures to maintain and, where possible, improve physical and mental health.
The Prevention Act also ensures fair financing and sensible management of health promotion and prevention, in which we involve all social insurance carriers and also private health and long-term care insurance.
More and more people need help and therapy due to a mental crisis or a severe mental disorder.
This is also due to increasing psychological stress, especially among school-age children and adolescents, and high levels of stress in the workplace.
We need more comprehensive community-based outpatient services, such as crisis services, better transitions between inpatient and outpatient care, more integrated care services, and increased collaboration between health and social professions.
Scientifically recognized psychotherapy methods should also be made available in outpatient care.
We advocate for forms of treatment that rely on voluntarism rather than coercion.
In order to eliminate the existing deficits, we want to work towards the development of an action plan for the further development of health care for mental illnesses at the federal and state levels, with the involvement of all stakeholders.
We support the committed work of self-help and advocate an unprejudiced trialogue between people with psychiatric experience, relatives and professionals working in psychiatry.
We want to rebuild trust in the organ transplant system, which has been severely damaged by numerous scandals.
People must be able to trust that organ donation is fair and above board.
This is only possible through absolute transparency, constitutional structures and constant quality checks,
We therefore advocate the creation of a public institution to coordinate organ donation in Germany and supervise the players involved in transplantation.
Good healthcare also includes enabling the dying to end their lives with dignity and self-determination.
The hospice movement makes an important contribution to this.
But the number and facilities of inpatient hospices vary widely and are inadequate.
We want to improve the framework conditions for hospice work by, among other things, lowering the statutory self-financing rate.
4. prevention, help and decriminalization instead of continuation of failed drug and addiction policies.
The global war on drugs has failed.
Around the world, many people are suffering from the negative consequences of these policies, from wars and armed internal conflicts, from repression and significant health problems.
In contrast, there is no evidence of the benefits of criminalizing drugs.
We want to reform drug policy, focusing on prevention, assistance, harm reduction and decriminalization.
The aim is to respect people's right to self-determination and to minimize health risks.
We call for an evaluation of the current drug policy with the involvement of science, drug aid and health policy.
Instead of the failed prohibition policy, we call in the long term for a regulation of all drugs - including previously illegal ones - that is oriented toward the actual health risks.
We reject new bans, such as a substance group regulation for legal highs.
The criminalization of drug users must end.
Those who are addicted need help, not prosecution.
Health risks can only be reduced by a system of help and advice that is geared to people's different living environments.
We want to strengthen target-group-specific and low-threshold services in drug and addiction support.
We want to counter threats caused by the current black market conditions by further expanding risk-minimizing measures, such as syringe exchange programs and drug consumption rooms, and supplement these by enabling substance analysis (drug checking).
Existing treatment and support services for opiate addicts must be expanded, legal hurdles removed and low-threshold services strengthened.
We want to review existing prevention programs for all psychoactive substances and non-substance-related addictions in terms of their effectiveness and correct them if necessary;
effectively ban public advertising.
The topic of "drugs and addiction" with all its facets must be broadly included in schools
, and social institutions such as health offices must be better enabled to provide parents and adolescents with differentiated and professional advice.
We will continue to advocate for effective protection of non-smokers and improve protection against second-hand smoke.
We will implement the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control and thus effectively limit the influence of the tobacco industry.
We are committed to maintaining e-cigarettes as a less harmful alternative to tobacco use.
We describe more details on the dispensing of cannabis, the handling of cannabis in road traffic, and medical research on drugs in the chapter "Strengthening citizens' rights", in the subchapter "Strengthening the rule of law".
5. green care concept: humane and supportive
The humanity of a society is also measured by its treatment of people who need support.
Good care is something that affects everyone: children whose grandparents are being cared for, adults whose children need care, and older people who need care themselves.
We GREENS want dignified care that accompanies and supports.
We want care that puts people first.
We want people to be able to live with dignity and self-determination even when they need care, regardless of their wallet.
In order to ensure a sustainable care structure and humane and good care, we will continue to advocate a thorough reform of long-term care insurance.
We therefore want to change and expand the definition of the need for care and better reflect children and adolescents in the assessment process.
In this way, better care can finally be guaranteed for the increasing number of dementia patients in particular, and their discrimination within long-term care insurance can be eliminated.
The need for long-term care can be prevented, halted or slowed down, which is why we finally want to set effective incentives for better prevention and rehabilitation in long-term care.
It is also necessary to pay greater attention to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in care and to implement it consistently.
People with disabilities in need of care must have access to long-term care insurance benefits and participation benefits regardless of age and the cause of disability or need for care.
We want to relieve the burden on people caring for their relatives at home more than before with a network of professional help and civic involvement.
To this end, we will strengthen care in the neighborhood and improve and expand outpatient care and respite services, which also provide local security of care regardless of the deployment of relatives - so far mainly at the expense of women.
We want to enable people in need of care to organize care according to their own wishes by means of a personal care budget.
In addition, we want to create an entitlement to green care time.
More than ever, we need independent care advice.
Residential and nursing care forms that offer security of care in the immediate neighborhood are becoming increasingly important and must be strengthened and expanded.
In many places, investments are still being made in large nursing homes.
This is where we want to take countermeasures.
We want to move away from traditional large-scale and special facilities and instead create places where care and support can take place in a home-like living environment.
To achieve this, we want to promote alternatives for self-determined living with offers for intensive care and support, such as house communities, care and living groups, residential communities or multigenerational living.
Day, night and short-term care facilities are also needed, as well as age-appropriate structures in the residential environment.
We also want to ensure that existing large facilities open up to the neighborhood and are redesigned to create manageable forms of community living and care.
The municipalities have a major role to play in this development.
They must be supported in establishing neighborhood concepts with the help of federal and state policies.
We want to expand the "Socially Integrative City" program, with which the federal and state governments are improving living conditions in disadvantaged neighborhoods, so that care and support in the neighborhood are also promoted.
Germany is an immigration country, which also means that more and more people with an immigrant background are in need of care.
Overall, nursing must adapt to greater diversity and also be sensitive to cultural, religious, sexual, or gender identities.
For an increasing number of people in need of care, we need enough well-qualified and committed caregivers.
In order to give nursing staff the recognition they deserve and counteract a shortage of skilled workers, we want to improve recognition and pay for the nursing profession
and improve working conditions.
We advocate for appropriate staffing ratios and the reduction of unnecessary bureaucracy.
To give all nurses opportunities for advancement, we want to create a modern, permeable education and training system that also enables nursing training at universities.
We also need more training positions in nursing.
We want a permanent arrangement to fund the third year of retraining.
Care must engage with the people being cared for and their lifeworld.
To do this, it needs special knowledge, which must already be imparted during training.
In nursing training, we advocate a training levy in all federal states.
We want nurses and other health care professionals to be able to work more independently.
Long-term care insurance must be placed on a sound financial footing.
To this end, we want to include all citizens and all incomes and introduce long-term care citizen insurance.
With it, better care is affordable.
Despite significant improvements in benefits, the development of contributions will thus remain manageable and reasonable well into the future.
This is a step towards more justice, sustainability and solidarity.
6. green pension policy: with the guaranteed pension against old-age poverty
On average, pensioners in Germany are still doing comparatively well.
However, poverty in old age is already a problem today.
More than two million older people in Germany have incomes below the EU poverty risk threshold.
In view of unstable employment biographies, widespread low wages and declining pension levels, old-age poverty will increase even further.
This primarily affects women who were and are not employed or employed part-time due to traditional role assignments and the lack of childcare places.
We are countering this with a strategy of a fair labor market policy and measures within the pension insurance system to build up independent entitlements and the guaranteed pension.
Old-age poverty is usually accompanied by disadvantages in many areas of life.
Social isolation is often the result.
That is why we are focusing on a comprehensive concept against poverty in old age.
We need differentiated solutions for the most vulnerable groups.
In addition to pensions, a good labor market policy is important.
Improvements are also needed in basic services, housing, and health care.
For us, it is a question of justice and dignity that people who have been insured for many years do not have to rely on basic security in old age as pensioners.
These people must be spared the trip to the office in their old age.
Our answer is a tax-funded guaranteed pension of at least 850 euros.
We want to guarantee all new pensioners with at least 30 years of insurance a pension above the basic income level.
All periods of insurance are considered as conditions for drawing.
These include contribution periods, credit periods, e.g. due to unemployment, credited periods due to reduced earning capacity, periods taken into account due to care and (until the legal entitlement to U3 childcare) child-rearing up to the age of 10.
We do not differentiate between part-time and full-time.
We have deliberately chosen the requirements for the guaranteed pension so that they are readily achievable not only by men, but also by women in particular.
Private and company entitlements are only partially offset against the guaranteed pension.
In this way, we ensure that poverty in old age is combated in a targeted manner that does not burden taxpayers and contributors more than necessary.
We want to improve basic benefits in old age and in the event of reduced earning capacity, for example, by more generously offsetting saved assets.
At the same time, there should be uniform pension legislation in the east and west as quickly as possible.
The central goal is to raise the pension value of the East to the pension value of the West.
However, this is to be done in such a way that the pension entitlements acquired to date remain constant.
Ensuring a standard of living beyond the poverty line in old age is one of the basic tasks of a modern welfare state.
To achieve this, we rely on a strong statutory pension insurance with an appropriate pension level so that confidence in the pension system is maintained over the generations.
If young people pay into the pension scheme for a long time, then they must also receive an adequate pension.
If the pension level were to fall significantly below today's level, people who cannot make private or company provision would be threatened by old-age poverty in the future.
But it would also affect workers right into the broad middle class.
We want to prevent that.
By gradually developing the statutory pension into a citizens' insurance scheme, by increasing labor force participation and by taking measures to raise wage levels, we want to achieve an adequate pension level with stable contributions.
In our view, the statutory pension insurance system is the central pillar of old-age provision and must be further strengthened.
Nevertheless, we believe that it is fundamentally right to mix risks in retirement provision, because this gives us the opportunity to achieve a higher return.
Private and occupational pension plans are important for securing living standards in old age.
To this end, we want to fundamentally reform the Riester pension.
We want to introduce a simple, cost-effective and secure basic product for state-subsidized supplementary retirement provision.
Pension insurance has been adapted to changing conditions in recent years.
Fortunately, life expectancy continues to rise, and the length of time people can draw a pension has increased significantly.
In contrast, the number of employed contributors will decline in the future.
In the interest of intergenerational equity, the slow increase in the retirement age to 67 remains necessary.
However, this decision is only justifiable if it is accompanied by better labor market opportunities for older people.
This requires more age-appropriate workplaces, better workplace health promotion and individual transitional solutions to retirement, in particular through partial retirement from the age of 60.
For people who are unable to work up to the age limit for health reasons, we want to return the reduction-free reduced earning capacity pension to the age of 63.
On the other hand, anyone who receives a reduced earning capacity pension solely on the basis of a medical diagnosis and examination should receive it without deductions.
Accrued periods due to reduced earning capacity are recognized when accessing the guaranteed pension.
At the same time, many people want to remain active after retirement age, because work is also participation.
So we need to find flexible transitions for people who want to leave earlier and those who want to be active longer.
The lower pension entitlements for child-raising periods for children born before 1992 are unfair.
With our guaranteed pension, we are therefore creating an entry into a fair and poverty-proof pension, especially for women who were unable to work due to raising children.
To give women better independent security, we want to make pension splitting mandatory as early as marriage and give greater credit for child-rearing periods.
In the medium term, pension insurance is to be developed into a citizens' insurance scheme into which all citizens, i.e. including civil servants, the self-employed and members of parliament, pay on all types of income regardless of their employment status.
For us, this is a question of both justice
and economic sustainability.
At the same time, they close insurance gaps and build up their own entitlements, which provide preventive protection against poverty in old age.
As a first step, we want to reintroduce minimum pension contributions for the unemployed, include mini-jobs in full and also include the self-employed, who were previously not compulsorily insured, in pension insurance.
Today, the self-employed in particular are often very poorly insured for old age.
We have to change that.
We want to put Jewish quota refugees on an equal footing with ethnic German repatriates in terms of pension law.
We also want to finally live up to the unanimous decision of the Bundestag in 2002 and pay the so-called ghetto pension to the survivors of the drudgery in the ghettos of the National Socialists retroactively to 1997, when their applications were delayed for years.
With cynical bureaucratic hurdles, the pension insurers and now the Merkel cabinet played for time and thus deprived about 20,000 survivors of the pension to which they were entitled.
It is simply cynical to make this group of people, which is getting smaller every day, wait another four years.
There is an immediate need for action here.
Whoever votes GREEN ...
fights for an ALG II standard rate of 420 euros to ensure the socio-cultural subsistence minimum for all people.
introduces a solidary citizen insurance in health and care and ends the 2-class medicine.
creates quality through prevention and networking and a good local health care.
improves the care of dementia patients and
creates a supply security for people with care and support needs where they want to live.
builds old-age poverty with a guaranteed pension of at least 850 euros and
protects women through an independent pension splitting.
Key projects
Securing a dignified existence - increasing the ALG II standard rate
The current standard rate is too low.
We want to increase it so that people who do not have a job can also participate in social life.
We demand that the ALG-II standard rate for adults be increased to 420 euros, as we believe that the current calculation does not guarantee the socio-cultural minimum subsistence level.
A precise calculation of the increase will have to be made in 2014 on the basis of the new statistical data.
In this way, we ensure that no one is left behind simply because they are unemployed.
To ensure that the increase can be financed and to prevent more and more working people from having to "top up" their income with poverty wages, the introduction of a statutory minimum wage is an indispensable part of a reformed basic income support system.
Abolish 2-class medicine - ONE citizen insurance for all
We want to improve health and care provision
and end 2-tier medicine.
Our alternative is the Green citizens' insurance: one for all instead of each for themselves.
Our citizens' insurance covers everyone: those with statutory insurance, those with private insurance, civil servants and the self-employed.
In the future, we want to treat all types of income equally and use them for financing: not only labor income but also capital income, for example from stock gains, interest and rental income.
At the same time, equal funding between employers and employees will be restored.
In this way, we carry the health and care system together and everyone can benefit.
Combating old-age poverty - launching guaranteed pensions
There is a threat of a massive increase in poverty among the elderly.
In our view, however, a poverty-proof pension is indispensable in a just society.
For us, it is a question of justice that people who have been insured for many years do not have to rely on basic benefits in old age.
We rely on a strategy of a fair labor market policy,
measures to build up independent entitlements within the pension insurance system
, and a tax-financed guaranteed pension of at least 850 euros.
We want to guarantee all new pensioners with at least 30 years of insurance a pension above the basic security level.
All insurance periods are considered as a prerequisite for drawing.
This also includes periods of unemployment, reduced earning capacity, care, training and child rearing up to the age of ten.
We do not differentiate between part-time and full-time.
With our guaranteed pension, which is realistically attainable not only by men but also by women, we are making a targeted and generationally appropriate contribution to combating poverty in old age.
H. Participation for young and old
How we strengthen families and create a new togetherness
We want to make a good life possible for children, families, the young and the old.
What that looks like is different for everyone.
But the opportunities to shape one's own life are unfairly distributed.
In the case of children, their social background continues to determine their success in the education system and thus also their opportunities to take charge of their own lives.
Young people often take a long time to find their way into working life after completing their training or studies, and then they often have to live with the uncertainty of temporary jobs for a long time.
Young women - and now more and more young men - are asking themselves whether the birth of a child will sideline them professionally, and how they can reconcile their wishes for their professional development with their lives and concerns for children.
We must offer people of retirement age the opportunity to contribute their knowledge and experience to this society even after their time in the workforce is over,
and we must ensure that they can grow old in a good way.
We want a new togetherness and that the burdens and joys are finally shared more fairly.
To this end, we have all generations in mind and want their needs to be considered together instead of being weighed against each other.
We want to break down barriers so that people of all ages can participate.
We want a permeable society that does not marginalize people but gives them opportunities - even several times in their lives.
We want to encourage people to take control of their lives and become actively involved in our society.
We want a successful and self-determined life for and with young and old people.
It doesn't happen on its own.
This is what we want to fight for together.
We create a future for all generations by thinking about tomorrow without forgetting the now.
Because we stand for solidarity with one another.
1. opportunities for all children
Children are loud and happy and just there.
And: Children are the present and future of our society.
But many children, for a variety of reasons, face hurdles.
We determine too early who belongs and who is out.
We are working towards an inclusive society in which children's future is not determined by their social background, sexual identity, ethnic roots or physical or mental disability, but by their aspirations and potential.
Every person should have the same opportunities to shape his or her own life.
Children must finally become the focus of our society.
We will intensify child protection.
To this end, we want to vigorously develop the Federal Child Protection Act and the necessary support for children and young people.
We also want to implement the recommendations of the Round Table on Child Sexual Abuse.
The abuse scandal must be dealt with appropriately and the independent commissioner must be appointed for the longer term in accordance with the tasks.
We advocate for the creation of a complementary support system for victims and want to continue the telephone contact point and the online help portal.
Together with the federal states, we will expand and solidly finance the programs for early assistance and family midwives.
Last but not least, it is important to arrive at a uniform system of services and supports for all children with and without disabilities.
An overall responsibility of child and youth welfare makes sense, but only if it does not lead to a deterioration of services.
Among other things, it must be ensured that the individual needs of children with disabilities continue to be met in a participatory and flexible manner, without increasing the financial burden on parents.
We are fighting bullying and discrimination in our schools.
Children need time.
They need time to play, to learn and to spend time with their parents, siblings and social environment.
We want to ensure this through a family-friendly working time policy.
The structure of the Internet - unlike non-interactive media - offers very few opportunities to separate content for children and adults in terms of time, space or access restrictions.
Whereas in the case of traditional media, broadcasters or publishers put together a program specifically geared to children, or a certain degree of protection for children could be offered at the box office, through sales controls on films and computer games, or on television through the timing of the program, this is hardly possible due to the structure and boundlessness of the Internet.
Therefore, functioning filter programs, which are voluntarily installed by parents on their home computers, are a possible instrument to minimize the risk for their children that they unintentionally come across questionable content while surfing.
On the other hand, we reject mandatory filters, filtering techniques preset by the software manufacturer, or provider-side filtering techniques.
In addition, the acquisition of media competence (not only) for children is of central importance for dealing with content on the Internet.
We believe it is absolutely necessary to extend the legal entitlement to a full-day place in a daycare center or daycare for children.
To ensure that quality does not fall by the wayside, we want to set quality standards nationwide, such as the number of children a kindergarten teacher looks after,
and support the training and continuing education of more kindergarten teachers.
This task can only be mastered jointly by municipalities, states and also the federal government - especially since the legal entitlement that will apply from August 2013 is already barely being met in some places.
To improve the quality of childcare, what is needed above all are educators who have the time and working conditions to actively care for children's development.
No one is helped if educators give up their profession because of too much physical and psychological stress.
For this reason, an additional 1 billion euros is to be made available annually for this quality initiative at the federal level.
We want to turn daycare centers into places for the whole family.
This requires new forms of networking within the framework of parent-child centers, in which the daycare center cooperates closely with other services.
This way, opportunities to support families can be bundled.
Parent-child centers can thus also become places of encounter in the district and between generations.
We want to support the states and municipalities in expanding parent-child centers.
We will also negotiate with the states on a new all-day school program.
Good educational institutions give children the chance for a good life.
However, today many of them live in poverty or in precarious circumstances.
According to a UNICEF study, 2.5 million children in Germany live in poverty.
While parental employment remains the best protection against child poverty, material support from the state must also be improved to give all children better life chances.
Therefore, the Hartz IV standard rate for children is to be recalculated and increased.
We are reserving 500 million euros for this.
In addition, we want all children to have the same value in tax law,
and we are starting with the introduction of a basic child allowance as an independent means of subsistence for children.
2. room for family
Family is everywhere where people take responsibility for each other in a binding way.
Families need time.
Parents need time sovereignty that leaves them reliable and plannable times for family life in addition to coordinating childcare.
This means that exactly these times may not be scheduled for meetings and other things as a matter of course.
We want to anchor a right of return to full-time employment in law.
We see the fair redistribution of work between the sexes, between people who work a lot and the unemployed or precariously employed, and the creation of time for family, for participation in democratic processes, for social commitment and for recreation as a task for society as a whole.
We will develop new models, also in close dialog with the social partners, on how we can better reconcile time to live and time to work in the future.
In doing so, we are guided by the model of part-time work close to full-time for both parents.
This also promotes the sharing of family work between partners.
We will make the partial parental allowance fair so that parents who share work and family responsibilities at an early stage are no longer disadvantaged, and we will continue to develop the partner months with the aim of sharing them between partners.
Many single parents and their children need special support.
They are still particularly at risk of poverty.
In addition to the expansion of the childcare infrastructure and the special consideration of single parents in the design of flexible working time models, the further development and temporal extension of the advance maintenance payment is an important lever to secure the material situation of single parents and their children after separation.
Families need an infrastructure that supports them.
In addition to all-day childcare, a key element is the comprehensive establishment of all-day schools, otherwise all arrangements for reconciling family and career will collapse in many places when children start school.
Only then can there be real freedom of choice between the most diverse family models.
A childcare guarantee for children from the first year of life as an intermediate step should quickly provide parents with planning security.
We want to help people who accompany the elderly and those in need of care with an outpatient care and support structure in their neighborhoods and introduce a maximum three-month care period with a tax-financed wage replacement benefit.
And, of course, families need money.
Family-related benefits must be changed so that families actually benefit and people of either gender are free to choose the constellations in which they want to live.
We will stop using state funds to unilaterally promote a traditional family model and instead support women and men in sharing care responsibilities more equitably, thus giving them the opportunity to decide for themselves how to organize their family life.
To better support children and combat child poverty, we need better infrastructure - good daycare centers and good schools -
and a reorganization of the many material transfers that are too inaccurate.
Our goal remains a society that values every child equally.
Every child, regardless of his or her family's income, should receive the same financial support from the state.
We no longer want to promote marriage, but children.
That is why we want to gradually dismantle the marital splitting system as described in the chapter "Better budgeting" and thus also build up a basic child benefit system.
The basic child allowance is thus financed from the family allowance.
It is not an additional transfer benefit, but replaces existing transfers and benefits.
Basic child protection can help to avoid an excessive burden on families with many children by reducing the splitting.
We are striving for a model that makes child standard rates, child supplements, and tax allowances for children completely obsolete.
The aim is to create a basic child allowance that is set at a level that allows the child allowance to be abolished in accordance with the constitution.
Often parents are not married.
Marital splitting has nothing to do with their living situation.
A basic child allowance, on the other hand, would give them the chance to receive real support.
This is especially true for single parents.
Anyone who wants to govern with us must abolish the childcare allowance.
It is a disaster in terms of education and equality policy, sets the wrong incentives and is nonsensical all round.
We will immediately abolish the childcare allowance and invest the funds earmarked for it in the expansion and quality of childcare services.
Families have always been something colorful.
But German family law does not reflect this diversity.
We want all children, regardless of the type of family they grow up in, to receive the same protection, encouragement and support from the state.
With the new legal institution of parental co-responsibility, we want to strengthen the relationship of children to their social parents, especially in patchwork and rainbow families.
In addition, we will work to ensure that all people who take responsibility for one another have their rights strengthened.
3. strengthen the participation of children and young people
Our policy focuses on the well-being of each individual child and youth.
We grant children and young people independent rights,
we want to provide them with targeted support
and we protect them where families fail to do so.
To this end, we want to explicitly include children's and young people's rights in the Basic Law, promote the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child through independent monitoring and relaunch the Action Plan for a Germany fit for children.
We want to lower the voting age so that young people can vote from the age of 16 at the latest.
We take children and young people and their concerns seriously and focus on a youth policy that encourages them and enables them to develop their own identities.
A child- and youth-friendly urban development actively involves them and takes their needs into account.
This should be taken into account when supporting urban development projects with government funds.
We want real opportunities for children and young people to participate across the board.
This also includes strengthening those affected in youth welfare by supporting ombudships
and increasingly promoting alternative forms of organization, such as youth parliaments or youth advisory councils, which are equipped with the right to apply for and vote on political decisions.
It is clear to us that all young people, whether with or without disabilities, with or without a migration background, and regardless of their sexual identity, belong here.
4. free space for youth
We stand for an emancipatory youth policy.
This means more social justice,
personal responsibility and independence for young people.
The generation of today's youth is deeply divided.
Many look to their future with optimism, but others are already convinced they are on the downside of life.
The inequality of opportunity that could not be compensated for at an early age by a low-performing education system obstructs the future of these young people.
Continuous support and promotion must be provided here.
In addition, young people are facing ever-increasing pressure: Education must prepare them for the job market, every minute of free time is planned and free time that can be shaped by oneself is becoming a scarce commodity.
Young people in particular need the freedom to try things out.
We want to reopen these needed free spaces for young people and strive for the urgently needed social debate to achieve this.
Young people are particularly dependent on local infrastructure.
Diverse youth services, strong youth work and support for forms of self-organization enable young people to participate more.
Young people need these spaces to be among themselves, to meet and exchange ideas, spaces to develop.
We reject alcohol bans and prohibitions on staying in public places.
We will not change the individual legal entitlement to assistance in raising children.
We will continue to develop educational assistance and combine it with concepts for greater social-space orientation and institutional networking.
We want to secure the structural and financial framework conditions of youth work, youth association work, youth social work and counseling centers for young people.
To this end, we will continue to develop and expand the Federal Child and Youth Plan.
Because youth work is also prevention work.
Young people are picked up by friends and attentive social workers in many youth centers in our communities and reconnect with school, education, work and society.
This is one of the reasons why we want to improve the financial situation of the municipalities.
It's hard to imagine everyday life for children and young people without the Internet.
Strengthening competence in dealing with these media and sensitivity to the protection of one's own data on the Internet must therefore be part of the work of everyone who accompanies young people.
5. participation and self-determination in old age
It is good news that people are getting older and staying healthy and agile longer.
But the question of how we can still live as well as possible, even when we are old, and how we can also determine our own destinies when we are dependent on the help of others, still occupies many people.
However, participation and self-determination must be possible into old age - despite the limitations that old age can bring.
What is needed, therefore, is more preventive health care and age-appropriate workplaces, an
expansion of continuing education programs,
but also a change in work culture that combines the experiential knowledge of older people with the commitment of young people, so that many people can remain in employment until retirement.
In view of demographic change and the shortage of skilled workers, it is also a matter of economic common sense.
In reality, however, falling real wages, precarious employment and negative employment incentives such as the marital splitting scheme threaten to send more and more people, and especially women, into poverty in old age.
We want to counteract a social divide in old age with a guaranteed pension that guarantees those who have been insured for many years a pension above the basic income level.
However, the participation of older people requires more than material security:
mobility concepts in cities and rural areas that meet the needs of different population groups,
barrier-free access to culture
and an accessible health infrastructure
and affordable housing are just as important for this.
The number of elderly people and people in need of care will increase significantly and more and more will live alone and without relatives.
New concepts for living together and designing the infrastructure of housing, care and social services are therefore becoming important.
The offers for help in old age decide whether the wish for self-determination of old people can become reality.
It is clear to us that care must be organized as close to home as possible,
it must be geared to the needs of the elderly and their families,
give priority to outpatient support
and deal sensitively with cultural and religious influences.
This can be financed by a long-term care insurance scheme into which all citizens pay and which includes all types of income.
Today, aging has become diverse and colorful.
The dominant images of age in the central areas of society do not do justice to the diversity of old age.
We want to support people who want new forms of housing and other forms of living together for old age and different generations, and will promote places for generations to meet so that the generations do not drift further apart: in neighborhood centers, in volunteer centers and in other public places.
Many older people have long since ceased to live with their families due to increased job mobility.
The number of single and childless people is also rising.
Here, it is important to promote the necessary social and technical infrastructure in the neighborhoods, to
establish small social networks, to
support individual initiative
and to involve people in the design of the residential quarters.
6 A new contract between generations - a new way of living together
We are getting older and fewer.
One major challenge for the future is demographic change, which is being dramatically exacerbated in structurally weak regions by the ongoing emigration of young people.
This change not only affects economic issues, but also touches on profound questions of life plans, freedom and recognition.
Our new intergenerational contract is designed to redistribute the tasks and burdens between old and young.
It must not play off the wishes and concerns of the generations against each other, but rather ensure more togetherness.
When reforming our social security systems, we make sure that they provide a good living and good care for the elderly without overburdening the young.
And we want to create places for young and old to meet - even beyond the traditional family relationships, so that the generations do not drift further apart.
Whoever votes GREEN ...
gets good daycare centers for every child.
fights child poverty and promotes life with children by gradually introducing a basic child allowance for all children. ensures that
children and young people have more of a say.
improves the compatibility of family and career.
wants to live a self-determined life into old age.
Key projects
Abolish the childcare allowance - improve the expansion of good daycare places
In many places, there is a shortage of daycare places.
That is why we must quickly create more and also high-quality daycare places.
For us, it is clear that the federal government also bears responsibility, because many things must happen at the same time:
The legal entitlement that will apply from August 2013 must be financed more adequately, and the need must be planned more realistically.
To ensure that quality does not fall by the wayside, we set nationwide quality standards.
And, of course, this requires more skilled workers, a relevant proportion of whom are trained at university level and paid appropriately.
We also call for the extension of the legal entitlement to a full-day place in daycare and support the needs-based expansion of full-day care in all age groups.
We want real freedom of choice for families, which is only guaranteed by ensuring that a daycare place is available for all families who want one.
We are abolishing the childcare allowance, which excludes children from early childhood education, cements old role patterns and blocks the expansion of daycare places.
This gives all children a chance to develop their potential and interests, thus creating the conditions for a real work-life balance.
Giving families more time - promoting family-friendly working time models
Time is a scarce commodity for families, especially when parents are working.
We want to give mothers and fathers more flexibility to reconcile their working hours with the demands of their families - without this always implying a commitment to their entire professional biography.
We are introducing a right to return to full-time work, thus supplementing the right to part-time work enshrined in the Part-Time and Fixed-Term Employment Act at a crucial point.
A further development of the partial parental allowance and a flexibilization of parental leave also lead to more leeway.
This leaves more time for the families.
For a fair family support - enter into the child basic safety net
In our rich country, many children live in poverty.
Our goal is a society in which no child lives in poverty and in which every child is of equal value.
Every child, regardless of their family's income, should receive the same financial support from the state.
In the next legislative period, we want to introduce a basic child benefit scheme.
The basic child allowance includes the standard child allowance, the child supplement, and the tax allowances for children.
To this end, we also want to use funds that will be freed up by the change in the marital tax credit.
As a first step, we will, among other things, raise the standard rates for children so that they cover their actual needs.
For real youth participation - voting age 16 now!
The right to vote is one of the most important democratic rights citizens have in a democracy to influence decisions.
We are committed to ensuring that young people are finally involved in these democratic decision-making processes.
That is why we will lower the voting age to 16 at all levels.
Because that's the only way young people really get a voice.
In addition, we will expand political education programs at all levels, because young people can only have a say in decision-making if they have the opportunity to inform themselves sufficiently about the political situation.
I. Intact environment and healthy food for all
How we obtain what sustains us
Decades of environmental protection have made our rivers cleaner, the air cleaner and the forests healthier.
The Greens and the environmental movement have achieved this, often in conflict with powerful lobbies and business interests and mostly against the polemics and resistance of the CDU, CSU, FDP and far too often also the SPD.
Yet our forests are still severely degraded, over 80% of water bodies are in poor condition.
Pesticides from agriculture contaminate food and textiles.
Allergies and diseases caused by a polluted environment are on the rise, especially among children.
Species extinction, monocultures and land consumption are steadily increasing, unimpressed by politicians' speeches.
And there will soon be more plastic waste swimming in the oceans than fish.
Green policies minimize the impact on our environment so we can all live healthier lives.
We want to preserve the diversity of nature for ourselves and future generations.
To achieve this, we must move away from a concept of prosperity that is narrowed to quantitative growth.
We have to get away from agricultural factories and factory farming and move towards nature-friendly farming.
Strawberries in winter, clementines in summer, asparagus all year round - the ecological price for the perpetual availability of non-seasonal fruits and vegetables is high.
What we all know, but too often forget: We have only borrowed the earth from our children.
For life to be more in harmony with nature again, we need an agreement on how we treat our environment and how we preserve the diversity of species and protect habitats.
Environmental protection is also a fundamental question of justice and a prerequisite for social participation.
Because it is always the poorest who lose out in the competition for dwindling resources - worldwide and also here in Germany.
Noise and exhaust fumes affect precisely those who cannot afford an expensive residential area.
But clean water, healthy food and good air should not be a question of money, any more than protection against harmful noise.
People who become ill through work or the environment need adequate treatment.
Probably no other policy area makes it as clear as environmental policy what is at stake: preserving the basis of life, taking precautions, creating the future.
The challenges are enormous, the resistance great.
It is not only politics that needs to change, but also the way we live and do business.
This requires informed consumers, courageous environmental, nature and animal conservationists, and committed farmers who produce regional and organic products, implement animal welfare in animal husbandry, and care for the landscape and nature.
Everyone can get involved for a better environment with their shopping basket - at the health food store and the discount store.
This requires clear and reliable labeling for organic, regional and fair products.
In addition, it is important that children develop skills in dealing with nature and the environment.
Therefore, we want to provide sustainable environmental education that conveys values and motivates children to want to experience and conserve nature.
1. intact environment, healthy life
We want to reduce environmental pollution to a minimum through strict limits.
We want to improve the EU chemicals regulation REACH so that only harmless chemicals are placed on the market and hazardous substances are replaced by harmless ones.
It is clear to us GREENS that chemistry has a key role to play in the ecological transformation of industrial society.
That is why we want to drive a chemical turnaround and the production and use of environmentally friendly chemicals that are safe for human health.
We want manufacturers to be liable for placing hazardous substances on the market.
Intact soils, clean water and pure air are a basic requirement for a healthy life.
We want to enforce ambitious targets for soil protection throughout Europe.
We want to end the German blockade of the European Soil Framework Directive
and strengthen the inclusion of soil protection in the various specialized laws in order to avoid new soil pollution caused by pollutant input or erosion as far as possible.
In coordination with the federal states, we aim to clean up all contaminated sites by 2050 where this is technically necessary.
For water bodies and groundwater, the aim is to meet the requirements of the EC Water Framework Directive and to achieve good ecological status or good quantitative and chemical status as quickly as possible.
Salt discharges into rivers must be stopped.
We want to further reduce the limits for air pollutants such as mercury, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter.
In addition, we are again advocating the abolition of exemptions for waste co-incineration and the introduction of ambitious limits for other groups of substances as well.
We reject the extraction of unconventional natural gas, in particular by means of toxic chemicals ("fracking"), because of the incalculable risks to health and the environment.
They also hinder climate protection and the energy transition.
For existing conventional natural gas and oil production, we want to support the countries in significantly increasing the production rate.
We also want to put a stop to the threats posed by iron hydroxide from opencast lignite
mining, and we attach great importance to environmental protection and transparency in the conventional extraction of raw materials in Germany.
In homes, offices, and classrooms today, airborne pollutants are sometimes higher than outside.
That's why we need stricter health requirements for building materials or office equipment, for example.
Noise and light pollution are now massive problems for nature and health.
Noise stresses and makes people ill in the long run.
In public buildings and public places in particular, special attention should be paid to the use of noise-reducing materials that improve room acoustics, and unnecessary sound reinforcement should be avoided.
We have described how we want to avoid noise in traffic in the chapter "Sustainable mobility for all".
There is evidence of health risks from electrosmog.
Because of the complexity of disease triggers and disease patterns in a pollutant-rich world, risks cannot be accurately assessed.
Therefore, the precautionary principle must apply here.
We advocate for precautionary limits that are appropriate for children.
Municipalities and the population are to be given more rights to participate in the selection of sites for radio masts.
2. protect the diversity of nature
Every day, animal and plant species are wiped out by humans.
In Germany, 40% of vertebrate species are threatened or already extinct.
Their habitats are being cut up or destroyed, and there are only a few refuges left.
This is sawing at the branch on which we are all sitting.
For as part of nature, man can only live if he preserves the natural foundations of his life.
We GREENS want to protect the diversity of nature, the richness of its species and the beauty of near-natural landscapes across the board and preserve them for future generations.
Our children should still be able to see storks and experience moors and old beech forests!
More "wilderness" in the form of intact biotopes such as moors, riparian forests or "primeval forests" are fascinating prospects for us for which it is worth making policy.
In cities, we will work to protect street trees and establish nature discovery areas for children and young people.
They should also find their own livelihoods secured!
We understand nature conservation as a cross-departmental policy approach.
That is why we want to anchor nature conservation in all policy areas - from environmental education to sustainable development, agriculture and forestry to transport planning.
To this end, we also want to use the cooperation of the federal and state governments and strengthen the legal scope of competence for this purpose.
We want to effectively protect, better network and create new protected areas for endangered nature and species, for example through appropriate management plans.
We want to modernize German nature conservation law within the framework of the proven existing EU nature conservation directives.
We want to upgrade the federal biodiversity program to an interministerial government program and increase its funding.
Where interventions in nature and landscape cannot be avoided, the damage must be compensated in real terms as a matter of priority.
Around 80 hectares of new construction and transport projects still fall victim in Germany every day.
This is roughly equivalent to the urban area of Munich per year.
This means that important agricultural and forestry areas as well as protected areas will be lost in the long term.
We want to reduce net land consumption to no more than 30 hectares a day by 2020 and stop it altogether in the long term.
We want to provide levies and taxes with ecologically effective components (e.g. property tax) so that the use of brownfield sites, unsealing and deconstruction becomes more attractive than new sealing.
Rivers should flow freely, forests should be able to develop naturally.
Therefore, we want to take 5% of the forest area, including 10% of public forests, out of forestry use and achieve near-natural forest use on the other 95%.
To this end, we want to amend the Forest Act in accordance with ecological standards.
Hunting law should be geared towards near-natural forestry, environmentally friendly agriculture, nature conservation and animal welfare requirements.
We want to preserve the last remaining free-flowing rivers in Germany.
We therefore reject any further expansion of the Elbe and Danube and of near-natural sections of all other rivers.
Riverine floodplains are to be renaturalized - also in the interests of flood protection - as part of a national program.
We want to continue the restructuring of the Federal Waterways Administration in the sense of an administration for ecologically intact rivers.
The safeguarding of the national natural heritage must be continued and promoted through a transfer of an additional 30,000 hectares of conservation land.
The federal government offers to take over, free of charge, all areas from its ownership that are worthy of nature conservation for the exclusive purpose of safeguarding the national natural heritage.
Initially, nature should be allowed to develop undisturbed on 2% of the country's land area.
We want to stop pollution and noise in the oceans, end global overfishing, and protect the North Sea and Baltic Sea more consistently.
In order not to jeopardize global food security, the EU must severely restrict and better control its fishing activities off the coasts of developing countries in particular.
We want to ambitiously enforce the extensive avoidance of bycatch and the implementation of the EU discard ban at national level.
Germany must work intensively at the global level for a worldwide network of marine protected areas.
We want to intensify the environmentally friendly disposal of dumped World War II munitions in the North Sea and Baltic Sea.
We oppose the unrestrained extraction of raw materials in the deep sea, the Arctic and on land in order to preserve unique and still largely untouched habitats.
Germany must also keep its promises to protect the rainforests and biodiversity and once again become a reliable partner in the field of international species protection, working to put an end to the dramatic plundering of primeval forests and wildlife populations.
We want to support developing and emerging countries in protecting their natural resources.
But this alone is not enough: International funding mechanisms for biodiversity protection must be given strong environmental and social guardrails to strengthen human rights and the rights of indigenous peoples.
3. live better with fewer resources
In order not to violate the ecological limits of our planet, we must reduce our consumption of resources in absolute terms - in other words, we must consume less overall.
This is only possible with a consistent policy of resource-efficient management and a rethinking of our consumption habits and lifestyles.
We want to achieve this with a systematic approach that prevents possible rebound effects (increased consumption after efficiency improvements).
This can be achieved by setting fixed caps on resource consumption or emissions, but also by removing environmentally harmful subsidies, influencing the pricing of resources, and enabling and promoting sustainable lifestyles
For a resource-poor country, resource-efficient management is essential.
Resource efficiency reduces dependence on raw materials, makes companies more competitive and protects the environment and climate.
We want to reduce the absolute resource consumption of our society and achieve a better quality of life while using fewer raw materials.
With a comprehensive and consumer-friendly collection of recyclable materials from households and businesses, we are laying the foundation for a high-quality recycling economy.
We want to make manufacturers responsible for ensuring ecologically optimized design and high-quality recycling right from the production stage.
For example, a resource levy with an ecological steering effect could contribute to this.
We want to establish waste prevention as a legal goal,
promote value-added quotas
and create better framework conditions for reuse and repair.
In this way, and through longer warranty periods, we are declaring war on the throwaway society.
We want to push back the use of disposable plastic bottles, among other things by imposing a tax on disposable packaging.
We also want to impose an environmental levy on plastic bags and promote environmentally friendly alternatives to plastic packaging.
The current system of collecting recyclables needs to be fundamentally changed to significantly increase the percentage of recycling and develop recycling targets for critical raw materials.
We want to replace the Packaging Ordinance and the dual systems with a central body at federal level.
Our e-waste often ends up illegally in faraway countries.
We want to prevent illegal exports and work with retailers and manufacturers to introduce effective take-back systems, with a cell phone deposit as a first step.
Many people are already trying to reduce their environmental footprint in their purchasing and personal behavior.
We promote this individual and societal change in lifestyles by advocating environmentally friendly mobility, rewarding energy conservation, and advancing eco-regional food production.
In this way, we are enabling more and more people to lead resource-light lives.
And with the solidarity economy, we support those organizations on the ground that are already offering experimental spaces for sustainable production and consumption patterns of tomorrow.
4. the future of agriculture is green
We GREENS stand for a regionally anchored, ecological and multifunctional agriculture.
Green agriculture not only produces healthy, high-quality food and raw materials, but also preserves our ecosystems and natural resources, maintains our cultural landscapes, and is a sustainable backbone for the economy and quality of life in rural areas.
Industrialized agriculture, on the other hand, exacerbates many environmental problems.
Pesticides, mineral fertilizers and dangerous germs pollute water and soil.
Monocultures displace biodiversity.
We want to turn agribusiness from part of the problem to part of the solution.
In doing so, we rely on the model of organic farming and environmentally friendly farming, GMO-free food and feed, regional processing and marketing, animal-friendly livestock farming and decentralized agricultural structures with all their regional differences.
We made the start of this agricultural turnaround under the Green Minister of Agriculture, Renate Künast.
But with the black-red and black-yellow coalitions came a relapse to an agricultural policy geared to mass rather than class, to cheap production and agricultural surpluses for export.
We want to change that and further develop the green agricultural turnaround.
The current agricultural subsidies are accelerating structural change, favoring large farms and exacerbating demand for land that is already in short supply.
That's why we want to fundamentally transform it.
Misguided developments such as grassland conversion, the promotion of new barn construction without additional animal welfare requirements or the spread of corn monocultures must no longer be subsidized.
Instead, agricultural payments should be linked to ecological and social benefits such as climate and environmental protection, job creation and preservation, species-appropriate animal husbandry or regional value creation.
Only through such support will we protect rural structures against further industrialization of agriculture.
Public money for public performance - that's fair for everyone.
This is also our guideline for an ecological agricultural reform and its implementation in Germany.
The black-yellow federal government has tried everything to block the EU Commission's intended reform of the Common Agricultural Policy and "greening" in the interests of the agricultural industry and the Farmers' Union.
This blockade is to the detriment of farms
and the environment.
We want Germany to use national options in the future to mitigate excessive cuts in the 2nd pillar and the unfair distribution of agricultural payments.
In particular, we need the reallocation of 15% of the money from the basic premium in favor of the 2nd pillar in combination with a degression of direct payments.
We want to eliminate the remaining EU export subsidies and other trade-distorting payments that lead to agricultural dumping by the EU in developing countries.
Instead, we are working at EU level to ensure that the promotion of organic farming
and the implementation of the Habitats and Water Framework Directives.
We reject the cultivation and import of genetically modified plants as well as genetically modified or cloned animals.
Agrogenetic engineering has not delivered on any of its promises.
Instead of increasing yields, it has increased pesticide use and hazards to the environment, people and animals.
Agrogenetic engineering makes our food and seeds dependent on a small number of large corporations and ends free agriculture and organic farming.
Agrogenetic engineering is reducing the diversity of plant varieties because genetic engineering corporations are buying up more and more breeders.
The further development of conventional varieties is neglected.
There is a great need for research on animal and environmentally friendly agriculture that takes into account the challenges of climate change.
We strictly reject patents on plants, animals and humans, because they lead farmers and consumers into a dependency on agricultural corporations.
In the interest of the vast majority of consumers, we want to effectively protect our GMO-free agriculture and food industry and beekeeping from GMO contamination.
We want to significantly expand the share of land used for organic farming so that organic food production no longer lags behind rising consumer demand.
In the medium term, we want organic agriculture for all of Germany with demanding standards that go beyond the EU organic label.
We no longer want to allow the partial conversion of farms, and
clear upper stock limits are needed for laying hen farms.
The use of pesticides must be drastically reduced in order to protect natural resources, especially bees, which make one of the most important contributions to the preservation of biodiversity.
We will expand the non-binding National Action Plan for the Sustainable Use of Pesticides into an effective pesticide reduction program and seek a fundamental tightening of pesticide risk assessment and approval procedures.
We are calling for a moratorium on the use of active ingredients such as the bee-toxic neonicotinoids and glyphosate, which pose a threat to the environment and humans.
We will support the development of alternative, organic pesticides to replace pesticides.
We would like to liberalize the use of commercial hemp and poppy for agribusinesses.
Our vision is the climate-neutral farm that becomes independent of fossil fuels, reduces emissions from fertilization and livestock farming, and increases the carbon wealth of our soils.
To this end, we want to promote the preservation of grassland, for example, as well as the use of sustainably produced, indigenous vegetable oil and leguminous plants that bind nitrogen from the air.
Also, in order to reduce emissions and nitrate contamination of soils, waters and groundwater resulting from overfertilization, animal husbandry must be closely linked to domestic production of feed.
Climate change will force agriculture to make major adaptive efforts.
We want to support them in this at an early stage.
Those who produce high-quality food as well as take on landscape conservation, i.e. public tasks, also deserve an adequate wage for this.
That is why, for example, we support dairy farmers in their fight for a fair milk price and to stop overproduction.
We want to strengthen producers vis-à-vis large dairies, the food industry and retailers.
Internationally, too, price dumping has fatal social consequences.
That is why we reject the German government's export-oriented agricultural policy.
But the reverse is also true: the huge imports of feed are just as harmful.
We want to effectively counter speculation with agricultural land.
In view of the growing number of farms that no longer have any successors, we want to abolish the antiquated farm surrender clause in the old-age pension scheme for farmers.
The remaining areas of the Bodenverwertungs und -verwaltungs GmbH (BVVG) are to be privatized and leased in favor of a rural agriculture.
By changing the BVVG privatization principles, we want to contribute to a broad distribution of ownership of agricultural land and to better opportunities for young farmers and new and lateral entrants on the land market.
Social participation must be guaranteed in rural areas.
Regional and organic is first choice!
Renewable energies, the organic food industry and sustainable tourism offer great opportunities for rural development.
We want to create incentives for the green professions - especially in rural regions.
5. factory farming - no thanks!
In factory farming, cheap meat, dairy products and eggs are bought by millions of animal suffering and the massive use of antibiotics.
Factory farming promotes species extinction and climate change because rainforest is cleared and grassland is cleared for the large-scale cultivation of animal feed.
Almost one third of the world's cereal harvest ends up in the feed trough.
The production of one kilogram of beef also consumes 15,000 liters of fresh water.
This means that factory farming is increasingly competing with the feeding of the world's population.
Industrial livestock production driven by large companies and dumping meat exports are destroying the sales markets for local producers in Africa, for example.
In Germany and Europe, too, small and medium-sized enterprises are being driven to ruin by unfair dumping competition and price erosion as a result of overproduction.
We GREENS consider this system of factory farming to be irresponsible.
That is why we want to stop the construction of new giant barns and mega fattening facilities.
Animal breeding is to be oriented towards health and lifetime performance and not as torture breeding towards ever more milk yield, meat yield, egg or piglet numbers without consideration of the physiological limits of the living being.
The subsidization of factory farming should be abolished, just like its privileges in building law.
We want to withdraw the privileged status of all plants that have to be approved under immission control law.
We want to ensure animal-friendly husbandry conditions with a new Animal Welfare Act,
create complete transparency of veterinary drug flows
and prevent antibiotic misuse through stricter husbandry and treatment regulations and binding antibiotic guidelines.
The control system in animal husbandry must be significantly improved.
Manure from intensive livestock farms and digestate from biogas plants must be tested for their contamination with dangerous germs in order to take protective measures if necessary.
In order to reduce feed imports, we want to increase domestic production and tie animal husbandry more closely to the production of domestic feed.
In addition, the import of biomass, and thus also animal feed, must be tied to compliance with strict human rights, environmental and social standards.
Our consumption decisions shape the world.
This is particularly evident when it comes to meat consumption.
We Germans eat around 60 kilos of meat per capita and year.
This high meat consumption not only poses health risks.
It also enforces factory farming that has no regard for people, animals or the environment.
That is why we are calling for more consumer education on the health, social and environmental consequences of meat consumption.
Public canteens are to take on pioneering functions.
Offers of vegetarian and vegan dishes and a "veggie day" are to become standard.
We want a label for vegetarian and vegan products.
6. put an end to animal cruelty
We are convinced that our animals have a right to a species-appropriate life without unnecessary suffering.
Together with the animal protection movement, we ensured that animal protection was included in the Basic Law as a state objective.
We want to protect animals for their own sake, which is why we will thoroughly revise the Animal Protection Act.
In order to better represent the rights of animals, we demand a right of action for recognized animal protection organizations and a federal representative for animal protection.
We also call for focal prosecutor's offices for animal protection so that violations of the Animal Protection Act can be effectively prosecuted.
Animal welfare and species-appropriate animal husbandry are to be introduced in the stables.
This also includes sufficient grazing and exercise.
The caging of laying hens, rabbits and other animals must be ended.
It must also no longer be promoted by German export guarantees for cage rearing banned here in third countries.
We want to introduce binding breeding and husbandry regulations for all animal species.
Keeping pigs and cattle on bare concrete and fully slatted floors, cramming chickens and turkeys into confined spaces, waterfowl without access to water - it's all a scandal.
In the future, the husbandry of farm animals must be based on the natural needs of the species and thus on animal welfare.
We want to ban torture breeding and the practice of adapting animals to inappropriate husbandry systems, for example by docking their beaks or tails, or mistreating them with branding.
Procedures involving pain, such as piglet castration, may only be carried out with anesthesia or must be avoided altogether.
We want to limit animal transports within Germany to a maximum duration of four hours and we want to improve slaughter methods at abattoirs.
This includes checking CO2 stunning as well as ending piecework and the use of unqualified personnel.
We want to make it easier for consumers to choose products from species-appropriate husbandry through mandatory animal husbandry labeling.
We want to consistently reduce animal testing and replace it completely in the long term.
To this end, we will legally promote the development of alternatives to animal testing and make their use mandatory.
We are calling for a national competence center for animal-free methods.
We want at least half of the ethics committee for the evaluation of animal experiments to be made up of representatives of animal protection.
Experiments on great apes should be strictly prohibited.
For the protection of pets, we want to introduce a certificate of professional competence.
We also need to better protect wildlife.
For this we demand to prohibit their keeping in the circus as well as an amendment of the legal requirements for keeping animals in zoos.
We regulate import and private keeping by introducing a positive list and a ban on wild animal exchanges.
At the European level, animal welfare must be strengthened through import bans on products produced under cruel conditions, hunting trophies and wild-caught animals.
Internationally, we want to further advance the protection of endangered species in line with the precautionary principle.
Whoever votes GREEN ...
provides for an intact environment and nature as well as a healthy life.
supports the preservation of biodiversity.
says "no thanks" to agricultural factories, factory farming and genetically modified food.
promotes organic farming, regional marketing and rural agriculture.
votes for animal welfare and species-appropriate animal husbandry.
protects our livelihoods and resources worldwide.
Key projects
Protecting the home of the stork and tree frog - preserving natural heritage
The livelihood of many native plants and animals is threatened.
More and more species are losing their habitat.
The implementation of nature conservation goals is lagging far behind in Germany and internationally.
We will therefore ensure that the federal and state governments finally fulfill their legal obligations and create transboundary networked biotope systems for 10% of the land.
In particular, our old, native beech forests are threatened.
Their biodiversity is being decimated by increasingly intensive thinning.
But old-growth forests are also invaluable for recreation and people's experience of nature.
With a federal program, in cooperation with the federal states, we want to turn 10% of publicly owned forests into virgin forests of tomorrow, into which corporate and private forests can also be incorporated.
Ending factory farming - a new animal welfare law for species-appropriate husbandry
What is taking place in our stables is no longer acceptable.
Factory farming has led to conditions that necessitate the end of the current system of meat production.
We want to end the subsidization of factory farming, remove its privileged status in building law and improve immission control
, and introduce a label for animal welfare and vegan and vegetarian products.
Through a new Animal Welfare Act, we are ensuring animal-friendly husbandry conditions, creating complete transparency of veterinary drug flows and stopping the misuse of antibiotics through stricter husbandry and treatment regulations.
By significantly reducing the use of antibiotics in livestock farming, we are simultaneously ensuring sustainable environmental and health protection.
At European level, too, we are campaigning for better animal welfare rules in livestock farming.
Breathing easy - driving forward air pollution control and health protection
Many industrial processes and combustion processes, e.g. in coal-fired power plants, produce mercury that is released into the environment via exhaust air.
This leads to a further accumulation of the environmental toxin also in food, especially in fish.
The U.S. has therefore enacted strict limits to significantly reduce mercury exposure.
We want to amend the Immission Control Ordinance accordingly
and will campaign throughout the EU for demanding limit values in order to hold industry accountable for a healthy environment across borders.
This is how we create clean air for everyone.
J. Sustainable mobility for all
How we create a green transport network that everyone lives well with
Mobility is freedom of movement.
It is an indispensable part of our lives, a prerequisite for social participation and an expression of freedom and self-realization.
At the same time, car traffic causes noise and congestion, it damages the environment and the climate, and it is responsible for an unacceptably high number of deaths and injuries.
Our goal is sustainable mobility that is environmentally and climate compatible, socially and economically efficient.
Traffic always entails conflicts of interest.
That's why more and more citizens are getting involved in transport policy themselves and want to help shape it:
Disputes such as those surrounding Stuttgart 21, the Fehmarn Belt crossing, new highway sections and the planned airport in Berlin or the third runway in Munich are examples of this.
In the case of large-scale projects, early participation of the affected citizens and civil society and an open discussion of alternatives are urgently required.
However, the current development of Stuttgart 21 shows one more thing: An
honest approach to costs, risks and environmental impacts based on actual capacities is needed from the very beginning.
Sustainable mobility prioritizes public transport, cycling and walking, and links different modes of transport.
Sustainable mobility shifts the transport of goods from road to rail or waterways and avoids transportation, e.g. by strengthening regional economic cycles.
Environmentally and climate-friendly means of transport are strengthened and motorized transport is made more ecologically compatible.
This reduces the impact of noise and pollutants, especially in urban areas.
In many municipalities, there is a struggle for public space, the allocation of space and funds for transportation.
Modern transportation policy is geared toward giving everyone the greatest possible freedom of movement
and at the same time keep the negative consequences of motorized traffic as low as possible.
In addition, urban and rural areas generate different mobility needs, which must also be taken into account.
Our goal is to enable everyone to participate in mobility, whether in the city or in the country - and at affordable prices.
This also applies to those who do not own a car - by promoting public transport and advocating socially acceptable tariffs.
We are focusing on new mobility offers that enable combined use of walking, cycling, rail, bus and car sharing on one route.
We actively involve citizens in the planning of new transport routes because they have something to say and because only acceptance will get the new mobility rolling.
We need to get involved, for example, in the next federal transport infrastructure plan, which we want to develop into a federal mobility plan, but also in many local projects.
We are creating the future by implementing the energy transition in transport as well.
We want to move away from oil and focus on sustainable, regenerative drives and electromobility with electricity from renewable sources.
We want to make traffic safer
and significantly reduce traffic noise and pollutant emissions.
1. a transport network for all
More and more people are using bicycles and trains in their everyday lives.
Carsharing and bikesharing services are expanding and becoming easier to use thanks to smartphones and the Internet, enabling new forms of mobility.
These successes have come about not because of, but in spite of, the transportation policy pursued by the coalition government.
This mainly favors the car over buses, trains and bicycles and thus plans past the needs of many people.
Green transport policy, on the other hand, wants a new mobility for all.
We want reliable and barrier-free public transport services in rural regions as well, especially more subsidized alternative forms of service such as on-call and community buses.
In transportation planning, we also want to take into account the needs of people who have different mobility due to social and family responsibilities through gender mainstreaming.
The principle of "using instead of owning" is increasingly gaining acceptance:
Combined mobility consisting of walking and cycling, bus and rail, cab and car/bike sharing with a single mobility card and mobility apps make local transport simple, fast and flexible.
The basis for this is open data and open standards with consistent protection of data privacy.
Both must be mandatory for publicly funded projects and companies.
We want a nationwide image campaign for carpooling to reduce traffic congestion.
We want to enable municipalities to create the conditions for car-sharing parking spaces in public road space, for congestion charging models, car-free inner city areas and shared space zones.
State and local governments also need a secure funding basis for an ambitious public transport campaign, including model projects for ticket-free local transport.
There must also be needs-based follow-on funding for the lapsed federal Community Transportation Financing Act beyond 2019.
We make the country more bicycle and pedestrian friendly and demand more space for ecological and healthy pedestrian and bicycle traffic.
To this end, we want to increase the nationwide share of cycling to over 20% by 2020 - in some cities, a share more than twice as high is already a reality.
We want to promote the construction of cycle paths with a nationwide pilot project.
We will breathe life into the National Cycling Plan, provide sufficient funding and strengthen the bicycle in the road traffic regulations.
We want to enforce bicycle transport on all trains, including the ICE.
In mass transit funding legislation, we will work to ensure adequate public funding.
We will advocate for the further development of regionalization funds in order to be able to finance cost increases and service improvements.
In the future, we want to exclude any use for other purposes.
Over the next ten years, we want to make local public transport barrier-free throughout.
Rail is expected to significantly increase its share of traffic.
To this end, we are investing an additional 1 billion euros a year in expanding the rail network with noise abatement.
We will finance this by breaking with the current practice within DB AG of transferring the billions in profits from the infrastructure divisions to the parent company, which then goes on an international shopping spree instead of reinvesting the profits in infrastructure.
We therefore advocate the transfer of rail infrastructure to the direct ownership of the federal government
and support the EU Commission's 4th Railway Package.
The management of regional rail networks is to be offered to the Länder for lease.
We want to permanently rule out the possibility of private investors acquiring shares in the rail network.
2. implement the transport revolution along with the energy revolution!
Our goal is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport by 20% by 2020.
The 2040 vision is to switch transportation almost entirely to renewables.
This is ambitious, but possible: by avoiding superfluous transport,
shifting traffic to rail and bicycle,
and introducing sustainable, renewable drives across the board while expanding the renewable energy power supply infrastructure.
Electromobility is only environmentally compatible if the electricity is generated from renewable energy sources.
We want a paradigm shift in the use of biomass for mobility.
In the long term, it must be limited to areas where there is no alternative.
Today's transportation is more than 90% dependent on fossil fuels.
The energy transition in transportation requires the automotive industry to make a technology shift toward electromobility with additional electricity from renewable sources.
The way to achieve this is through much more efficient powertrains, hybrid technology and lightweight body construction.
Their production and distribution are most likely to be encouraged by ambitious consumption targets.
We therefore want to enforce the 3-liter car (80g CO2 /km) by 2020 and the 2-liter car (60 g CO 2 /km) by 2025 as a requirement for new cars within the European Union.
We want to abolish privileges for large gas-guzzling company limousines and create incentives for the use of particularly economical cars.
We will counter-finance this through a CO 2 reform of the motor vehicle tax.
We want to consider extending the tax credit for natural gas as a fuel beyond 2018 if at least 40% of the fuel comes from biomethane or power-to-gas.
The power-to-gas process can enable integration of renewable surplus electricity into the transport sector.
We want to see the complete conversion of railroads to renewable energies by 2030 at the latest.
To shift truck traffic, we want to promote combined transport
and expand rail transport in a resident-friendly manner with modern noise protection standards.
The truck toll must also be developed into a logistics levy, i.e. in the future it must also take into account external environmental costs and be extended to trucks weighing 3.5 tons or more and to all federal highways
. We also want to include long-distance buses in the toll.
We will end the model test with the "monster trucks" (Gigaliners).
We want to make delivery traffic in cities more environmentally friendly by promoting delivery cooperatives, cargo bikes and electric transporters.
We will take initiatives to make ocean shipping cleaner
and want to better coordinate the seaports that are important for Germany through a port concept including hinterland connections.
We want to promote inland waterway transport if there are ecological and economic advantages over other modes of transport and if the ships adapt to the rivers.
Air traffic is associated with severe climate and noise pollution.
The growth of air traffic is significantly favored by municipal subsidies for regional airports as well as the subsidy from tax privileges in energy taxation and VAT on international flights.
We want to end these subsidies
and make the aviation tax and emissions trading more ecological.
We want to shift short-haul traffic to rail.
3. develop the new federal mobility plan with the citizens
Roads, railways and waterways are planned - about every 15 years by a federal transport infrastructure plan.
It's that time again in the next legislative period: a new transport infrastructure plan will be adopted in 2015.
We GREENS want this plan to be the first in which citizens have a say in planning, shaping and participating.
Every year, the federal government spends around 10 billion euros on the construction and maintenance of highways, federal roads, railways and waterways, and has a stake in the airports in Berlin, Cologne and Munich.
Unfortunately, this money is all too often spent on expensive and dubious prestige projects or superfluous new highway construction.
The new 2015 Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan offers the opportunity to change course.
We want to develop a federal mobility plan from this.
In the future, the selection of infrastructure projects should be more strongly oriented toward climate and nature conservation concerns and demographic development.
The project costs must be presented in full, including follow-up costs, e.g. for bridges and tunnels.
We want to set clear priorities: In the road budget, we want to spend significantly more money on maintenance
and concentrate the remaining funds on a core highway network with noise protection and promote a program for green bridges.
We want to ensure that many outlying regions are reconnected to long-distance transport by means of tender competitions and the creation of the technical prerequisites.
In the case of rail, a long-term target network 2050 is to be developed, designed for a Germany-wide interval timetable with improved passenger transport and creating more capacity for freight transport.
We want to develop a national airport concept for more noise protection, among other things, which includes the possibility of expansion stops.
In the case of waterways, the aim is to maintain a sensible infrastructure instead of ruining unique river landscapes such as the Elbe and Danube.
We want a comprehensive right to information in all planning steps - also about the "whether" of a project -, the inclusion of the public and legal requirements for the application in -formal participation methods and alternative conflict solutions for the administration.
We want to make flight route planning transparent and citizen-friendly.
After all, a modern infrastructure is only successful if it is accepted by society.
4. making traffic safe and quieter
With the Vision Zero program, we want to make road traffic safer with the goal that mistakes no longer lead to serious accidents or death.
We want a general speed limit of 120 km/h on highways and 80 km/h on two-lane rural roads.
We will create the legal conditions to enable municipalities to set 30 km/h speed limits wherever they want to, for reasons of traffic safety and noise abatement.
We want to advance protection against traffic noise and are campaigning for a ban on night flights at commercial airports, improved noise protection on roads and railroads, and quieter vehicle technology.
We want to abolish the noise privilege for rail, as well as the noise privileges for road and air traffic.
People affected by noise are to have their rights strengthened and a more comprehensive entitlement to noise protection.
We want to double investments for the active elimination of noise sources and for passive noise protection within the transport budget to 400 million euros per year.
The goal is a ten-year comprehensive noise remediation program.
Who votes GREEN,
chooses sustainable mobility.
wants to implement the energy and climate change also in transport.
establishes rail, bus and bike as the leading means of
transport. relies on citizen participation and transparency in the planning of transport projects.
protects people from noise, air pollution and traffic accidents.
Key projects
Making rail more attractive - expanding local transport, investing profits in rail
We want to make rail more attractive as a mainstream ecological mode of transport and significantly increase its share of traffic - for people as well as for goods.
We must therefore press ahead with sensible expansion projects for the European networks, and to this end the financial framework for rail and road must be the same in the next Federal Mobility Plan.
However, it must also be ensured that the profits from rail operations also remain with the railways and are not used for international company acquisitions.
In the Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan, we also want to establish the priority of maintenance over new construction.
We want to use tendering competitions and the creation of the technical prerequisites to ensure that many regions that have been left behind are reconnected to long-distance transport.
Protecting residents from traffic noise - limiting aircraft noise, expanding noise protection
Many people oppose the increasing traffic noise - and rightly so, because noise makes people ill.
We want to finally take the issue of noise protection seriously at the federal level, after the Merkel government neglected it:
We are creating a more comprehensive entitlement to noise protection
and doubling the funds for noise remediation on roads and railways.
To combat aircraft noise, we want to amend the Aircraft Noise Act with stricter limits and the Air Traffic Act to allow for operating restrictions for the statutory night (10:00-06:00 p.m.) and noise caps.
Noise protection for the population must be given a higher priority than economic efficiency when weighing up interests.
We will also fight for the appropriate framework regulations at EU level.
Livable communities - expanding environmental connectivity
The traffic turnaround also requires a change in local mobility towards more walking and cycling and public transport.
We want mobility for all and to enable barrier-free mobility across the board in the next ten years.
We want a public transport offensive.
To that end, we will ensure adequate public transportation funding.
The road traffic regulations must be geared more to the needs of vulnerable road users.
To this end, we want to enable local authorities to designate 30 km/h zones, meeting zones and shared space areas wherever they want.
We want to make cycling more comfortable and attractive, and in doing so, we also want to do justice to the trend toward pedelecs and e-bikes.
For this, bicycle traffic needs more space.
We therefore want to promote, among other things, the construction of cycle paths through a nationwide pilot project.
Climate-friendly mobility - introducing consumption caps and promoting electromobility
The energy turnaround in transportation requires the automotive industry to make a technology shift toward the 2-liter car and electromobility with additional electricity from renewable energies.
The main driver for this is ambitious consumption figures.
We therefore want ambitious consumption targets within the European Union to ensure that electromobility achieves a breakthrough.
That is why we are changing the vehicle tax so that cars with emissions of less than 50 g CO2 /km (2-liter car), such as electric cars and plug-in hybrids, receive a subsidy and gas-guzzlers pay correspondingly more.
We place particular emphasis on the sensible combination and expansion of electromobile means of transport powered by electricity from renewable sources.
We want to see the implementation of 100% renewable energy in all areas - electric cars, e-bikes, pedelecs and local and long-distance public transport -
as well as the development of intelligent mobility concepts.
K. Consumer protection for all
How we strengthen consumer rights - and create transparency
Dioxin in eggs.
Horse meat in lasagna.
Unfair energy prices.
Banks that cheat.
Devices that give up the ghost when the warranty expires.
Who actually protects consumers?
We Greens have put consumer protection and healthy nutrition at the top of the political agenda.
But under the Merkel government, consumer policy has fallen into a slumber - with an assertive minister whose announcements were rarely followed by action.
That has to change again.
To this end, we want to strengthen consumer rights,
improve protection against rip-offs
and ensure healthy and safe food.
We are creating a firm foundation for emancipated consumers so that producers and consumers can meet at eye level.
Consumers have the responsibility to set an example for more sustainability through their consumption behavior, which requires appropriate knowledge about the products.
In addition to effective state regulations and controls, Green consumer policy also relies on consumers being able to critically examine offers, denounce abuses and intervene.
To achieve this, they need better information, strong consumer organizations and effective legal protection.
For us, consumer protection is a question of fair participation.
For those with little, excessive energy prices or usurious overdraft interest rates are particularly painful.
Social exclusion looms when people are denied their own checking account or have their electricity cut off.
And even those who are not able to pay much must be able to rely on the fact that products offered are safe and financial services are reputable.
This also applies in particular to services of general interest.
We therefore reject privatization of the water supply, because drinking water is our most important foodstuff and must not be transferred to profit-maximizing private companies.
Green consumer policy makes it easier to take responsibility for the future with your shopping basket.
For this, consumers need better and easily understandable information in everyday and easy language.
Well-informed consumers can make a conscious decision to leave the cheap cutlet from factory farming in the refrigerated section, to choose energy-saving appliances or to support fair working conditions worldwide by buying fair-trade products.
To this end, we want to strengthen tried-and-tested labels such as Fairtrade, Organic and Ohne Gentechnik.
1. make consumers powerful
Knowledge is power.
That is why we want to close loopholes in the Consumer Information Act and expand the information requirements on risky financial and insurance products.
Consumers rightly want to know what is in products and services.
We are committed to reliable and transparent labeling to enable the selection of sustainable products.
What already exists for food with the organic seal, we also need in other areas, such as financial products.
Too little pay for temporary workers at Amazon, untenable working conditions for textile workers in Bangladesh, unfair pressure on employees at banks:
there are many behaviors that responsible consumers do not want to accept.
To give them an accurate picture of how companies deal with social and environmental requirements and their behavior toward customers, we will be working with consumer associations to launch a consumer portal called Unternehmenscheck.
We will work to ensure that companies comply with minimum social and environmental standards in production and distribution in Germany and worldwide, and that their CSR standards are recognizable to consumers.
We are focusing on active consumer education with an expanded range of educational and advisory services offered by consumer associations.
Among other things, we want to establish independent market watchdogs for the financial market under the umbrella of the consumer centers.
They are to monitor the market from the consumer's point of view and inform the public, investigate complaints, pool consumer interests and be given the right to complain and be heard by the financial supervisory authority.
Funding for independent consumer representation must be secured on a permanent basis.
To this end, we want to amend antitrust law, use antitrust fines to financially strengthen consumer work and examine a right of action for consumer associations.
We want to supplement the ministerial authorization with a suspensive veto by the German Bundestag.
In order to bundle the power of consumers, we want to enable class actions.
In this way, injured parties can join forces in court and enforce their good rights more quickly and easily.
We will examine whether the introduction of an ombudsman's office can contribute to this.
The basic prerequisite for conscious consumption is that companies are required to document and disclose their environmental and social production conditions, including their upstream supply chains.
Only in this way can consumers and NGOs evaluate the green claims of companies and distinguish serious undertakings from dubious green-washing.
In order to provide a scientific basis for consumer policy, we want to set up an expert council on consumer issues to provide critical support and advice to policymakers and institutions on consumer policy issues.
2. an end to the rip-off
Every day, thousands of consumers fall victim to illegal advertising calls aimed at foisting unwanted contracts on them.
To put an end to this telephone terror, such contracts may in future only be valid if the called party confirms them in writing.
Telephone waiting loops must be free of charge from the first minute without exception.
If contracts with telephone providers, gyms or subscriptions, for example, can be automatically extended by a whole year after the minimum term of two years, this is a rip-off of the consumer and harms free competition.
We will ensure that contracts can be terminated at short notice after the minimum term, thus preventing such subscription traps.
We want to prevent overdraft usury by introducing an interest rate cap, and we want to put a stop to the business of dubious debt collection and dunning services by introducing stricter rules and controls.
Products that break shortly after the end of the warranty period and are almost impossible to repair are a nuisance and waste valuable resources.
We advocate longer and better warranty rights.
The burden of proof for a defect shall remain with the seller even after the first months.
Those who buy online must not be placed in a worse position than offline.
We are therefore developing an independent model for consumer protection in the digital society and strengthening consumer rights in the area of intangible goods by legally safeguarding their resaleability.
In Internet transactions, we want to stop Wild West methods and better protect consumer data.
Among other things, consumer organizations are to be given the opportunity to enforce compliance with security and protection of personal data in Internet commerce in court.
3. energy at fair prices
We fight for fair energy prices - against price gouging by monopolies and market manipulation.
That's why we want more competition, more price transparency and less power for the big electricity and oil companies.
Fair prices, not dumping prices, are our goal.
Fair electricity prices require fairer financing of the energy transition.
We want to finance the energy transition in a spirit of solidarity,
Reduce excessive industrial privileges
and ensure that electricity customers also benefit from the lower prices on the electricity exchange.
Fair gas prices will only come about through more competition in the gas market and overcoming the link between the price of gas and the price of oil.
And to counter rip-offs at gas stations and refineries, aggressive action by antitrust authorities is necessary.
With all that said, we know: The best precaution against rising energy prices is energy saving and energy efficiency.
We have described further in the chapter j00 % safe energy".
4. strengthen consumer rights
Consumer health and safety must take precedence over economic interests.
That is why we want to take action against plasticizers and heavy metals in children's toys and child-related products.
We will continue to have the health effects of these and other toxic substances on consumers investigated and will take the necessary protective measures.
As long as their harmlessness has not been clearly established, food or cosmetics containing nanoparticles must not be placed on the market.
Toxic dyes and bleaching agents in textiles must finally become a thing of the past.
We want to strengthen the labeling of animal-free products.
Passengers should be entitled to compensation for delays of 30 minutes or more.
Travelers must be able to meet tour operators at eye level in the event of a conflict.
We are therefore calling for an independent and free conciliation body that is privately financed and, with its decentralized contact points, informs all travelers of their rights and, if necessary, helps to settle disputes amicably.
Patients' rights in the event of treatment errors and additional services must be strengthened.
More effective regulation of financial markets is also key from a consumer protection perspective.
For investments and retirement provision, we want to ensure independent advice that is free of commission interests.
The right to have one's own checking account must become self-evident.
We want to prevent over-indebtedness by means of financial precautionary checks and strengthening the financial literacy of young people,
and shorten the debt relief procedure to three years for everyone.
Social debt counseling must be strengthened to help over-indebted consumers make a fresh economic start.
5. healthy food without genetic engineering
Good food combines health and pleasure.
We want safe food, free of pesticides, genetic engineering and antibiotics.
This requires precautionary policies and effective controls from farm to supermarket shelf.
That's why we need to strengthen food monitoring.
What is in food must be clearly labeled.
Pictures of happy cows on factory farmed products are deliberate misdirection and brazen consumer deception.
We want animal husbandry conditions, manufacturing conditions, ingredients and the origin of food to be clearly and easily recognizable.
The labeling of hens' keeping conditions is also to be extended to eggs in processed products.
If animal products are contained in products or have been used in their manufacture, this must be indicated.
On processed, compound foods, the fat, sugar and salt content is to be made visible through catchy green-yellow-red traffic light labeling.
Because every second person already suffers from malnutrition or obesity.
We want to make dirty kitchens and model businesses distinguishable by means of a hygiene barometer or smiley.
Daycare centers and schools need to impart more knowledge about healthy and balanced nutrition - also practically through a shared meal a day, with the children involved in its preparation as much as possible.
This is because dietary patterns formed in childhood often last a lifetime.
And we want to promote the nationwide expansion of healthy daycare and school catering in Germany with a federal program.
The aim is to promote regional and ecological supply structures in communal catering.
We want an organic share of at least 20% in communal catering.
We want to put a stop to marketing directed at children and to fraudulent labeling of so-called children's foods.
We reject genetic engineering in food, on the table as well as in the field.
We agree with the vast majority of consumers and farmers on this.
Agro-genetic engineering makes our food dependent on a small number of large corporations and plant varieties.
It endangers the environment, GMO-free agriculture and organic farming.
That is why we are committed to better protecting GMO-free food production in Germany and to more strictly regulating the approval for cultivation of genetically modified plants in Europe.
We want to tighten up the Genetic Engineering Act and enforce at EU level that the labeling gap for meat, eggs, milk or cheese produced using genetically modified maize or soya is closed.
We oppose attempts to weaken zero tolerance for illegal GM ingredients or to undermine labeling requirements.
Regional diversity and local food cultures must be preserved.
We do not want standardization and reduction to one or two types of vegetables or fruits.
There are around 2,000 different varieties of apples in Germany, but you will usually always find the same four in the supermarket.
We therefore strengthen regional and seasonal cuisine.
This not only tastes good, but is also better for the environment and climate.
Conscious consumption and waste are not compatible.
Our goal is to halve food waste by 2020.
This will require a whole package of measures that will also place the onus on trade and industry.
Whoever votes GREEN ...
strengthens the rights of consumers.
declares war on rip-offs.
votes for fair energy prices.
wants to know exactly what's in it when shopping and strengthen organic and fair trade.
chooses healthy food without pesticides, genetic engineering and antibiotics.
Key projects
Put an end to rip-offs - regulate financial markets in a consumer-friendly way
Too many are being ripped off in financial transactions.
That is why we must comprehensively strengthen consumer protection - from independent financial market watchdogs to the legal right to a checking account of one's own to protection against fraudulent investment models.
We need a uniform and effective financial supervisory authority with consumer protection as its core task, supplemented by a financial market watchdog under the umbrella of the consumer advice centers.
We want to prevent the rip-off of overdraft and discount interest rates by introducing a flexible cap based on a key interest rate.
In order to overcome commission-driven false advice, we want to establish fee-based advice on an equal footing in the market and create maximum transparency about all commissions.
We want to make the financial markets greener, which is why we are calling for reliable seals of approval for sustainable investments as well as ecological and ethical standards for state-subsidized pension schemes.
Since far too much money ends up in the pockets of brokers and providers of private pension plans, we need a consumer policy relaunch of the Riester pension and other private pension products.
Knowing what's in it - improving consumer information
Consumers have the right to know what is in products and services.
That's why we want to introduce easy-to-understand labels: for example, traffic light labeling on food, the hygiene barometer or a "smiley" for restaurants, and a seal of approval for sustainable investments.
But information rights vis-à-vis authorities and companies must also be improved.
Because with each new food scandal, it becomes clear that the existing information obligations of authorities and companies are not sufficient.
That is why we will close loopholes in the Consumer Information Act and extend the information requirements to other products and services.
No genetic engineering on our plates - improve labeling requirements
The majority of Germans reject genetic engineering in food, and yet it ends up on our plates day after day.
The meat we eat is also so cheap because the animals are fed GM soy or GM corn.
But GM feed does not have to be labeled.
We are committed to ensuring that this labeling loophole in EU legislation is finally closed.
At the national level, the "without genetic engineering" quality label must be publicized immediately through an aggressive information campaign.
In this way, consumers can decide whether they want genetic engineering in their food.
And they can decide whether they want to continue supporting the devastating monocultures in South America and the increasing dependence of farmers on a few chemical companies.
L. Free network and independent media for all
How we create more transparency and participation in the digital society
The digital transformation is shaping social structures and influencing cultural norms and values.
It is changing our everyday lives, our schools and universities, our businesses, culture and media, politics and much more.
We want to shape this digital transformation of our society in such a way that it benefits people
and focuses on equal participation and self-determination.
We strive for a variety of legal offerings that ensure adequate remuneration for authors
and provide users with participation in and access to cultural works.
This makes it all the more frustrating how little the Merkel coalition cares about our digital future.
Network policy is a key issue for the future and can only be dealt with responsibly as a cross-cutting task.
Teaching the skills needed to deal with these new opportunities in an appropriate and self-determined way, but also knowing about potential risks, must be part of lifelong learning.
To initiate a wen-de, we want to establish better coordination within the federal government.
The expectations and tasks ahead are great!
The aim is to safeguard the freedom of the Internet,
to protect the constitutionally guaranteed rights of every individual, of users and creators alike, to
strengthen freedom of expression, to
protect privacy,
and to enable access to and equal participation in the digital world.
For us, access to the Internet is part of the provision of public services.
Our understanding of social participation in the 21st century includes ensuring broadband Internet access via a mandatory universal service - as with postal delivery.
We GREENS are committed to decentralization, openness and diversity - also on the Internet.
The emergence of new monopoly-like offerings that restrict self-determination contradicts these values.
The weak must be strengthened against the dominant groups.
Commercial platforms that earn money from the works of cultural creators must pay appropriate compensation.
Digital transformation is central to meeting the challenges of our time, whether through smart grids, connected mobility or green IT.
In order to make the best possible use of the ecological opportunities offered by new technologies, it is of enormous importance to create trust, for example by observing the highest data protection standards.
The digital transformation is also having an impact on the traditional media world.
Press is no longer just printed paper, radio and television are more than radio waves and moving pictures.
The media genres are becoming increasingly difficult to separate, and their consumption is changing, posing urgent questions for media companies and media professionals, for public broadcasting, and also for politics.
Participation in the digital society requires self-determined action.
The need to learn media literacy is equally relevant for people of all generations - children as well as seniors.
Hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets in freezing cold against the ACTA agreement.
An #outcry that puts multiple faces on everyday sexism in our society becomes the topic of all media.
More and more people are participating in online petitions.
These are examples of how more and more people are using the possibilities of the Internet to form their own opinions, to get involved politically and to organize.
Our democracy is becoming more alive digitally.
We want to use this to create more transparency and forms of participation, whether in politics, business or administration.
Our future is digital.
We Greens want to shape it with you and yours!
1. doing business and participating: The future is digital
Broadband expansion is faltering in our country.
Particularly in rural regions, this puts companies and freelancers at a massive locational disadvantage.
To enable everyone to participate in the digital transformation, we must finally close the white spots.
Just as postal delivery is regulated to the remote regions of our country, we also want to ensure access to a broadband connection for everyone via a universal service.
With this universal service, broadband connections with at least 6 Mbit/s must be available everywhere.
We want to make this universal service dynamic in order to keep pace with technical developments and requirements.
Our goal is to provide nationwide broadband connections in the double-digit Mbit/s range by the end of the legislative period.
Our existing network infrastructure is reaching its limits and is not fit for the future.
That is why the roll-out of a nationwide fiber-optic network remains our goal.
In addition to broadband coverage, we want to actively support public and private projects that aim to expand free and publicly accessible Wi-Fi networks, taking consumer health protection into account.
To this end, we are looking for pragmatic ways of enabling third parties to access the Internet without being held jointly liable for improper use (Stoererhaftung).
But the users of such networks must also be aware of their rights and obligations so that the acceptance of such offerings is not gambled away.
The Internet is elementary to our goal of an inclusive society.
It also opens up new opportunities for participation, especially for people with disabilities.
We want to achieve the greatest possible accessibility on the Internet.
This should become a self-evident design criterion for public and private sector offerings.
At the same time, we also want to include and consider those who do not want to or cannot use the Internet.
Hundreds of thousands of new jobs are being created in the Internet economy.
We want to promote start-ups and support a start-up culture that exploits the great potential of digitization.
We want to strengthen the willingness to take entrepreneurial risks for good ideas and to understand in failure the possibility of a new opportunity.
We want to reorganize support for the creative and Internet industries and adapt it appropriately to the requirements of an industry in which rapid innovation cycles and short-term entrepreneurial decisions are the order of the day.
In the IT industry, new models of more flexible, family-friendly working hours and employee participation are often exemplified and deserve further support.
However, more flexibility in terms of time and space does not always mean more freedom.
We insist that even under changing working conditions, compliance with social standards, fair pay and the compatibility of family and career must be maintained.
How open, free and sustainable our society is is also reflected in the use of free and open software.
In the public sector, it must be given priority insofar as this is possible under procurement law.
In the same way, software developments by and for public authorities must always be published with source code under a free license so that everyone can benefit from them and they can be easily developed further.
Central to such a strategy is the use of open standards and interfaces.
Despite the objective advantages of free products, proprietary software is still too often given priority, especially in public administration.
We want to walk the conversion process to free software together with the employees of the administration and advertise for understanding and support.
Information technologies are subject to rapid and permanent changes and are unthinkable to produce without raw materials from other countries.
We want to work towards ensuring that the production, distribution, use and disposal of this technology take place under fair and sustainable conditions.
We therefore advocate clear legal requirements that make human rights standards as well as energy and resource efficiency binding,
and want to increase the recycling of valuable raw materials as much as possible.
In the coming years, it will be particularly important for the energy transition that the IT industry also plays its part in its success.
That's why we want to promote Green IT.
By this we mean the optimization of resource consumption during the manufacture, operation and disposal of IT equipment, as well as the use of new technologies with the aim of creating a more resource-efficient economy.
To meet these challenges, Germany needs a strategy for promoting and developing sustainable ICT concepts.
Approximately four medium-sized coal-fired power plants are required for the amount of electricity generated by the approximately 52,000 data centers in Germany.
However, the energy efficiency of data centers can be increased significantly.
That is why we are advocating a "Climate-neutral data centers for Germany" initiative.
Secure and reliable computer and network technologies exist only through creative, free and always curious research activity.
The detection and remediation of security vulnerabilities in networks and in software must take precedence over the integrity or copyright protection of information technology systems.
We want to eliminate the legal gray area in which many German IT security experts have to operate in university, public, private-sector and voluntary IT security research projects.
2. our responsibility for a free network
It is necessary to secure Internet freedom politically.
It is threatened by monopolies and oligopolies in central services such as search engines or social networks,
but also by state surveillance fantasies such as data retention.
The network infrastructure should be equally available to all.
We do not want a 2-tier Internet and therefore want to enshrine the principle of net neutrality in law.
In this way, we ensure that data is transmitted equally on the Internet without discrimination or preference - regardless of its origin, its destination, the financial strength of its recipients or senders, its content, applications used, or devices employed.
The neutrality of the Internet is also violated when providers or government agencies block, filter or throttle the use of Internet content, so that less profitable content is suddenly less accessible or politically unpopular content disappears.
We take a critical view of the increasing merger of infrastructure providers and content providers, as it jeopardizes network neutrality, restricts competition, and lowers usage freedoms.
We are committed to ensuring that the Federal Network Agency and the Federal Cartel Office investigate possible abuses within the scope of their competencies.
In addition, we want to enshrine net neutrality in law.
Government intervention in Internet freedom is increasing worldwide, especially in authoritarian states and dictatorships.
The export of know-how, technology and software for censorship and surveillance of the Internet to these countries must come to an end.
Here we want to ensure effective export control.
Free and open network access has become a human right.
Transparent global agreements on rules are needed to keep the Internet permanently free and open.
Civil society, politics and business need to sit down at the same table to agree on a global code to safeguard civil liberties and civil rights on the Internet.
People are also bullied, ripped off and cheated online, and crimes are committed with the help of the new possibilities offered by the Internet.
Freedom in a digitized world means both protecting the individual and asserting his or her rights.
This must be effective,
but also in strict compliance with civil rights.
We have always been clearly opposed to the creation of blocking or censorship infrastructures.
Instead, banned content must be deleted and crimes such as the depiction of sexual abuse of children or racist calls for violence must be consistently prosecuted.
Better law enforcement requires investigative agencies that are made fit for the digital age.
In order to be able to act effectively, cross-border cooperation must also be strengthened.
This is part of our goal to establish a global Internet governance structure that takes into account as many interests and stakeholders as possible.
In the area of child and youth media protection, we have always advocated regulations that are also technically appropriate to the reality of the Net, protect the freedom of the Internet, and place children at the center of the protection interest.
The amendment to the Interstate Treaty on the Protection of Minors in the Media, which failed in 2010, did not meet these criteria.
Technical means can only ever be a supplement, not an alternative, to promoting media literacy;
we also reject mandatory filters.
We want to intensify and promote research into specific dangers for children and young people on the Internet.
We will accompany the upcoming amendment of the Interstate Treaty on the Protection of Minors in the Media constructively and in line with the conditions we have defined, and reject the renewed tendency toward backroom politics.
We want to combat advertising on Internet sites with prohibited content, and we want to stop the generation of profits through infringements.
Prevention is the most important measure.
We want to promote self-determination through the lifelong teaching of media skills.
The aim is to teach people how to protect their own data, how to classify content, what their rights and obligations are, and how to defend themselves against false claims, for example.
We will therefore work to ensure that the teaching of media skills is established as a separate subject area in the training of educators, caregivers and teachers throughout Germany.
3. strengthen civil rights in the digital world
For more than a decade, we have witnessed the dismantling, softening and relativization of fundamental rights standards.
For us, it is therefore not enough to simply demand the preservation of civil rights.
We Greens want to strengthen our civil rights again and give legal effect to the newly created fundamental right to guarantee the confidentiality and integrity of information technology systems.
We want to develop the secrecy of telecommunications in Article 10 of the Basic Law into a comprehensive secrecy of communications and media use that encompasses the digital world.
Thus, the dismantling of a free and open Internet must not be pushed forward under the guise of so-called cybersecurity.
Anti-civil rights scare tactics such as data retention or secret online searches of computers have no place in a free society based on the rule of law.
We reject the massive expansion of inventory data disclosure that was pushed forward by the CDU/CSU, FDP and SPD.
Informational self-determination and the right to public information - freedom of information - are at the heart of our work for a livable digital society.
Without data protection, there is no free Internet.
Privacy is not a relic of the old days, even in the digital age.
On the contrary, the effective protection and legal safeguarding of pseudonymous and anonymous communications fulfills a key role for privacy in the Internet age.
Advertising has become a significant source of funding for free services on the Internet.
The advertising industry is prepared to pay high premiums for precise target groups and dreams of "transparent customers" whose tracks can be completely evaluated.
We advocate transparent and fair rules against the excessive collection of data to create customer profiles.
We want to secure the power of self-determined and informed citizens.
By making explicit consent to store and process data a basic principle.
We call for a ban on computer-related tracking through cookies that are not noticed by citizens.
Equally fundamental is preventive, legally binding data protection by technology (privacy by design and privacy by default)
and protection against unintentional profiling and automated evaluation (scoring) of data.
This applies to the state
as well as to companies and other private entities.
That is why we support a reform of European data protection law that, among other things, strengthens data protection vis-à-vis companies from third countries and increases enforcement powers for data protection authorities.
This will also improve fundamental rights and consumer protection vis-à-vis social network providers.
Bullying on the Internet is not a trivial offense.
With regard to the protection of personal rights, we want to remind providers even more strongly of their responsibility.
Therefore, better protection for victims must be achieved.
Particularly in social networks, they must effectively comply with the legal obligation to delete corresponding content immediately after becoming aware of it (notice and take down).
Everyone needs documented and enforceable rights in order to be able to track their own data, obtain information about stored data, prevent its disclosure, and have it permanently and promptly deleted, as well as enforce other protective rights.
We describe our mission statement on democracy in the digital age and how we intend to use it to promote digital democracy in the chapter "Renewing democracy".
4. making public: a new media policy
The media make a crucial contribution to access to information and knowledge.
The traditional media - newspapers, radio and television - are still the most widely used sources of information for many people.
However, new, digital offerings are also becoming increasingly important.
We Greens are committed to a diverse media landscape in which everyone can participate.
We are committed to independent media and high quality content.
The independence of the media is elementary, so that they can control the state.
We therefore demand that the supervisory bodies of ARD, ZDF and Deutschlandradio be made non-governmental and that the composition of the broadcasting councils, the television council and the radio council be adapted to the changed social realities.
Ownership of private media should also be more transparent for citizens.
In our view, the licensing and control of nationwide broadcasting programs and broadcasters by the Commission for Licensing and Supervision (ZAK) has not proven its worth, as federal interests have remained paramount.
To change this, we will advocate the establishment of a joint state media authority.
High-quality public broadcasting must also play an important role in the digital world.
Because users are increasingly using broadcasting services via the Internet, public broadcasters' services must also have a permanent presence there.
We therefore want to end the depublication obligation of ARD and ZDF.
Instead, we would like to make the content freely accessible and usable through free licenses in the future, with appropriate remuneration for the authors.
We are convinced that public broadcasting must reach all generations in an appropriate way, and that especially in its main programs.
In addition, we expressly welcome the establishment of an independent youth channel by ARD and ZDF.
We are concerned to see that the diverse newspaper landscape in Germany is under severe economic pressure.
Even though digital media is on the rise, many online offerings are still financed by print editions, which have to deal with declining advertising revenues and falling subscriptions.
More and more smaller and local newspapers are being shut down, editorial offices are being merged and outsourced, and editors are being laid off.
When newspapers are discontinued, the basis for the democratic formation of opinion and will is diminished.
The number of freelance journalists has been increasing for years - at the same time their pay is getting worse and worse.
The decreasing line fees have a negative impact on the time for research and thus the quality of reporting.
We are committed to ensuring that journalists' compensation rules are monitored and enforced in the future.
We reject the ancillary copyright for press publishers; it will not change the current situation.
It risks further limiting the information available online and the diversity of media.
Instead, based on scientific surveys, we want to initiate a debate about foundation models and business models, supportive, indirect and targeted funding, and the role of citizen journalism.
What needs to be clarified is how high-quality, but also investigative journalism can be financed or promoted in the future without releasing publishers and organizers from their responsibility.
5. strengthen authors, negotiate a fair balance of interests
The Internet is revolutionizing access to cultural assets and offers tremendous opportunities for users, creators, and cultural diversity by providing fast, low-cost, unlimited duplication capabilities with consistent quality and global distribution potential.
At the same time, it poses massive challenges to existing copyright law.
The guiding principle for our political work in this area is the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
That everyone has the right to participate freely in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts, and to share in scientific progress and its achievements.
Likewise, everyone has the right to protection of the intellectual and material interests that accrue to him or her as an author of works of science, literature or art.
We GREENS want to continue to shape a transparent social process for modernizing and reforming copyright law.
The goal is to negotiate a new consensus on a fair balance between the interests of creators, exploiters, and the interests of users and the general public.
For us, it is about a copyright for the 21st century that enjoys a high level of acceptance,
protects authors, ensures appropriate remuneration,
and at the same time strengthens user rights and promotes innovation.
We Greens continue to reject calls for warning notice models, an end to anonymity, the blocking of websites or Internet connections, the filtering of content, the rampant warning system and the mandatory storage of telecommunications data.
We advocate a policy of remunerating rather than persecuting.
We strengthen authors and artists by reforming copyright law to give them a fairer share of the profits from the exploitation of their works.
The possibility of collective management of authors' rights by collecting societies is a crucial instrument for ensuring appropriate remuneration in a practicable way.
Even if not all collecting societies can be lumped together, we want to ensure more equal participation.
The collecting societies must become fairer, more transparent and more democratic;
we will push this forward legally as far as possible and support initiatives as well as the collecting societies themselves to take these reform steps.
Members of a collecting society must be able to use alternative licensing models such as "Creative Commons" or develop other business models.
Today, works are stored and played back on a wide variety of devices.
We want to protect this additional gain in use and ensure it by strengthening the right to digital private copying.
This must not be technically restricted.
Digital transformation is blurring boundaries.
This facilitates the creative use of protected third-party content.
The creative further development of protected content is not subject to the access of authors and artists in a non-commercial context. We want to legally secure this by an additional copyright barrier for non-commercial forms of transformational use that aim at the further development and adaptation of existing or copyrighted works.
However, where the area of the non-commercial is left, the authors are to be remunerated appropriately.
Moral rights must also be preserved in the transformation of works.
We distinguish "non-commercial" from "commercial" as follows:
If copyrighted material is offered directly on an Internet site or platform that has a non-negligible amount of income from donations, contributions from members such as purchasers, or from advertising or linking, this is commercial in scale.
We want to create a one-stop shop for acquiring rights to works for arrangement, interpretation, remix, and mashup with commercial intent, simplifying the convoluted rights clearance process.
We want to make free licenses more attractive and include them in public funding.
Often, users are not always clear about the scope and coverage of their licenses, so these must be communicated to users in an understandable way.
In addition, users will be able to purchase licenses for commercial use via "one-click licensing" in the EU.
Every year, hundreds of thousands of warnings flutter into our homes for making protected music titles or films available, some of which serve the profit interests of lawyers rather than the interests of the authors.
We want to put an end to this warning system and advocate clear legal limits without unduly restricting the legitimate interests of authors.
We want to significantly reduce the amount in dispute, put an end to the "flying jurisdiction", only allow warnings for actions in the course of business and introduce a reimbursement of costs for the many people who have been wrongly warned.
We want to restrict the right to third-party information from private individuals to business transactions.
The coming years will determine whether new business models will prevail in the digital culture market that both ensure appropriate remuneration for authors and guarantee cultural participation for all people.
We will support and actively accompany efforts to achieve this goal.
Failure of these business models will require legislative intervention that ensures adequate remuneration on the one hand
and counters the drive for even more repression on the other.
To achieve this, we are intensively discussing the introduction of a flat-rate levy on broadband Internet connections.
Our parliamentary group in the Bundestag has presented a comprehensive report on the legal and, above all, economic feasibility of this approach, which we intend to evaluate further, clarify open questions and develop further in the future.
In this context, we want to introduce a new barrier for private uploads at European level in order to reduce existing hurdles.
Science and research can benefit immensely from digital opportunities, because knowledge grows when it is shared.
We also want to remove copyright barriers to access in the field of science
and advocate for freely available scientific publications (open access), a legal right to corresponding publications for works created with public funds, and for free research data (open data).
Within the framework of public research funding, Open Access should be made a mandatory requirement.
In addition, we want to create an indispensable secondary exploitation right.
We want to introduce a comprehensive science barrier.
The use of published works of any media type for non-commercial, scientific use should generally be permitted without permission and without restrictions.
Whoever votes GREEN ...
votes for a free, secure and barrier-free Internet.
strengthens civil rights.
promotes green IT, free software and innovative business models.
ensures access to broadband Internet for all.
votes for a fair balance of interests in copyright.
Key projects
Free and fast Internet for all - driving forward broadband expansion
Internet freedom is by no means a given, and there are still regions without fast Internet access.
In the future, the participation of young and old will depend on access to the Internet.
That is why all households and businesses should be provided with a broadband connection of at least 6 Mbit/s without delay.
Our goal is to achieve nationwide coverage with broadband connections in the double-digit Mbit/s range by the end of the legislative period.
In this way, we also create better access to the digital world in rural areas.
We are shaping this universal service dynamically.
It will be financed through an enterprise fund, as is already provided for other services in the Telecommunications Act.
In this way, we ensure fast Internet for all and also enshrine network neutrality in law.
A modern and fair copyright law - ending the warning system
Instead of following the anti-civil rights calls for Internet blocks, warning notices or the end of anonymity, we are setting out on the path to a modern and fair copyright law in dialogue with all stakeholders.
Improved copyright contract law will strengthen the negotiating position of authors, achieve appropriate remuneration and give them clearer rights.
We will safeguard the transformational use (remix/mashup) of copyrighted works to a defined non-commercial extent by means of a new exception (copyright barrier) in copyright law.
Digital private copying is made possible and the warning system is ended.
Collecting societies become fairer, more transparent and more democratic.
Strengthen privacy - prevent data retention and modernize data protection
Cloud computing, smart grids, big data, social networks: we have a right to privacy, and yet more of our data is being collected and processed uncontrollably than ever before.
With us, there will be no reintroduction of data retention.
Instead, we are fighting for effective and modern data protection law in Germany and in Europe.
We need to make data protection fit for the digital age and state surveillance
and the completely uninhibited collection of data by companies.
To this end, we want to make private individuals more accountable,
expand employee data protection
and improve the enforcement of data protection in cross-border data transfers.
These are the foundations for data protection that is in line with the times and the constitution - without mass data storage without any reason.
M. Renew democracy
How we establish transparency, create publicity, strengthen citizen participation and improve representation
Democracy is a model of success.
Political minorities can become majorities.
Our Green Party history shows it: from the nuclear phase-out to registered civil partnerships, we have brought about real policy changes.
But we also see symptoms of crisis.
In the political discourse, doubts are being raised as to whether democracy is at all capable of shaping global issues of the future, such as climate change, and whether its procedures can get a grip on rapid developments such as the financial and euro crises.
Not to forget the open enemies of democracy, like old and new Nazis.
But there is also a strong countermovement and much commitment to democracy and its strengthening.
Many are involved in initiatives, associations and parties for the common good.
The demand for participation, for good information and transparency is growing.
The vast majority wants a new democratic culture.
They want a strong democracy and have recognized that we must always develop democracy.
We take these people seriously, because democracy only works if people can and want to take responsibility.
We know that democracy requires the involvement of all.
Everyone needs to have a say and we want to encourage everyone to participate.
We want to vitalize our democracy.
That's why we promote local involvement and create new opportunities for participation at the municipal, national and European levels.
That is why we focus on being heard and making ourselves heard.
But democratic participation takes time and needs a new time policy.
We stand for the democratic participation of all.
Both through more direct opportunities for participation
and through better and more gender-balanced representation.
For this, we need new procedures, but also strong parliaments.
For us, citizen participation is not a state of affairs, but a process that develops participation further and should be open to all people.
To that end, we are dismantling the social barriers to our democracy and making the case for weak and less loud voices.
We ensure transparency
and fight corruption.
Democracy creates the future.
Against technocratic claims to power and expertocracy, we say clearly: Democratic procedures are not the problem.
On the contrary: More democracy and transparency, more dialog and participation are the solution.
We rely on joint reflection - this is the best way to shape the future.
1. having a say, being heard, having a say in decisions
Interference is welcome!
Basta politics was yesterday.
In the Green-governed states, we have already initiated a new style of government, a policy of being heard and making ourselves heard.
To achieve this, public participation must begin early enough so that it can be redirected if necessary, and must be organized in such a way that no one is excluded from the participation process.
That is why we promote all offers to participate in the shaping of one's own living environment.
We want to strengthen alternative methods of conflict resolution such as mediation or arbitration.
At the same time, we want to open up opportunities for legal action at an early stage of planning.
It is much better to invest in planning quality, dialogue and participation from the outset than to invest later in many years of procedural disputes or even in extremely expensive large-scale police operations.
Citizen participation is not only the order of the day where dredging and construction are to take place.
We Greens have repeatedly posted position papers, motions and bills online for discussion before they were submitted to the Bundestag.
Everyone who wanted to could thus get directly involved and helped to optimize our designs.
We also want to provide for such consultations, at least via the Internet, for legislative projects of the Federal Government and also provide suitable opportunities for offline participation.
We want to further develop the successful instrument of the "public petition" as a form of citizen legislation.
Open government and administration must become standard.
We want to constitutionally strengthen and expand freedom of information and enforce OpenData strategies.
Having an election every four years is not enough.
We want to enable direct democracy in the federal government as well.
It can complement representative democracy well.
Public mobilization on substantive issues brings a breath of fresh air to the political landscape.
So far, the CDU/CSU in particular has refused to accept the necessary amendment to the Basic Law.
But we will not let up until a three-stage popular legislation with popular initiative, popular petition and referendum becomes reality.
Effective protection of minorities is a matter of course for us.
Thus, popular initiatives aimed at restricting the rights of a minority defined according to the criteria of an article of equality under constitutional and European law shall be inadmissible.
Fundamental rights and essential constitutional principles must also not be put up for grabs by referendums.
The transparency requirement should apply to direct democracy:
There must be clarity about the financial sources from which referendum campaigns are fed.
As with party funding, we would like to limit the amount of donations.
At the EU level, we want to move toward pan-European referendums.
2. strengthen parliaments, open up parties
Representative democracy guarantees the representation of society as a whole over individual interests.
Our democracy needs a self-confident Bundestag with strong, independent members who reflect society and stand up to the pressures of powerful interests.
We have successfully fought for the Bundestag to have a say in European decisions at an early stage and continue to work to strengthen it.
Parliament must have independent expertise so that it is not dependent on information from lobbyists for its decisions, nor solely on government data.
This requires sufficient scientific services, including a judicial office.
We also want to strengthen the parliament in the budget process - as in the USA - by means of an independent "Budget Office".
We want to make the monitoring of government action more effective and strengthen the rights of committees of inquiry.
Democracy requires parties to bundle, represent and balance different values and interests.
Parties must open up to more transparency and co-determination.
We Greens don't just talk about it; in this legislative period, we have introduced a large number of corresponding initiatives for more transparency in the Bundestag, made participation and collaboration possible, and also acted accordingly:
We were the first party to elect the top candidates for the Bundestag elections via a binding ballot.
3. enliven democracy in everyday life
The core of democracy is the political equality of all.
We do not want a democracy that is shaped by a few who have the necessary resources - especially time - to do so and to assert their interests.
We want to make the quiet and underrepresented voices heard.
We are therefore focusing on new, low-threshold public participation procedures that involve all social groups at eye level from the outset and give them the opportunity to ensure that their interests are also taken into account in the decision-making process.
Well-planned and moderated civic participation enables participants to engage in a learning process in which, beyond representing their own immediate interests, they learn and understand the perspectives of other stakeholders and thus develop a conception of the common good that is essential for the cohesion of society.
Excessive concentrations of economic and financial power are contrary to the principle of political justice and equality and thus to democracy.
This must be countered not only by regulatory policy, but also by democratization from within, for example by expanding employees' co-determination rights
and reforming stock corporation law.
The Internet has given rise to new, digital public spheres.
They invite you to inform, participate and get involved.
There are many examples: Be it online petitions, municipal participatory budgeting, blogs or even Wikipedia.
All of them are a fresh cell cure for our democracy and bring more transparency and participation opportunities.
We want to accommodate editorial-journalistic and at the same time non-commercial offers on the Internet with a modern and clear regulation on the imprint obligation and reduce formal hurdles, such as the compulsory provision of a summonable address.
Democracy is not just a matter for professionals and parliaments.
It is not learned in social studies classes alone, but when young people can help shape the institutions themselves.
We want to lower the voting age to at least 16 at the federal level as well.
The right to vote for people in care and the homeless must be guaranteed,
access to political activity must be barrier-free for all people.
We want to facilitate access to the right to vote through a naturalization offensive.
We strive for the democratic participation of all people who live here for a longer period of time.
As a next step, we want to open up the right to vote in local elections to people without a German passport or EU citizenship.
In view of the low percentage of women in parliaments and local councils, we intend to create a legal regulation on quotas in order to promote gender parity in mandates.
After all, gender justice is part and parcel of democracy.
There is still a need for space in the city centers that is not dominated by commerce and that is open to people from all walks of life, as well as meeting places ranging from community centers to adult education centers.
We reject measures that are intended to keep certain social groups out of public places and thus stigmatize and or even criminalize them.
The goal of green regulatory policy is the peaceful coexistence of all people of all ages,
without individual groups being impaired in their way of life.
Democracy includes demonstrations and protests, sometimes also civil disobedience.
We clearly oppose the intimidation of demonstrators through disproportionate police surveillance measures such as blanket and unprovoked filming, over-robust behavior or criminalization.
The police need enough personnel, good training and modern equipment to enforce the right to demonstrate.
4. encourage commitment
Over decades, a diverse culture of engagement has emerged.
Citizens' initiatives for neighborhood revitalization, migrant self-organizations, self-organized children's stores, women's health centers to newer forms such as community foundations, housing projects and integration businesses.
Civic engagement needs more recognition, freedom and support, including its own permanent places and facilities.
We want to strengthen the volunteer centers and institutions for promoting engagement that have sprung up in many cities and communities.
Our approach also aims to include the excluded and give them a voice.
Voluntary services are a special form of civic engagement.
Its character as a learning and orientation service must be preserved.
However, they must not be a substitute for government services that are no longer provided.
We want to create a legal framework in a Voluntary Service Status Act so that voluntary services can be further developed in a civil society orientation and organization.
A wide variety of deployment options and the sponsorship of even smaller organizations must be made possible.
It is also important that volunteers are actively involved in the design and development of the projects.
We want all young people to have the opportunity to develop social, ecological and cultural skills in a youth voluntary service during an important phase of their lives.
We want to promote the involvement of children and young people in democratic structures.
The earlier democratic procedures can be experienced in a self-effective way, the greater the acceptance of democracy.
In doing so, it is necessary to let children and young people shape the framework of participation themselves as far as possible and to place trust in their sense of responsibility.
We want to preserve the diverse work of youth associations, non-profit organizations and independent initiatives and ensure their funding despite the difficult budget situation.
5. consistently expand freedom of information and transparency
Access to public data is a fundamental right that we would like to explicitly enshrine in the Basic Law.
Information from government agencies belongs to citizens, not to administrations.
More transparency strengthens citizen participation at all levels of government action.
This move away from secrecy is a major step toward greater democracy
and reform of public administrations.
We want to expand the federal Freedom of Information Act - which was largely pushed through by Alliance 90/The Greens in 2006 - into a comprehensive transparency law.
The excessive catalog of exemptions must be thoroughly slimmed down.
Trade and business secrets and copyright law must no longer be the instrument used to prevent greater transparency.
The right of access to information is, of course, not without limits.
Thus, comprehensive data protection must continue to be guaranteed.
However, exceptions to the principle of freedom of information must be well justified.
Information should not be released only upon request.
Thus, public sector contracts belong in the network and not in the armored cabinet.
Government agencies should - proactively - make their information, e.g. documents, analyses, expert opinions, surveys or statistics, freely available as open data.
To this end, we want an actually functioning and expanded nationwide Internet portal in which data from the federal, state and local governments are published.
The Bundestag also needs to significantly improve its open data offerings.
A sustainable open data concept must guarantee technical and legal openness of the information.
On the technical side, the machine readability of the data is particularly central.
Legal openness means that anyone can reuse the information without further permission.
In doing so, we strive for the complete, timely, non-discriminatory and barrier-free publication of raw data.
We want to anchor the authorities' open data obligations in a Freedom of Information Act 2.0.
We see free access to data as a driving force of the knowledge society.
Experience from other countries shows that the extensive, open and free provision of public sector data can provide new economic impetus:
Through further processing, refinement and further dissemination, new applications, products, services and business models can arise from openly provided data.
The desired transparency and accessibility of data also holds enormous innovation potential for the field of education and science.
For all government publications, including those of parliaments, we demand the use of free data formats and the appropriate selection of usage licenses for private as well as commercial use.
Open government and administrative action must become the standard.
Transparency also means shedding light on the Federal Security Council.
Arms export decisions are made there in secret.
Its decisions should be promptly reasoned and published.
Transparency is also the best prevention against felt.
The federal, state and local governments award contracts worth several hundred billion euros every year.
To ensure that not a single cent of this money goes to dubious companies, we need a nationwide corruption register for companies that have attracted attention for white-collar crime.
This preserves fair competition for the benefit of honest companies.
Corruption in a corporation, scandals in factory farming or abuses in a nursing home often only come to light through employees there.
These so-called whistleblowers are often threatened with reprisals up to and including dismissal.
We therefore want to protect them effectively by law.
The organization and articulation of interests is a core component of a pluralistic society.
But many people doubt that their vote matters at all anymore when lobbies with big money behind them are exerting more and more influence on legislation.
A mandatory lobbyist register should therefore make transparent who has influenced a law and with how much money.
We want a grace period for departing members of government and senior staff in ministries, during which no lobbying activities may be carried out in the same field.
We want to put an end to the involvement of lobbyists in ministries.
We want more transparency and stricter rules for party financing.
Our parliamentary group in the Bundestag has presented a transparency law on this.
The other parties are stonewalling.
We are not letting up in the fight for the integrity of political institutions.
In the application procedure, companies applying for approval of arms exports must state whether and in what amount they have made donations to political parties and elected officials in the past five years.
We want to improve the transparency rules on MPs' additional income and make bribery of MPs a punishable offense.
Then Germany can finally ratify the UN Convention against Corruption, as 160 countries have already done.
The fact that Black and Yellow have so far refused to do so is embarrassing for our country.
6. taking resolute action against right-wing extremism, racism and group-based hostility to human beings
Old and new Nazis are already deeply entrenched in many places; through their appearance, they have created "fear spaces" in many places, where people experience intimidation and threats in very real terms if they fit into the Nazis' misanthropic pattern or actively defend themselves against them.
But in some regions, they are dealt with far too uncritically, even in local parliaments.
This is also due to the fact that group-based misanthropy, such as racism, anti-Semitism, antiziganism, anti-Muslim racism, trans- and homophobia, sexism, and devaluation of the homeless, long-term unemployed, and people with disabilities, are not only found on the right-wing fringe, but also in the middle of society.
At the same time, there is often a gratifying civil society backlash.
Wherever citizens get involved against Nazis, through educational and advisory work, through demos and peaceful blockades of Nazi marches, they have the full support of Alliance 90/The Greens.
Their commitment to democracy deserves state support and recognition instead of suspicion and repression.
That is why we will abolish the discriminatory "extremism clause" of Federal Minister Schröder, which places democracy initiatives, of all things, under general suspicion.
We want the federal government to provide 50 million euros annually on a permanent basis for the promotion of democracy and the fight against right-wing extremism and other forms of group-based hostility.
Democracy promotion is an ongoing task.
For this reason, we want to work with the states and civil society to develop a new funding structure, which will give programs that have repeatedly been evaluated positively in recent years a long-term planning perspective.
There must be assistance and offers of legal advice for state institutions and associations on how to counteract right-wing activities and infiltration, including with regard to real estate purchases by right-wing extremists.
In principle, all measures against right-wing extremism must be offered in a gender-sensitive manner.
The state must fight right-wing extremism, everyday and institutionally rooted racism with all the means available under the rule of law.
Especially after their inconceivable failure to uncover the NSU murders, security authorities must sharpen their focus on the right
and, to this end, better appreciate the broad knowledge of civil society initiatives and include them in their analyses.
The attack on the Munich Oktoberfest on September 26, 1980 has still not been fully clarified.
We want the background to this most serious attack in the history of the Federal Republic of Germany to be finally and completely clarified.
We describe our ideas on the urgently needed restructuring of the German security architecture in the chapter entitled "Strengthening civil rights".
The structures of the extreme right also need to be looked at more closely from a gender perspective.
We want to strengthen suitable dropout programs.
Especially women who want to leave the Nazi scene need targeted offers for themselves and their children.
In addition, the police and judiciary in particular must be sufficiently sensitized to this issue.
Even if it is not a panacea and can only be one building block in the fight against the right, we have an interest in a successful ban procedure by the Bundesrat against the NPD.
The NPD is an anti-constitutional, inhuman and extreme right-wing party that works closely in many regions with violent groups such as Freie Kameradschaften and Autonomen Nationalisten.
Banning the NPD would break up the financial and organizational structures of the far-right scene to a considerable extent.
Other political groups and Internet portals do business with the populist stoking of fears of "foreign infiltration," with Islamophobia, anti-Semitism, Social Darwinist theories, transphobia, homophobia, or the defamation of alternative youth cultures.
New right-wing initiatives, especially on the Internet, specifically try to appeal to young people with youthful language and a visually appealing style and thus propagate their ideologies, their group-based misanthropy and, in particular, their anti-Muslim racism.
This provides right-wing thugs with an ideological justification.
We want to illuminate these gray areas between right-wing conservative and right-wing extremist ideology.
Political education work must react to this and counteract new right-wing ways of speaking and thinking with information, education and support for democratic initiatives.
Racism and other forms of group-based hostility have no place in our country.
Whoever votes GREEN ...
gets more rights and opportunities for participation and engagement. gets
a modern and open administration.
shows a clear edge against corruption.
votes more often in the future: with popular initiatives, referendums and plebiscites.
strengthens the fight against right-wing extremism and group-based hostility and supports the victims of right-wing violence.
Key projects
Promoting democratic participation through more co-determination
We want to introduce a new type of planning law for major infrastructure projects.
In these procedures, citizens as well as associations have the opportunity to provide comprehensive information and to participate.
We are committed to transparency and public participation at every stage of the planning and decision-making process, especially in multi-year planning processes.
Democratic participation must go beyond participation in planning procedures.
Citizens must not only have the opportunity to vote directly on major projects.
We are fighting for the political majority to amend the Basic Law to introduce popular initiatives, referendums and plebiscites to strengthen democracy.
Decisively confronting right-wing extremism - systematically promoting projects against right-wing extremism
Intolerance, anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, antiziganism, racism, transphobia and homophobia are unfortunately all too often part of everyday life in Germany.
We are resolutely opposed to this.
With our offensive for democracy against the right, we are doing everything we can to protect the places and regions threatened by right-wing extremists for our democracy.
The responsibility for this task, which involves society as a whole, must be shared by the federal government, the states, local authorities and civil society.
The implementation of the nationwide task must be carried out with the participation of civil society.
To this end, we are expanding support for civil society projects and a democratic everyday culture, because democracy promotion is an ongoing task and must be given a sustainable financial basis.
The federal government must assume its responsibility.
It must provide at least 50 million euros annually for the continuous promotion of measures and structures for democracy and against group-related hostility to human beings.
We also want to abolish the unspeakable extremism clause.
In this way, we will counter right-wing extremism just as resolutely as we will right-wing populist attitudes and group-based misanthropy in society as a whole.
Fighting Corruption with Transparency - Expanding the Freedom of Information Act
Black accounts, bribes and political infiltration are a problem for democracy.
Individuals thus profit at the expense of society.
We are ensuring greater clarity with a corruption register for companies that have attracted attention for white-collar crime.
With a mandatory lobbyist register, we want to make transparent who exerts influence and with how much money.
We want to limit the possibility of donations to natural persons with an annual cap as part of the upcoming reform of the law on political parties.
We want a waiting period for departing government members and management personnel in ministries, during which no lobbying activities may be carried out in the same field.
We want to further improve the transparency rules on MPs' additional income and make bribery of MPs a punishable offense.
The further development of the existing freedom of information laws into a Freedom of Information Act 2.0, with the help of which data will be made available proactively in the future (open data), also provides more transparency.
In this way, we increase the transparency of political decisions and enable participation.
N. Strengthen citizens' rights
How we strengthen freedom, shape security according to the rule of law and overcome discrimination
More and more companies are comprehensively collecting data, profiling us, and reselling the information.
The security authorities are to be given ever more far-reaching powers to spy on computers.
An EU passenger data agreement with the U.S. forces us to divulge extensive data when we travel.
Civil rights are not at their best.
In a free society, however, security means safeguarding freedom.
Freedom is a prerequisite for full participation in society.
Making this possible is the task of a constitutional state.
We want to fight terrorism and crime without giving up civil liberties.
But instead, during an anti-Nazi demonstration in Dresden, a million cell phone data of completely uninvolved citizens are queried, and government agencies inform themselves about us in other ways as well - at banks, Internet companies or telecommunications providers.
We are tired of this permanent border crossing.
Everyone and anyone has a right to live free of discrimination, without the blockages of prejudice, sexism and racism.
We realize that many citizens feel the same way.
We stand for an open and inclusive society in which everyone can participate.
This includes the recognition of diversity, multiple lifestyles and identities.
It is unacceptable when, for example, young people have significantly worse chances of being invited to a job interview or successfully finding a rental apartment despite having the same qualifications if they have a (supposedly) non-German-sounding last name.
But we see that many feel the same way.
We ensure that people can get involved without hindrance - without having to fear disadvantages or discrimination.
And we do not accept that people continue to be excluded from democratic rights even though they have lived here for a long time.
We want to create a future where not everything possible about us has been stored by someone, where we can move freely without being watched everywhere, and where freedom reigns instead of fear.
1. put security at the service of freedom
A free society needs citizens who are free from fear of crime, but equally free from fear of surveillance by the state.
No one can guarantee absolute security - not even at the expense of or by giving up freedom.
The task of politics is to use the means of the rule of law to ensure the greatest possible socially responsible level of security, to
protect fundamental rights
and to effectively ward off threats
without restricting freedom to such an extent that it degenerates into an empty phrase.
Believers are protected from insult and agitation in the same way as other people.
Section 166 StGB should therefore be dropped without replacement.
Security is at the service of freedom and not vice versa.
Intervention powers of the security authorities and surveillance measures must not themselves become a threat to freedom.
Compulsory mass storage of telecommunications data without any specific reason would be a massive encroachment on fundamental rights, and would also be ineffective.
We will therefore do everything in our power to prevent the reintroduction of data retention, which was halted by the Federal Constitutional Court.
We do not want general suspicion against innocent people, but rather targeted investigative work. Of course, the same presumption of innocence applies to third-country nationals.
Therefore, the same level of data protection must apply to them.
It is about the core area of private life.
We also reject secret online searches.
Event-independent monitoring and control measures are highly questionable with regard to the constitutional prohibitions of discrimination and excessiveness and must therefore be reduced to an absolute minimum.
We want to abolish dragnets on train routes and near the Schengen external borders.
We want to push back the ever-expanding video surveillance of public spaces.
Citizens must be able to see where this is taking place in a public register.
In addition, data protection supervision must be expanded in the monitoring of both government and private video surveillance.
We want to introduce a provision on fines for violations of the regulations in the Federal Data Protection Act on video surveillance in public spaces.
We want to strictly regulate the use of drones by government agencies, both in terms of security and data protection, and reject the use of drones by the police for observation or video surveillance of public spaces or demonstrations.
Drones are increasingly being used by non-governmental entities, both by universities for research purposes and by companies or private individuals.
We call for a general labeling requirement for drones and clear rules for liability, safety, data protection and use in public airspace.
Authorities must be adequately equipped and armed against threats to security, whether from neo-Nazis, terrorism or crime.
However, preventing such crimes works best through classic solid police work.
A federal police force that acts in accordance with the rule of law and is efficiently organized is a guarantor of security and the protection of citizens' fundamental rights and freedoms.
For this, it needs adequate equipment, training and remuneration.
There is no need for a constant stream of new security laws.
We want to scientifically and independently evaluate the security laws enacted after 2001 and, based on the evaluation results, amend the laws in favor of genuine protection of fundamental rights.
With its half-hearted commission, the German government has done a disservice to the opportunity for a sustainable security architecture.
We are concerned not only with defending civil rights.
We want to strengthen them.
That is why we want to roll back tightening and expansion of anti-terror legislation since 2005.
We want to strengthen preventive approaches to combating terrorism.
The spread of anti-human beliefs such as Islamophobia, racism and anti-Semitism are the breeding ground for the development of Islamist and far-right terrorists.
We must counteract the radicalization of individuals and the formation of terrorist groups.
That is why we want better and future-proof promotion of democracy
and create more and better coordinated exit and deradicalization programmes.
Fighting crime is the business of the police, not the military.
We reject the deployment of the Bundeswehr within Germany.
We want to consistently close actual security gaps, for example through stricter gun legislation.
We want to live in a society where the principle applies: public spaces and private homes are gun-free.
We want to permit operational, functioning live firearms in private households only in compelling exceptional cases (e.g. police officers).
We advocate for a ban on large-caliber handguns as sporting weapons and for limits on gun and ammunition ownership.
We also advocate high standards in air cargo screening.
The safety of passengers and crews must not be sacrificed here.
For over a decade, the right-wing extremist terrorist group "NSU" was able to murder, bomb and rob banks undetected.
This has shaken us all deeply; many people have lost confidence in the German security authorities.
Police, judiciary and secret services were obviously not able to prevent this Nazi terror and were too often blind on the right eye.
The committees of inquiry initiated by us GREENS have brought this massive failure of the police and secret services to light.
We need a broad discussion about the security architecture.
There must be a clear break for the entire intelligence system and a comprehensive structural and personnel reboot and realignment of tasks.
In the future, secret services are to perform only tasks that cannot be performed by other means, i.e., by institutions that can be better controlled by the public and parliament.
MAD is to be disbanded.
Protection of the constitution is a task for society as a whole.
In the future, an independent "Institute for the Analysis of Anti-Democratic and Anti-Human Endeavors" will use scientific means to monitor and analyze anti-democratic and anti-human endeavors on the basis of public sources.
Education and prevention work must be strengthened overall
and civil society organizations that are committed to combating all forms of anti-democracy, violence and contempt for humanity.
We also want NGOs that are committed to combating right-wing extremism and group-focused misanthropy,
as well as promoting scientific research into democracy at universities.
With improved resources, the Federal Agency for Civic Education can make a valuable contribution to promoting democracy.
The Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution in its present form, on the other hand, should be dissolved.
We need an institutional refoundation.
A new "domestic reconnaissance" with clearly defined intelligence powers, a new, smaller staff and a different self-image is to be limited not only to counterintelligence but also to the reconnaissance of violent endeavors.
Federal and state agencies must coordinate better in this regard.
We GREENS are committed to a comprehensive task critique of intelligence assets.
In particular, the use of undercover agents has proven to be a weak point and problematic in the work of the Office for the Protection of the Constitution.
It cannot be that convinced right-wing extremists recruited with public funds act in the spirit of their ideology or even commit serious crimes under the protection of the offices for the protection of the constitution.
The use of paid informants always entails unjustifiable risks to the rule of law, which are offset by only a limited gain in knowledge.
For this reason, we advocate a conscious decision not to use informants, even if this means accepting the possibility that this may compromise the acquisition of information.
But some changes also need to be made in the police and judiciary.
There is a need for more diversity and interculturality throughout the federal administration, as well as the integration of diversity competence into education and training to make police officers, prosecutors and judges more sensitive.
We will set binding targets for increasing the proportion of employees with an immigrant background and measures for intercultural opening.
In particular, we will hold employees with supervisor and management functions accountable.
We will not be able to counter institutional racism and sexism in the long term in any other way.
Furthermore, there must be a strict separation between the police and the intelligence services.
Duties and powers must not be mixed.
The police are responsible for danger prevention and criminal prosecution, while domestic reconnaissance observes and documents violent endeavors in advance of concrete dangers or criminal acts.
The necessary exchange of information between community services and the police must be strictly regulated by law and effectively controlled.
The requirements and limits of organized joint work must be formulated by law in such a way as to rule out any permanent mixing of police and intelligence services in terms of personnel, structure and information.
The establishment of the Joint Counter-Extremism and Terrorism Center (GETZ) in November 2012 was done blindly, without thorough failure analysis and without sufficient participation of the Länder.
The focus on "left-wing extremism," "foreign extremism," espionage and proliferation, among other things, seems downright bizarre given the lack of terrorist structures in these areas.
We see no need for this and want to subject the GETZ to a critical review.
We reject further counterintelligence centers and joint files.
We advocate greater transparency: strong rights to information for those affected by surveillance vis-à-vis intelligence services and other security authorities,
as well as efficient monitoring.
The intelligence services generally lack effective external and public oversight.
We will take away the secretiveness of the secret services vis-à-vis parliament and create more transparency, for example, by better equipping members of parliament and holding public meetings of the supervisory bodies.
Through legislation, we want to precisely regulate the prerequisites and controls of explicitly designated intelligence powers.
The G10 Commission, which is close to parliament, is to be strengthened so that it can play a greater role than before in ordering and monitoring the progress of all undercover investigative methods.
The infiltration of social structures by corrupting efforts of organized crime must be decisively countered.
In the area of white-collar crime, billions are lost to society every year.
The police have an important social function.
It can only fulfill its demanding tasks with well-trained and motivated police officers.
We want to promote a dialogue-oriented police culture.
For example, freedom of assembly: Democracy includes demonstrations and protests, and sometimes also civil disobedience.
We clearly oppose the intimidation of demonstrators through disproportionate police surveillance measures such as blanket and unprovoked filming, over-robust behavior or criminalization.
Instead of martial behavior, the police should de-escalate and guarantee the right to freedom of assembly with appropriate equipment and sufficient personnel who can correctly assess dangerous situations.
But we also want to strengthen citizens' rights by ensuring that police officers can be clearly identified at all times, even in large-scale operations.
This can be done with the name or without any security risk via an anonymized but clearly assignable number.
In order to clarify allegations of police assaults, we want to improve complaints management for the federal police and in the states and ensure neutral clarification.
Discrimination does not improve safety.
Identity checks and measures taken by security authorities, which are often directed against people solely because they have a darker skin color or their non-German origin is suspected, are discriminatory and prohibited under constitutional and international law.
We want to clearly regulate this ban on discriminatory ethnic profiling in law.
Comprehensive information for those affected about their rights and appropriate legal protection must be a matter of course.
Police officers must also receive more anti-discrimination training
and the police must become more interculturally open.
We want to protect the population and their livelihoods from hazards such as natural disasters and other severe emergencies.
For this, we need strengthened civil protection in the states and at the federal level that promotes a resilient society and fulfills the state's duty to protect.
The prerequisite for this is a well-equipped and effective civil protection system at the federal and state levels,
as well as a strengthening and appreciation of volunteerism in these structures.
In addition, crisis management of supra-regional emergencies must be further strengthened.
2. protect data, secure freedom
Never before has so much personal data been collected, stored and transmitted as today.
Data is collected, evaluated and summarized.
For us, strengthening informational self-determination is the central guiding principle for modern data protection.
Citizens need to know who stores and transmits what, when and where.
This applies to the state
as well as to private individuals.
The boundaries between government and private data processing become blurred if private telecommunications companies are to stockpile traffic data for the government.
This is another reason why we reject data retention.
Data protection must be explicitly included in the German Basic Law, and data protection law must be completely redesigned.
Private companies, too, must protect their customers' data in the same way they already protect their trade secrets.
Personal data may only be stored and passed on in business transactions with express consent ("opt-in rule").
Good data protection can certainly be a business model.
We want to advance data protection by technology ("Privacy by Design") and data protection by default ("Privacy by Default") and also introduce a protected seal of quality for this purpose.
Eavesdropping scandals in companies and cases of video surveillance right into employees' locker rooms show: We finally need effective employee data protection.
Unlike the Merkel coalition, we have already submitted our own legislative proposal to protect employees from spying.
Increasingly, data is being misused for profiling.
We want to prohibit, as a matter of principle, the calculation of creditworthiness according to place of residence.
Because with such "geo-scoring", people who live in socially difficult neighborhoods are discriminated against across the board.
We want to ensure the independence of the Federal Data Protection Commissioner, expand his monitoring capacities and give him sanctioning powers over private companies, especially in the telecommunications industry.
In the future, citizens should be able to defend themselves in court jointly and with the support of associations in the event of data misuse.
Because data flows are now more cross-border than ever, binding EU data protection regulations in particular are indispensable.
We reject measures such as the mass analysis of bank and airline passenger data for the purpose of fighting crime as an excessive encroachment on fundamental rights.
3. strengthen the rule of law
The rule of law is realized first and foremost in strong fundamental and human rights protection.
We want to complement, expand and adapt fundamental rights to consolidate this protection.
Politicians must not keep testing the limits of the Constitution.
We want a strong constitutional state and rely on a strict separation of powers.
This guarantees equality before the law and the protection of the weak against economic supremacy and crime.
For this, we need an efficient and independent judiciary.
We therefore want to restrict the right of individual ministries of justice and the interior to issue instructions so that investigations and proceedings that have actually been initiated cannot be influenced, obstructed or aborted by political intervention.
We strongly oppose the privatization of the judiciary.
A shortening of the appeal process and the abolition of appeal options lead neither to fairer solutions nor to a reduction in the burden on the judiciary.
The federal government must set a good example here.
All must have the certainty of being able to obtain justice in a reasonable time.
We also advocate strengthening out-of-court dispute resolution such as mediation.
We strongly oppose curtailing recourse to the courts
and limiting legal aid and counseling assistance, and support the introduction of mediation cost assistance.
Judicial independence is the guarantor of the rule of law.
We support greater self-administration of the judiciary
and want to enable the Länder to extend the independence of the judiciary.
We support the concern of the judiciary at the federal and state levels to have a broad say in the hiring and promotion of judges.
We want to abolish the right of politicians to issue instructions to the public prosecutor's office on a case-by-case basis, because it contradicts the equality of all before the law.
We want to achieve greater transparency in the election of judges to federal courts such as the Federal Constitutional Court, as
well as gender equality.
The judiciary as well as the police are working ever more closely together transnationally, especially in the EU.
Further expansion of cooperation may only take place if it goes hand in hand with binding high standards on legal protection and the rule of law in the EU, e.g. by anchoring binding and strong rights of defendants and criminal defense lawyers and transnational legal protection.
This also includes uniform legal bases and procedural standards so that transnational police operations and the measures taken in the process can be traced and verified at any time.
Criminal law is not the means of choice for solving social problems, but the last resort of state action, which always requires special justification.
A liberal constitutional state must not "protect" citizens from possible self-harm by means of criminal law.
Law enforcement in drug policy has failed, so we focus on regulating all drugs.
We want to reform the sanctions system.
For example, using public transportation without a ticket may no longer be prosecuted as a criminal offense.
In law enforcement, we are focusing on smarter alternatives to incarceration, such as community service and expanding alternative dispute resolution.
We believe that a modern corporate criminal law that respects the boundaries of culpability and attribution is necessary.
Victim assistance must be ensured financially.
We want to better help victims of miscarriages of justice and significantly increase compensation for wrongfully imposed imprisonment.
For juveniles and adolescents, we need a reformed Juvenile Justice Act that strictly upholds the priority of education over punishment.
Beyond the typical juvenile delinquency, the lack of opportunities and prospects, precarious family circumstances, educational poverty and experience of violence are usually the cause of repeated and serious juvenile delinquency.
Counteracting these social and personal risks in a preventive manner is the task of youth welfare, especially in the context of juvenile court proceedings.
A strategy is needed that takes such risk factors into account.
The outpatient socio-educational measures of youth welfare need to be significantly strengthened so that the traditionally punitive sanctions, especially those that deprive people of their freedom, finally become the last resort.
In the case of drugs such as cannabis, we want to enable legal dispensing via licensed specialist stores, taking into account the protection of minors, and tax them.
As a first step towards this, we want to decriminalize personal use and private cultivation of drugs such as cannabis.
The medical use of and research into drugs must also no longer be hindered.
The unequal treatment of cannabis and alcohol by the driver's license law should be ended.
Cannabis offenses with no connection to road traffic may no longer be transmitted to the driver's license office unsolicited and without the consent of the person concerned.
4. enabling non-discriminatory participation
In an open society, no one is discriminated against on the basis of gender, ethnic or racial grounds, religion or belief, sexual identity, age or disability.
At the same time, it enables and secures the individual exercise of the rights of freedom and citizenship for all members.
We want to fight discrimination in Germany and Europe and advance the EU's fifth anti-discrimination directive, which was blocked by the black-yellow government.
Structural and financial strengthening of the Federal Anti-Discrimination Agency and stronger rights for institutions such as disability commissioners should help address discrimination in the national arena.
We want to make the "General Equal Treatment Act" more effective,
strengthen legal protection for those affected
and in particular against structural discrimination.
We describe how we want to regulate labor law for employees in church institutions in the chapter "Participating in good work".
We will also create effective legal protection where state institutions themselves discriminate.
It cannot be that it is easier to defend against a discriminatory landlord than against a discriminatory official.
The state and civil society must oppose all forms of discrimination.
Group-based misanthropy concerns us all, because it endangers our democracy.
Whether it's the land registry office, customs or the immigration office: Good institutions are characterized by the fact that they reflect the diversity of society.
We want to specifically promote diversity and intercultural openness in administration and the judiciary.
An important goal of inclusive politics is the religious and ideological equality of all people.
While Christian churches in particular have the status of a public corporation, other communities are organized as associations.
Green policy will look for ways to eliminate this legal inequality with an open mind.
Alliance 90/The Greens are committed to opening up military chaplaincy in the Bundeswehr.
In addition, it must be ensured that the troops are adequately supervised by psychologists.
5. removing barriers - strengthening the right of self-determination of people with disabilities.
We want comprehensive accessibility in all areas of life.
We understand accessibility comprehensively as accessibility and usability for people with limited mobility, visually impaired or blind, hearing impaired or deaf people and those with learning difficulties.
For us, visual and acoustic usability or the use of easy language are just as much a part of this as steplessness and tactile guidance systems.
Cultural, sporting and artistic performances must be designed to be barrier-free, as must educational opportunities at all levels.
To date, the right of persons with disabilities to express their wishes and vote has been restricted because these options have not been fulfilled.
We want to achieve greater accessibility by improving the legal basis, financing and funding opportunities, and by raising awareness.
Compensation for disability-related disadvantages is a basic prerequisite for self-determined participation.
In doing so, individual and gender-sensitive support services guarantee people with disabilities a self-determined life and participation in the community.
To this end, we also call for a budget for work in which all relevant service providers - providers of integration assistance, the Integration Office, the employment agencies and the job centers - participate.
In particular, outpatient assistance, personal assistance and personal budgets, as well as professional caregivers, are important individual support services that should be further expanded or strengthened.
That is why we will remove the benefits to support people with disabilities from social assistance and transfer them to a Participation Benefits Act.
This must be based on the concept of disability from the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the respective need must be determined individually.
Support services should no longer be oriented to institutions, but to the needs of those who need them, and should be granted regardless of assets and income.
Otherwise, those affected by barriers would still have to pay for their removal.
People with disabilities should have the choice between different forms of housing.
They may no longer be referred to the fact that, due to the reservation of costs, only accommodation in a residential home is possible.
That is why we want to remove the cost proviso of social welfare law in benefit law for people with disabilities,
expand outpatient support services
and actively promote the expansion of independent living options.
The right to inclusion must include everyone.
People with intensive support needs must also be able to participate in a self-determined manner.
The inclusive community relies on changes in people's attitudes toward each other, making it normal for people with and without disabilities to live together.
The topic of inclusion must therefore be a cross-cutting task at the federal, state and local levels and, taking into account disability mainstreaming, become an integral part of sustainable development strategies.
Financing the development of the inclusive community cannot and must not be the sole task and duty of the municipalities.
We want to see shared responsibility among government institutions at the federal, state and local levels.
6. naturalize people - with integration and inclusion
We want to complete our integration policy with a policy of inclusion.
Because the children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren of the first immigrant generation do not need to be "integrated".
They are not outside our society, but are part of it from the very beginning.
Integration cannot be imposed from above with an outstretched forefinger.
We GREENS want to develop integration and inclusion policies together with civil society so that they can be implemented in a self-determined and equal manner.
There needs to be real equality of opportunity in education and work.
That is why we want to improve the quality of integration courses and language support in daycare centers,
open up German courses in Germany to all interested parties,
use multilingualism as a resource
and recognize foreign vocational qualifications more easily.
We want participation of all people living here, regardless of their origin.
We are focusing on a naturalization offensive so that migrants can obtain German citizenship more quickly and easily.
Women must not be disadvantaged in this process.
There must be a facilitated naturalization process for the "first generation" who have lived here for decades.
We will strengthen the acquisition of citizenship by birth:
anyone who wants to govern with us must accept that we will introduce dual citizenship and abolish the discriminatory option requirement.
Multi-nationality must generally be allowed.
Cultural diversity is an asset.
This will also give people who have already been naturalized the right to take on their old citizenship again in addition.
Migrants must be treated equally in social law, e.g. in labor market subsidies.
We want to make it easier again for foreign spouses and registered partners to join their spouses, because the best way to learn German is in everyday life.
We are abolishing the language test abroad as a precondition.
We will also expand their independent right of residence again compared to the cuts made by the Merkel government.
The right of residence must be modernized.
People need a secure residence status as a reliable basis for settling in our country and having a perspective.
In a globalized world, it is also unacceptable for people to lose their German residence status if they spend too long abroad for work, study or retirement.
We want to facilitate the immigration of workers in principle.
All immigrant workers should be able to extend and solidify their stay more easily.
Through a broad and transparent points system, immigration can be managed in a way that mitigates consequences of the aging process of our society
and enables inclusion in the labor market.
We want to bring family reunification in the Residence Act into line with current EU law.
Turkish citizens and their family members living in Germany have rights close to those of EU citizens due to the Association Agreement between Turkey and the current EU.
We also want to explicitly anchor this status in law, e.g. in residence, employment permit and civil service law.
7. accept refugees and treat them with dignity
Wars, persecution, displacement and climate change are forcing many people to flee.
Thousands die year after year trying to reach the shores of Europe.
We want a human rights-oriented refugee policy and reject the current policy of sealing off external borders.
We do not want a "Fortress Europe".
The Geneva Refugee Convention (GRC) and the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) form the basis of our refugee policy.
We see the practice of the border management agency FRONTEX and the EU member states as a violation of the ban on refoulement and a serious violation of human rights.
We want to abolish the regulation according to which refugees can only be accepted in those EU states in which they arrived first (Dublin II agreement)
and advocate uniform, high asylum standards in all member states.
Germany must live up to its humanitarian responsibility and support the severely affected host countries.
In addition to a fair asylum system, we want a generous admission of a fixed number of refugees in particular need of protection (so-called resettlement).
We advocate a significant increase in the annual minimum admission quota that Germany makes available to the UNHCR for this purpose.
The quota must be appropriate to the global refugee situation.
It is also our humanitarian duty to help refugees from Syria.
This includes taking in more refugees, making it easier for them to enter Germany, and giving Syrian refugees living here a secure residence status.
Syrians who are invited to Germany by their relatives must not be prevented from entering the country.
We reject deportations of Syrians to other EU countries that continue to deport to Syria.
In addition, Syria's neighboring countries, which have taken in more than one million refugees, must receive our full support in caring for the refugees.
We are committed to uniform protection standards at a high level throughout Europe.
Protection seekers must not be returned to states where discrimination or social misery awaits them instead of a fair asylum procedure.
The policy towards Roma and Ashkali is particularly shameful.
These minorities face the harshest discrimination in all Balkan states.
We demand that the visa-free regime be maintained for Serbia and Macedonia
, and we want the situation of Roma and the racial discrimination they face in their countries of origin to be adequately addressed in the asylum process.
In addition, the Federal Republic must implement the EU Roma strategy.
Germany must advocate in the EU for a program of effective inclusion of Roma in their main countries of origin.
Helping people to help themselves
and independent European controlling of the use of funds should be a top priority.
In Germany, protection seekers and refugees are subject to drastic restrictions on their freedom of movement, prohibitions on training and work,
and discriminatory restrictions on benefits under social law.
With various high-profile actions, those affected are rightly defending themselves against harassment by the authorities and exclusion by the state.
The Federal Constitutional Court has declared the reduced benefits under the Asylum Seekers' Benefits Act to be unconstitutional.
Now its complete abolition and the equal treatment of refugees under social law must follow.
We also want to remove the bans on training and work for asylum seekers
and create the legal framework so that refugees can move freely throughout Germany.
To this end, we are abolishing the residence requirement and advocating for a less regimented daily routine.
We are committed to ensuring that refugees are allowed to live in dignity in their own homes.
We also want to give refugees access to education, healthcare, integration courses, language acquisition and communication media right from the start.
Many deportations proceed under great protest with the fear that the deportees will be persecuted again in their countries of origin.
However, we need independent and reliable information on how refugees fare in their countries of origin, such as Iran and Kosovo, after deportation and to what extent they are persecuted or discriminated against again.
In many cases, it is sufficient for the local authorities to be informed that an application for asylum has been filed abroad.
As long as renewed persecution cannot be clearly ruled out for individual countries (e.g. Koso-vo), we want to enact a deportation moratorium for these countries.
We want to abolish detention pending deportation.
Until then, it must be avoided as far as possible.
In a state governed by the rule of law, the deprivation of liberty associated with the order of detention pending deportation can only be a last resort and should be avoided as far as possible.
It represents the strongest encroachment on the individual's personal rights known to the German legal system.
This is always associated with a particular psychological burden for those affected.
Detention pending deportation should therefore always be considered only as a last resort for the immediate enforcement of an obligation to leave the country.
Until detention pending deportation is abolished, we want to at least enforce compliance with strict human rights standards.
We want a strict separation from criminal or pre-trial detention and a limitation of detention to a maximum of three months.
In addition, those in particular need of protection, such as minors, pregnant women, traumatized persons and the elderly, must be exempt from detention without exception.
The degrading airport procedure, in which asylum seekers are already detained at the airport, must come to an end.
Everyone must have the right to effectively defend themselves in court against deportations - even if another EU state is responsible for their asylum procedure.
People who have been living here for many years and have only been tolerated up to now must be given secure prospects for the future by means of a realistic regulation on the right to stay that is independent of the cut-off date.
Minor unaccompanied refugees need special protection.
We are committed to the unconditional implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.
In particular, we want the age of capacity to act in asylum procedures to be raised from 16 to 18.
Unaccompanied minor refugees should have full access to the services of child and youth welfare and the health care system.
For us, the guiding principle is: "No person is illegal!"
That is why we want people without the right of residence to have access to basic and emergency medical care and for their children to be able to attend kindergartens and schools without hindrance.
In addition, people who have lived in Germany for many years without a residence status must be given the opportunity to obtain a more secure residence title.
In the short term, we want to significantly reduce the high level of penalties for irregular entry and stay.
8. create equal rights - counter homo- and transphobia
Lesbians and gays can love and live more freely today than ever before in Germany.
This is also a success of Green policy.
But discrimination has not yet been overcome.
We therefore want a nationwide "Action Plan for Diversity" that counters homophobia and transphobia,
promotes research on discrimination as well as queer lifestyles, among other things, and
strengthens young people in particular and counteracts their exclusion at home, at school and in their leisure time.
Specifically, we need an expansion of comingout counseling for people of all ages and especially youth.
All lifestyles and sexual identities should be presented equally in the classroom.
It must also be possible to live non-heterosexual lifestyles free of discrimination in old age.
It must be added to Article 3 of the Basic Law that no one may be discriminated against because of sexual identity.
We want to open up marriage to same-sex couples and enable joint adoption rights.
Many children already live with two mothers or fathers.
These rainbow families have a right to be recognized.
All families must be of equal value to the state.
We support transsexual and intersexual people in their struggle for their human rights.
A reform of transsexual law must have freedom and self-determination as its guiding principles, end pathologization and safeguard human dignity.
The obligation of the health insurance funds to provide benefits must be secured.
About 150 children are born in Germany every year who cannot be clearly assigned to a gender.
The forced gender reassignment of intersex people must end.
Gender ambiguity must be legally allowed and recognized.
In many countries, LGBTTI lives are made hell: criminal prosecution, repression, violence and censorship.
German politics must take a clear position here and actively strengthen human rights defenders, also by financially supporting the Hirschfeld-Eddy Foundation, which is already successfully active in this area.
Germany must also use its membership in the United Nations Human Rights Council to strengthen the rights of sexual minorities worldwide.
Commitment to human rights will also be all the more credible if Germany finally rehabilitates and compensates the victims of its own former anti-homosexual criminal laws (especially § 175 StGB).
Whoever votes GREEN ...
makes civil rights strong again.
gets an effective data protection package.
ensures inclusion and a clear edge against discrimination.
facilitates immigration, naturalization
and protects refugees.
opens marriage to lesbian and gay couples.
gets an intercultural opening of public institutions.
Key projects
Strengthening civil rights and the rule of law - building a new security architecture
We put security at the service of freedom and not vice versa.
That is why we are strengthening citizens' rights and putting security laws that encroach on fundamental rights to the test.
We are counting on reforms in the judiciary, the police and a clear break with the Office for the Protection of the Constitution.
Renouncing the use of undercover agents,
A new start in terms of personnel and structure,
clear limitation, control and legally regulated procedures for intelligence service powers,
Promoting a new police culture,
Strengthening the rule of law: this is how we are building a new security architecture.
Equal rights for equal love - opening marriage to same-sex couples
We want all couples to be able to enter into marriage.
Thanks to us GREENS, Germany was a pioneer in the introduction of registered civil partnerships.
Today, many countries have overtaken us.
Marriage has already been opened to same-sex couples in Argentina, Spain, South Africa, the Netherlands and other countries.
Germany must finally follow this path as well.
This will complete equality - for example in tax and civil service law or in equal adoption rights.
Equal love deserves equal respect and therefore equal rights.
Facilitate naturalization - strengthen rights of asylum seekers
Many people have been living in Germany for a long time without having citizenship rights.
We are focusing on a naturalization offensive.
It includes the acceptance of multiple citizenship, the acquisition of citizenship by birth in Germany and the abolition of the option obligation.
We want to transform the right of residence from a law of order and defense to a genuine right of immigration.
Integration can only succeed if people can live in legal security.
We therefore advocate a generous right to family reunification
and a secure residence status for people who have lived in Germany for a long time.
We want to establish a welcoming culture by, among other things, opening up schools, hospitals, public authorities and other public institutions interculturally.
Basic rights apply to all people living in Germany.
We therefore demand, among other things, the abolition of the residence obligation and the Asylum Seekers' Benefits Act.
Not only are the services inadequate.
This law also blocks refugees from accessing the health care system.
For us, what the Federal Constitutional Court has made unmistakably clear applies: The minimum subsistence level is the same for everyone in Germany.
Advancing inclusive communities - ensuring participation
We are committed to an inclusive society in which all people can participate in life in the community.
People with disabilities should be able to live self-determined and equal lives.
To this end, we want to initiate a Participation Benefits Act in which the support benefits are detached from social assistance and the cost proviso as well as the income and asset dependency are abolished.
We advocate that the federal government contribute to the costs of inclusion assistance as part of its overall responsibility to society.
Strengthening consumer safety - reforming drug policy
The global "War on Drugs" has failed.
Millions of people die every year because of the current prohibition policy.
Instead of persecution of users, we want drug policy reform.
In doing so, we rely on people's right to self-determination.
We want to minimize the health risks through prevention and education.
We call for the long-term regulation of all drugs based on the actual health risks.
For us, this includes expanding drug-checking and syringe exchange programs.
We also want to legalize the personal use and private cultivation of cannabis and tax its sale.
We want to use cannabis for medicine and research.
O. Create equality
How we achieve a gender-equal society and finally end the discrimination of women
We want a gender-equal society that enables a self-determined and solidary life.
Gender-responsive policies aim to take into account the life situations of women, men, and trans and intersex people, and thus the diversity of life.
At the heart of our gender policy are a time policy and framework conditions that take into account the individual needs and different life plans of men and women.
Because we all need time for phases of care work, for education, for careers, time for ourselves.
These periods must be possible and they must be socially secured.
For the federal government and its minister for women's affairs, the diversity of female lifestyles and the complexity of social reality are merely disturbing.
It clings to outdated role models, as expressed in the unspeakable childcare allowance or the splitting of the income of married couples.
It relies on voluntary measures to promote the economy, even though it has long been clear that nothing will be achieved in this way, and is fighting the quota for supervisory boards proposed by the EU Commission with all means at its disposal.
But there is tentative movement - after all.
Even CSU politicians are arguing for the quota.
Fathers' interest in parental leave is on the rise.
These are important successes of the women's movement and also of us GREENS.
Nevertheless, progress remains a snail: Germany brings up the rear in Europe when it comes to equal pay.
At the same time, the wage gap is much larger in West Germany, since women in East Germany work more often and to a greater extent, even if they have children.
This was because the traditional single-parent model had not gained the social significance in the former GDR that it had in the old Federal Republic.
But the infrastructure for parents has also deteriorated in eastern Germany.
Thus, the number of women employed in part-time or marginal jobs is increasing throughout Germany.
This widens the pension gap, and old-age poverty is inevitable.
With the life course perspective, the effects of decisions in one phase of life on a whole life become clear.
We want gender equality policies that are consistent across all stages of life.
It is contradictory to provide tax incentives for the main breadwinner model through spousal splitting, but to call for swiftly securing one's livelihood through one's own gainful employment after a divorce.
"Men and women are equal.
The state shall promote the actual implementation of equal rights for women and men and shall work toward the elimination of existing disadvantages."
This is what the Basic Law says.
It gives us a mandate to work toward the enforcement of this equality.
We want to fulfill this mission.
We're all about the big picture, and in concrete terms that means: "Half the power and responsibility for women and men."
From securing an independent livelihood for women to ensuring that men overcome outdated role models and that power is better distributed in all areas of society - there is still a lot to be done before women can participate as they deserve.
Equality needs gender democracy.
We want to create the conditions for women to participate as a matter of course on an equal footing - in society, in parliament and in the workplace.
Equality creates the future, because only a gender-equal society will be able to cope with the tasks of tomorrow.
1. equal recognition, equal security, equal opportunity
The family ideal, especially in West Germany, seems stable: a male main breadwinner, the mother - often equally or better qualified - juggles a half-day job after a break in employment, picks up the children from kindergarten, runs the household and cares for relatives.
In the meantime, however, it has become clear how fragile this image has become and what high risks it harbors.
Temporary jobs, unemployment, illness or even divorce quickly throw this construct into disarray.
The fact that there are more and more single parents is also too often forgotten.
There is much to be done, because we are far from living in a society that is free of structural disadvantage and power structures that discriminate against women.
The not-so-new alimony law requires mothers to pay for their own living expenses quickly after a divorce - and makes no provision for compensation for lost career advancement during childcare periods.
On the other hand, a young, well-educated generation of women and an increasing number of men are no longer willing to live a traditional family image.
They demand equal rights in partnerships, parental leave for both, career breaks and reduced working hours.
In particular, women face obstacles to securing their own livelihoods through employment.
In addition to a lack of compatibility between family and career, which is still seen as an individual problem for women rather than a structural deficit, these include the
difficulties of career entry and advancement.
At the same time, many men no longer want to work full-time, which leaves no time for children or care work.
They want freedom of choice that truly allows freedom of choice.
Despite all the rhetoric about compatibility, we are still a long way from achieving this.
Voluntariness will not get us anywhere.
This will not work without legislative measures.
We want a law on equal pay,
regulations for the private sector
and a quota for supervisory boards and management boards.
In the future, we want to extend the quota to other levels as well, thus giving women equal status not only at management level but throughout the company.
We need to regulate working hours in such a way that, in addition to the right to part-time work, there is also a right to return to full-time work.
We need qualified offers for the unemployed and those returning to work after family leave.
The situation of single parents has even worsened in recent years.
In order to reduce the risk of poverty, they need special support in the form of care infrastructure
and flexible working time models,
as well as the further development of advance maintenance payments.
Women in particular are affected by poverty in old age.
The reasons lie in part-time employment, mini-jobs and time off to care for children and dependents, i.e. the lack of compatibility between family and career.
We want to change this.
That is why we want to expand the number of all-day daycare centers,
the expansion of all-day schools,
through flexible working time models
and give women the opportunity to work through greater acceptance of fathers in parental and part-time roles.
With our concept of a guaranteed pension, we are also proposing a pension concept that protects women in particular from poverty in old age.
Women's participation in the labor force has increased, albeit with an almost unchanged volume of work.
More and more women are working less and less.
However, many are dissatisfied with their working hours and would rather work and earn more.
We want to better distribute working hours and work volumes between the sexes, but also between those who work a lot and the unemployed or precariously employed.
The so-called mini-jobs must be replaced in a socially acceptable way.
In combination with co-insurance in health insurance and spousal splitting, they hinder people from securing their own livelihood because they send out the signal that working and paying social security contributions is hardly worthwhile.
Long-term disadvantages such as low pensions are ignored by the Merkel government.
We want to replace spousal splitting with individual taxation with a transferable basic allowance.
We want to use the revenue that the state has so far lost as a result of the marriage splitting to finance good daycare centers,
All-day schools
and use it for basic child protection.
We want to replace "Bedarfsgemeinschaften" (communities in need) with individual livelihood security.
This change will not happen overnight, but we want to tackle this change in the coming legislative period and initiate it with concrete steps.
In the short term, we need access to all labor market promotion measures regardless of benefit receipt.
In a society that experiences diversity as enrichment, migrants have an important role to play.
However, despite qualified training, many only find low-paid employment, e.g. in cleaning or care.
When it comes to choosing an apprenticeship and a field of study, young women in particular choose from a limited spectrum.
As a result, they are not making full use of their potential, and the economy is losing important young talent.
Young women and men, as well as employers, should be motivated to make gender-atypical choices.
2. support men in new roles
We will only achieve equal rights and obligations if men are also given greater attention as actors for equality.
More and more men are realizing that traditional male roles also have negative sides for them and, for example, no longer want to be the sole breadwinner or main breadwinner of the family, but also want active fatherhood.
However, just like women, they find framework conditions that promote traditional role behavior.
Green politics is feminist and emancipatory, it dissolves gender roles and allows more individual freedom for all people.
This brings movement into the gender policy debate.
To this end, it is necessary to support men, boys and fathers in networking more effectively on equality policy issues.
They are partners in the implementation of equality.
Their concerns and needs should find their own space in the gender policy debate.
We want to support men in exploring new avenues and increasingly taking up professions that are traditionally predominantly held by women, such as teaching and so-called care work.
Reconciling life and work is also an issue for men.
The "partner months" in parental allowance were and are an initial success.
Further development of parental leave should also make it more natural for men to take on family responsibilities.
Gender-sensitive pedagogy questions the extent to which all children can best be supported individually.
That's why we support gender-sensitive education and career counseling services.
Politics, like science, must take greater account of the changes in role models, including those of men.
We want to implement regular reporting and accompanying research for gender issues.
We need a departure for men's health, a stronger focus on prevention and screening for men's diseases, in health insurance and in workplace health promotion.
There is hardly any data available on the topic of men as victims of violence.
Here we want more research as well as a social debate.
3. complete democracy
Our democracy thrives on commitment, on participation.
In fact, the proportion of women in many state and local parliaments is falling.
Almost 100 years after the introduction of women's suffrage in Germany, this is an extremely worrying trend.
We also want to use legal regulations to increase the proportion of women and political participation, similar to what was made possible with the French Parity Act.
Experience shows that fixed quotas in particular increase the proportion of women in parties and parliaments.
By making it mandatory to document the proportion of women and men at nomination events, we aim to collect gender-sensitive data on political participation processes.
We maintain a strategy of gender mainstreaming, which asks about the impact on women and men in all policy actions.
Our goal is gender democracy, which includes an equitable relationship between women and men.
A nationwide research institution on gender equality is to pool scientific expertise and initiate and support discussion processes.
We want to have a second federal gender equality report prepared that focuses on the areas that could not be covered in detail in the first report.
By introducing gender budgeting at all levels, we want to implement equality in the area of budgetary policy as well.
Gender-sensitive analysis of a budget highlights the impact that the use of public funds has on women and men in different social and economic circumstances.
4. determine about the body itself
Self-determination also includes one's own body.
Women must be able to decide about their pregnancies freely and without criminalization.
The right to information and voluntary consultation must be open to all.
This includes voluntary offerings around prenatal screening methods.
In Germany, there is a high rate of births by cesarean section.
We want to strengthen the advice and support provided by midwives with the aim of enabling women to make a self-determined decision.
Disincentives to perform cesarean sections that are not medically indicated must be eliminated.
Women must have access to continuous care from a trusted midwife during pregnancy, childbirth, and postpartum care.
Contraceptives must be provided free of charge for recipients of transfer benefits.
The "morning-after pill" must be available without a prescription.
The side effects and the necessity of control examinations should be pointed out.
The pressure to also optimize one's own body as much as possible is real.
Deviations from the norm are difficult to live with, cases of eating disorders are on the rise, as is the proportion of cosmetic surgery.
Photoshopped, sometimes obviously, sometimes rather subtly sexist advertising plays a not insignificant role in this.
Especially for young people, a high pressure is built up here and a rigid ideal of beauty is conveyed.
A process of social understanding is needed to raise awareness of bodily diversity and to outlaw sexism in the media.
Deviations from the norm of bisexuality are difficult to live with in our current society, but must be possible in a self-determined way.
Although intersex people can usually live without medical intervention or hormone supplements, they often undergo surgery immediately after birth and often suffer throughout their lives.
Here, there is a lack of education and counseling for parents as well as sufficiently trained medical personnel.
The right to physical integrity must also apply to intersex people.
We therefore demand that medically unnecessary interventions can only be performed with the consent of the intersexuals themselves.
5. outlaw violence
Violence is a bitter reality for many women.
The Protection Against Violence Act has significantly improved the situation for victims of violence in families by making it easier for them to leave their homes.
Nevertheless, about 34,000 women and children have to flee to women's shelters every year.
Neither the number of places nor the assistance and counseling services are sufficient.
We need specific offers and places in women's shelters, especially for women with disabilities, migrant women, women with children and women in need of care.
The central emergency number is intended to reach more affected persons - but then the support institutions must also receive more funding.
Older women, migrant women, low-income women, and women in education or without their own income also have difficulties.
Women experiencing homelessness are also a special group affected by violence.
They are often in problematic dependency relationships and are not admitted to women's shelters due to a lack of a permanent residence.
They must be provided with independent support services.
We need to ensure sufficient funding for a high-quality service by adopting it as a mandatory state task for all these specific needs.
For women who have been raped, qualified emergency care and treatment, including (anonymous) evidence recovery and emergency contraception with the "morning-after pill," must be provided promptly in all German hospitals.
Funding for the emergency package must be guaranteed.
Rape myths, which lead to a general attribution of partial guilt to victims of sexualized violence, are still widespread in Germany.
They contribute to the fact that the number of unreported cases for these crimes remains very high.
We therefore want to ensure that those affected are cared for throughout Germany by police and judicial officers who are regularly trained and sensitized.
In addition, funding for comprehensive support and counseling services must be guaranteed.
In this way, we want to protect those affected by sexualized violence from being traumatized again.
This includes a review of criminal legislation.
Women and girls with disabilities regularly face multiple discrimination.
There are too few services and also too little protection for them in the facilities where they live.
That is why we need mandatory anti-discrimination measures and specific support so that they too can live self-determined lives.
A gender-responsive approach to inclusion and comprehensive measures to address multiple discrimination and violence against women and girls with disabilities is urgently needed.
The Red-Green Prostitution Act decriminalized the sex trade and put a legal end to double standards.
This was a long overdue step.
A return to the prohibition of prostitution would push prostitutes into illegality, further worsen their working conditions, and put them at greater risk of violent assault.
However, at that time they stopped halfway.
That is why we will continue to develop the Prostitution Act in the Bundestag.
Our goal is to protect prostitutes as much as possible.
We want to expand the range of counseling and assistance services and make them accessible at a low threshold.
Sex workers need to be educated about their rights.
We want an expansion of phase-out programs.
We are not relying on restrictions, but on the law:
among other things, prostitution businesses above a certain size should be subject to the requirement of a commercial license.
We want to protect sex workers and make their working conditions safer through inspections of prostitution establishments and their operators under trade law.
We also want to provide them with better legal protection against rent-seeking and exploitation and review the extent to which access to social security can be improved.
We also want to create free medical counseling services for sex workers.
Human trafficking for sexual exploitation is a blatant violation of human rights and a serious, heinous crime.
The implementation of the Council of Europe Convention and the EU Victim Protection Directive against trafficking in human beings requires new legal regulations at the national level as well.
Victims must be better protected from deportation, especially but not only during ongoing legal proceedings.
A permanent right to stay would significantly increase their willingness to report and testify and thus lead to the identification of the perpetrators and shed light on the structures.
Trafficking victims who are witnesses need a comprehensive victim protection program.
Clients of forced prostitutes must also be able to be held criminally responsible if they know that the victim is a forced prostitute.
In addition, all victims of forced marriages need an independent and permanent right of return.
Women as well as men who want to escape a forced marriage must be helped quickly, competently and effectively.
This requires transnational action and guidelines that are binding for all.
Many women and girls who are affected or threatened by genital mutilation also live in Germany.
We want to explicitly include that as a case of aggravated assault in the criminal code.
Punishment must be possible even if girls have been taken abroad for this purpose.
6. european and international women's policy
Germany is a global player and this must also be reflected in our women's policy.
The black-yellow government is torpedoing the initiative at EU level to introduce a quota for supervisory boards.
It cuts funding for women's equality projects in development assistance and removes the link between funding and women's advancement.
The government receives poor marks for implementing CEDAW (UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women).
And Minister Schröder stays away from the meetings of UN Women.
We GREENS take the international bodies seriously and will also be present in women's and gender equality policy.
We will exert influence, stand by our responsibility and provide adequate financial resources for this purpose.
50% of food and over 70% of clothing worldwide is produced by women and also bought in Germany.
Here we have a duty to work with and for the women in the producing countries for good working conditions.
On the other hand, there are countries that are far ahead of us in gender equality issues.
The exchange with these countries is valuable.
Our diplomatic service also makes very practical foreign policy on a daily basis and needs gender policy expertise to do so.
We also advocate for more female diplomats in German missions around the world.
Whoever votes GREEN ...
wants women and men to live together as equals.
is in favor of an independent livelihood and a departure from the main breadwinner model.
ensures equal opportunities for women in the labor market.
gets more women in parliaments and decision-making positions.
is committed to a life without violence.
Key projects
Equal pay for equal work and work of equal value - enact an equal pay law
On average, women still receive 22% less pay than men.
Typical female occupations are paid less than typical male occupations.
Self-commitment by industry and voluntarism have led nowhere in the last ten years.
That is why we want to enforce the principle of equal pay for equal work and work of equal value with statutory regulations and appropriate sanctions.
So that equal activities and jobs of equal value are finally paid equally.
Advance independent livelihood security - replace spousal splitting
Our goal is that everyone has the opportunity to earn what he or she needs to live on his or her own.
It goes without saying that periods of inactivity must be covered.
Traditional role models, which still shape our tax and social legislation today, hinder this.
We want to dismantle structures that represent significant obstacles to employment, especially for women. This
includes replacing mini-jobs,
transferring free coinsurance to citizens' insurance
, and expanding the childcare and education infrastructure.
We therefore want to replace spousal splitting with individual taxation with a transferable minimum subsistence level.
In this way, we increase the incentives for women to work, make an important contribution to securing an independent livelihood, and reduce the risk of poverty for women and families.
As a first step, we will exempt incomes of up to EUR 60,000 from charges by means of a splitting cap.
We will invest the funds that are freed up in the massive expansion of the childcare infrastructure.
and invest in the establishment of basic child protection.
With a comprehensive action program, we will support women in successfully (re)entering gainful employment that pays a living wage.
Half the power to women - introduce a binding quota
Various voluntary commitments by the companies had no major impact on the proportion of women in management bodies.
We have had enough of lip service and finally want to see action to eliminate the glass ceiling for women.
Legal quotas for supervisory boards and management boards, as in Norway, will break up the men's clubs in the executive suites and lead to more quality and diversity.
Female role models will have a positive impact and other women will follow suit.
In this way, we create a better basis for a gender-equal society.
P. Art and culture inspire
How we reinforce art as a social stumbling block, promote cultural change and strengthen sport
Art and culture enable us to see the world with different eyes, to listen in a more differentiated way and to think in a new way.
They are crucial for self-determination
and social participation,
and they promote the democratic development of a society.
They are a crucial field of social participation.
They can be impulse generators for change and for the constant further development of our value system.
A vibrant learning and future-oriented society needs a strong cultural infrastructure, cultural participation, cultural education and an active cultural policy.
We stand for fair working conditions,
artistic freedom,
equal access
and transparent funding criteria and allocation of funds.
On the one hand, creative professionals in our country make a major contribution to prosperity and thus also to tax revenue; on the other hand, many self-employed artists and creative professionals have to get by on an income just above the subsistence level.
In addition to the major houses and the classical cultural institutions, we will provide greater support for independent initiatives and projects and also give them more recognition.
In our understanding, cultural policy should overcome borders and build bridges.
It can also be a basis in global dialogue and in European integration and understanding.
Art and culture promote a change of perspective and a sense that we depend on each other in the One World.
In view of the dynamics of globalization, foreign cultural and educational policy is an important task of the federal government.
There is a consensus that a vibrant, learning society needs a strong cultural infrastructure for cultural participation by all.
But for this we need a different, an active and forward-looking cultural policy.
We also see and promote art and culture as the key to the participation of socially disadvantaged population groups - in urban, neighborhood and regional development, in construction projects, the creation and design of public open spaces, in environmental education and for the continuous development of new cultural offerings.
In view of changing societal demands, greater social segregation and tight budgets, the question of maintaining, making necessary changes and, if necessary, realigning cultural offerings, institutions and funding must be asked again and again.
We support cultural places where everyone can participate - actively and passively.
For us, art and culture are not an elitist project - for those with the extensive previous education or the fat wallet.
We support cultural institutions in creating spaces of opportunity for all.
We stand for the promotion of art and culture creators by maintaining and creating culture-friendly framework conditions.
Good cultural policy creates a future and quality of life.
We need the creativity and strength to see things differently than we are used to, and the courage to do things differently than they have always been done.
This applies to the future of democracy and human rights as well as to a world of sustainability and peace.
Sport and exercise are important aspects of our social coexistence and the self-realization of every human being.
Sports culture is diverse and an expression of a lively and colorful society.
1. open cultural institutions for all
We create access to art and culture for all by focusing on cultural education
and strengthening local cultural institutions.
Our goal is for even more people to come to cultural spaces, theaters, concert halls, cinemas, museums, clubs and libraries.
To this end, we are breaking down barriers, both physical and social.
Our cultural landscape must be interesting, affordable and accessible for everyone.
Arts education opens the door to art for many people.
School subjects such as music and art are essential components of a good education.
For this, we need sufficient staff, especially artistic teachers, and stronger cooperation with colleagues from other departments, cultural institutions, and external cultural workers.
The pilot projects of the Federal Cultural Foundation are already making an important contribution to this, which we will support with additional funds.
At the same time, we recognize and promote the potential of youth and subcultural spaces such as skate parks and youth centers.
These spaces are a way to meet people where they are - to develop these spaces together with them.
In the non-school sector, too, cultural institutions should be open to everyone, especially children and young people.
For this, we need more cultural educators who are firmly anchored in the houses.
We strengthen decentralized and low-threshold cultural offerings, for example in youth centers or children's and youth theaters.
We find that people with an immigrant background are underrepresented in many cultural institutions.
We see a great need for action here and will strengthen the cultural institutions in their intercultural opening.
In a globalizing world, trans- and intercultural projects and experiences are a great driving force for creativity.
With them, a new, critical and inclusive image of home and belonging is also emerging.
Last but not least, we advocate for greater accessibility so that culture is accessible to all.
One example of accessibility is our green commitment to accessible film.
Subtitling and audio description for people with hearing and visual impairments are now mandatory in federal film funding thanks to our initiative.
We want this example to set a broad precedent - also in the TV offering.
2. justice for all cultural workers
A society without artists and creative people is poor and empty.
Private cultural sponsorship is important; however, it alone cannot provide a basis for artistic and cultural development.
We must offer cultural workers enough security to allow them to experiment and also to fail, to challenge, criticize or irritate us.
Art and cultural works are created by a wide variety of people, professionally, semi-professionally, but also in their free time.
Germany has about one million highly qualified cultural workers, artists and creative professionals.
All creative artists in Germany need an appropriate tax and legal framework.
We create fair working conditions
and more social security
and speak out in favor of minimum safeguards and fee floors for all trained performers, stage actors and teachers without permanent employment in the arts and culture.
We ensure that they are covered for unemployment insurance and sick pay despite fragile employment histories.
We want to put an end to the succession of temporary fee contracts without adequate remuneration.
When introducing the citizens' insurance, we preserve the principles of the artists' social insurance.
Even in the case of teaching staff in the arts and culture, successions of temporary honorary contracts without permanent social security are becoming more and more common, far from adequate remuneration.
The digital society is a reality and offers numerous, also new opportunities for cultural participation and cultural diversity.
Established art forms can develop further on the Internet and new ones emerge; participation and action are revolutionized.
We want artistic performance and creative work to be recognized as such and remunerated appropriately.
This must continue to be the guiding principle in the reform and modernization of copyright law.
We want to empower creators and users in their rights while promoting respect and trust between artists and users.
That is why we are committed to a fair balance of interests.
With the reform of copyright contract law, we are strengthening authors, because today they are often in a weak negotiating position vis-à-vis their business partners, the exploiters and intermediaries who stand between authors and users.
We want to structure the arbitration procedure on remuneration rules between creators and exploiters in such a way that it ultimately leads to a result that is binding for both sides.
In addition, the owners of rights of use must inform the creators upon request how often their work or performance has been used and what income has been generated from it.
For only if they are fully informed about the use of their works or performances can authors and artists demand appropriate remuneration on this basis.
Furthermore, it must be ensured that agreements reached are monitored and enforced in the event of a dispute.
Moral rights must be preserved in the future so that authors can continue to make their own decisions about the use of their content.
The guiding principle for our political work in this area is the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: that everyone has the right to participate freely in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts and to share in scientific progress and its achievements.
Likewise, everyone has the right to protection of the intellectual and material interests that accrue to him or her as the author of works of science, literature or art.
3. a reform of cultural funding
We are creating reliable, transparent and public funding for culture, even in times of debt crises and debt brakes.
That is why we want to strengthen the existing funds, including those for socioculture and the performing arts, under the umbrella of the Federal Cultural Foundation and supplement them with a program to promote artistic forms of expression in youth culture.
The promotion of the cultural work of displaced persons is also no longer appropriate and often leads to conflicts instead of promoting understanding with our neighbors.
Together, we are realigning funding and creating more transparency.
The Minister of State for Culture must not continue to decide alone behind closed doors on the approval of funding applications; instead, we need transparent criteria, public jury meetings in which the jury is consulted, and regular evaluation in every funding area.
The municipalities must also be relieved of more of the burden in order to preserve their independent local cultural support.
The additional revenue from the Green reform of the inheritance tax is a great opportunity for culture as well.
As GREENS, we are fighting together at the federal, state and local levels to ensure that it is used.
We advocate for support of regional cultural infrastructure, such as local bookstores and small local movie theaters.
We are committed to the unique cultural landscape of the Federal Republic, with its theaters, orchestras, independent scene and sociocultural institutions.
We want to ensure that the financial gap between the established houses and the independent scene does not continue to widen.
The long-term goal must be to consolidate cooperation with the independent scene and to ensure better financial security for it.
We promote different forms of theater and strengthen production communities.
We also see ourselves as responsible for culture that is not financed by public funds.
Development must not be left to market forces alone.
More support and mediation from policymakers are needed here.
We call for consideration of a KfW special program for cultural promotion that would provide bridging loans in the event of imminent closure.
Cultural institutions should also benefit from existing programs for the energy-efficient refurbishment of cultural buildings.
We are lifting the ban on double funding in order to promote interministerial cooperation in this field in particular.
We plan to establish a fund for "Aesthetics and Sustainability".
This is because the ecological crisis requires a transformation of our entire society that is not limited to technical issues such as building renovation, but will bring about completely new ways of living.
We must develop a new building culture from the tradition of the European city with people as the central benchmark.
To this end, concepts, strategies and structures of public design must be developed - "infrastructures of happiness" that address global and local tasks without restricting the degree of personal freedom.
We must not leave this development to the sphere of economics - the arts, culture and science must actively participate.
Whether drama, music, pictures, films, computer games or books - we need a differentiated view of the various media when promoting them.
We encourage all creative forms of theater and strengthen production communities.
We call for the establishment of a "New Music" fund to promote the production, performance and communication of new musical works from all musical genres and support young musicians in particular by creating more rehearsal and performance opportunities.
We want to simplify the interim cultural use of vacant buildings.
This will also allow us to make better use of federal real estate.
We want to preserve the diverse club landscape.
Until now, artists have not usually received any remuneration for the public exhibition of their works.
We therefore demand that the federal government include a mandatory exhibition payment to visual artists in its funding criteria.
This allows the federal government to serve as a role model for states, municipalities and private exhibitors.
Graffiti artists must be given more space and thus enough public opportunity to develop their culture.
We want to turn film funding in Germany from head to toe.
Film funding is about realizing ambitious creative projects - not just elaborate marketing plans.
High-quality films, not Hollywood, are the guarantor of lasting success for German and European film.
We therefore want to give cultural criteria renewed weight in film funding and focus on the regional film and media industry as well as small and independent productions.
This also requires reforms in the film funding bodies.
Creative filmmakers must be given more influence.
We support the greening of the cultural industry, from climate-friendly production to CO 2 -neutral transport, toxin-free and reusable materials to sustainable catering.
To this end, we are also strengthening the funding guidelines.
That is why we advocate for a "Green Film" initiative in federal film funding.
Computer games are creative works.
We want to expand support for culturally high-quality and exceptional games beyond the federal government's computer game prize.
We are proud of the diverse literary landscape in the Federal Republic and want to support it by promoting young authors, authors with new and creative approaches, and by creating good conditions for small publishing houses as well.
We help to ensure that reading promotion is intensified and does not take place exclusively in schools.
Reading and writing are crucial prerequisites for media and consumer literacy, integration and inclusion, and social and political participation.
That's why we want to preserve public, non-commercial libraries - as places of low-threshold and low-cost access to literature and knowledge.
We also want to simplify electronic lending in libraries.
We need our cultural heritage as a source of reflection and as a testimony of constant change.
Therefore, the digitization and archiving of video and audio art, music and film archives, flyer and street art, but also "ephemeral" arts, such as theater and dance, will be advanced and made accessible.
We want to remove the corresponding hurdles.
Just like the visual heritage, the documented historical heritage from archives, libraries and museums must also be digitized in order to remain a permanent part of the culture of remembrance.
4. impetus for democracy and human rights, sustainability and peace
Democracy needs culture.
Cultural places are places of social encounter, of productive friction.
They are nuclei for democratic ideas and processes.
They create space for the new, for reflection and contradiction, for debate and discourse.
They are our social laboratory - away from the sound of constraint.
Culture is a medium of freedom and individuality.
Wherever it becomes the target of attacks by forces hostile to human rights and democracy - also under the pretext of "insulting religious feelings" - we will resolutely take sides with them.
Culture creates space for protest.
Especially in places of oppression and in times of persecution.
In the case of systematic human rights violations, art is often the only mouthpiece through which protest still reaches us.
We need to keep these channels open.
Artists who are brave enough to stand up and resist find our solidarity: from the Chinese writer Liao Yiwu to the Russian band Pussy Riot, from the poets of the Arab Spring to the Iranian filmmaker Jafar Panahi.
Culture is an important tool in prevention work and in the fight against right-wing extremism.
Neo-Nazis often have an easy time in regions without sufficient cultural offerings, without youth centers and other meeting places.
That is why we also call for secure and steady federal funding for cultural initiatives against right-wing extremism and group-based misanthropy.
Culture raises questions about ecologically responsible living.
These questions and irritations can snap us out of our everyday phlegm of resource-wasting comfort.
We will therefore include the policy field of culture in the progress report on the national sustainability strategy.
Cultural policy is peace policy.
Foreign cultural policy and international cultural exchange are among the most important instruments for international understanding.
We will therefore strengthen foreign cultural policy, especially intermediary organizations such as the Goethe-Institut and the German Academic Exchange Service.
We see cultural understanding as a key to a Europe that is growing together and to the necessary "dialogue of cultures" worldwide.
Culture can open dialogues with countries to which there is no other access.
It plays an important role in crisis prevention and conflict resolution.
Its importance for development cooperation is also increasingly being recognized.
In the spirit of the "UNESCO Declaration on Cultural Diversity", we understand the diversity of cultures as an essential resource for the future of humanity.
5. keeping memory alive - taking responsibility
Germany's responsibility for the crimes of National Socialism and the expulsion and murder of over six million people of Jewish descent must be reflected in a diverse culture of remembrance.
This is all the more important because soon there will be no survivors and contemporary witnesses of National Socialism to tell of their experience.
Against this background, too, this country does not have much time left to fulfill its necessary responsibilities.
For example, the second largest group of victims of National Socialism, the Soviet prisoners of war, have still not been recognized as racially persecuted or compensated.
We will demand this as well as recognition of the victims of the Nazi "euthanasia" programs and forced sterilization as racially persecuted persons of National Socialism.
Especially in the field of education, new forms of remembrance culture must be systematically anchored.
Memorials, places of remembrance, museums, libraries and archives must be maintained by specially trained educators and coordinated nationwide.
For us, remembrance means coming to terms with one's own past and, in this context, strengthening the examination of the lives and works of persecuted artists.
We welcome the fact that a "T4" information site on the Nazi euthanasia murders is being set up on a Green initiative.
It is also gratifying that Berlin finally has a memorial to the Sinti and Roma murdered during the Nazi era.
But it is obviously not enough to inaugurate monuments, because while we commemorate the Sinti and Roma murdered under National Socialism, the black-yellow federal government is running a racist "asylum abuse" or "poverty immigration" campaign against the living.
We also need to reappraise the ministries and authorities.
They should have their Nazi past investigated in the same way as we have initiated in the Foreign Office, for example.
What is needed now is a systematic approach, also in view of the major irritations in the dealings of federal ministries and authorities with Nazi criminals such as Eichmann, Barbie or Carl Theodor Schütz.
We need clear criteria for further investigations and for dealing with the results.
And better coordination in processing - at the federal level, but also in the states, counties and municipalities.
For Nazi rule was nationwide.
And so are their legacies.
The history of the GDR as an unjust state must also continue to be dealt with in a comprehensive and differentiated manner.
The Stasi Records Authority is an important part of this.
We advocate that the "Parliament of Trees against War and Violence" by Ben Wagin with the only remains of the wall in the government district be listed as a historical monument.
The examination of life in the GDR, the persecution of the arts and the role of artists in the GDR and Stalinism in the Soviet-occupied zone must become part of school education in both East and West Germany.
German colonial history, its crimes and continuities deserve more attention in research and memory.
In a globalized world, we do not need narrow-minded renationalization of culture and the image of history.
6. long live the sport
Sport is important for the health and well-being of every person and makes a significant contribution to the social cohesion of our society.
Sport in Germany is supported by a unique civil society commitment in clubs, which we expressly support.
Germany has a diverse and vibrant sports culture.
Our sports clubs and sports facilities are places where people of different genders and ages, different origins, sexual identities and religions meet.
Even the youngest children learn team spirit and fair treatment of each other through sports and acquire social skills such as dealing with successes and failures.
Sport also unfolds opportunities for dialogue and exchange worldwide.
At the same time, we see sport as part of the education and health system and want to create framework conditions so that all people can participate in sport.
Against this background, the barrier-free design of sports facilities is just as important as the further development of existing sports concepts by the associations and clubs.
Long overdue is also the alignment of funding for Olympic and Paralympic sports in all areas.
We GREENS are also committed to ensuring that the diversity of sports is shown more strongly in the public media and thus made visible.
In addition to supporting grassroots sports, we are committed to transparent top-level sports promotion that focuses on the athletes.
The responsible handling of young sports athletes requires the establishment of dual career paths, in which personal development in school, studies and work is considered in addition to sports career planning.
We will actively counter all forms of violence, right-wing extremism, racism, anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, sexism, homophobia and transphobia together with clubs, associations, civil society actors and experts working in social prevention.
To this end, we also advocate strengthening the fan project coordination office.
We stand by self-governing sport and will support it in its fight against doping and corruption and for more transparency in its own structures and decisions.
Both doping and corruption contradict the idea of fairness.
Doping also harms health.
That is why we need an anti-doping law, a more effective prevention policy, and a National Anti-Doping Agency Germany that is independent of the influence of the sports federations and of the state, with permanent and adequate funding.
The goal is a sustainable and effective fight against doping that also protects the personal rights of athletes.
The potential of sport for environmental and climate protection and the preservation of biodiversity must be exploited to a greater extent.
We want to anchor sustainability aspects more firmly in sports and support and promote programs and initiatives for climate- and environmentally friendly sports.
Fairness also means taking this area into account when staging major sporting events and when planning and developing sports facilities.
The goal of green sports policy is the harmony of sport and nature.
Whoever votes GREEN ...
promotes a diverse and sustainable cultural landscape in
which everyone can participate.
creates better social, legal and economic conditions for artists and cultural workers.
strengthens the independent scene and safeguards established cultural institutions.
chooses cultural education from the very beginning.
supports the diverse commitment to sports and advocates
for fair and barrier-free sports.
Key projects
Strengthening the support of creative artists - reforming copyright law
Fair contractual relationships only exist if authors can negotiate with their exploiters on an equal footing.
In recent years, it has become apparent that this is not the case.
That is why we are calling for the rights of authors to be strengthened.
We want to structure the arbitration procedure on remuneration rules between creatives and exploiters in such a way that it ultimately leads to a result that is binding for both sides.
Furthermore, owners of rights of use must inform creators about how often their work has been used and what income has been generated from it.
Only if they are fully informed about the use of their works can authors negotiate appropriate remuneration.
Better protection for cultural workers - creating fair access to unemployment insurance
Many artists and creative people have too little or no social security.
Unsteady workers also need fair working conditions
and more social security.
We therefore make it possible for those who have paid into unemployment insurance for at least four months within two years to receive unemployment benefits and create a temporary placement break in SGB II and SGB II I.
We are also adjusting the sick pay rules: Instead of after seven weeks, as introduced by the coalition government, sick pay should be paid from the 15th day at the latest, but as a rule from the 1st day.
When introducing the citizens' insurance, we will preserve the principles of the artists' social insurance.
This is how we create the security that creative courage needs.
Keeping memories alive for a better future - pushing ahead with coming to terms with the Nazi past in ministries and authorities
National Socialist rule was nationwide.
Coming to terms with their legacies is a question of democratic self-assurance.
The way in which our state institutions deal with the history of National Socialism is the subject of widespread debate; it is an important chapter in the democratic culture of remembrance.
The study on the Foreign Office's Nazi past commissioned by then-Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer was an important impetus
. But there are still many unanswered and pressing questions and many gaps in the reappraisal.
We want to approach this task systematically, close gaps in the reappraisal and define criteria for dealing with the research results.
We also want to involve the states and municipalities in this process.
Q. Our policy on the ground
How we create affordable housing, make communities strong and achieve a fair balance between regions
Politics comes alive on site.
In the municipalities, abstract laws become decisions that shape our everyday lives.
We feel that the air will get better if the mayor focuses on bicycles, buses and smart traffic management.
We experience exciting theater evenings because the mayor cares about cultural diversity.
But we also realize how precarious the financial situation is when the swimming pool remains closed or it drips through the school roof.
We GREENS are very active on the ground and therefore always have an eye on the situation on the ground.
We see the concerns of mayors, councilors in cities, towns and districts.
They do a great job day after day, but are all too often left alone by the federal and state governments.
The CDU/CSU continues to back far too expensive prestige projects - and wants to push through the million-dollar graves in case of doubt, even against the will of the population and at the expense of a sustainable infrastructure.
We prefer a hundred small stages to one arena.
Instead of an overpriced central station, we want faster train connections throughout the region.
Green policy on the ground means above all enabling affordable housing for all.
Housing is a basic need, this is where we are at home and shape neighborhoods.
To better protect tenants from displacement and create sustainable, affordable housing, all levels must work together - from local communities to federal policymakers.
On the ground, it's clear to most citizens that local governments need more support.
We therefore advocate a cooperative federalism that promotes equal living conditions in all regions.
Of course, life in a metropolis differs from life in the countryside, but municipalities everywhere must be empowered to lay the foundations for good, diverse coexistence.
Our policies enable all people to participate in society locally.
We support the municipalities in creating a social and cultural infrastructure
that is open to all, because this is where it is decided whether participation really succeeds.
Our policies enable on-the-ground interference.
The people in the communities have the ideas and the power for a vibrant community.
What they need is the opportunity to have their say and participate.
Our policies create the future on the ground.
By supporting and relieving the burden on local authorities, we are opening up new opportunities and scope for action.
We are working together on the green city of the future - diverse, solidarity-based and sustainable.
1. affordable green living
Sustainable housing policy means, above all, social tenancy law,
Housing for the common good
and the energy modernization of buildings together.
While some regions are struggling with vacant apartments, housing is becoming increasingly scarce and expensive in economically strong regions.
Three out of four people in Germany already live in cities.
This arouses speculative desires and increases the pressure on tenants.
But our cities are cities for all citizens - instead of playgrounds for speculators.
No one should have to move out of their own neighborhood because the rent is suddenly too high.
We can no longer accept the negative effects of gentrification, and we have the right answers for this.
The biggest price driver at present is re-letting rents.
In future, they should not be higher than 10 % above the local comparative rent where there is a housing shortage.
In current leases, we curb rent increases by curbing the regular increase in the standard local comparative rent.
We also reduce rent increases in the course of modernization projects to a maximum of 9% of the costs per year and limit them to energy-efficient renovations and age-appropriate conversions.
We are giving the municipalities better instruments by reforming the Building Code so that the introduction of rent ceilings and extended protection against the disadvantages of property conversion are also possible.
Brokerage fees have also become a real cost factor in many places.
Therefore, the broker should be paid by the person who hires him or her.
In many places, the pressure on tenants is increased by the financial crisis and the accompanying real estate speculation with rent increases, property conversion and new luxury housing construction.
It primarily affects people with low and unsecured incomes, thus exacerbating the social and spatial division of society.
The number of households that have to spend more than 40% of their income on housing and are forced into transfer payments is rising alarmingly.
Women, who are more likely than men to raise children alone and have lower average wages and pensions, are particularly affected.
This is another reason why social housing must experience a renaissance in Germany.
Since 2000, the number of social housing units in Germany has fallen by almost a third - with corresponding consequences for tenants.
But now the question of securing social and public housing stocks is being raised anew.
The federal government should provide better support to the states and municipalities for social housing construction and targeted purchases in inner-city locations.
Federal compensation funds are to continue to be paid to the states on an earmarked basis through 2019.
Unlike in the 1970s, however, no ghettos should be built on the outskirts of the city, because social housing belongs in lively neighborhoods.
Housing assistance should be reinvigorated as an instrument to prevent households from being pushed into transfer payments.
Preventing homelessness is also an important goal for us.
To do this, local governments first need nationwide emergency housing statistics.
When dealing with real estate, we want to reach the financial investors in terms of taxation.
We also want to strengthen the scope for action by local authorities in dealing with neglected properties, so-called junk properties, and to safeguard the quality of housing.
A commission of inquiry of the NRW state parliament has made groundbreaking recommendations in this regard.
Last but not least, we want to examine whether statutory regulations for a new housing industry oriented toward the common good make sense again, and say that publicly owned apartments should only be sold if necessary - and then preferably to sustainably managed companies.
We also support the establishment of neighborhood-oriented cooperatives - for example, by introducing a right of first refusal for residents who join together to form housing cooperatives.
The energy modernization of apartments and all other buildings is a central component of the energy turnaround.
40 % of energy is consumed here - especially for warm apartments.
In 2012 alone, heating costs increased by 12%.
Energy modernization is the best safeguard for affordable heating costs in the future.
Precisely because we GREENS are committed to a climate-neutral building stock by 2050, we advocate a socially balanced rent and housing policy.
In doing so, we are aiming for warm rent neutrality.
We focus on information and transparency - with the Energy Performance Certificate for buildings, which also contains information on energy consumption, ecological rent indexes and a network of advice centers.
We have also described this in the energy chapter (see B. 5. Affordable heat and electricity for all).
We want to set the lowest energy standard for new buildings, but the focus is on the existing stock.
Private investors are particularly in demand here, so we are also setting the right incentives.
The refurbishment rate is to be increased to 3% through target-group-specific funding and planning security.
Energy modernization must be affordable and the costs distributed fairly - between owners, tenants and the state.
This is the only way to make the necessary investments in a socially responsible manner.
To this end, we want to endow the KfW Building Rehabilitation Program with EUR 2 billion per year and make it permanent.
In addition, we want to set up the Energy Saving Fund, worth 3 billion euros a year, with which we intend to promote measures in particular in urban districts with many low-income households.
The extent to which a tax incentive makes sense for private homeowners will be reexamined.
Social hardship is to be addressed with a climate subsidy for housing allowances and a climate bonus for housing costs.
With this overall strategy, we are creating the energy turnaround in existing buildings,
triggering an investment offensive
and creating jobs.
2. develop the green city
We continue to develop our cities - into places for diverse and sustainable coexistence,
with short distances and lots of green spaces,
with heterogeneous neighborhoods,
cultural meeting places and vibrant downtowns.
They are to become living and creative spaces for all citizens, in which children, but also the elderly or people with disabilities can move freely.
Green cities are colorful, creative, vibrant - and there for everyone.
That's why we are preserving public open spaces and creating more space for people and initiatives that work locally for a livable city.
Integrated urban development is the core of green urban policy and forms the prerequisite for diverse coexistence.
In urban development planning, residents should be informed earlier and be involved in a binding manner.
Young people in particular need specific programs and approaches here in order to be involved in the construction planning processes.
To this end, we are amending building and planning law and attaching appropriate conditions to programs.
We also want to increase funding for urban development, especially for the Socially Integrative City, Urban Redevelopment and Historic Preservation programs, in the medium term.
Because for 40 years, these programs have been an important tool for the renewal of our cities, the envy of many countries.
We want to revitalize and further develop the "National Urban Development Policy" initiative.
The resources of the European Structural Fund are to be used increasingly for ecological-social urban development from 2014.
Green cities thrive on diversity in neighborhoods.
To this end, we are strengthening lasting participation in today's disadvantaged neighborhoods in the spirit of the Socially Integrative City.
For this, we need binding cooperation between the various policy areas.
In addition to structural measures, activities such as networking,
Education
or civic engagement can be promoted.
We also link new construction projects to the creation of affordable housing.
We want to reorganize the legal mandate of the Federal Real Estate Agency.
When brownfields, such as old barracks sites, are sold, sustainable and urban factors should be taken into account so that it is not just the highest bid that counts.
Leasehold should also be used more frequently, for example, as opposed to sale.
Green cities are civic cities.
They need economic diversity and ownership diversity.
We want to strengthen owner-operated retail as an important element of vibrant city centers.
Small and medium-sized enterprises in metropolitan areas are also suffering from skyrocketing commercial rents.
We want to limit the increase to an economically viable level for the companies and examine various measures to achieve this.
Green cities are also the right place for climate protection.
To achieve this, we are strengthening the inner cities, minimizing land consumption in the surrounding areas, and combining urban density with urban greenery and urban nature in building law and subsidy programs.
Our concept of energy-efficient neighborhood redevelopment, financed by the Energy Saving Fund, enables municipalities to implement cautious urban renewal and align investments with housing demand and urban development.
Bad investments are avoided and costs are reduced.
A decentralized energy supply and efficient pipeline systems are planned and built.
However, we are also strengthening incentives to make greater use of ecologically sustainable building materials and to
cultivate and further develop building culture and urban quality of life.
An important task will be the energy and functional modernization of municipal infrastructures, in which the adaptation and upgrading of existing buildings and facilities must take priority over new construction.
This is to be developed together with the citizens - transparently and at eye level.
3. more green in rural areas
Germany is characterized by a large number of different rural regions.
They determine the character of our country through their economic potentials, scenic attractions and agricultural structures.
Unfortunately, rural areas have been increasingly neglected in recent years.
As a result, more and more people are moving to the big cities and metropolitan areas because of better educational, career and lifestyle opportunities, and those who stay are getting older on average.
Especially for the structurally weak regions, concepts for sustainable development are lacking,
and an intensified structural change in agriculture is strongly changing the appearance of our villages.
That is why we need to better align the existing funding instruments with these challenges and ensure that land does not become mere objects of speculation.
It is clear that we have to change the framework conditions together with the people on the ground, because rural areas should be able to develop independently.
We want to support them in establishing better regional networking and regional economic cycles with regional processing, refinement and marketing.
We therefore provide incentives for inter-municipal cooperation and eliminate the existing legal uncertainties and tax obstacles.
Nature tourism, in conjunction with the preservation of the cultural landscape, also offers
and the promotion of organic farming
and we want to ensure that citizens can participate better in the energy transition.
To this end, we support citizens' networks and bioenergy villages for regional energy supply.
We want to bring life back to the centers of villages and small towns, because short distances for all generations are also possible in the countryside:
Instead of a supermarket for the region, we need many small stores in the centers of towns.
Where necessary, we also support mobile supply systems or village shop concepts that do more than just retail, but offer additional services.
We want to stop the unchecked construction of new buildings on greenfield sites.
We are also introducing a demographics check to estimate local population trends and a mandatory follow-up cost analysis before designating new construction areas.
But we also need to do a better job of supporting local authorities in creating easily accessible care and education options for young people.
And to ensure that there is enough housing for the elderly, we support age-appropriate conversions through targeted funding, a better range of information and legal changes.
When it comes to healthcare, we face particularly significant challenges in rural areas.
It must be better geared to the needs of the elderly - with fewer services and further distances to travel.
We need better networking and a different division of tasks.
Nurses play a key role in this.
They should be able to take on more responsibility.
Last but not least, we need flexible forms of care such as driving services or mobile practice teams, the introduction and application of telemedicine services and the expansion of outpatient residential and care services as overarching mobile care services, and sufficient prevention and support services for people with problematic patterns of use of legal and illegal drugs.
Our rural policy is also designed to strengthen civil society.
Racism, homophobia and other discrimination are unfortunately too common and in some villages Nazis are unrestrictedly doing their mischief.
Where others prefer to remain silent, we address the facts and support the civic engagement of local citizens through a diverse range of cultural offerings, educational and participation opportunities such as self-managed youth spaces and other alternative projects as nuclei of social change.
We support the municipalities in providing a well-functioning infrastructure.
In the network and transport policy chapter, we describe the appropriate solutions for the Internet and public transport, so that people who do not have a car also have a variety of ways to organize their lives.
When underutilization of water and wastewater networks becomes a problem, we favor decentralized and sustainable solutions.
Exceptions to the connection and use obligation must also be made possible for remote residential units.
At the national level, we want to make more resources available from the European Structural Funds for rural development.
The integrated use of funds must also be applied in order to have flexible and needs-based funding options available in the regions.
The goal must be integrated rural development with citizen participation.
4. strengthen the ability of municipalities to act
Our demands on local authorities are high, because we want good institutions for everyone.
The course for people's participation in society is set locally.
But the financial situation is dramatic in some cases.
Revenues plummeted during the crisis and many have not recovered to this day.
Rising social spending leads to additional costs for municipal budgets.
All of this leads to more and more debt and massively curtails the ability to act.
In many municipalities, people are therefore charged high fees,
dilapidated infrastructure
and unduly burdened by the loss of quality of life.
But help from the federal and state governments is not forthcoming in many places.
Instead, they announce more tasks and transfer responsibility to the municipalities without providing the corresponding funds.
We stand for fair dealings with cities and communities.
Additional tasks must always be covered by additional funds.
The principle of connexity must therefore finally be anchored at the federal level as well.
In addition, the federal government must provide noticeable relief for local authorities in terms of social spending.
In a first step, we will increase the federal share of housing costs to 35%, and in a second step to 37.7%.
This will relieve the burden on local authorities by 1 billion euros.
In addition, we want to replace the current integration assistance with a Participation Benefits Act and give the federal government an appropriate share of the funding.
A corresponding reform of integration assistance must promote the goals of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and initiate a structural change towards strengthening self-determination and participation.
The offers and service forms must be aligned and equipped with this in mind.
The development of an inclusive community cannot and must not be the task and duty of the municipalities alone.
Costs arising from a Participation Act must not be passed on in full to the states and municipalities.
The money is also lacking for important investments - whether in new projects for the future such as education and energy, or for urgently needed renovations.
Empty coffers and one-sided competitive requirements for municipal companies are increasing the pressure on municipalities to privatize their services.
Once again, the EU Commission, with the support of the coalition government, is attempting to curtail key areas of public services such as water supply and wastewater disposal by imposing stringent requirements on municipal utilities, special-purpose associations and inter-municipal cooperations.
But privatization has often created more problems than it has solved.
This often means privatizing profits and socializing losses, as the risk is ultimately borne by the general public.
Privatisations only make sense in exceptional cases and must be tied to tough conditions.
We Greens stand for the strengthening and further development of reliable and high-quality public goods and institutions.
We know how important it is to strengthen the political steering ability of local authorities, transparency
and ensure democratic control when it comes to the future of services of general interest.
We support cities and municipalities that want to provide their own services again.
To this end, we want to secure the economic activities of municipalities and promote inter-municipal cooperation.
One way could be the formation of regional districts, in which the core city forms a territorial unit with the surrounding districts.
In recent years, services of general interest ranging from water supply to waste disposal have often been transferred to private companies owned by municipalities or with the participation of private capital.
This undermines the municipal policy principles of transparency and control by the municipal council.
Public participation is made virtually impossible in key areas of public service.
That is why we are calling for public supervisory board meetings and information obligations for municipal public companies as well.
Although municipalities can, in principle, base their procurement on environmental and social criteria, procurement practice often fails to take full advantage of these legal options.
The decision is often still made in favor of the cheapest offer, even though there would be more economical alternatives if the entire life cycle were considered.
We therefore want to examine how dumping bids can be excluded from the award procedure automatically and with legal certainty.
The financial situation of the municipalities must be improved overall.
The most important measure is a municipal finance reform that ensures that municipalities are provided with the financial resources they need in line with their tasks in the Basic Law.
We call for the preservation of the trade tax, the further development of a municipal business tax and a reform of the property tax.
To this end, we have discussed a model according to which property tax is to be calculated on the basis of current, flat-rate market values.
For us Greens, the guard rails are: constitutionally sound, fair taxation without ecological disincentives.
The right to levy taxes lies with the municipalities.
5. promote regions in a needs-based and sustainable manner
We stand for a policy of solidarity that strengthens weakened structures and helps lagging regions to rebuild.
Much has been achieved in eastern Germany.
The people there have achieved great things in a difficult transformation process.
But economic financial strength is still lower than in the old states.
Solidarity-based support will be necessary for a long time to come, but the Solidarity Pact II expires in 2019.
We believe that the right way forward is to support municipalities in structurally weak regions as required.
All municipalities are facing major challenges in the wake of the debt brake.
The crisis has hit structurally weak regions particularly hard, which are already under considerable pressure due to demographic change.
Many of these municipalities in the new federal states, but also in the old ones, cannot solve these problems on their own.
In particular, they need help with the repayment of old debts.
In addition to individual regions in the west - including and especially in rural areas - eastern Germany is affected across the board by the most diverse effects of demographic development and must deal with them.
These processes are taking place at an accelerated pace and on a considerable scale in the East.
In addition to the political will to enable a good life in rural areas, economically intelligent solutions are required here.
Decentralization and subsidiarity are important basic principles for us.
We will put the current funding structure to the test, also with a view to sustainability criteria.
We encourage municipalities, regions and countries to buy fair trade and organic products.
With the help of grants and regional funds, the various actors from a region can work together and jointly strengthen the opportunities of their region.
We want to keep the added value in the region; for example, through a regional seal.
The sustainable management and maintenance of our diverse cultural landscape is important to the people of the region.
Tourism also benefits from this and should therefore make a contribution.
6 Cooperative federalism
We strengthen cooperation between the federal levels without curtailing the decision-making freedom of the states and municipalities.
The opposite is the case.
Only through cooperation in a spirit of partnership can local politics do justice to its task and positively shape the reality of people's lives.
Interest payments on the accumulated debt place a considerable burden on state and local governments.
We want to relieve their burden with an old debt redemption fund so that everyone has a chance to comply with the debt brake.
Negotiations on financial relations between the federal, state and local governments are tricky.
The current distribution of funds resembles a confusing patchwork quilt, and this entanglement of revenue sources prevents municipalities from meaningfully addressing the structural funding gap.
We want to combine the reorganization of the Länder fiscal equalization system for the period after 2019 with a Federalism Reform III.
In this, we will also include the other financial flows between the federal and state governments as well as the financial situation of the municipalities.
In addition, we want to ensure that the fiscal equalization system for the federal states is based on need, fair, incentive-compatible and solidarity-based.
Efforts for additional revenue, efficiency and savings must be worthwhile for all states.
One thing is already clear to us: the Basic Law must once again allow for joint action by the federal, state and local governments.
We have long advocated abolishing the ban on cooperation in education and expanding opportunities for cooperation in science.
The states and municipalities simply do not have the financial resources to meet the national challenges of the necessary educational awakening with good all-day schools.
It is time to enable more cooperation.
Whoever votes GREEN ...
provides affordable and climate-friendly housing.
develops green and livable cities, communities and rural areas.
gives local authorities back their ability to act.
promotes regions in a sustainable and needs-based manner.
stands for cooperative federalism.
Key projects
Enabling Affordable Housing - Thinking Together on Social Tenancy Law, Housing for the Common Good and Energy Modernization
Rapidly rising rents are becoming an ever greater problem in our cities.
We want to take action against this and stop the displacement of people from their neighborhoods.
We will impose stricter limits on the regular increase in the local comparative rent.
In the event of a housing shortage, we want to allow caps on reletting rents.
We provide better support to the federal states for social housing construction.
We will reduce rent increases due to modernization to a maximum of 9% and limit them to the removal of barriers and energy modernization.
With targeted subsidies and a climate subsidy in addition to the housing allowance, we are reducing the costs of energy-efficient modernization.
In this way, we create housing quality and affordable housing that is fit for the energy transition.
Making cities and communities fit for the future - giving urban development funding new impetus
Urban development programs have been slashed, although many countries envy us for this.
This is because it allows municipalities to invest in order to expand their infrastructure.
That is why we want to gradually increase the funding for this program again.
In this context, we are focusing in particular on the Socially Integrative City program to strengthen socially disadvantaged neighborhoods and on promoting urban redevelopment in communities with vacant housing and brownfield sites.
We also want to include energy-efficient neighborhood redevelopment.
This gives municipalities more freedom and flexibility in the use of funds.
This will enable us to better align the infrastructure of our cities with participation and the energy transition.
Strengthening municipal finances - federal support for housing costs
The financial situation of many municipalities is so dramatic that there is no room for maneuver on the ground.
Nevertheless, we must enable the participation of all everywhere.
To this end, we are creating a fair deal for the cities and municipalities in that in the future, additional federal tasks for the municipalities must always be covered by additional funds from the federal government.
We also relieve the municipalities of the current costs of rents for ALG-II recipients.
The federal government is to provide an additional 1 billion euros for this purpose in the future.
In this way, we support local authorities in implementing a fair social policy based on solidarity.
R. Our common Europe
Why Europe is our future
The European Union is much more than just a common economic and monetary area.
The EU of 28 member countries is a place of freedom and diversity, peace and democracy.
The EU has overcome centuries of antagonism and created a historically unique peace within Europe.
That's why it rightly won the Nobel Peace Prize last year.
Without a doubt, there is much that can and must be criticized with regard to the EU, and there is also much that can be improved.
However, European policy does not only take place in distant Brussels, but starts with local politics and runs through all political areas from environmental protection to consumer protection.
European policy is domestic policy, and the Bundestag election is therefore also an important decision about the future of Europe.
To continue building the unfinished European project in a more just, social and sustainable way, the right political majorities are needed.
The EU is currently in a deep identity crisis, but Europe is our future.
Let's shape it together.
Many citizens, including those in Germany, no longer have the expectation that the EU will automatically bring them prosperity and security in a globalized world.
Politicians often blame the Brussels Commission; some black-yellow politicians are all too happy to give the impression that only a German Europe is needed or that our country would even be better off going it alone to solve all the problems.
Still others, such as Angela Merkel, want to strengthen the national level and would prefer to negotiate everything in back rooms among the 28 heads of state and government.
But we know, as do the vast majority of Germany's citizens, that a return to national go-it-alone is possible only at the cost of extreme social, economic and political dangers.
We say "Yes" to Europe and are committed to a Europe of the citizens.
Let's get involved for a democratic Europe!
We Greens are committed to a common Europe in which parliaments and European civil society participate transparently and actively in decision-making, because no political decision is sustainable in the long term without democratic legitimacy.
We want the EU to become a credible advocate of civil and human rights both within and outside its borders.
and peace.
This is and remains a historic obligation for Europe in the 21st century.
Let us commit ourselves to a Europe of solidarity!
We Greens are committed to an EU that is capable of action and confidently stands up to the global players on the financial markets.
This will enable young people in southern Europe, for whom the financial crisis has become a real catastrophe, to participate in the achievements of the European welfare state.
Let's fight for a just Europe!
The unilateral and unsolidary policy of cuts under the leadership of the black-yellow federal government has led to the economic crisis in the southern European countries becoming even worse.
Unemployment - especially among young people - is growing to an unbearable level
, and more and more people are being driven into poverty and existential insecurity.
Health care in Greece is collapsing.
A green-minded federal government will not accept that savings are made on the backs of the poorest.
And let's create a European future!
We Greens want to use the upcoming federal elections to advance policy change in Europe as well.
The complete deselection of the black-yellow coalition is an important step toward beginning a new phase of European integration that brings together more closely what can only be done together at the European level,
without forgetting subsidiarity.
We want to make the EU a pioneer in peaceful neighborliness,
in climate protection
and in sustainable management,
and expand its pioneering role in terms of equality between women and men.
We are fighting together with all citizens to make things fairer again in Germany, Europe and the world.
1. for a european germany
Around Europe, the world does not stand still.
But it also doesn't revolve around Europe as much as it used to.
Europe's role in the world is changing.
Europe must find its responsibility anew.
The rule is: Europe wins together - or loses.
In times of globalization, in the face of finite resources and a climate catastrophe whose extent is becoming increasingly clear, no European nation state can solve the problems on its own.
This can only be done together - with the EU and with strong democratic European institutions.
Germany also benefits economically from a strong EU.
60% of German exports go to other EU member states.
Without the strength of the domestic market, German competitiveness would be almost impossible to secure internationally.
For economic self-interest alone, Germany must not leave Europe's southern member states hanging.
But Germany is in no way living up to its role as the largest and economically strongest EU member state in political terms.
Since the beginning of the financial and sovereign debt crisis, Chancellor Merkel blocked or delayed necessary reform steps and unilaterally relied on "save, save and save again" instead of finding a balance in a policy of solidity, solidarity and sustainability.
In doing so, it has exacerbated the crisis and multiplied the financial risks of European taxpayers.
Instead, we Greens promote a European Germany within an economic and solidarity union.
We have already described this in detail in the chapter "Doing business differently".
In addition, the EU needs a strengthened budget that takes into account the Union's growing tasks.
We need a clear prioritization that strengthens spending in areas with European added value.
We do not want large agro-industrial farms or a senseless project like the fusion reactor ITER to be subsidized with billions, while more and more small farms have to give up or too few funds are available for the Erasmus program.
In the spirit of budgetary subsidiarity, the EU must set its priorities where it can spend money better and more efficiently than the individual member states.
The share of own resources must be significantly expanded and the non-transparent rebate regulations abolished.
Member states must deliver on their commitments and provide the EU with the appropriate funding to end the worsening payments crisis and avoid the threat of default on EU funding programs.
Schengen and the associated freedom of travel are central pillars of the EU and must be protected from populist propaganda by the black-yellow coalition.
Member states may not restrict the freedom to travel on their own.
We Greens want the reintroduction of border controls in the Schengen area to remain a last resort and to be decided and reviewed only jointly at the European level; increased immigration is definitely not a reason for us to close internal borders.
Equally important to us is the preservation of the free movement of workers in the EU.
We do not take part in the black-yellow populism against people from Central Europe.
We particularly reject discrimination against Roma.
All EU citizens, regardless of their origin or ethnicity, should continue to have the opportunity to look for work in another EU country.
Challenges such as massive poverty and unemployment, discrimination or corruption must be addressed jointly at European level and in cooperation with the relevant national and regional actors,
instead of curtailing key rights of EU citizens.
Contrary to the position of other parties, for us Greens the enlargement of the European Union is not complete.
We stand by the Thessaloniki enlargement agenda and want to integrate all Western Balkan states into the EU without changing their borders.
For us, enlargement policy is a success story - even if mistakes were made in the past.
That is why we support the demand that the accession of each individual country be made dependent on the concrete progress in the accession process.
Thus, enlargement policy is an instrument for peace and stability, but also for the rule of law, civil liberties, democracy, social standards and environmental protection on the continent of Europe.
Partners in this process are above all civil society and progressive actors, who need to be supported even more.
In the Western Balkans, however, the new procedures may mean that the very states that suffered most from the wars of the last decade of the 20th century are still the furthest away from EU accession.
Therefore, we want to establish new transition procedures so as not to create new insurmountable borders in the middle of the region.
The European Union, 50 years after the relevant association agreement, must finally ensure new momentum in the accession negotiations with Turkey.
These must be conducted fairly, results-oriented and at eye level.
For us, the focus here is on democracy and human rights on the ground.
There are still deficits in Turkey, for example in the case of freedom of the press, women's rights and the protection of minorities.
However, it is precisely a serious accession process that promises the most reform success.
There must be no cutbacks in the existing criteria.
The goal of the negotiations is accession as soon as these criteria are met.
We do not want to make membership of the EU dependent on religious identities.
Regardless, the EU must become more active in shaping its neighborhood policy.
People in the states to the east of the EU and in the Mediterranean region must also be given the opportunity to live in dignity in a democratic state governed by the rule of law.
The democratic reform efforts in North Africa and the Arab world should be supported by the European Union within the framework of its neighborhood policy.
We want Germany to work towards facilitating the issuing of visas, market access and labor migration and to promote exchange in the areas of education, sport and culture with this region.
The liberalization of European and German visa policies is a crucial key to stimulating reform and social change outside the European Union.
That is why we are also campaigning for further support for democratic reform efforts in the states to the east of the
EU and want Germany to lobby within the EU for a general review of visa requirements for individual states and, in particular, to work to ensure that visa requirements for people from the Eastern Partnership countries, Russia, Kosovo and Turkey are lifted quickly.
In principle, we stand for a strong common European foreign and human rights policy.
2. for a democratic europe
Our answer to the "Europe of national governments" is a strengthened European democracy, whose path is worked out transparently and with the citizens.
European democracy is often described as consisting only of a democratic deficit.
This distorted image also thrives on the polemics of those who regularly blame "Europe" for everything that goes wrong, when in fact this never happens without the participation of the nation states.
But there are indeed democratic deficits.
One is - at the national level; it consists in the non-transparent European policy of governments that try to evade parliamentary control.
However, the Bundestag has already pushed through many improvements here - particularly at the instigation of the Greens.
A second democratic deficit arises from the intergovernmental approach to more European cooperation pursued by the German government in particular, which deprives the European Parliament of its oversight responsibility.
The institutionalization of the Euro group at the expense of democratic institutions also works in this direction.
As a matter of principle, the community method must be given priority over intergovernmental action.
As in the past, it may be necessary to temporarily develop different speeds of integration in individual cases.
It is important that the institutions and rules of Community law are the framework of cooperation.
Our Green strategy for more democracy in the EU relies on a strong alliance of parliaments at all levels - and on the active involvement of Europeans.
That is why we have advocated the introduction of the European Citizens' Initiative from the outset.
We want to strengthen this further and develop it in the medium term in the direction of a European referendum.
In terms of institutional development, we are building on a public European Convention on the future of the EU.
But it must not degenerate into a circle of experts.
Instead, under the chairmanship of the European Parliament, representatives of the EU Commission, national parliaments and governments as well as civil society and social partners should meet to work out the constitution of the European Union from the point of view of a more effective and more broadly legitimized mode of operation, in particular on institutional issues as well as in the areas of economy, budget, finance, social affairs and democracy.
The Convention must reflect society in its composition of participants.
In order to ensure the co-determination of European citizens at all political levels, we want to expand European citizenship.
We advocate that all EU citizens be granted the right to vote in the member state in which they have their permanent residence, not only for local parliaments and the European Parliament, but also in regional and national elections if they have lived there for five years.
The European Parliament should finally be given the right to propose its own legislative initiatives and to elect the President of the EU Commission.
Thus, it is to become the central place of debate and decision-making in European politics and must be given full co-decision rights in all policy areas.
If the EU is to be given more competences, this must be accompanied by more control rights for the European Parliament.
Where the ECB acts as a banking supervisor, the democratic accountability of the ECB to the European Parliament must be increased.
Parliament must be given a say in crisis mechanisms and economic governance.
In the future, the parties are to nominate top candidates in European elections, among whom the EU Commission President is to be chosen after the election according to their results.
We are thus also advocating greater personalization of the European election.
In addition to the nationally determined candidates, a part of the deputies should therefore be elected via transnational lists.
Strong rules must also be introduced to increase the transparency of the European institutions and curb the great influence of the corporate lobby in Brussels.
However, there is more to a democratic Europe than reforms of the way the European Union works.
Far too often, the EU has acted like a paper tiger when human rights have been violated in member countries and, for example, freedom of the press has been systematically restricted or Roma have been discriminated against in the worst way.
The Commission should therefore use much more often the existing possibilities to freeze funds when member countries violate elementary values of the Union.
Moreover, this possibility should be extended to all parts of the Union budget.
Instead of continually upgrading the EU's external borders and tacitly tolerating the fact that thousands of refugees drown in the Mediterranean on their way to the EU every year, we want to focus our foreign and development policy actions more strongly on combating the social, economic and ecological causes of flight and displacement.
For example, by simplifying financial transfers ("remittances") and the possibility of positively influencing the local economic situation by staying in the country of origin for a longer period of time without having to accept the consequences under residence law.
We want to create a fair asylum system
and enable legal immigration.
FRONTEX does not provide this.
That is why we are calling for a fresh institutional start.
We want a common EU border policy that upholds Europe's legal standards, guarantees human rights, enforces the right to asylum,
rescues refugees from distress at sea,
and is controlled by the European Parliament.
We therefore also reject cost-intensive proposals such as Eurosur and "smart borders", which cement the isolation of the EU and are highly questionable on data and human rights grounds.
We also want to abolish the regulation according to which refugees can only be accepted in those EU states in which they arrived first (Dublin II agreement).
Refugees should decide for themselves where to apply for asylum.
We also need uniform, high asylum standards in all member countries.
We will initiate a roadmap in Brussels for an EU-wide solidarity-based asylum system, with which all member states assume equal responsibility and which enables refugees to live in dignity throughout Europe.
In addition, the protection of environmental and climate refugees needs to be legally anchored in the EU and globally, building on existing local and regional initiatives as well as resolutions of the international community at the UN level.
A democratic Europe needs a strong and vibrant civil society.
With a voluntary European Year for all - for young people as well as for older people - we can further strengthen a European civil society and bring everyone along.
Therefore, we call for a comprehensive expansion of a European voluntary service for all generations, supported by civil society organizations, and a good basic financial endowment through public funds.
3. for a European energy transition
The German decision to phase out nuclear power does not mean that the risks of nuclear technology have been banished.
The German government must advocate an EU-wide nuclear phase-out.
It must use its options to prevent the construction of new nuclear power plants and identify energy policy alternatives.
As long as nuclear power plants are still in operation in the EU, binding safety standards based on the state of the art in science and technology must apply to all of them.
The German government has a duty to inform citizens about new nuclear power plant construction projects in neighboring states close to the border and to represent objections of the population to the neighboring states.
The German energy turnaround is intended to give Europe an ecologically innovative impetus.
For this to happen, however, it must also be well integrated into the overall European energy landscape.
To achieve this, we need a European energy infrastructure
, functioning emissions trading,
an integrated European energy market with functioning competition,
and a European industrial policy that consistently focuses on low CO2 emissions.
We are committed to comprehensive European investment in the use of solar and wind energy and the promotion of energy efficiency and conservation, especially in the southern European regions hard hit by the euro crisis.
At the same time, we want to create sustainable fields of employment with a European-driven energy turnaround.
The large-scale subsidization of fossil and nuclear energy sources must also be ended.
The German energy turnaround needs the European level to work, and for the energy turnaround in the EU we finally need a German government that is committed to representing the transformation of the energy sector at the EU level as well.
The member states of the EU paid more than 400 billion US dollars for the import of crude oil in 2011 alone.
At the same time, the ambition to expand renewables and increase energy efficiency has evaporated.
In climate protection, too, there can hardly be any talk of a European pioneering role.
The EU's policy of not exceeding the target of 2 degrees global warming has long since degenerated into a farce.
Despite all the risks, a political majority of conservatives, socialists and liberals is sticking to the old energy mix based on the high-risk technology of nuclear power and dirty coal.
Instead of continuing to chase the old concepts and lobby interests, we want a Europe built on energy saving, energy efficiency and renewable energies.
This will enable us to promote environmental protection and nature conservation throughout Europe,
cushion energy poverty,
become independent of increasingly expensive fossil fuels, and
create the necessary incentives for technical innovations and
thus new jobs as part of our European Green New Deal.
In addition, better coordination of the European grid structure is one way to balance the fluctuations of renewable energies.
However, we will not achieve this with business as usual.
That is why we advocate a European Community for Renewable Energy (ERENE).
In addition, the EU's neighboring countries, and in particular the accession candidates, should also be involved in the restructuring of energy systems.
We also want to increase the current target of reducing EU-wide CO2 emissions by 20% by 2020 to at least 30% in the run-up to the upcoming UN Climate Summit in Warsaw in 2013.
We also advocate the abolition of Euratom.
As long as there is no majority for the abolition of the Euratom Treaty, we advocate a reform of Euratom and a transfer to the TEU in order to finally subject Euratom to democratic control.
4. for a social Europe of the citizens
One of the biggest scandals in Europe today is the rampant youth unemployment in many member countries.
In Spain and Greece, more than 50% of the best-educated generation these countries have ever known has been unemployed for some time.
At the European level, we Greens have therefore campaigned for a youth guarantee to be offered employment, apprenticeships or further training after a maximum of four months of unemployment.
However, we cannot leave it up to the individual countries to implement them - and above all to finance them.
After all, those who need such a guarantee the most have the fewest resources at their disposal.
The newly established EU-funded special fund, which will be used in regions with very high youth unemployment, is a first step, but it is not enough.
In solidarity with member states, the fund should be maintained and, if necessary, increased until there is a significant and sustained decline in youth unemployment.
European unification fundamentally thrives on the fact that the people, the regions and the states in Europe stand up for each other.
The fundamental principle of European solidarity and common social protection is of particular importance in the current crisis.
In view of the widening gap between rich and poor throughout Europe, it is not enough to just turn the national wheel!
Europe today suffers from undercutting competitions in wages, taxes and social standards.
That is why we want to introduce a social progress clause in EU primary law that strikes a stronger balance against the basic freedoms of the market.
We also want to reduce the poverty gap,
mitigate the income gap between member states
and minimize the wage gap between women and men.
For us, a social Europe also includes common minimum social standards, such as a minimum wage and a basic income based on national GDP,
as well as the right to good health care.
Particularly at a time when more and more people are working in different EU member states during their working lives, we want to achieve improved recognition of pension and unemployment entitlements
and ensure that good healthcare is not just a privilege of a few.
We stand for a different - a fair - European tax policy that curbs the tax race within Europe and prevents tax avoidance, tax evasion and tax dumping.
We have described this in great detail in the chapter "Better budgeting - Ecologically, fairly and economically sensible: green tax policy".
Also in view of the crisis in the euro countries, we want a fundamental departure from the Merkel government's course, which only leads to more injustice.
We have described in great detail what we want to do differently in the chapter "Doing business differently - overcoming the crisis".
In this way, unsustainable economic developments in the form of a so-called boom or a recession threatening the foundations of social cohesion could be mitigated to mutual benefit.
In contrast to the German government, we in Europe are open to further development of innovative models and are bringing new concepts to the table to avert the threat of crisis.
5. for decisions at the right level
For us, more courage for Europe means resolutely moving forward at EU level where joint action is necessary and makes sense.
But for us, more Europe does not mean that the EU or even Brussels should regulate everything in the future.
We want the decision to be made by the level that can best act on the challenge at hand, close to the people and with the greatest legitimacy.
For us, a strong Europe is neither in competition with nor in contradiction to capable municipalities, regions, (federal) states and nation states.
Rather, what matters is that the different levels work together.
In practice, this means that the European institutions should involve all political levels in their own legislation much more strongly and at an earlier stage than in the past by means of consultation and influence rights.
The same applies to the national level, which in many cases implements European requirements in national legislation and helps determine the criteria for the allocation of EU funds.
This also means that competence shifting is not a one-way street.
Just as in many areas it makes sense to shift more sovereignty to Europe, some areas are better regulated nationally, regionally or locally.
That is why we are fundamentally in favor of returning competencies to lower levels if it seems objectively sensible - this is also part of the principle of subsidiarity.
Whoever votes GREEN ...
9 fights with us for a Europe of solidarity
and a European youth guarantee.
9 stands up for maintaining a credible accession perspective for the Western Balkans and Turkey.
9 deepens a democratic Europe that allows citizens to participate and in
which the European Parliament plays a strong role.
9 says yes to a Europe of renewable energies and climate protection.
9 advocates better protection for refugees and migrants and
for human rights to be respected at theEU 's external borders.
9 supports a policy that does not want a German Europe, but a European Germany.
Key projects
For a democratic Europe that is close to its citizens - further developing the European Citizens' Initiative and convening a European Convention
The European Union has some catching up to do in terms of democracy.
We want to strengthen the dialogue in and about Europe and our common future.
This includes more intensive citizen participation and a broad social debate throughout Europe.
Important European issues must not be worked out in the backrooms of national heads of state and government.
We are therefore committed to strengthening the European Parliament
and the national parliaments.
To this end, we call for a Europeanized and personalized election campaign for the European Parliament, as well as more rights for citizens to have their say.
We also want to expand the European Citizens' Initiative and develop it further in the medium term in the direction of a European referendum.
As a further step, we want to discuss proposals for the further development of the EU in a public, parliamentary European Convention with the participation of civil society and social partners under the leadership of the European Parliament.
For a Europe of Solidarity - Combating Tax Avoidance and Tax Evasion with a European Tax Pact
It is not enough to respond to the widening gap between rich and poor throughout Europe at the national level alone; we must also react at the European level.
For a more social Europe, we need not only solidarity between the regions, but above all measures to ensure that the financially strong cannot use the free internal market to escape from common solidarity.
As a result of tax dumping and tax evasion, the public coffers in Europe lose around one trillion euros every year.
We want to put an end to undercutting competition on wages, taxes and social standards.
For this, we need common European regulations, such as minimum social standards, a social progress clause and a European fiscal pact.
The tax pact consists of an EU-wide coordinated wealth tax and a common tax base as well as a minimum rate for corporate taxation and a minimum rate for corporate income tax.
Another key task is to finally close Europe's tax havens.
We are also pushing ahead with taxing resources, for example by raising energy taxes.
For a humane Europe - establishing an asylum policy based on solidarity in all member states
European refugee and asylum policy is repressive, lacks solidarity and is geared towards isolation.
The shunting yard and the one-sided responsibility for European refugees at the expense of Greece and other EU Mediterranean countries cemented by the Dublin system lead to different standards and must therefore be stopped.
We want Germany to set a good example in Europe by immediately abolishing detention pending deportation for Dublin refugees in Germany,
stop to the deportation of refugees to EU countries where they live under undignified conditions and are locked up in closed shelters like criminals,
with the solidary acceptance of asylum seekers from European refugee strongholds,
and with greater participation in the EU's resettlement program.
We will also initiate a roadmap in Brussels for an EU-wide solidarity-based asylum system, with which all member states assume equal responsibility and which enables refugees to live in dignity throughout Europe.
S. Our One World
How we can strengthen peace and human rights, freedom and global justice
People, not the state, are at the center of our green international policy.
Whether climate crisis or resource crisis, whether hunger or financial crisis, whether disintegrating states or armament.
None of these issues, along with the dangers they pose, can be addressed today by any one country alone.
Peace, justice, freedom and the protection of global public goods are equally due to all people and can only be achieved together.
Safeguarding human rights and preventing the most serious human rights violations are a particular priority for us.
The earth's goods and wealth are still extremely unequally distributed.
Still one part of mankind lives at the expense of the other.
Hundreds of people still die every day in armed conflicts around the world.
The brutal civil war in Syria has almost disappeared from the public consciousness, and even more so acts of violence and conflicts in Congo, Central Africa, Iraq or Libya.
Injustice, exploitation, war, hunger, brutal environmental destruction and the devastating consequences of the climate catastrophe, especially for the poorest regions and above all to the detriment of women - all this is by no means a thing of the past, but characterizes the present.
Rich and poor are drifting dramatically apart worldwide.
We want to achieve a fairer distribution of wealth in the world.
We in the industrialized countries must live up to our responsibility and stop living at the expense of the poor.
We have to tackle the change together with our partners.
Think globally - act locally: Global justice cannot be achieved without the participation of citizens.
That is why we want to raise awareness of global cooperation through development education and municipal North-South partnerships.
This involves responding to world population growth, urbanization or a rapidly expanding global middle class and the associated consumption-oriented lifestyles worldwide.
We want the international community to address these challenges with shared but differentiated responsibilities.
Nothing less than a fundamental restructuring of the global economy is at stake,
to reassess the relationship between economy and ecology,
of market-driven dynamics and political regulation,
of resource-conserving production
and fair distribution between the sexes.
It's about a "major transformation."
The fall of authoritarian regimes in North Africa, protests against tyrannies, especially in the Arab world, and famine and natural disasters in countries with fragile statehood are forcing German and European policymakers to fundamentally question their previous principles.
Economic interests and supposed stability were often defined as important goals before the promotion of democracy and human rights, and alliances with authoritarian regimes were also entered into for this purpose.
The fact that the coalition government is continuing this policy by supplying arms to Saudi Arabia and other authoritarian states is as scandalous as it is irresponsible.
And it is the opposite of a values-based foreign and security policy based on the protection and promotion of human rights.
It is about strengthening civil conflict transformation to address the root causes of violence.
For us, peaceful and civil means always take precedence over military ones.
Our fundamental peace policy convictions are based on the strengthening of the law rather than the law of the strongest,
on the management of crises through strengthened United Nations
and on the non-violent resolution of conflicts.
Our compass is peace
and the protection of human rights.
We want Germany to live up to its global responsibility as a reliable player.
New forms of international cooperation with states
and the increasingly internationally networked civil society at all levels.
To this end, the states and municipalities must also be given greater support in fulfilling their responsibilities.
Transnationally active companies must be integrated into the global transformation and bound by clear rules to comply with social, ecological and human rights standards.
Such rules can no longer be thought of only nationally, but must also be anchored globally in a globalized economy.
We oppose a policy of renationalization of foreign and development policy, as currently pursued by the coalition government.
The German government is unilaterally focusing on short-term national interests instead of a long-term equitable shaping of globalization in which everyone can participate equally and from which everyone benefits.
For us, this means creating the conditions now for a future in which fair world trade,
better climate protection
and strong democratic international institutions become a reality.
That is why we are committed to a climate-neutral and resource-conserving economy, without which there can be no promise of prosperity for all.
That is why we are helping to organize world trade fairly.
And that is why we are strengthening and improving our development cooperation.
We will intervene for global justice
and the protection of universal human rights, which explicitly include women's rights,
for the strengthening of civil crisis prevention and conflict management,
and against arms exports.
No one should live at the expense of others, all people have the right to peace, development, freedom and dignity.
This is what we mean by global justice and participation for all.
1. the great transformation: a world sets out on its journey
We want to shape globalization - politically, ecologically and socially.
The financial and climate crises have once again exposed the dramatic excesses of global capitalism with unregulated markets.
We need a socio-ecological transformation that transforms our carbon-based economic system into a resource-efficient sustainability economy.
To do this, we must regain the primacy of politics over unregulated markets.
Markets need rules to serve the common good.
Only in this way is prosperity possible for the growing world population and does economic growth not lead to collapse.
The consequences of climate change are already affecting large parts of the world's population.
The effects are dramatic in some cases:
The change in climatic conditions and the increase in natural disasters not only cause considerable material damage - people have to flee, development opportunities are destroyed and human rights are violated.
As an industrialized nation, we must move decisively to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by at least 80 to 95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels.
To support emerging and developing countries in their efforts to adapt to climate change and protect the climate, we want to provide technology transfer and the necessary know-how.
The costs of adapting to climate change must be shared equitably.
The Green Climate Fund (GKF) is to play a decisive role in this regard and in providing support for CO2 reduction.
In view of the 150 million climate refugees estimated by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change in 2050, we advocate for more climate justice as part of an external climate policy.
The wealth of raw materials in a country must not be allowed to become a raw material curse for its population.
Raw material extraction is all too often accompanied by massive human rights violations and environmental pollution.
That is why, in times of dwindling resources and resulting conflicts all over the world, we need to rethink and drastically reduce our consumption of raw materials - in Germany and internationally.
We advocate binding social, environmental and human rights standards for the extraction, processing and trading of raw materials, as well as transparency in the raw materials sector.
We need a realignment of international trade policy according to ecological and social standards.
Bilateral free trade agreements, such as those currently being negotiated or sought by the EU with various countries, must in future be designed in such a way that they promote development
and human rights.
In principle, we strive for a multilateral trade order.
In concrete terms, this means, for example, abolishing EU export subsidies and shaping EU agricultural policy in such a way that dumping prices for food do not ruin markets in developing countries.
At the same time, products from developing countries need non-discriminatory access to the European market.
This also means reviewing and renegotiating EU fisheries agreements for environmental and social impacts.
We need international agreements that lead to fair prices for agricultural products and raw materials, as well as policies that promote local production of goods in developing countries.
We also support these trade policy goals through a sustainable and fair public procurement policy.
For global tax justice and for the financing of public goods, we are working to close tax havens and force globally active companies to pay taxes where they produce and make profits.
Forest protection in developing and newly industrializing countries means not only climate protection, but also safeguarding the livelihoods of local population groups.
That is why we are committed to agreeing on a global program to stop the degradation and destruction of forests in developing and emerging countries,
and to ratifying and implementing ILO Convention 169 to strengthen the rights of indigenous peoples.
International drug policy must also be coherently evaluated and realigned according to social, environmental and human rights criteria.
For until now, it has been promoting organized crime and thus contributing, among other things, to the destabilization of states and world regions.
We support the initiative of the Global Commission on Drugs, which calls for an end to the devastating prohibition policy.
We want to strengthen the human rights responsibility of companies by not only hoping for voluntary commitments, but by developing binding regulations that define this responsibility.
This includes disclosure requirements according to strong social and environmental criteria.
The public must be able to understand how much a company pays its seamstresses in Bangladesh or how it disposes of contaminated water in the Congo.
This also includes new liability regulations.
And this includes better legal action options in Germany and the EU for victims of serious human rights violations caused by German or European companies.
The necessary socio-ecological transformation must be the task of the entire federal government.
It is unacceptable that arms exports continue to run counter to peace efforts,
climate-damaging subsidies paid
or efforts to overcome poverty and hunger in developing countries are thwarted by export offensives.
We are committed to new policy coherence for peace,
Democracy
and human rights-based sustainable development.
To this end, we want government-wide target agreements, more competence for networked governance, the strengthening of departmental circles, better coordination of foreign policy by the Foreign Office and the coordination of development cooperation and all development funds by the Development Ministry.
At the same time, a cross-party debate is needed to address the contradictions of German governance.
We want to initiate this debate in the 18th legislative period through an Enquete Commission on "Coherence in a Changing World," which will take critical stock and propose changes - also for the working structures of the federal government and the Bundestag in the European and international context.
2. a world of justice
We see development policy as part of a global structural policy aimed at worldwide human rights-based sustainable development.
It mobilizes and supports individuals and political actors, civil society and business, science and culture for the global socio-ecological transformation.
We want all people to be able to live in peace and dignity.
That is why we want and need to fight poverty and inequality more consistently in the future, both in the poorest, often fragile states and in middle-income countries, where two-thirds of the poorest people live.
To this end, we will step up our efforts to achieve the Millennium Development Goals by 2015.
At the same time, we are working to bring the development and environmental agendas together to continue to fight for social-ecological transformation with strong, global sustainability goals starting in 2015.
Years ago, Germany committed to allocating 0.7% of its gross national income to development and humanitarian aid.
We are still a long way from this goal.
To achieve it, we will maintain a clear spending focus on global justice, despite all the financial challenges.
We will provide an additional 1.2 billion euros annually for development cooperation and 500 million euros for international climate protection.
We want to use new financing instruments, such as the revenue from the financial transaction tax and an increased air ticket levy.
We want to reach the 0.7% target by the end of the next legislative period.
We want to shape a sustainable development policy that reconciles the eradication of poverty with the strengthening of human rights and the protection of the environment and biodiversity.
The Ministry of Development must adapt to global challenges and should become a ministry for international cooperation and sustainable development.
Development policy must reorient itself in the face of global challenges.
To promote peacebuilding, we want to engage more coherently in fragile states and expand our development cooperation with these countries.
Conflicts must be defused before they escalate and lead to violence.
We want good work for the global social turnaround
and the expansion of social security systems and basic services as a focus of our development cooperation in order to ensure the human right to water, education and health, among other things, and thus also to advance the fight against HIV/AIDS.
For the global agricultural transition, we are putting the right to food at the center, with a focus on smallholder agriculture and livestock, artisanal fisheries, and the landless.
And to accelerate the global energy transition, we are fighting against energy poverty
and for renewable energy for all, including through large-scale knowledge and technology transfer.
Development needs debt relief!
Debt relief initiatives and the cancellation of illegitimate debts in particular are essential for an economic new start for the poorest countries.
We advocate the creation of an international insolvency law for states in order to free over-indebted countries from the debt spiral in the long term.
But we don't just need more money in development cooperation; we also want to use development cooperation funds more efficiently than before.
People in Germany should know how their tax money is being used to fight poverty.
That is why we want more joint and more transparent development programs in the EU and the UN, with responsible involvement of our partner countries and civil society.
This also includes further developing and expanding the instrument of budget support, i.e. direct support for the public budgets of developing countries.
Budget support must be tied to clear criteria in the area of human rights and good governance.
At the same time, our policies must become more coherent.
All other policies affecting developing countries need to be assessed to see if they get in the way of development policy goals.
We are taking a stand against the renationalization of development cooperation pushed through by the coalition government of the two parties.
That is why we are in favor of abolishing the 1/3 : 2/3 quota for the ratio of European and multilateral to bilateral cooperation.
Because global problems can no longer be solved by individual states alone, we want to see a significant strengthening of multilateral cooperation in order to achieve greater impact for development with the EU and the UN.
A key objective of development cooperation is the political participation of the people in the partner countries.
We want to support people in their abilities to claim and realize their rights.
Poverty and violence are not gender neutral.
Women are repeatedly the victims of targeted and strategically used sexualized violence in conflicts and are particularly affected by disenfranchisement, discrimination and exploitation.
Structural causes such as power differentials and dominance relations, lack of rights and insufficient access to resources, and lack of political participation by women block a gender-equal society worldwide.
Therefore, strategies that aim to overcome poverty and violence must aim to strengthen the rights of women and girls, increase their (access) opportunities and reduce gender power inequalities.
We stand against discrimination against gays, lesbians and bi- and transsexual people and
will promote more tolerance with the help of civil society on the ground, especially in countries where sexual minorities are subject to violent attacks.
The empowerment and participation of women in the sense of UN Resolution 1325 is of particular importance here.
The resolution calls on parties to the conflict to protect women's rights
and to include women on an equal footing in peace negotiations, conflict mediation and reconstruction.
We want to encourage and strengthen the state institutions of partner countries to recognize and fulfill their human rights obligations to their populations.
Because poverty is not gender-neutral, we are increasing the use of development funds for better education and equal opportunities for women and girls.
Hunger is not a fate, but a consequence of policy failures.
Above all, there is a lack of equity in access and distribution.
We are pursuing a coherent, interdepartmental strategy to realize the right to food and increase food sovereignty, which includes promoting sustainable agriculture and fisheries as well as local value creation and social protection systems.
Measures against "land grabbing" and unscrupulous speculation with foodstuffs are also part of this.
In view of increasing famine and natural disasters as well as armed conflicts, we want to significantly increase funding for humanitarian aid.
3. a world of human rights
The upheavals in the Arab world have highlighted the weaknesses of German and EU foreign policy, which has focused on supposed stability at the expense of a human rights-oriented policy.
A new foreign and development policy must therefore place human rights at the center.
German policies must become more coherent with regard to the protection and promotion of human rights and development.
It must no longer happen that one department works in the service of human rights and development and another counteracts or even destroys the achievement of these goals with its own, uncoordinated measures.
We want to ensure coherence, e.g. through interministerial country strategies for development cooperation partner countries.
And the federal government's human rights commissioner is to be strengthened, both in terms of competencies and personnel.
Development and human rights are the foundations of peace and freedom.
For us, this means fighting for the right to development and for an end to hunger and poverty.
For an end to torture
and discrimination.
For an end to impunity for the most serious human rights violations by strengthening the International Criminal Court and international criminal law.
For an end to exploitative child labor.
For more rights for people who are marginalized, persecuted or even killed in their country, whether because of their sexual identity or their desire for self-determination, because of their gender, religion or ethnicity, or because they are politically active and defend human rights, for example.
And we are not turning a blind eye to human rights problems in Germany and the EU.
We also want to do more in the fight against torture.
We want to provide the National Agency for the Prevention of Torture with sufficient human and financial resources and fully strengthen the absolute prohibition of torture as a recognized human rights norm.
We also work to ensure that the imposition of the death penalty is outlawed worldwide and that all executions are prevented.
Germany should also exert more international pressure on states that do not outlaw the use of child soldiers and support projects for the reintegration of former child soldiers.
4. a world of peace and the responsibility to protect
"Building peace without weapons" - this claim was a driving force behind the Green Party's emergence.
We remain convinced that real peace can only be achieved politically, not militarily.
We therefore always and unconditionally back the priority of civilian crisis prevention and conflict management.
Peace cannot be enforced militarily.
But for us, peace policy does not mean an absolute renunciation of military intervention.
There are situations in which forcible military intervention is necessary to prevent or stop the most serious human rights violations or even genocide.
The civilian approaches created under the Red-Green coalition must be further developed and their lagging behind military capacities made up for:
Embedded in a National Peace Strategy, the Civilian Crisis Prevention Action Plan must be adapted to today's peace policy challenges.
There is a particular need to catch up in the areas of promoting peace potential and legitimate statehood.
In order to place civil crisis prevention and peacebuilding at the center of our policy, the responsible departmental group needs significantly more weight and interdepartmental budget resources.
The establishment of civilian headline goals is intended to ensure that Germany can quickly and persistently deploy civilian and police experts to peace missions.
The capacities of the Center for International Peace Operations (ZIF), the Civil Peace Service, and civil society programs must be expanded and their funding doubled.
The participants' own skills in political mediation need to be built up.
Federal and state police forces must be enabled to make reliable contributions to peacebuilding through an additional personnel reserve and incentives.
Careful conflict and impact analyses and comprehensive regional expertise are indispensable and can only be had with more funding for practice-oriented regional and peace research.
The many actors involved in civil conflict transformation need a central place for experience evaluation, analysis, further development and training.
In order to emerge from the shadows of public perception, civil peacebuilding finally requires systematic public relations and education work.
We understand the international concept of the responsibility to protect as an important pillar of crisis prevention and want to implement it more effectively.
For us, this absolutely includes prevention against violent developments, for example through oppression, dictatorship, terrorism and bad governance,
but also the special protection of the civilian population, especially women and children, in armed conflicts.
In concrete terms, this means, for example, strengthening national and international systems for early warning and early political activation and establishing a special office in the German government to implement the responsibility to protect.
Diplomacy, conflict mediation and civil sanctions are our top priorities.
A national peace strategy is needed as a compass for peace and security policy.
It is to be debated by society at an early stage and deliberated and passed by the Bundestag.
It replaces the 2006 White Paper on Security Policy, defines regions for which Germany sees itself as having a special share of responsibility, and determines which tasks the Federal Republic can and wants to perform in concert with the international community and by what means.
The use of military force is worth considering only as a last resort when all others alone have no chance of success.
At best, military can create windows of opportunity for crisis management, but not peace itself.
The Bundeswehr can contribute to the containment of violence and collective peacekeeping.
The parliamentary reservation has proven its worth, but must be strengthened, especially with regard to the control of operations requiring secrecy.
Every military deployment must be continuously reviewed for its proportionality, effectiveness and legal basis.
A Security Council mandate is a prerequisite for such a mission under the current constitution of the UN.
However, inaction due to a blocking stance by one or more veto powers can damage international law and the United Nations just as massively as intervention without a mandate.
In the event of a deadlock in the Security Council, the General Assembly, instead of the Security Council, should decide by qualified majority on sanctions up to and including peace enforcement measures under Chapter VII of the UN Charter.
The use of military force is always a great evil, regardless of the objective, and must be avoided if at all possible.
In the past, it has not been easy for us Greens to recognize that there are situations in which the use of military force may be necessary to contain violence and ensure collective peace.
We have had long and intensive discussions about this in our party, learned from experience with military missions and struggled to define the principles and criteria by which we judge whether a foreign deployment of the Bundeswehr is responsible.
We can only support military intervention by force in individual cases if it is based on a clear UN mandate under international law and a Bundestag mandate.
Without exception, the actions of soldiers are bound by fundamental and human rights.
We oppose the international trend toward increasing privatization of military tasks.
The overall political approach must be clearly defined and promising, and the risks responsible.
This requires not only clear rules of engagement:
We have presented a comprehensible list of criteria for the evaluation of future and extended foreign deployments as well as concrete and verifiable targets for all resources deployed, which provides the basis for every decision.
We call for an independent evaluation of international operations.
Military and civilian personnel are entitled to comprehensive care and support during and after deployment.
This also applies to their relatives.
The social recognition of soldiers must not be accompanied by a glorification of military action.
Early intervention in conflicts, early action, only works with appropriate personnel.
We therefore want to strengthen the UN and regional organizations, especially the EU and OSCE, in their civil crisis prevention capabilities.
For us, directly led UN missions take precedence over EU- or NATO-led missions.
We hold fast to the vision of placing our own standing troops under the UN's command instead of national military contingents.
We are committed to ensuring that Germany provides greater support for UN missions - both civilian and military - not only financially but also in terms of personnel.
Therefore, Germany must provide the UN with more specialized civilian personnel.
The Bundeswehr must become more European and UN-capable, i.e. it must be reorganized in such a way that it can better fulfill its stabilizing and protective tasks in international conflicts.
This guiding principle should point the way forward for Bundeswehr reform.
The abolition of compulsory military service was overdue.
The federal government's current reform plans do not go far enough.
The Bundeswehr must contribute significantly more to budget consolidation, including through further personnel reductions.
The original, but never kept, austerity resolutions of the black-green coalition have shown that the defense budget must shrink.
Many procurement projects are primarily based on industrial policy and need to be put to the test.
The economic consequences of military structural change must be offset by an active conversion policy.
We want to save over 10% of the current defense budget.
5. putting an end to the uncontrolled and secretive arms export policy.
Germany is the world's third largest exporter of military equipment.
Particularly under the Merkel government, all shame barriers fell when it came to making billion-dollar deals even with authoritarian states like Saudi Arabia.
And the Chancellor cynically glorifies this export policy as a form of conflict management.
At the same time, it is contrary to democratic principles if arms deals are approved in the Federal Security Council without Parliament and the public being informed.
That is why we want to introduce a binding and restrictive arms export law that allows German arms exports only according to clear criteria.
These criteria are to be specified in such a way that they can be enforced in a court of law by way of a representative action.
We want to transfer responsibility from the Ministry of Economics to the Federal Foreign Office.
Arms exports to countries that trample human rights must no longer be allowed.
Green participation in government is therefore only possible with a different arms export policy that finally allows for more transparency and control and is restrictive.
That is why we want to abolish the Federal Security Council in its current form.
Instead, the entire federal government is to decide by consensus in the future.
Parliament and the public should be informed promptly of the decisions made.
In addition, we want to set up a parliamentary body to monitor the German government's arms export policy and to exercise a suspensive veto over decisions on sensitive exports, especially exports to third countries.
We want to ban Hermes guarantees for arms exports in principle, as well
as the export of production licenses for war weapons to third countries.
We also want to enshrine an actual end-use control in law to prevent export goods from falling into the wrong hands and being used, for example, for human rights violations or terrorist purposes.
We also want fewer weapons in the world and an end to global rearmament, which is also being driven by German weapons technology: The
trade in small arms must be massively limited and controlled, and
the international outlawing of cluster munitions and landmines must be consistently implemented worldwide.
We also want to comprehensively outlaw uranium munitions.
We want the withdrawal of all nuclear weapons from Germany and are fighting for Global Zero, for a world without nuclear weapons - that is why we continue to fight for a nuclear weapons convention to outlaw nuclear weapons under international law.
The stationing of nuclear weapons in Büchel and the empowerment of German aircraft and pilots to deploy or transport nuclear weapons must be ended.
The nuclear armament of France and Great Britain stands in the way of a future civil peace policy of the EU.
We are committed to making the United Nations' proposed conference to create a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East an international success.
We oppose and seek to prevent the sale and transfer of weapons delivery systems that could contribute to nuclear weaponization in the region, including the delivery of additional nuclear-capable submarines.
The conflict over Iran's nuclear program must be resolved peacefully
and a possible nuclear armament of Iran can be prevented by political means.
We are committed to ensuring that Germany and the EU take a more active and mediating role in the negotiations with Iran and advocate a review of the sanctions.
In order to prevent the further proliferation of nuclear weapons, we will actively work to stop the spread of civilian use of nuclear technology as well.
The more states that control the nuclear fuel cycle, the more states that can build nuclear bombs.
That is why we are seeking an amendment to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and want to ban Hermes guarantees for nuclear power plant projects abroad.
We oppose the acquisition of armed drones by the Bundeswehr
and advocate internationally for a ban on fully autonomous weapons.
We are fighting for more transparency and control in the use of dual-use goods, which can also be used for warfare and repressive use.
We also reject the export of surveillance and censorship technology to autocratic regimes.
Human rights must also be defended on the Internet.
The overflight rights and military bases of foreign armed forces in Germany may only be used in accordance with international law.
Air-to-ground training ranges like the Nordhorn Range are expendable.
The Military Counterintelligence Service must be disbanded.
6 Strong United Nations, Strong Europe
In the multipolar world of the 21st century, we face the challenge of developing a new global security architecture.
Recognition of the United Nations' (UN) monopoly on the use of force is the first prerequisite.
No actor in international politics has more legitimacy than the UN.
For this legitimacy, however, it is important that every state is given an equal and fair opportunity to be admitted as a member state.
At the same time, the United Nations is only as strong as its 193 member states make it.
We believe that the UN is our greatest opportunity to successfully drive global transformation.
At the same time, we see an urgent need for reform so that they are better equipped to meet the major challenges of our time.
Our primary responsibility is to make Germany once again a strong and committed member state with a clear democracy and peace policy agenda that particularly strengthens civil crisis prevention and conflict transformation.
At present, the Federal Republic is mediocre at best - moderately active, little willing to compromise and hardly any willingness to reform.
If we want strong VNs, we need to be strong contributors.
The Security Council must be reformed with the aim of achieving a more equitable composition.
We want to impose a reasoning requirement on the veto options.
In the long term, we hold to the vision of abolishing the veto in the UN Security Council.
Instead of the futile insistence on a permanent German seat on the Security Council, we advocate expanding the non-permanent European seat(s) of the Western group to include the United Kingdom as well as France as permanent European representation.
Opinion-forming and decision-making in the UN and the Security Council must become more representative and transparent.
We call for the National Action Plan for the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1325 to be based on the concept of human security.
Conflict prevention, conflict resolution, including through law enforcement,
the civilian protection of human and women's rights,
and social rights are to be the focus of Germany's work with Action Plan 1325.
This requires sound budgeting and effective monitoring in collaboration with civil society.
We also call for the appointment of a Special Ambassador for International Women's Policy.
Clubs like the G8 or G20 are not suitable for a fair balance of interests.
In the long term, all central institutions of global coordination and regulation must come under the umbrella of the United Nations.
We want to achieve an upgrading of the Economic and Social Council
and involve civil society more closely in international processes.
For a global partnership to tackle the challenges ahead, we must also give emerging and developing countries a greater say in the World Bank and IMF in the future.
The staff of these institutions should also better represent the world in the future.
The World Bank, regional banks and the IMF are to work out and help implement alternative development models beyond the classic growth models.
The protection of human rights must be placed at the center of their work.
We are committed to ensuring that the IMF, World Bank and regional banks do not tie financial assistance to countries, especially in the Global South, to the implementation of neoliberal reforms.
A strong, united Europe must be able to deal with problems in its own environment itself.
The EU is not just an internal peace project.
With the Common Foreign and Security Policy and the European External Action Service, the EU has created structures to work on a global peace order within the framework of the United Nations and a pan-European system of cooperative security within the OSCE.
Black and Yellow would prefer to mothball the Common Foreign and Security Policy and instead expand NATO's primacy.
We Greens want to strengthen the European External Action Service with the aim of enabling Europe to speak with a common voice in foreign policy.
We believe in Europe as a civilian power.
That is why we want to strengthen these EU capabilities - through an extensive pool of civilian peace experts and the establishment of the European Institute of Peace.
We also want to further develop the Common Security and Defense Policy and
integrate and reduce the armed forces in Euro-pa.
This must be accompanied by control of these forces by the European Parliament.
We also want to reform NATO so that it can be integrated into this multilateral security architecture.
Its previous strong focus on the military protection of states does not meet our requirements for peace policy.
After the end of the bloc confrontation, it must realign its tasks.
This can only succeed if Russia and all Eastern European countries are involved.
We want to strengthen the OSCE so that it can build on the important role played by its predecessor, the CSCE, in overcoming the Cold War.
NATO is to be the engine of arms control and disarmament in the future.
Withdrawal of remaining U.S. nuclear weapons from Europe and ratification of the adapted Conventional Armed Forces in Europe Treaty would be first steps.
7. managing crises - enabling lasting peace
NATO's ISAF mission in Afghanistan will end in 2014.
Should the Afghan government wish to maintain a troop presence to monitor a cease-fire or as a training mission, a new legal basis for this must be established by the UN.
It is to be mandated as a peace building mission and is to be conducted as a directly led UN mission - without a combat mission and counterinsurgency.
In good time before the withdrawal of the Bundeswehr, we want to implement a local reception program for local personnel of the Bundeswehr and German development organizations, including their families.
Those who wish to do so must therefore be granted the possibility of admission to Germany.
There must also be a possibility of asylum for people whose lives or health are threatened at the latest when the military withdraws and power is redistributed.
Civilian victims and their families for whom the Bundeswehr is responsible must be compensated generously and unbureaucratically.
Since the conflicts in Afghanistan cannot be resolved militarily, we want to do everything we can to begin a process of reconciliation through negotiations and talks.
And only through a comprehensive and credibly funded civil society and development program that focuses on strengthening women's rights can we ensure the country's reconstruction.
We therefore want to maintain civilian funding for Afghanistan at least at the level achieved to date.
Peace between Israel and Palestine will only be possible through a fair balance of interests that takes into account the views, rights and security of all people in the region.
From Germany's responsibility for the Holocaust follows an unalterable and lasting support for the existence and security of Israel.
We advocate for a two-state settlement and an end to the occupation.
The state of Palestine must be strengthened, promptly recognized by Europe and accepted as a full member of the UN.
We want, together with the U.S. government, to use positive and negative incentives to encourage both sides to engage in direct and substantive peace talks involving all forces willing to negotiate, in order to achieve as soon as possible a peace based on the 1967 borders with Jerusalem as the capital of both states and a solution to the refugee issue.
Conflict resolution will only be possible on the basis of consistent application of international law.
Against this background, we condemn both the rocket fire and bombings against Israel and the
ongoing land grab in the West Bank, including East Jerusalem, as well as the blockade of the Gaza Strip.
We also want to support the confidence-building and understanding-building work of the numerous peace initiatives in Israel and Palestine.
The international community is unable or unwilling to live up to its responsibility to protect the Syrian people.
The United Nations Security Council has so far been unable to agree on either a condemnation of the atrocities or joint sanctions.
A systematic investigation of the most serious human rights crimes by the International Criminal Court has not yet been pursued by the international community.
Russia and China are blocking all further-reaching demands in the UN Security Council and are thus supporting the Assad regime.
We want to take in Syrian refugees in Germany
and provide more material support than before to Syria's neighboring states in caring for and accommodating the growing numbers of refugees every day.
In addition, humanitarian aid to Syrian IDPs must arrive precisely in the so-called liberated areas through cooperation with Syrian and international NGOs, and targeted support must be provided for the development of civil structures in these areas.
Within the framework of the United Nations, we intend to continue to work for the negotiation of a nationwide political process and, if necessary, to secure a political agreement through a UN blue helmet mission.
We reject the delivery of weapons to the civil war country.
Whoever votes GREEN ...
promotes prosperity for all on a sustainable development path
and strengthens development cooperation.
votes for more climate protection and climate justice worldwide.
chooses more peace through more civilian crisis prevention
and votes for disarmament, strict arms control and a world free of nuclear weapons.
is committed to strengthening human rights here and at international level.
selects clear limits and criteria for foreign deployments.
stands for a stronger, fairer and more democratic United Nations.
Key projects
No arms exports at the expense of human rights - adopt an arms export law
We want to control arms exports more tightly than before.
To this end, we want a law that firmly establishes the criteria of the Arms Export Directive, in particular the human rights situation in the recipient country and the risk of internal repression.
In addition, the Foreign Office is to be responsible for arms exports.
We want to abolish the Federal Security Council in its current form.
We want to lift the secrecy surrounding decisions on arms exports.
The German Bundestag is informed prior to an intended arms export license in the case of particularly sensitive exports and is given the opportunity for a suspensive veto for comment.
We also need comparably strict rules for the export of surveillance technologies.
The export of weapons and software for monitoring communications and the Internet to dictatorships must be stopped.
In this way, we can better control the exports of the arms industry.
Climate of justice - international pledges finally honored!
One sixth of humanity is starving, environmental degradation and climate change are advancing, states are disintegrating, and refugee flows are increasing.
We will face up to these global challenges, which can only be overcome through solidarity, together with our international partners.
That is why we are committed to fairer structures,
social participation
and more international cooperation.
Unlike the Merkel government, we will finally keep Germany's promises.
We want to increase funding for development cooperation, civil crisis prevention and humanitarian aid to 0.7 percent of gross national income by 2017 and provide an additional 1.2 billion euros for development cooperation and 500 million euros for international climate protection as early as 2014.
Especially for the adaptation of developing countries to climate change,
the global energy and agricultural transition,
the development of social security systems
and peace development.
Expand civil crisis prevention - double funding for peacekeeping forces
We want to place civil crisis prevention and conflict transformation at the center of German foreign policy.
There is a need for a comprehensive National Peace Strategy, more effective structures, more money and personnel for civil peacebuilding in the areas of conflict transformation, gender mainstreaming, police, justice, public administration, parliament building, dialogue and reconciliation.
In order to be able to develop and build up appropriate pools of civilian specialists, we want to double funding in Germany for the Center for International Peace Operations and for the Civil Peace Service, give more money to peace research, and support peace education programs in schools.
At the European level, we advocate an EU peace institute to strengthen mediation and a strengthening of crisis prevention in the European External Action Service.
We want to establish the Civilian Crisis Prevention Department at the level of minister of state and upgrade the Civil Society Advisory Council.
We want to set up regional advisory councils for priority regions that can initiate early action and regularly submit recommendations to the Bundestag and the federal government.
We want to achieve better cooperation between the ministries by pooling some of the funds.
Closing words
Dear voter,
we hope we could convince you with our program.
Do you have any further questions?
Talk to our candidates for the Bundestag on site.
Find out about the election on our website www.gruene.de .
We will be happy to provide you with further information.
Participate. Get involved. Creating the future - together, these form the basis for green change in politics and society - for
more social justice, for
more democratic participation, for
a better tomorrow.
Use your voice to help lay these foundations for green change.
Participate. Get involved. Creating the future - this describes a new way out of the crises and the departure towards an open, modern society
and an economy that uses our natural resources better and more sparingly.
Energy transition and ecology,
Justice
and a modern society - these are the central orientations for us.
They give direction to Green policy and profile to our proposals.
Vote GREEN!
Ideally with both votes - but above all with the more important second vote.
SECOND VOTE GREEN!
Lay the foundation for green change on September 22, 2013.
Select GREEN.
For more justice.
For more participation.
For a better tomorrow.
For the green change!
