Consistently social. For democracy and peace. Bundestag Election Program 2009
1. a protective screen for the people
"Neoliberal market fundamentalism has always been a political doctrine that served certain interests.
It has never been supported by economic theory, nor by historical experience." Joseph Stiglitz, Nobel Laureate and former Chief Economist of the World Bank, July 2008
Many citizens who vote on September 27 do so with concern and a heavy heart.
They fear for their future, their jobs, their income, their apprenticeships, their pensions.
Many of them are angry and disappointed with neoliberal policies and the capitalist system.
They need a protective umbrella to save jobs, wages and social incomes.
At least as necessary, we need a radical turnaround in environmental policy.
Since the UN climate report at the latest, it has been clear that we will destroy our habitat if we do not act immediately.
The economic and ecological crises are closely intertwined.
Here, too, profit stands against reason and the interests of the population as a whole.
We need an environmental umbrella to stop further temperature rise and prevent environmental degradation.
Capitalism has driven the world into the worst financial and economic crisis in 80 years.
Trade and the economy are collapsing worldwide.
It hits the poorest of the poor everywhere.
Less than ever, global capitalism is able to provide reasonably tolerable humane living conditions.
The policy of social cuts, deregulation and privatization, the unleashed financial markets, the one-sided focus on exports and the neglect of purchasing power and domestic markets - these policies serve the profit of a few and happen on the back and at the expense of the majority of the population.
Just two examples that show how inhuman this system works:
Speculation on raw materials drives up the prices of wheat and rice.
That is why millions of people are starving even more, and their hunger is making tens of thousands of speculators rich.
Here in Germany, financial investors took over flourishing companies, gutted them for the sake of maximum profit and left them in ruins.
The market-radical ghost drivers have only two things on their minds:
the market rules.
Profits must be high and achieved quickly.
Capitalism has produced a society in which the rulers have elevated greed, avarice, selfishness and irresponsibility to virtues.
Their representatives have run off.
The country must no longer be left to them.
They are not willing to learn lessons from the failure of their dogmas.
Deutsche Bank continues to regard returns of 25 percent as the decisive goal of entrepreneurial activity.
Market radicalism has failed.
In their practical policies, the other parties stand for "business as usual" in principle and for changes in detail: close a few tax havens, rail against evil managers, rein in the financial markets a bit.
Far and wide no new beginning.
Concerns that the federal government's actions are not enough to protect the jobs and incomes of millions are rightly high.
Women's work areas are certainly not the focus of these measures.
The question of who will ultimately foot the bill for the billion-euro packages is left open by the other parties.
They do not want to present this bill to the citizens until after the election.
We take people's fears of losing their jobs, of further exclusion and impoverishment seriously.
We give their anger a voice, and we give them the confidence that things can be done differently.
Together with the trade unions, social associations and social movements, DIE LINKE is the only party committed to the social protection of the majority of society.
We have put the social question back on the parliamentary agenda.
The equation applies: The stronger DIE LINKE, the more social our country.
The current crisis is more than an economic crisis.
A lot of things are coming together that had accumulated behind boundless greed for profit in the past decades:
meltdown on the financial markets, a deep global recession, advancing environmental destruction, climate change and energy crisis as well as growing social polarization.
The crisis will not be over in a few months.
The decisive question is no longer whether the public sector is economically involved, but in whose interests, with what objectives and at whose expense.
Injustice in the country has increased.
For two decades, the ruling politicians and the economy knew only one direction: the
wages of dependent employees were to fall - and they did.
Taxes on the wealthy and large corporations were supposed to go down - and they did.
But their profits were supposed to rise - and they did.
The top 20 percent got richer, the bottom 50 percent poorer.
The public facilities are in a pitiful state.
One in seven children lives in poverty, and in eastern Germany it is one in four.
Two out of five single women live in poverty.
Our education system is in bad shape and deeply unfair.
The rich are busy making a lot more money out of a lot of money.
In 2006, private financial assets in Germany totaled 4.5 trillion euros; the bottom 50 percent of the population owns almost nothing of this, while the top 20 percent owns almost everything.
These private riches became the fuel for the meteoric rise of investment funds, hedge funds, for the world power of finance.
Because these funds collected hundreds of billions of euros, they gained power over politics.
Their investment and investment desires became a command even for strong states.
This way of doing business has been very damaging to the manufacturing economy; it has gone to its very core.
Solid companies were literally plundered, too little research was done, too little thought was given to new markets and new products.
The current crisis is the crisis of an economic order that produces solely for profit.
Especially in the last ten years, governments have put themselves at the service of capital.
Agenda 2010 took wage dumping to the extreme.
For the first time since 1945, wages were lowered in an economic upswing!
This is not only socially highly unjust,
In addition, the economic crisis began in spring 2008 due to the weakening of domestic demand.
Wage dumping, the associated redistribution and indeed the expropriation of people in Germany and worldwide are ultimately responsible for pumping up the financial markets.
With our money, the gamblers have been up to their mischief in the casino.
A financial system that sinks trillions into speculative Ponzi schemes in pursuit of maximum returns instead of financing real investments declares itself historically bankrupt.
Capitalism is not only socially unjust
and a driver of climate catastrophe.
It is also anti-business today.
Businesses that depress wages, eliminate jobs, and reduce investment and research spending even in an upswing in order to pay out as much as possible to their shareholders reduce growth and distributable wealth.
Capitalism is destroying the middle classes
and causing extreme income concentration.
As a result, it leads to a systematic mismanagement of the economy, the build-up of huge overcapacities and a serious undersupply.
Moreover, threatening global imbalances are emerging.
The result is a massive destruction of production and productivity, of jobs and prosperity, of innovation and creativity.
The deep social divide in Germany is not destiny, but the result of politics: the Greens, the Liberals, the Social Democrats, the Conservatives.
They passed the laws that made it all possible.
They said, we are doing this because we are helping you:
Once people's labor is cheap, once taxes are low for companies and the wealthy, then there will be enough growth and jobs for everyone.
The great promise turned out to be a great deception.
We are faced with a clear alternative:
Either a return-oriented model of society continues to prevail, i.e. politicians and the state clean up the shambles left behind by the market radicals, and the majority of the population pays for it.
Or we fight for entry into a different society in which the needs of the people are central.
It's time for real alternatives.
Those who want to combat the current crisis must start with immediate measures that - secure jobs with a future fund
and create new jobs with a public investment program, fortify the
social security systems again
and strengthen public ownership,
- introduce a millionaire's tax,
socialize the banks and
grant state aid only in exchange for corresponding ownership shares and decision-making rights of the public sector and workforces.
DIE LINKE stands for a new beginning.
The interests of employees and the vast majority of society are fundamentally better served in a different economic order-an economic order that gradually overcomes capitalism,
builds on public and employee ownership in core areas of the economy,
and integrates market control of production and distribution into the social and political responsibility of democratic institutions.
This will only succeed if many millions of citizens commit themselves to it in companies and administrations, in demonstrations, mass protests and strikes.
DIE LINKE wants an alliance for social progress in Germany.
We have learned from the history of the labor movement:
the social question and the democratic question both have their own value.
These values must never again be played off against each other.
This forms the basis for democratic socialism.
With its 2009 parliamentary election program, DIE LINKE presents its proposals for what needs to be changed in the coming years.
We are convinced that with our proposals a better order of relations is possible:
one in which property actually serves the common good.
2. focus on the social interests of the people
"The capitalist economic system has failed to meet the state and social vital interests of the German people."CDU, Ahlen Program 1947
Financial capitalism has failed.
Equally failed is the policy that underlies it.
After the collapse of this system of enrichment, the CDU/CSU and SPD are providing hundreds of billions of euros of taxpayers' money to ailing banks without anything in return.
It is uncertain whether sufficient funds will be available to protect jobs and incomes after the banks have been rescued.
The full impact of the crisis on the labor market will be felt in the fall and winter.
Only then will it become clear under what massive financial pressure the social systems will come.
General guarantees for pensions, unemployment insurance, health insurance and long-term care insurance will not be sufficient.
Anyone who wants to honor these guarantees cannot avoid fundamental changes to the financial and economic system and the tax system.
Anyone who wants to bring jobs, incomes and the welfare state through the crisis with the least possible burden must be willing and able to reverse the redistribution from the bottom up and from public to private hands
- so that the burdens of the crisis do not burden public budgets for decades to come, so that
new jobs can be created, so that the
social cohesion of society is restored
and so that the necessary course is set in the economic structure.
We therefore want to increase taxes on high incomes, large inheritances and corporate profits.
A stock exchange turnover tax must be introduced.
Wealth tax must be reintroduced as a millionaire's tax.
To ensure that the state is not crushed by the burdens of the crisis, remains capable of acting and can finance ambitious investment programs, we want to levy an annual millionaires' tax of five percent on all private assets of more than one million euros.
From 2009 onwards, we want an annual public investment program of 100 billion euros to be used for education, climate protection, transport, healthcare and an energy turnaround.
Of this, around 18 billion euros more must be invested annually in education by the federal and state governments as part of a national education pact.
A future fund endowed with 100 billion euros is available to companies that want to develop socially and ecologically in products and processes.
Together, this is expected to create two million additional jobs paid according to collective wage agreements, one million of which will be in public services along Scandinavian lines - especially in the areas of childcare, education, health, social services, sports and culture.
We want to stop the privatization of public property and reverse it in important cases.
Energy companies and hospitals belong in public hands.
The order of the day is to socialize the banks so that they can once again focus predictably on their main tasks: providing the
economy and citizens with loans and offering various forms of risk-free savings.
DIE LINKE supports the struggle of the trade unions and social associations in the "Alliance for Social Germany" for an immediate increase in the standard rates for Hartz IV recipients.
We are calling for an increase to 500 euros for the next election period.
Following the French example, a living wage must be introduced across the board and increased to ten euros in the next election period.
Only if the domestic economy is stimulated with higher wages, higher social benefits and public investment can the national economy alleviate its now dangerously one-sided dependence on exports.
Overcoming the crises - setting a new course.
This is the imperative for the coming years:
in the labor market, in the
economic structure,
in technology, in the
social systems.
2.1 Good work!
"He is a fool who thinks of separating culture from work."Antoine de Saint-Exupéry In
the coming months, the labor market will be dominated by growing unemployment and fear for one's job.
Policymakers must take countermeasures and adjust labor market policy.
But it is also necessary to prevent the crisis that is hitting the labor market from leading to a new round of workforce blackmail
and the further spread of bad work.
What is needed is a boom for good work.
Every woman and every man has a right to a good job, to gainful employment that is decently paid, that provides a living wage and enables participation in the wealth of society.
A job that doesn't make you sick.
The opposite is the case, and fewer and fewer employees are represented by a works or staff council and protected by collective agreements.
Since the government of the SPD and the Greens, temporary work, fixed-term employment and mini-jobs have increased dramatically.
More and more people are working for starvation wages:
Five to six million receive hourly wages below 7.50 euros; even wages below five euros are not uncommon.
The number of long-term unemployed continues to be high.
Women receive about a quarter less pay than men.
Wages are particularly low in eastern Germany, and unemployment is twice as high as in the west.
Migrants are particularly often forced to work for scandalous wages.
After years of falling real wages, we need mass incomes to rise again significantly.
The state itself is also challenged.
The federal, state and local governments must significantly increase their investments in terms of social and environmental sustainability.
In recent years, hundreds of thousands of full-time public sector jobs have been cut.
This trend must be stopped and reversed.
Building on the Scandinavian experience, an expansion of social services is required - especially in the areas of childcare,
Education,
Health,
Social services,
Sport
and culture.
This need is to be dovetailed with publicly supported employment for the unemployed.
One-euro jobs are to be converted into jobs paid according to collective agreements.
DIE LINKE demands: - Close the gateways to low wages:
equal pay for equal work for women and men, for employees in East and West;
No fixed-term employment contracts without objective grounds;
Social insurance obligation for every hour worked;
Protection of professional qualifications in the event of unemployment;
- Strictly limit temporary work and reduce it through equal working conditions and equal pay plus flexible remuneration;
Limit maximum loan period to six months with works council co-determination;
Temporary employment with temporary employment agencies
and prohibit their use as strikebreakers;
- ensure, through clear legal definitions and effective controls and sanctions, that companies do not force employees into bogus self-employment or convert jobs into bogus self-employment;
- Stop blackmailing employees:
Extend protection against dismissal
and abolish Hartz IV;
create an effective anti-bullying law;
stop spying on employees;
create an effective employee data protection law;
- Make the award of public contracts dependent on compliance with social and ecological criteria:
Payment of collectively agreed wages or a statutory minimum wage;
Equality between women and men;
Promotion and equal access for people with disabilities
and people with a migration background;
Compliance with ILO core labor standards;
- introduce a nationwide statutory minimum wage based on the French model, which will be increased to ten euros in the next legislative period and will grow year on year at least in line with the rising cost of living;
declare higher collectively agreed minimum wages in the relevant sectors to be generally binding;
Facilitate the declaration of general applicability even without the consent of the employers' associations;
- Reduce the statutory maximum working hours to 40 hours per week on a regular basis;
the 35-hour week and further collectively agreed reductions in working hours with full wage compensation with the trade unions;
with legally enforceable personnel and staffing plans, enable works and staff councils to achieve significantly more employment and less pressure to perform when reducing weekly working hours;
create an enforceable right of initiative for works councils to achieve recruitment;
- ensure good training:
Introduce a training levy in the dual system;
Training allowances must always be agreed collectively;
place external and inter-company training on an equal footing with in-company training;
Expand youth employment protection and strengthen youth representation;
- Clear legal demarcation of working and learning relationships:
Secure career entry via regular employment contracts;
Remunerate internships with at least 300 euros per month;
- Making work humane and family-friendly:
Strengthen the rights of employees with children (protection against dismissal, working hours, overtime);
Reduce working hours for full-time employees;
Promote working time models that improve the compatibility of gainful employment, family work and individual lifestyles (more time sovereignty for employees instead of mandated flexibility, working time accounts, sabbatical years, working from home as an option);
- create better opportunities for older employees to work until retirement through further training, preventive health measures and age-appropriate working conditions;
- Combat wage discrimination against women:
equal pay for equal work and work of equal value;
better pay for professions in which women are predominantly employed;
better legal protection through the right to sue associations;
Equal Opportunities Act for the private sector, which obliges companies to take measures until at least a 50 percent quota for women has been achieved at all qualification levels up to management and supervisory boards;
- Expand employee co-determination:
Strengthen the participation of employees and their trade unions in key company decisions;
extend equal co-determination of employees to all private, public and public-sector companies with more than 100 employees;
enshrine co-determination in economic decisions in the Works Constitution Act, even in smaller companies;
- Improve the rights of trade unions and works councils:
abolish the anti-strike clause;
extend the right to strike to company takeovers and relocations,
introduce a right of action for trade unions to protect existing tariffs;
enforce the right to political strike action as in other European countries.
2.2 Shaping the economy
"Capitalist production, therefore, only develops the technique and combination of the social process of production by undermining at the same time the springing sources of all wealth: the earth and the worker."Karl Marx
Millions of people rightly expect the state to influence the economy.
The decisive question is no longer whether the public sector is economically involved, but in whose interest, with what objectives and at whose expense.
A democracy functions only if it can enforce the goals of democratic majorities even in the face of economic power.
The elected representatives of the people must provide companies with the goals of doing business and a clearly defined framework.
That is why we advocate a new economic and social order.
As a first step, the financial sector must be placed under democratic control.
Savings banks and cooperative banks prove that banks can be put at the service of society.
In the future, all banks should serve the common good.
However, anyone who tries to regulate the financial market without stopping and reducing the ever further accumulation of capital and wealth is doomed to failure.
The expropriation of millions of working people must be reversed.
This is not only a matter of social justice,
but also of economic policy common sense, because it is the only way to strengthen domestic demand.
The topic of economic democracy belongs on the agenda.
Giving free rein to entrepreneurs and financial funds prevents democracy.
This is exactly what we are now experiencing on a daily basis.
The social bond of ownership must also be secured at the company level.
In recent years, the growing subordination of business assets to investment fund interests has been celebrated.
These funds are not interested in the long-term development of the company.
Mass layoffs in thriving factories became normal and workers' rights became moot.
We call for a ban on mass layoffs at all companies that are not at risk of insolvency.
The task now is to reverse the constant expropriation of wage earners through job losses, short-time work and wage dumping.
DIE LINKE therefore demands that state aid be granted only in exchange for corresponding ownership shares and decision-making rights for the public sector and workforces; the
major creditors must be named.
Last but not least, we need a new international economic policy.
The fact that speculators determine trade and capital flows and trigger severe crises is a global insanity that is unacceptable.
At the European level, regulatory and supervisory structures must be established and existing ones strengthened.
At the international level, moreover, a reform of the monetary system is needed to end the dependence of exchange rates on speculative capital movements.
Target zones for exchange rates must be established to stabilize world trade.
It is important that tax havens really be closed.
Socialization of the financial sector, democratization of the economy, more social justice, a stronger internal market and consistent ecological restructuring - these guidelines are also effective policies for small and medium-sized enterprises.
These must also be supported with a targeted tax and subsidy policy.
DIE LINKE demands: - socialize private banks,
subject the financial sector to public control and strict regulation:
transfer the private banking sector to public ownership and, like the savings banks, commit it to the common good;
Prohibit short selling, off-balance sheet special purpose vehicles, derivatives, hedge funds and private equity companies;
Dry up tax havens;
guarantee low-interest financing for sensible investments;
offer small and medium-sized enterprises and consumers fair conditions;
free current account for everyone;
Introduce a stock exchange turnover tax in the German financial center and, if possible, internationally;
reform the European Central Bank, commit it to promoting sustainable development and employment on an equal footing with price stability
and by the European Parliament and the Council of Economic and Finance Ministers;
reform the international financial system, curb currency speculation through fixed but adjustable exchange rates;
- Launch future program for two million jobs:
Combat the crisis with investments of 100 billion euros per year in education, health, climate protection, infrastructure and transportation;
Establish a future fund for a sustainable economy and with 100 billion euros for the sustainable, socio-ecological development of industrial jobs,
Support companies in converting their production to energy- and raw material-efficient processes and quality products;
create one million of these jobs in the public sector
and 500,000 jobs in a publicly subsidized, non-profit employment sector;
- Making the distribution of income and wealth fairer:
Significantly higher share of wages in national income
and fair tax policy that places a much heavier burden on property income, large inheritances and financial transactions than has been the case to date;
Millionaire's tax to cope with the burden of the crisis;
- Democratize the economy:
The workforce should participate in the large companies;
State aid is only granted in exchange for corresponding shares of ownership by the public sector and the workforce;
Combine nationalization or partial nationalization with democratic control and co-determination;
Prohibition of mass redundancies at companies that are not at risk of insolvency;
equal co-determination in all companies with 100 or more employees;
Fighting economic crime and corruption decisively;
- sustainable agriculture:
Increase the proportion of organic farming;
Prevent speculation with agricultural commodities and land;
Reduce the use of mineral fertilizers and pesticides;
significantly improve animal welfare during husbandry and transportation;
Hormones and antibiotics do not belong in the feed;
no patents on living beings and their genes;
Prevent price dumping by retail chains at the expense of farmers;
Ban agro-genetic engineering;
Stricter labeling requirements for genetically engineered ingredients in food and animal feed up to a detection limit of 0.1 percent;
support GMO-free regions and initiatives leading towards them;
Use EU subsidies for the social and ecological performance of agricultural enterprises and make their distribution transparent;
promote near-natural forest management,
ensure equal living conditions in villages and small towns too;
- Expand public services of general interest instead of privatizing them: reverse privatizations that have already taken place;
Remunicipalize public service companies and expand the public sector;
- protect small and medium-sized enterprises more effectively:
create better depreciation rules,
Suspend IHK contributions up to a business income of 30,000 euros;
Tighten regulations for awarding contracts to and from large companies (small lots);
create stricter competition and antitrust law against electricity and gas companies;
Facilitate the enforcement of claims by law;
Reform patent law with the aim of making it easier and quicker for small and medium-sized companies to exploit inventions;
- support an economy based on solidarity:
Promote cooperatives more strongly, make the instruments of labor market policy available to them.
2.3 Transforming society ecologically
"We deal with this world as if we had a second one in the trunk."Jane Fonda
The pursuit of social justice
and a radical ecological transformation of our ways of living and doing business are two sides of the same coin.
Thus, ambitious climate protection is not only important for the preservation of our natural environment,
but at the same time a contribution to the fight for global social rights, since the advancing climate change intensifies the daily struggle of millions of people for survival.
However, the concrete design of environmental policy must not lead to a further social division of society into "rich and poor".
Affordable energy and mobility must also be guaranteed for low-income sections of the population.
Ending the fossil-nuclear age
A consistent energy transition towards renewable energies is a key investment in an ecological and peaceful 21st century.
In the fight against climate change, greenhouse gas emissions in Germany must be halved by 2020 compared with 1990 levels and reduced by at least 90 percent by mid-century.
Those who rely on renewable energies today
and share the knowledge for a sustainable energy supply with emerging and developing countries will not participate in resource wars over oil and gas tomorrow.
As a milestone for 2020, DIE LINKE demands that the share of renewable energies in the electricity sector should be at least half, and in the heating and cooling sector a quarter.
Decentralized energy supply in public hands is particularly important in this context.
A key task for the future will be to adapt to the climate change that is already underway.
All planning measures relating to regional planning, urban development, transport, coastal protection and landscape conservation must take into account aspects of both climate protection and adaptation to climate change.
The energy turnaround can only succeed if energy efficiency is significantly increased and energy is saved on a large scale at the same time.
We need an ecological-technical efficiency revolution embedded in alternative lifestyles.
In the medium term, Germany's entire energy needs must be met from renewable sources.
Scientific studies prove that an energy supply from renewable energies without nuclear power and a medium-term phase-out of coal-fired power generation are possible.
We want to pursue it consistently.
We therefore reject the planning and construction of new coal-fired power plants
- as well as the bogus solution propagated by the energy industry of injecting carbon dioxide underground.
The necessary change in regions previously dominated by mining is to be designed in an ecologically and socially balanced way.
EU emissions trading as the EU's central climate protection instrument has failed so far.
It has led to billions in annual windfall profits for electricity companies and has not contributed to climate protection.
In the future, power plants and companies will have to meet drastically stricter requirements for climate gas emissions.
The red-green nuclear consensus of 2000 is nonsense, because the guaranteed remaining lifetimes serve first and foremost the profit interests of the nuclear industry.
However, the operation of nuclear plants involves irresponsibly high risks;
safe final storage of nuclear waste for a million years and more cannot be guaranteed.
The fiasco at the Asse and Morsleben nuclear waste repositories shows how negligent past practice has been.
DIE LINKE therefore demands the immediate and irreversible decommissioning of all nuclear facilities and a ban on the export of nuclear technology.
Nuclear waste shipments must be suspended until a reliable solution to final disposal is found.
We want to transfer the energy companies to public ownership and subject them to democratic control.
The energy cartel must be unbundled,
the energy supply largely remunicipalized, and
the energy monopolies gradually dissolved.
Ecological restructuring of the economy, transport and agriculture
It is not only the oil age that is coming to an irrevocable end.
Other raw materials are also becoming scarce.
The material flows that we pump through our industrial society must therefore be reduced by a factor of 10 over the next few decades.
Capitalist economic growth should give way to sustainable lifestyles and socio-ecological economies.
Transport is the only sector in Germany that is causing increasing climate pollution.
DIE LINKE is therefore fighting for an ecological change in transport.
Public transport must be massively expanded, barrier-free and considerably cheaper.
Mobility as a prerequisite for people's participation in social life must not depend on their wallets.
In the long term, we are aiming for free local transport.
The rail network
and local transport services must grow again.
We reject the privatization of the railroads and local transport companies.
With the help of active transport, structural and regional planning, a strategy of short distances must be established.
Pedestrian and bicycle traffic must be promoted much more strongly.
Freight traffic must be shifted from road to rail and existing shipping lanes.
Air travel is the most polluting of all means of transport - and at the same time the most subsidized.
Kerosene and marine diesel/heavy fuel oil must finally be taxed
and to abolish the exemption of international air traffic from VAT.
The fuel and energy consumption of all modes of transport must be greatly reduced.
Agrofuels are not an alternative to a fundamental change in transport policy.
The increased cultivation of large-scale monocultures for agrofuels is exacerbating world hunger
and accelerating the deforestation of tropical forests.
Using organic waste and "energy crops" to generate heat and energy is much more efficient than using them for fuels.
DIE LINKE demands: - complete restructuring of the energy industry:
renewable energies to full renewable energy supply consistently and quickly;
make the Renewable Energy Sources Act even more effective;
heat from renewable energy and combined heat and power generation;
Introduction of an energy savings fund with a focus on support programs for low-income households;
stricter regulatory standards for the energy consumption of office and household appliances, including a ban on so-called stand-by circuits with a consumption of more than 1 watt;
"Top Runner" programs for electrical appliances, in which the most energy- and resource-efficient appliance is defined as the legal minimum standard every three years;
energy-efficient refurbishment of existing buildings and climate neutrality of new buildings;
Federal legal requirements for ecological urban land-use planning;
abandon the Gorleben and Schacht Konrad repository sites;
search for new sites, transparently and verifiably in court, at the expense of the nuclear industry;
an immediate and irreversible exit from the nuclear industry;
Socialization of the electricity and gas grids;
Remunicipalization of central parts of the energy supply;
Introduce mandatory social tariffs,
Guarantee the supply of electricity and heating energy for all;
Taxing the energy companies' extra profits from emissions trading;
Re-introduction of electricity and gas price supervision by the federal states
and creation of consumer advisory boards in price supervision;
Auctioning instead of free allocation of emission certificates;
Auction proceeds for climate protection
and to cushion the social impact of the energy transition;
gradually introduce stricter CO2 targets for industry and private transport;
No agroenergy imports from non-EU countries
and focus on the combined generation of electricity and heat when using biomass;
- ecological restructuring of the economy:
Making production processes and products sustainable;
prioritize the promotion of regional economic cycles;
Reduction of environmentally harmful subsidies and tax exemptions;
Align economic and research funding in a socially and environmentally responsible manner;
strict criteria for the authorization and registration of chemical substances;
Rejection of waste incineration as a standard process, instead giving priority to alternative processes such as mechanical-biological waste treatment;
Raise standards for existing incineration plants to the state of the art and science without delay;
Ban on the cross-border export of waste;
- environmentally friendly and barrier-free mobility for all:
massive expansion of public transport;
A permanent increase in investment funds for the railways to at least 2.5 billion euros per year;
Increase regionalization funds;
Secure and expand long-distance passenger rail transport through a long-distance transport law;
Reduce VAT for long-distance passenger rail services to the reduced rate of seven percent;
nationwide introduction of social tickets and a social rail card for low-income households;
Taking bicycles on ICE trains;
Speed limit of 120 kilometers per hour on freeways;
Withdrawal of the anti-citizen acceleration laws for transport route planning;
Reform of federal transport infrastructure planning;
no new highway projects,
No privatization of the road network and its maintenance;
Expansion of the road safety structure;
Improvement of driving and rest times for truck drivers;
Ban the introduction of monster trucks (gigaliners);
Extension of the tax incentive for the installation of soot filters in cars, which expires at the end of 2009;
End subsidization of airports;
Introduce kerosene tax and airline ticket levy;
Enforce night flight bans;
Increase noise protection
and minimize exposure to particulate matter;
- Preserving nature and using it sustainably:
Promote the designation and networking of protected areas;
work towards the legally binding protection of the planet's large remaining natural areas (Arctic, Antarctic, oceans, rainforests and boreal forests, etc.) from further exploitation;
Stop the privatization of nature conservation areas (exception: environmental and nature conservation associations);
Drastically reduce land consumption
- Unseal soils;
increase the quality of undissected, low-traffic landscape areas;
Expansion of flood retention areas;
Expand moorland protection,
comprehensive rights to information, participation and legal action for citizens and environmental and nature conservation associations;
a general ban on animal experiments, which may only be carried out in exceptional cases
- Alternative test methods need to be researched more vigorously;
Strengthen environmental education by implementing the goals of the UN Decade of Education for Sustainable Development in all areas of education in the short term, including by funding programs and projects.
2.4 Democratization of democracy
"Consistent democratization of all spheres of life is the only way to keep a democratic system alive."Oskar Negt, 2008
Political freedom and equality are basic conditions of a democracy.
DIE LINKE stands in the tradition of the Enlightenment, the Declaration of Human Rights and the French Revolution.
Freedom, equality, solidarity - the labor movement and other social forces have been fighting for democratic and social emancipation for over 200 years.
The democratic promise includes the mutual recognition of all as equals:
Every vote counts equally,
and there is always the chance of changing a majority once it has been established.
Democracy is not limited to elections and votes.
Democracy includes the active protection and expansion of civil and fundamental rights.
We are committed to ensuring that in parliament and elsewhere, laws and government actions are once again measured against fundamental and civil rights.
In recent years, the links between politics and business have become closer.
DIE LINKE has long criticized the fact that companies send paid lobbyists to federal ministries.
Democracy is more than a formal set of rules.
It must be lived day by day by citizens.
DIE LINKE therefore advocates the comprehensive democratization of all areas of society.
Citizens should also have the opportunity to directly influence individual, significant issues of government policy.
That is why we need new procedures for citizen participation.
Democracy includes strong local self-government.
But if the cities and municipalities lack the money, only the shortage is managed.
The financial market crisis and the economic recession are also exacerbating the municipal financial situation.
For 2009, the leading municipal associations are forecasting a decline of up to 18 percent in trade tax alone.
The structural imbalance in municipal finances in the federal system must now finally be overcome permanently and sustainably.
For many years, the federal and state governments have been promising municipal finance reform - nothing has happened yet.
DIE LINKE demands: - no restrictions on fundamental rights and freedoms
and comprehensive transparency and control of government action:
free access to public administration information
and ensure transparency in all decisions;
- Clearly separate economic interests and politics:
Members of parliament must not be on the payrolls of trade associations and large companies,
parties do not accept donations from associations, large companies and their owners;
introduce a binding and transparent lobby register,
Disclose the beneficiaries of lobbying activities,
not employ lobbyists in federal ministries,
make their involvement in the drafting of legislation visible to everyone at all times;
- Expand voting rights:
active and passive voting rights for all people who live in Germany;
lower the voting age to 16;
- strengthen direct democracy:
Introduce popular initiatives, referendums and referendums at federal level;
provide for mandatory referendums on important amendments to the Basic Law;
- Make petition law more citizen-oriented and transparent:
Open meetings of the Petitions Committee to citizens;
strengthen the importance of mass and collective petitions
and reduce the required quorum for a public hearing from 50,000 signatures to 20,000;
- Ensure municipalities' financial capacity to act:
initiate a reform of municipal finances;
secure the economic activity of municipalities under federal and European law;
guarantee municipal services of general interest;
- Reorganize the municipalities' share of community taxes:
pay municipal investment lump sums from federal funds to financially weak municipalities in the East and West.
2.5 Diverse and reliable - strengthening all lifestyles
"In Germany, the gap is growing between children who grow up healthy, secure and supported, and those whose daily lives are marked by hopelessness, deprivation and exclusion."UNICEF Report on the Situation of Children in Germany 2008
All people who assume social responsibility for one another need social support.
Whether married couples, partnerships without a marriage certificate, homosexual parents, single parents or "patchwork families" - they all need more time, a high-quality infrastructure that is accessible throughout the country and targeted social services.
CDU/CSU and SPD boast of doing a lot for children and families.
But instead of strengthening reliability, social benefits have been cut for many years.
Solidarity and responsibility are left to individuals.
Child poverty in Germany has reached alarming proportions.
Work and family can rarely be reconciled, especially not for women.
In western Germany in particular, there is a lack of public childcare facilities.
Parental benefits have made some people financially better off, but a majority have been made worse off.
Officially, all family forms are accepted in our society.
But the reality is still different.
Our tax system favors a traditional division of labor between spouses with "spousal splitting," regardless of whether they have children.
Being a single parent is still one of the greatest poverty risks - 43 percent of single parents are dependent on Hartz IV.
Poverty is female.
90 percent of single parents are women.
In total, there are a good 2.5 million children who have to live on Hartz IV standard rates that are too low.
DIE LINKE is committed to an emancipatory and socially just family policy.
All citizens - regardless of age - must be able to live a life in dignity and develop optimally.
In particular, the rights of children to the full development of their personality must be expanded.
Family policy
and equality between women and men must go hand in hand,
employment and family work should be distributed fairly between the sexes.
DIE LINKE demands: - guarantee free, high-quality public childcare across the board:
Introduce a legal entitlement to a free all-day childcare place for every child from the age of one;
Flexible opening hours for childcare facilities;
- Develop parental allowance into a socially designed parental allowance account:
create a non-transferable equal entitlement of twelve months for fathers and mothers, and 24 months for single parents;
Allow the child to take advantage of the program in partial periods of at least two months until the child reaches the age of seven;
- higher standard rate for children and young people receiving Hartz IV benefits:
significantly increase the standard rate immediately;
give young adults from the age of 18 the right to manage their own household outside the parental home;
introduce an independent minimum security entitlement for children, taking into account their own income and maintenance claims;
- Preventing child poverty in the long term:
immediately increase the means-tested child supplement and child benefit to 200 euros each;
merge and expand both benefits into a means-tested basic child benefit;
pay family policy benefits for all children and families living in Germany, regardless of citizenship and residence status;
- make the financial situation of single parents easier:
Do not offset advance maintenance payments against housing benefit;
reverse the full deduction of child benefit
and abolish the time restrictions on eligibility;
- Support people with care and assistance needs:
for a genuine care reform towards a humane and solidarity-based care insurance system that guarantees care that is based on care and holistic care as well as the social participation of people who are dependent on care and assistance;
- Abolish the splitting between spouses:
introduce individual taxation;
tax incentives for actual care and nursing services and living with children;
- equalize all family forms:
Introduce adoption rights for lesbian and gay couples.
2.6 Dare more unity
"A young person who has to travel from Schwerin after his exploitative relationship all the way to Bavaria can hardly feel free."Matthias Wedel
Large parts of eastern Germany and a growing number of counties and cities in the west suffer from special regional problems.
There is a massive lack of jobs, young people are leaving, schools are closing.
DIE LINKE is the only party to support the goal of ensuring equal living conditions in the regions.
Even after two decades of "Reconstruction East," people in the eastern states feel that fundamental problems remain unsolved.
Maps showing the distribution of unemployment, incomes, investments, tax revenues and other economic and social factors among the states and counties of Germany still clearly depict the former East-West divide.
There is a shortage of around two million jobs there.
The gap between the few up-and-coming regions and the many structurally weak ones is widening.
Municipalities are underfunded.
The gap to the development of West Germany has not narrowed for more than ten years.
The danger of further decoupling is real.
For these reasons, the main instruments of regional policy must be put on a reliable footing.
And that is why it is also true that equal pay for equal work in equal working hours must finally apply in the East/West ratio.
And equal pensions for equal lifetime achievements.
Last but not least, respectful treatment of the different biographies in East and West Germany is part of establishing internal unity.
DIE LINKE critically examines the history of the GDR and the Federal Republic of Germany.
Both are part of German historiography.
Eastern Germany needs a perspective for the future.
The "reconstruction of the East" as a "reconstruction of the West", as all the other parties still have it written on their banners, has failed.
It failed above all because of the overconfidence in the West that after the end of an epoch it would be possible to continue unchanged as before.
It failed because of the arrogance of a part of the West German elites, according to which it was clear without taking a closer look that there was and is nothing in East Germany that would also have been of interest to the West - except land.
The eastern German economy has a chance if it does what is necessary worldwide:
focus on renewable energies and resource efficiency, and
push the corresponding technologies and products with power.
East Germany can lead the way in these global socio-economic upheavals.
If the political will is there and if the people on the ground can shape realistic perspectives, eastern Germany can become a social-ecological model region.
DIE LINKE demands for East Germany - realize the principle of "equal wages and salaries for equal working hours and equal work";
introduce a nationwide statutory minimum wage;
- Eliminate pension injustice:
adjust the pension values East to West
and the upward revaluation of the earnings of East German employees until wages and salaries have been equalized;
eliminate the transfer gaps and inequalities;
- investment allowance at the level valid until 2009;
- Secure the Solidarity Pact funds until 2019
and use them in a targeted manner within the framework of regional models;
- Democratize regional planning:
strengthen the role of associations, clubs, other civil society players and citizens in regional planning;
develop regional models and anchor them in society;
Shaping model regions for socio-ecological transformation;
- maintain, expand and modernize the public education system and organize longer joint learning;
- maintain the "equipment advantages" of eastern Germany in terms of early childhood care, education and upbringing and the multi-faceted cultural landscape,
to the West and expand its quality;
- vigorously combat the low-wage sector, which is particularly pronounced in eastern Germany:
promote collectively agreed employment relationships in the context of public procurement and tenders;
DIE LINKE demands a sustainable regional policy in East and West:
- significantly improve the "Joint Task Regional Economic Structure" and set other goals:
away from a one-sided focus on exports and towards strengthening regional economic cycles;
- invest in promising resources and technologies and provide targeted support for research and development;
- Strengthen networks between promising companies, universities, trade unions and small and medium-sized enterprises;
- remunicipalize the energy supply,
largely switch to renewable energies
and support districts and municipalities that want to achieve regional energy autonomy with non-fossil energy sources.
- Ensure nationwide medical care in rural areas using the experience gained with polyclinics and community nursing stations/social care centers.
2.7 Social Security: Solidarity instead of Privatization
"It is salutary to be reminded that the strongest may flag and the wisest err."Mahatma Gandhi
SPD and Greens and later CDU/CSU and SPD have torn big holes in the social net.
Many people fear poverty in old age and social decline, and worry about not being able to pay for health and care services.
With Hartz IV, poverty and exclusion became law.
This is obviously a political calculation: The
fear of Hartz IV in the millions increases the opportunities for companies to lower wages.
Against privatization and welfare for the poor, we rely on strong public solidarity systems and their reliable and fair financing.
All professional groups are to be included.
The expansion of social security systems includes vulnerable groups in the social safety net just as it ends the previous privileging of the wealthy.
Good social security is possible and affordable if you choose the right path.
This applies to pensions as well as to unemployment assistance and affordable housing.
This applies in the health and care sector, where all medically necessary services and humane care must be guaranteed even in an aging society.
Through our reform proposals, we want to enable security for life planning,
improve living standards
and contribute to a sustainable reduction in poverty and social exclusion.
Good work and fair financing are the prerequisites for a good welfare state.
Those who have good jobs can build up sufficient entitlements to social security benefits.
If good work and wages grow and not mini-jobs, one-euro jobs and precarious work, the social security funds have more money available.
If employers participate in the financing of social security on a parity basis and higher earners without a contribution assessment ceiling, good benefits and social equalization can be paid for.
In view of the economic crisis, the welfare state is threatened with revenue shortfalls and additional spending in the billions.
Many people fear that the CDU/CSU, SPD, Greens and FDP will not tell them the truth and will cut back on all social services after the election.
DIE LINKE guarantees: With us, there will be no cuts in social benefits and no burden on socially insured persons after the election.
We call on all other parties to join us in a bipartisan pact to enforce a welfare state guarantee.
Good pension
Continuing mass unemployment, the expansion of precarious work and falling wages are leading to growing gaps in the employment histories of more and more workers and thus to a lack of contribution periods in pension insurance.
In addition, there are lower contributions due to lower wages.
The so-called pension reforms, first by the CDU/CSU and the FDP, then by the SPD and the Greens, also significantly lowered the level of the statutory pension.
The insured are to compensate for these cuts without contributions from the companies by making more private provision ("Riester").
But those who are unemployed or earn little do not even have a real chance to do so.
The SPD/CDU's decision not to retire before the age of 67 is not just a pension cut of two years, but will result in a further pension cut for most people, as only a few will be able to work until this retirement age and will then have to accept deductions from their pension.
This increases the risk of poverty in old age.
The pension reforms of recent years have led to a partial privatization of old-age provision, which mainly benefits insurance groups and companies.
For the insured, the financial burdens and risks are increasing.
In contrast to the statutory pension insurance, the privately invested funds for old-age provision are not secure even against a financial crisis.
The goal of securing a standard of living for retirees was explicitly abandoned.
DIE LINKE is calling for a fundamental change of course in pensions policy:
- strengthen the public solidarity system of statutory pensions:
Secure your standard of living in old age
and long-term contributors a pension well above the basic security level;
remove all reduction factors from the pension formula so that pensions once again follow wage trends;
- transform the statutory pension insurance scheme into a solidarity-based insurance scheme for working people:
Include the self-employed, civil servants and politicians;
abolish the contribution assessment ceiling,
flatten the associated pension increase
and increase the scope for solidarity-based redistribution;
on this basis, discontinue state support for private pension provision and transfer the acquired entitlements and state subsidies;
- Strengthen solidarity-based equalization in the statutory pension:
Revaluate periods of unemployment, childcare - including before 1992 - care and low wages to prevent poverty in old age;
support independent pension provision for women;
- Lower the retirement age:
abolish the pension only after 67
and create flexible exit options without deductions before the age of 65;
Continue the promotion of part-time work for older employees by the Federal Employment Agency
and facilitate access to reduced earning capacity pensions without deductions;
Re-introduce occupational disability pension;
- Preventing poverty in old age:
No one should have less than 800 euros a month to live on at retirement age;
- eliminate the pension inequality between East and West.
Health and solidarity-based citizen insurance
Health is not a commodity.
A health policy primarily oriented toward the interests of the pharmaceutical industry prevented holistic health care for all, regardless of income, education and social status.
Health is a fundamental individual right
and must be accessible to all in a system of public services.
Since the 1990s, the restructuring of the health care system has been aimed at increasingly opening it up to private providers and the capital markets,
aligning it with the competitive interests of the economy
and redistributing it at the expense of those with statutory health insurance.
This path is also being followed with the health care fund.
Once again, the insured will face an additional burden, while the companies will be relieved.
The financial pressure on physicians and hospitals remains,
and with it the uncertainty among patients as to whether they will receive the medically necessary care.
Mental and social problems are not considered enough as conditions for illness in this system.
Our goal is to develop statutory health insurance (SHI) and statutory long-term care insurance into a solidarity-based citizens' insurance system and to expand it on a new basis.
The aim is to expand funding as well as the group of insured persons and thus the revenue base.
In this way, solidarity across society is achieved on a stable funding basis.
DIE LINKE demands - the statutory health insurance and long-term care insurance be structured in such a way that all occupational groups and types of income are included in the financing;
abolish the contribution assessment and compulsory insurance limits
and abolish the special contribution for employees and pensioners;
Change the financial incentives in the healthcare system so that maintaining health and healing are more rewarding than increasing turnover by maximizing the number of cases;
- realign the benefits catalog of statutory health insurance with medical needs:
Unrestricted access for all,
Abolition of all co-payments, including the practice fee;
Reintroduce entitlement to glasses and dentures;
- Focus on the interests of patients:
Do not subordinate effectiveness and quality to profitability,
Make medicines affordable by introducing a positive list with fixed prices,
reduce VAT on pharmaceuticals to the reduced rate of seven percent;
Expand and strengthen the rights of patients and those in need of care;
orient research towards medical needs;
- do not introduce the electronic health card, protect the right to informational self-determination:
by waiving access to electronic medical records for healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies and, above all, employers in the long term,
place the sick person at the center of solidarity-based healthcare policy instead of the transparent patient;
- ensure needs-based, local care for all:
stop or reverse the privatization of hospitals and medical care centers;
make the same tariffs as for public sector employees a prerequisite for all non-profit companies to which public services are transferred;
the state hospital planning and financing;
counteract the shortage of doctors and nurses in outpatient and inpatient facilities, particularly in rural regions, by systematically promoting junior staff, good pay and close networking of outpatient and inpatient facilities (polyclinics), by creating community nursing stations or municipal social welfare centers and by providing targeted support for underserved areas;
- consistently promote health:
Start promoting health during pregnancy and continue throughout childhood and adolescence with the involvement of educational institutions;
introduce a Prevention Act to prevent the occurrence of diseases as far as possible or to recognize and treat them at an early stage;
Expand municipal healthcare services;
- Eliminate the nursing care crisis:
improve the qualifications of employees in the health and care system and pay them according to collective agreements,
adapt care rates to the needs of those in need of care,
improve inpatient care for nursing home residents;
Develop uniform staffing ratios that enable holistic care,
Advise family members and carers and improve their financial and social security situation.
Preventing unemployment, strengthening unemployment insurance, realigning labor market policy, abolishing Hartz IV, introducing minimum benefits
Unemployment is not only a cyclical problem, but also a structural one.
It must be achieved through a sustainable public investment policy,
through a socio-ecological reorientation of economic policy,
by creating good work
and through employment policy.
Expanding the low-wage sector and increasing the pressure on the unemployed, as happened with Agenda 2010, is one of the serious consequences of the Schröder-Fischer policy.
The division of the unemployed into jobseekers with "good prospects" in ALG I and recipients of charity who are "distant" from the labor market in the so-called welfare system of ALG II must be overcome.
The massive reduction in unemployment insurance contribution rates from 6.5 percent to 2.8 percent was a billion-dollar gift to entrepreneurs.
The long-term unemployed, like all job seekers, are entitled to good counseling and support in their job search.
DIE LINKE demands: - improve the protection provided by unemployment insurance:
Extend and expand short-time working allowance during the crisis,
Increase reimbursement obligations for companies after the crisis,
Facilitate the establishment of rescue and employment companies,
extend the period for which unemployment benefit is paid;
- expand active labor market policy:
strengthen continuing education,
Create a publicly subsidized employment sector with jobs subject to social insurance contributions
and anchor the entitlement to support as an insurance benefit;
- attach new conditions to the reasonableness of work for ALG I recipients:
create a living income;
value the professional qualification,
based on previous earnings,
reduce demands on flexibility and commuting times,
respect political and religious freedom of conscience,
grant voluntary participation in labor market policy support programs;
- Abolish Hartz IV and thus eliminate the harmful effects on the labor market:
treat all unemployed people equally;
establish equal access to labor market integration services
and convert all one-euro jobs into employment relationships subject to social insurance contributions and paid according to collective agreements;
- Replace Hartz IV with a needs-covering and sanction-free minimum income that actually prevents poverty
and which respects the civil rights of those affected:
-entitlement for all people living in the Federal Republic of Germany who do not have sufficient income and assets to cover their minimum needs; -
DIE LINKE supports the fight of the trade unions and social organizations in the "Alliance for Social Germany" for an immediate increase in the standard rates for Hartz IV recipients.
We are calling for an increase to 500 euros for the next electoral term.
According to this, the standard rate is to increase year by year at least in line with the rise in the cost of living.
In the long term, we are committed to the introduction of a needs-covering and sanction-free minimum income;
- verifiable special needs are additionally covered; -
child benefit is not offset; -
abolition of the sanction clause 31 in the SGBII;
- adequate housing costs in the amount of the actual expenses to replace (standard living space: criteria social housing, standard rent: Mean value of the local comparative rent, gross warm rent);
a move - at the earliest after one year transition period - is unreasonable if it represents a social hardship or the municipality can not prove an appropriate replacement apartment; -
stop the snooping practice of housing visits;
- delete the U25 regulation without replacement; -
abolish the community of need and introduce the individual principle based on legal maintenance obligations;
- raise the asset exemption limits to 20,000 euros per person
and increase the exempt assets for old-age provision to 700 euros per year of life;
- abolish the state's right of recourse against the heirs of basic income support recipients (§ 35 SGB II).
Securing affordable housing
While high-income households spend only 13 to 14 percent of their income on housing costs, this figure rises to 26 to 29 percent for middle-income households and up to 50 percent for low-income households.
The number of over-indebted households is on the rise.
Rent debts are a major contributor to this.
Above all, ancillary housing costs for water and wastewater, electricity and waste disposal are rising.
The cost of heating and hot water (oil and gas) has virtually exploded in recent years.
Nevertheless, the federal government does not see any need to adjust the housing allowance further.
The mass sell-off of public, previously relatively inexpensive housing stock is progressing.
Public housing assets acquired over decades and hitherto serving social housing provision are increasingly being transferred to the financial sector, which speculates on rich profits through tax write-offs and expected returns from renting.
DIE LINKE wants to fundamentally renew housing policy:
- the basic right to decent housing must be included in the Basic Law:
Homelessness must be overcome;
increase housing benefit in line with demand;
- End the sell-off of public housing companies:
Promote remunicipalization;
relieve municipal companies of old debts;
strengthen cooperative ownership of apartments;
- Increase funding for social housing:
use these funds exclusively for rental housing construction, barrier-free conversion or the energy-efficient refurbishment of existing properties;
strive for a socially balanced distribution of housing stock in the urban area;
- Limit rent increases:
introduce binding rent indexes nationwide;
Exclude rent increases for new tenancies and re-letting without improving the residential value;
- Reduce operating costs:
Promote thermal insulation and modern heating and energy systems;
Introduce a binding nationwide operating and heating cost index;
- Shaping urban redevelopment socially and ecologically:
for a city of short distances - barrier-free
family friendly
and age-appropriate.
2.8 Exclude no one - social equality policy
"If we want humanity, we must create human conditions."Bertolt Brecht
Social exclusion is often the result of unemployment, over-indebtedness, separation, loss of family ties, chronic illnesses.
It is often characterized by discrimination against women
and minorities such as people with disabilities.
With Hartz IV, the solutions offered to people in difficult life situations were subordinated to a one-sided fixation on earning capacity at the expense of holistic counseling and support.
A social climate has arisen in which the general suspicion of rip-offs reigns
and the principle that all people enjoy civil rights has been abandoned.
Data protection, freedom of movement and the protection of personality rights were abolished with Hartz IV.
People in precarious situations need comprehensive and targeted assistance.
It is crucial that psycho-social counseling and social services are accessible and work together across disciplines.
Prevention against exclusion is the best and cheapest social assistance.
People are neither cost factors nor illegal.
They do not come into the world as buyers.
They are not commodities that can be reduced to entrepreneurs of their own labor.
Left-wing politics advocates that all people - regardless of age, gender, origin, disability, religion and ideology, state of health or sexual orientation - can lead a self-determined life.
DIE LINKE is guided by the "United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities", which was ratified by Germany in December 2008.
Our demands for equal opportunities run through all areas of society and politics,
Barrier removal
and non-discriminatory equalization.
We advocate for the self-advocacy rights of people with disabilities.
Jobs in sheltered workshops are protected jobs.
In the future, these must no longer be misused as assembly line workplaces for the production of goods under piecework conditions while paying dumping wages.
Increased individual support
and integration in the primary labor market - if necessary with the support of an integration aide - must be the goal.
Germany is a country of immigration.
This realization is often accepted only in terms of usefulness to the labor market.
Quotas, quotas and points systems are instruments of an inhumane, selective immigration policy.
We want to strengthen the rights and opportunities of migrants.
Family reunification must be possible for children as well as for same-sex and opposite-sex partners and second-degree family members.
People who have fled human rights abuses, wars and political persecution must not be turned away or deported.
It must be ensured that the fundamental right to asylum can be exercised.
DIE LINKE advocates active and passive voting rights for those who have their center of life in Germany,
as well as equal rights in access to the labor market.
All children who are born here and whose parents live in Germany should receive German citizenship.
Naturalization must be made easier again.
Dual citizenship should be possible in principle.
Sport can bring about cultural understanding and the elimination of prejudices.
Therefore, participation of all must be made possible.
Women, people with disabilities, and migrants are to be given special support.
Top-level and mass sports are to be developed together in school, recreational and club sports.
DIE LINKE demands social equality:
- End repressive policies with the abolition of Hartz IV legislation:
Focus counseling, support and placement work on the situation of jobseekers
and compare them with social and health counseling services;
- strengthen our holistic advisory approach by offering more services:
Strengthening people in difficult life situations such as over-indebtedness, addiction, homelessness and others through a close network of independent local advice;
- ensure social equality in various public spaces and forms:
Support neighborhood meetings, self-help groups, advice centers, low-threshold and structuring cultural offerings in communal spaces;
- End the social exclusion of migrants:
End migration policy based on labor market utility criteria;
Enable family reunification for children and same-sex partners;
no deportation of people from war zones and politically persecuted people;
grant the right to vote and stand for election;
Facilitate naturalization;
enable dual citizenship;
- Ensure equal opportunities for people with disabilities:
Barrier removal
and non-discriminatory balance,
Recognize and promote the right of self-representation of people with disabilities;
Ensuring participation in working life and vocational rehabilitation;
- ensure equal participation in sporting activities for all;
Promote grassroots and manipulation-free elite sport.
2.9 For a socially just tax reform
"He that was rich spared his strength And grew richer by business; Condemned to the scythe and the spade And toil were they that had nothing."Bernard Mandeville, The Bee Fable, 1705
DIE LINKE calls for a tax system that is fair in distribution, that relieves small and medium income earners and places a heavier burden on the wealthy and those who are able to pay taxes.
Tax revenue must therefore be increased significantly in a sustainable and socially fair manner in order to offset the costs of the crisis,
of a socio-ecological transformation
and the expansion of the welfare state.
Taxes for the best and higher earners and large companies have been cut massively over the past ten years.
Today, thanks to the then coalition of the SPD and the Greens, a millionaire income earner pays more than 100,000 euros less in taxes annually than he did in the late 1990s.
Corporate income tax, which is levied on stock corporations (AG) and limited liability companies (GmbH), fell even more significantly.
This alone resulted in tax losses totaling more than EUR 100 billion between 2001 and 2008 compared with the level at the end of the 1990s.
The state is now financed primarily by dependent employees.
About three-quarters of tax revenue is raised through payroll, sales and excise taxes.
By international standards, taxes levied on corporate and property income are far too low.
The grand coalition continued the misguided development started by the SPD and the Greens.
For example, the value-added tax was raised from 16 to 19 percent, the commuting allowance was cut back in violation of the Basic Law, and at the same time the tax for corporations was lowered once again.
DIE LINKE is calling for an end to and a reversal of redistribution from the bottom to the top:
- reform income tax in a social and fair way:
Make taxation according to economic performance the basic principle;
make tax law simple and transparent;
Reduce the burden on individuals and families with low and average incomes and increase the burden on taxpayers with high and very high incomes;
- increase the basic tax-free allowance to 9300 euros, so that more than 12000 euros gross per year remain tax-free;
- Tax capital gains such as interest and dividends at your personal tax rate instead of a flat tax rate of 25 percent;
- raise the top tax rate to 53 percent;
-The tax burden increases linearly up to the top tax rate of 53 percent (starting point EUR 65,000);
This rate progression means that those who have to pay tax on less than 70,245 euros a year are relieved;
those who have more are burdened;
- abolish the splitting of income between spouses:
introduce individual taxation,
tax incentives for actual care and nursing services and living with children;
- limit the tax deduction for operating expenses for management, management board and supervisory board remuneration to 20 times the salary of a skilled worker in full-time employment in the lowest wage group;
- regulate the commuter allowance:
Recognize and pay out travel costs regardless of the means of transport and tax them with income so that low incomes are no longer disadvantaged;
- realize a higher inheritance tax:
grant the beneficiaries a uniform allowance of 150,000 euros;
double this allowance for heirs who have reached the age of 60, for children, surviving spouses and for a person named by the bequeather (e.g. life partner);
In the case of business assets, only the fixed assets are used to calculate the tax;
- reintroduce the wealth tax as a tax on millionaires:
Tax private assets of over one million euros at a rate of at least five percent;
- regulate the financial markets:
introduce a stock exchange turnover tax;
Tax investment income and capital gains from securities together with other income at your personal income tax rate, regardless of the holding period,
retain the saver's allowance
and dry up tax havens;
- reverse the reduction in corporation tax from 25 percent to 15 percent and broaden the tax base;
- extend the reduced VAT rate of seven percent to products and services for children,
Pharmacy-only medicines
and labor-intensive craft services as well as the hotel and restaurant industry;
for small businesses and the self-employed stipulate that VAT is not to be paid on an invoice until payment has been received.
3. for a just society open to the future
"The best way to predict the future is to shape it."Willy Brandt
"Human dignity is inviolable ."
The Basic Law begins with this sentence.
Human dignity includes sovereignty over one's own life, now and in the future.
Those who are driven by need are robbed of their dignity.
To find meaning in life, we need certainty about the future.
Women and men want to manage their time for work and family, for education, culture and recreation.
Millions of people, however, can no longer do this because they live at the subsistence level, have no work or only insecure jobs.
Society is drifting apart.
Social advancement through education - this promise of earlier decades has fallen by the wayside.
Getting started on a different society involves reevaluating and reassessing work so that all people can be active in the four areas on which a society depends and whose diversity makes our lives richer.
These are work in occupation and acquisition, in family and partnership, work on oneself as well as participation in cultural, political and social life.
With a radical reduction in working hours, these jobs and these opportunities to help shape social life must be distributed equally, not least between the sexes.
Poverty and a lack of certainty about the future are not an individual failure, but a political one.
To overcome the causes of social division, to strengthen justice as the foundation of democracy, all people must have the right and the opportunity to help shape the future.
To decide how we want to live tomorrow, we need the chance for intercultural experiences, equality and tolerance.
We need access to science and media landscapes that are committed to the public and the common good.
With better education for all, an
ecologically oriented research policy,
modern regional policy,
a new model for the East and
further development of public infrastructures, the course is being set for the future, for the next four years and beyond.
3.1 The social backbone - public services of general interest
"In fact, the more the state withdraws from caring for the lives of ordinary people and allows them to sink into political apathy, the easier it is for business associations to turn it - more or less unnoticed - into a self-service store.
In the inability to recognize this lies the fundamental naiveté of neoliberal thinking."Colin Crouch, Postdemocracy, 2008 For
years, condemning the state and praising the market as the savior was considered the last word in wisdom.
Accordingly, the Schröder and Merkel governments significantly cut public services
and privatized public enterprises.
Nationwide, 150,000 jobs have been cut in recent years, including 50,000 nursing positions in hospitals and 10,000 positions in youth work.
In addition, important areas such as waste collection, water and energy supply or local transport have been privatized due to the poor financial resources of the municipalities.
Cheaper, better and closer to the customer - for years, municipal utilities, hospitals, water utilities, waste collection, transport companies and many other public services were sold to private investors with these promises.
Hundreds of cities, towns and counties believed the promises or saw no other way out to shore up their budgets.
In the meantime, it is known what to make of the announcements.
Higher prices and fees, poorer service, ruthless exploitation of supply monopolies, poor working conditions for employees, less democratic control and lower revenues for municipal budgets - this is the bitter reality in many places in Germany and Europe.
A growing number of municipalities are demonstrating that there is another way.
They are taking back responsibility for important supply and disposal operations.
The tasks of public services are necessary in a double sense.
They meet the basic needs of services
and ensure equal rights for all citizens.
The basis of a just society - equal access for all to basic goods from water to education - is being destroyed by privatization.
Wherever services of general interest are operated in private hands, the focus is no longer on performance for the people, but on the pursuit of profit.
Only the rich can afford a weak state and a thinned-out public sector.
Those who privatize public services weaken democracy, because the different choices of people and parties then no longer have any consequences for public services.
If, on the other hand, we want a just society, we must guarantee a reliable and modern public sector.
The awarding of public contracts must promote a business logic that is not one-sidedly profit-oriented, but develops services for different needs in a city, a region.
It has to prove itself on criteria of fair trade, ecological sustainability, strengthening of identity and social cohesion of a region and
to ensure good working conditions and remuneration for the employees.
DIE LINKE demands: - End the privatization of public services, do not enter into PPP (Public Private Partnership) projects:
Build and operate schools, town halls and town halls etc. under public responsibility;
organize basic services of general interest such as health services, housing, education, youth welfare, culture, energy, water, buses, railroads and waste disposal in public or non-profit ownership;
orient the public sector and public companies towards the needs of society and develop them further in this sense;
remunicipalize privatized areas of public services;
Withdraw PPP Acceleration Act;
- stop the IPO of Deutsche Bahn once and for all;
Expand local and long-distance public transport without barriers
and focus more strongly on the needs of all users;
to establish a nationwide service as an alternative to private transportation;
Make prices socially acceptable and family-friendly;
- expand the public sector and modernize it in a citizen-friendly way:
-review the areas of responsibility and the organization of work;
make communication with citizens transparent and results-oriented;
make electronic information systems independent of software monopolists;
- Comprehensive further training for employees:
strengthen technological skills and social competencies in equal measure;
#NAME?
and ensure that employees in the public sector have a say;
#NAME?
3.2 Democratic education reform - education for all from the start
"I feel that rather than focusing on including everyone, the German education system is creating divisions."Vernor MuÃ±oz Villalobos, UN Special Rapporteur and Education Expert, 2006
Germany is in the throes of an education crisis.
There is a justified protest against this:
With the education strike in June of this year, many schoolchildren, trainees and students demonstrated for fundamental education reforms.
DIE LINKE supported the education strike and will continue to fight for a change of direction in education policy.
The education system in Germany does not equalize social differences.
On the contrary, with school they become even bigger.
International comparisons such as the PISA study show that basic skills such as reading and comprehension are insufficiently developed among some young people.
The systematic exclusion of the socially disadvantaged, migrants, the chronically ill and people with disabilities is more extreme in Germany than in any other European country.
The number of school dropouts is on the rise.
It is a scandal that there are still around four million functionally illiterate people in Germany.
Those who do not successfully complete school have little chance of finding an apprenticeship and thus good career prospects.
For DIE LINKE, education is one of the central prerequisites for self-determination and individual shaping of life, as well as for responsible, solidarity-based coexistence in a democratic society.
Education opens paths for a person's personal development and for professional perspectives.
Therefore, education must be made freely and equally available to all.
DIE LINKE fights for equal opportunity education from the very beginning.
This includes versatile, practice-oriented knowledge and skills, intercultural exchange, systematic and continuous promotion of both languages of bilingually growing children, environmental awareness and social competence, aesthetic experience, a humanistic understanding of society and history, critical faculties and the ability to judge.
In all federal states, school types that depend on children at an early age dominate.
Community schools that combine longer joint learning and individual support are still the exception.
Individual states have further commercialized education with tuition fees and introduced new social and cultural barriers.
Serious teacher shortages loom in the coming decade; there is currently a shortage of 80,000 professionals to provide quality early childhood education.
Too few young people make it to the university entrance qualification and start a course of study;
and of these, too many do not complete it successfully.
The higher education pact between the federal and state governments and the federal government's training pact are unsuitable for tackling the problems at hand.
The soapbox speeches of the CDU/CSU and SPD about the future role of education are countered by chronic underfunding.
This structural disaster is little changed by the economic stimulus package for maintaining the building's substance.
Developing one's own qualifications throughout one's life, opening up new fields of activity and being able to change or reorient oneself professionally - for many people all this remains out of reach.
Fundamental democratic education reform with a social focus is overdue.
A socially just and sustainable education system must become a joint task of the federal, state and local governments.
That is why DIE LINKE: - enshrine the right to education in the Basic Law:
include vocational training and the joint task of education in this right;
- launch a national education pact:
Increase public spending on education to at least seven percent of gross domestic product, including nationwide funding programs for the expansion of community and all-day schools;
socio-educational support at every school;
Establish federal-state programs to train more teachers and educators;
- Upgrading educational professions:
Training educators at university level
and introduce the Master's degree for all teachers;
create good working conditions and fair pay;
- Promoting education right from the start:
combine the legal entitlement to all-day care in daycare centers with high quality care;
Expand daycare centers to ensure that children with disabilities also have a legal entitlement from the age of one;
- Learning together for longer:
Make a community school up to grade 10 a majority option nationwide and establish it as a standard school;
Anchoring individual support instead of relying on private tutoring;
an inclusive education system at all levels for children and young people with disabilities;
Ensuring equal opportunities for migrants and ending exclusion;
- Abolish daycare and tuition fees:
ensure freedom of teaching and learning materials;
Abolish school and examination fees in vocational training;
For this reason, Article 91b of the Basic Law, which was renewed as part of the federalism reform on December 31, 2007, must be amended in such a way that the working basis for the Federal-Länder Commission for Educational Planning (BLK) is also restored;
- Strengthen co-determination rights in educational institutions:
establish nationwide representations of pupils, parents and students with a general political mandate;
- ensure good and comprehensive vocational training:
Abolish narrow-track training and waiting loops;
Companies take responsibility;
Reform vocational training and focus on quality;
Strengthen co-determination rights for external trainees;
- Introduce apprenticeship levy:
companies participate in the financing of vocational training in a spirit of solidarity;
ensure a range of training places to choose from;
- enable open access to higher education nationwide with a Higher Education Admission Act:
abolish individual selection procedures,
overcoming the learning-hostile restrictions of the Bachelor's/Master's system
and, as a first step in this direction, exclude access restrictions at the transition from Bachelor to Master;
- Expand BAföG to a parent-independent, needs-covering and repression-free basic income;
Expanding parental independence step by step,
adjust the maximum duration of the payment to the average duration of study;
- ensure good study conditions with a "Study Pact II":
increase the funds per study place and orient them towards the real costs;
better support during studies;
More quality and openness
and guarantee more advancement of women through regulations between the federal and state governments;
- Establish continuing education as a public task:
secure the legal entitlement, funding and quality of continuing education with a law on continuing education;
Take responsibility for companies and form industry funds;
Expand federal and state laws to promote adult education
and enable lifelong learning for everyone - regardless of their budget;
- Valuing the skills of migrants:
recognize the higher education and vocational qualifications, skills and professional experience acquired in the country of origin.
3.3 Science, research and productivity for tomorrow's way of production and life
"It is in the nature of knowledge to be a social common good, and in the nature of a knowledge society to see itself as a cultural society."André Gorz
For the grand coalition, science and research are first and foremost a location factor, especially for the export economy.
DIE LINKE rejects this one-sided policy.
New knowledge and technologies must serve the common good and help solve societal challenges such as overcoming social inequality, addressing climate change and resource scarcity.
This is only possible if the opportunities and risks of innovations are negotiated transparently and with public participation.
Therefore, decisions about public research funding must be freed from the closed circles of ministries, boards of trustees, and industry consortia.
DIE LINKE is open to public funding of new technologies if their benefits are proven and the risks to people and nature are low.
The state bears responsibility for the legal and financial safeguarding of free basic research.
The knowledge acquired with public funds must then also be available to all and must not be privatized.
To be able to work in the general interest, researchers need good working conditions.
The increasing insecurity in Germany for scientists below the professorship level must be overcome.
Not least to pave the way for more women to enter science.
DIE LINKE calls for a change of direction in research and technology funding in favor of a socially and ecologically sustainable and non-profit perspective:
- align public research funding with public welfare objectives:
End expensive prestige projects, armaments research and industry-led research from public funds;
abandon a one-sided focus on promoting export industries worth billions;
reject tax incentives for research and development in companies as an expensive subsidy without any steering effect;
- develop new research funding instruments:
Make public and civil society actors such as public service companies, municipal administrations or non-profit project sponsors clients for research services;
prioritize the renewal of public passenger and freight transport, energy supply and storage, health and care provision, public administration and the education system;
- take global responsibility for combating neglected diseases:
develop new active ingredients and vaccines against poverty-related diseases such as tuberculosis or malaria and other tropical diseases;
In a first step, ten percent of the funds earmarked in the "Pharma Initiative" will be used for this purpose;
- Funding research to solve global challenges:
Increase funding for priority research on environmental and climate development, water and energy supply, North-South justice and civil conflict resolution;
Fund cultural and social sciences as equal fields of research and take greater responsibility for issues of fair, democratic and ethnically and culturally diverse social development;
- strengthen the East German research landscape:
Set up a special program for basic university research amounting to 20 percent of the volume of the Excellence Initiative;
Successful promotion of innovative small and medium-sized enterprises
and maintain and expand research collaborations;
- improve the working conditions of scientists:
Strengthen co-determination and democratic self-administration in the scientific institutions of research organizations and universities
and science-specific regulations in the collective agreements for the social security of mid-level academic staff;
- Promote women in science more strongly:
integrate the gender perspective into all publicly funded research projects;
Overcome gender-discriminatory selection procedures and insecure and marginalizing career paths.
3.4 Designing a digital media order for more democracy
"Ha-ha! Your medium is dying."Nelson Muntz from The Simpsons to a Print Journalist, 2008
Access to communication and information touches on fundamental issues of democratic participation.
Those who have not mastered modern cultural techniques or have no access to the digital world cannot participate in a growing part of democratic decision-making.
The private and globally active telecommunications and network operators are morphing into tomorrow's broadcasters without a cultural mandate, without public control and transparency, and are threatening the entire dual, public and private television and radio system.
Digitization also creates new opportunities to control and exploit the behavior of users.
The technical restriction of a free and equal flow of information in the network is increasing.
Interest-driven demands and desires for Internet blocking in cases of copyright infringement are becoming louder.
DIE LINKE therefore stands for the creation of a democratic media order that makes digital knowledge processing subject to public regulation again.
It is about nothing less than protecting program and content diversity,
preserving and expanding freedom on the Internet,
and defending human creativity against advancing commercialization.
The forms of community radio, which vary from state to state, make a good contribution here.
At the same time, progressive commercialization is characterized by ongoing media concentration.
Financial investors are pushing into the media and press sector.
Their corporate strategies are generating profitability pressures that are also affecting long-established media companies.
The consequence is the flattening and commercialization of reporting, culture and entertainment.
The regulations of the Working Hours Act, occupational health and safety, and a socially responsible approach to employees are now out of force in the industrially dominated part of the creative industries.
Permanent positions are the exception.
DIE LINKE advocates safeguarding the interests of all those who are dependent and often precariously employed in the media and film industry.
DIE LINKE demands: -good working conditions for media and filmmakers:
introduce a "Fair Work" seal on games, programs, platforms and online offerings;
- anchor the rights of creative people and users on the Internet in a modern copyright law: ensure the right to private copies
and copies for educational and research purposes in the long term;
- guarantee freedom of communication and media:
shape a digital democratic media order;
reform public broadcasting;
guarantee unrestricted publishing rights of public broadcasting on the Internet; establish
quotas for broadcasting councils and compose them in accordance with current social conditions;
establish editorial statutes under press law that ensure a high degree of employee co-determination;
- include broadband Internet connections in the statutory universal service:
Immediately close coverage gaps in rural regions;
end the exclusion of the socially disadvantaged from digital communications;
- Preserve and expand freedom on the Net:
Prevent Internet blocking; keep
net neutrality technologically up-to-date;
- Make all information and media offerings barrier-free;
secure and expand citizens' radio in the federal states.
3.5 Securing the cultural foundations of a just society capable of dialogue
"What a dreary epoch in which it is easier to smash an atom than a prejudice."Albert Einstein
Cultural questions are questions about the utopian capacity of a society, its history, its cohesion, its narratives.
All people ask such questions - whether they are in existential distress or not.
Where culture ekes out an existence only as an educated bourgeois ingredient to a hard life, crucial questions are not asked.
Public debates often begin in theaters, exhibition spaces, in subcultures, youth cultures, or protest cultures.
With the Convention on Cultural Diversity ratified in 2008, our country has spoken out against the unrestricted liberalization and exploitation of cultural services.
DIE LINKE supports comprehensive promotion of the cultural infrastructures of our society.
This includes maintaining barrier-free public spaces for sociocultures, libraries and music schools,
promoting free scenes
and small and medium-sized enterprises in the cultural industry.
With regard to the ethnic minorities living here, German policy must finally align itself with international standards.
Regardless of whether they have been here for centuries, such as Danes, Frisians, Sinti and Roma and Sorbs (Wends), or only came to us a few decades ago, such as Kurds, Turks or Italians, they must all be able to live here without discrimination
and have the same opportunities as Germans.
For the ancestral minorities, the standards of the European minority agreements also apply.
Cultures of memory begin in one's own party.
Without openness, there is no understanding of the complexity of the political and cultural debate in East and West.
We want to make sure of the differentiated cultural history of the formerly divided country, without blinkers, without prohibitions on thinking.
This cannot be achieved with a state-imposed commemorative policy.
DIE LINKE demands more pluralism in the historical location of German society.
The federal memorial concept should therefore include decentralized structures,
promote the political and substantive independence of the memorials and their scientific foundation.
Anyone who speaks indiscriminately of the two German dictatorships is trivializing the crimes of fascism.
The critical appropriation of East and West German postwar history cannot be accomplished without the historical context that led to the Nazi takeover in 1933 as well as the division of Germany after 1945.
Taking into account the recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry on Culture in Germany, DIE LINKE calls for: -
anchor the state goal of culture and culture as a common task in the Basic Law:
permanently secure federal cultural funding;
- secure and strengthen theaters, orchestras, music schools, libraries, museums and archives in public ownership;
stop the privatization of culture; -
improve the working and living conditions of freelance artists:
- maintain the artists' social insurance fund;
- regulate exhibition remuneration by law; -
introduce an artists' collective right:
levy cultural cents on copyright-expired works for the promotion of young art;
- create a modern copyright law:
actually improve the social situation of creative artists;
- develop a memorial policy based on the pillars of democratic European and East and West German cultural traditions;
- provide institutions and projects for the cultivation and development of recognized minority languages and cultures with those resources that correspond to the increased tasks in the fields of education, science, culture and media;
fundamentally strengthen the participation rights of minorities at the federal level.
3.6 Without Equality, Democracy Remains Incomplete
"The greatest danger to equality is the myth that we already have it."Grete Nestor, 2006 Gender
equality in our society is paradoxical at first glance.
On the one hand, we see young women leaving school with better grades than young men.
On the other hand, this educational progress does not lead to greater success in access to education and gainful employment.
At the latest with the birth of the first child, there is the career setback.
Average women's wages are still about a quarter lower than men's.
The government has made no effort to improve the situation in recent years.
In many areas, the living situation of women has even deteriorated.
For example, the expansion of the low-wage sector and the Hartz IV needs groups have further exacerbated financial dependencies in partnerships
and undermined women's right to independent livelihoods.
The Basic Law obliges the state to promote the actual equality of women and men.
DIE LINKE is committed to finally realizing this obligation!
We do not limit ourselves to removing barriers to access and creating seemingly "equal" starting conditions for all.
We call for targeted measures to actively counter systematic disadvantages.
For example, with an effective equality law for the private sector.
Our goal is for women to be able to shape their lives in a self-determined way.
Men and women must be able to work equally in all areas of human existence.
For this equal participation, women need economic independence.
Gender equity is an inseparable part of social justice.
But for DIE LINKE, gender justice is also a value in itself that goes beyond social issues and extends to questions of culture, power and status.
It is about a society that must become more equitable for women and men alike.
If you want a human society, you have to overcome the male one.
This also includes accepting sexual diversity in society and the equal rights of different life plans.
Lesbians, gays, transsexuals and transgenders are denied elementary rights.
The registered partnership has significantly fewer rights than heterosexual marriage.
In income, income tax, inheritance and adoption laws, people are discriminated against on the basis of their sexual orientation.
Equality must be legally enforced here.
DIE LINKE demands: -Support women's self-organizations;
- Enforce gender equality in all areas of society:
Systematically take gender relations into account in all policy areas;
review all measures with regard to their effect on gender equality;
secure women's policy as an independent policy field;
- Consistently implement and improve the Federal Equality Act and the Federal Body Act;
- Introduce equality legislation for private business:
Obligate companies to promote equality for women and the compatibility of work and family until the average earnings of women and men are equal and women are represented in half of all pay groups;
make the civil service a role model with regard to the compatibility of gainful employment, family work and individual lifestyle;
- End state subsidies for the outdated family model:
withdraw one-sided legal support for the model with a man as the breadwinner and the woman at best as an additional earner;
- Enable active anti-discrimination policy:
anchor a genuine right of action for associations in the General Equal Treatment Act;
enable independent work of the Federal Anti-Discrimination Agency, detach it from the Federal Ministry for Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth and endow it with binding rights;
- place registered civil partnerships on an equal legal footing:
introduce individual assessment of all taxpayers regardless of their lifestyle;
reform adoption and civil service law.
4. protect democracy and fundamental rights
"Democracy does not mean that the majority is right.
The majority has the right to rule."Umberto Eco
Peaceful, tolerant coexistence in a democratic society cannot be taken for granted.
Its foundations must be renewed again and again.
Ensuring public safety,
protecting citizens from physical violence
and criminal acts and threats are among the central functions of a democratic constitutional state.
The guarantee of fundamental rights in everyday life
and the protection of civil rights against unjustified state intervention prevent the march toward an all-encompassing surveillance state.
It is the task of the state to protect the dignity of each individual from attacks and assaults by others
without itself violating the dignity and fundamental rights of citizens.
Trust in the rules of a democratic society thrives on the experience that these rules apply to everyone, to the unemployed as well as to the bank executive or the billionaire in a fur coat.
The practical experience of equality before the law and by the law is one of the most important basic goods of a democratic society.
Democratic equality is violated in everyday life whenever economic greatness is converted into political influence and social pressure.
Special rights for large corporations and banks are like a creeping nerve poison for a democratic society.
Thus, the ruling policy produces rage, powerlessness, anger.
DIE LINKE stands for a democratic and social legal and domestic policy.
We take the legitimate protection needs of citizens seriously.
This means outlawing violence and prosecuting assaults on life and personal property
without overstepping the bounds that fundamental and civil rights place on the state.
DIE LINKE is fighting a conservative security policy that unilaterally arms the police and creates more and more new penal regulations.
4.1 Rule of Law and Welfare State - Alternatives to the Security State
"Human dignity is inviolable.
Respecting and protecting them is the obligation of all state authority."
"All people are equal before the law."Basic Law
The Basic Law defines Germany as a democratic and social constitutional state.
The inviolability of human dignity shall be the supreme requirement of all state action.
The use of property should also be committed to the common good.
The state is called upon to actively contribute to social balance and social justice.
In many cases, the reality does not correspond to these imperatives:
Unemployed people receiving Hartz IV benefits are denied the elementary freedom of the welfare state to refuse work below certain social standards without existential consequences,
the growth of child poverty and neglect is tolerated
, and homelessness is accepted.
DIE LINKE believes that the welfare state requirement in the Basic Law must be sharpened.
It is not a matter of holding the welfare state accountable for every grievance or misfortune.
It is about explicitly committing state action to actively address social exclusion, injustice, worklessness and homelessness.
Judges are committed to the rule of law as well as the welfare state and help shape both.
In this sense, they are political and should be aware of it.
Their obligation to protect the weaker from the superiority of the stronger follows from the principle of the welfare state.
DIE LINKE demands: -make the welfare state imperative more concrete in the Basic Law:
anchor basic social rights such as the right to work, housing, recreation, education, health and social security in constitutional law;
- anchor children's rights to promotion, protection and participation in the Basic Law;
- immediately restore socially just access to judicial and extrajudicial legal protection for all:
ensure effective legal prosecution through socially just procedural law;
do not exclude low-income people from legal recourse through litigation and court costs;
expand legal aid and counseling assistance;
restore legal protection for people with disabilities by expanding and strengthening guardianship law;
- prevent the dismantling of legal remedies (appeals, appeals) in administrative and judicial proceedings;
- do not let the courtroom in criminal proceedings degenerate into a bazaar:
prove the guilt of the accused through a procedure based on the rule of law;
treat everyone equally in court;
end the chronic underfunding of courts;
increase fines appropriately for the wealthy
; - enforce the principle of resocialization in criminal law;
- abolish special political criminal law (§ 129a, § 129b StGB).
4.2 Protection from gender-based violence
"Violence against women is an expression of the historically unequal power relations between men and women that have resulted in women being dominated and discriminated against by men and prevented from developing to their full potential."Platform for Action of the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing 1995
How sexuality is lived, who loves whom and how, is none of the state's business.
On the contrary, protecting this freedom is one of the tasks of the state.
The right to physical integrity and the right to self-determination over one's own body belong inseparably together.
The right to self-determination is restricted if a woman is not free to decide about pregnancy.
DIE LINKE believes that every woman has the right to decide on her pregnancy alone and without state paternalism or threat of punishment.
In all countries of the world, in all social classes, across cultural and religious boundaries, the physical and psychological integrity of women and girls is violated.
In Germany, too, two out of five women experience sexual or physical violence in their lives.
Women with disabilities need special protection.
Every fourth woman in this country is abused by her partner at least once in her life.
Violence against women and girls is not a "private matter".
It must be a social task to outlaw all forms of violence against women and girls and to
protect their physical and psychological integrity.
Nevertheless, the governing coalition treats the fight against violence against women and girls as a subordinate "women's issue," not as a task of domestic policy.
The financial situation of women's shelters has deteriorated dramatically;
especially in rural areas, too few shelters and support facilities exist.
DIE LINKE is committed to ensuring that every woman receives unbureaucratic refuge and assistance, regardless of her income, place of residence or residence status.
This 30-year-old demand is even more urgent today than it was before.
DIE LINKE demands: - Abolish criminal liability for abortions:
Delete § 218, § 219 of the Criminal Code;
Every woman has the right to decide whether to carry a pregnancy to term;
- Ensure the right to self-determination of intersex and transgender people without restriction:
The Federal Civil Status Act and the law on first names should be amended accordingly;
prevent externally determined surgical interventions on intersex people;
- resolutely combat domestic violence:
further develop the Protection against Violence Act;
Establish a duty of the civil court to provide information to the police and public prosecutor's office;
Check the effectiveness of sanctions against violent offenders;
- Fund women's shelters nationwide and in line with demand:
guarantee open access to women's shelters and protection facilities for all women regardless of their social background or residence status;
Include costs for the children's stay;
Secure your livelihood
and maintenance claims of refugee women against partners are transferred to the state;
- Enabling future opportunities for women affected by violence:
promote independence through education and training, social security or placement support for gainful employment that secures a livelihood;
- create effective protection against forced marriages:
an independent right of residence from the first day of the marriage
and introduce the right of return for women forcibly displaced abroad;
abolish the discriminatory German tests for spouses wishing to enter the country;
- put the protection of victims of human trafficking first:
Strengthen the residence and social rights of victims of human trafficking and forced prostitution;
Do not link victim protection to women's willingness to testify
and independent, anonymous advice centers.
4.3 Protect civil rights
"He who gives up liberty to gain security will lose both."Benjamin Franklin
Terrorism, organized crime and violent crime are serious threats to peaceful coexistence.
They create a climate of fear, foster mistrust and paralyze social activity.
They must be effectively prosecuted and punished.
The police and judiciary must be well trained and equipped with modern equipment.
The existing laws are sufficient for successfully fighting crime.
The fight against terrorism and crime misses its target if it ignores constitutional principles and civil rights in the name of "internal security".
"Internal security" at the expense of the rule of law, proportionality and civil liberties is not a success of which a democracy can be proud.
If the state, as the supreme protector of civil rights, is happy with data retention or online searches, then certain companies such as Lidl, Telekom or Deutsche Bahn are apparently happy with the surveillance of their staff.
However, the value of fundamental and civil rights is measured precisely by what they are worth in everyday life.
For us, the separation of the military and the police, of intelligence and police activities, is an indispensable basic rule of a democratic state structure.
This separation is as much a lesson from our history
as the rejection of a centralized security agency
and the use of the Bundeswehr in the interior for police tasks.
DIE LINKE demands: -sharply separate police and secret services:
restrict and dissolve growing secret areas of the police and uncontrollable cooperation bodies;
stop the expansion of the Federal Criminal Police Office into a centralized police force;
prospectively abolish all secret services, until then strengthen democratic control;
- introduce individual identification requirements for uniformed officers of the Federal Police;
- modernize data protection and data protection law:
Review major projects, from health cards and biometric IDs to electronic identity cards and uniform tax numbers, and correct them according to strict data protection criteria;
create effective employee data protection;
introduce comprehensive right of file inspection and association action;
- Defend the right to informational self-determination of informed citizens:
End data retention;
abandon online searches and censorship measures on the Internet,
dismantle undercover investigation methods such as video, spying and eavesdropping attacks and dragnet searches;
- Ban the use of the Bundeswehr as "auxiliary police" in the interior.
Drugs are an everyday occurrence.
The distinction between legal and illegal substances is arbitrary.
After more than 30 years of the "war on drugs," the cultivation and use of illicit drugs continues to spread worldwide.
Drug trafficking is estimated to be the most lucrative business in the world after oil and arms trafficking, and it prevents the peaceful development of entire states based on the rule of law.
Illegalized drug use and also abuse can lead to serious health, social and material problems.
We advocate a rational and humane drug policy
and the liberalization of narcotics law.
DIE LINKE demands: - the introduction of an Enquete Commission of the German Bundestag to evaluate current national and international drug policy;
- Introduce drug-checking services to reduce the health risks of drug users;
- offer sufficient and needs-oriented psychosocial support and care for drug addicts on a voluntary treatment basis;
- Authorize cannabis as a medicinal product for appropriate indications;
- Set limits for participation in road traffic for cannabis use similar to the per mille regulation for alcohol;
- regulate the currently completely "free" drug market through a dispensing model for cannabis, which legalizes possession, acquisition, cultivation and trade, taking into account the protection of minors.
4.4 The humanity of a society is measured by its treatment of people in need
"That there is such a thing as a right to have rights we have known only since millions of people have appeared who have lost that right and, because of the new global organization of the world, are unable to regain it."Hannah Arendt
People in existential need need help.
Providing them with assistance is a humanitarian imperative.
Borders open for people in need!
Anyone who denies them help is violating an elementary precept of humanity.
Those who are persecuted for political or ethnic reasons, because of their gender or sexual orientation, who have to fear for their physical integrity or even for their life and who are on the run must not be turned away.
For these good reasons, the basic right to political asylum was created in the Basic Law.
The asylum compromise of 1992 and the subsequent "harmonization of EU asylum policy" deprived this fundamental right of its substance.
EU borders are being turned into high-security borders against refugees.
As a result, fewer and fewer refugees are reaching Germany at all.
Those who succeed in doing so are subject to the discriminatory Asylum Seekers' Benefits Act (residential accommodation, benefits in kind), are not allowed to support themselves through gainful employment (work ban), and are not allowed to move outside the assigned place of residence (residence obligation).
Those who receive political asylum after a grueling recognition process increasingly face asylum revocation procedures when the authorities believe the situation in the country of origin has changed.
DIE LINKE advocates a humane asylum policy.
DIE LINKE demands: - substantially restore the right to asylum in the Basic Law;
allow the Geneva Refugee Convention and the European Convention on Human Rights to apply without restriction
and fully implement the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child;
- fully recognize gender-specific causes of flight as grounds for asylum:
Protect women who are at risk of gender-specific violence - such as female genital mutilation - in their country of origin from deportation;
- Recognize flight from civil war-like, non-state conflicts, militias and warlords as a reason for permanent asylum;
- Granting of asylum not revoked:
treat recognized refugees as equal citizens;
Ensure access to integration measures;
Set up control centers against discrimination and racism in all federal states;
- repeal discriminatory regulations and laws:
End chain tolerations;
Abolish the Asylum Seekers Benefits Act and the residence obligation;
- secure basic human rights for hundreds of thousands of "illegals", such as schooling and treatment for illnesses;
suspend official reporting obligations;
Create prospects for legal residence;
- provide comprehensive protection for people who are persecuted because of their sexual orientation;
- grant people who have lived here for a longer period of time - regardless of their legal immigration status - a secure right to stay;
- implement the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child:
adapt immigration and asylum law accordingly for underage refugees;
- End detention pending deportation with its inhumane conditions;
- enforce an asylum policy based on human rights at European level:
abolish the border protection agency FRONTEX;
prohibit the involuntary relocation of refugees in accordance with the unjust principle of responsibility (Dublin II Regulation);
ensure fair asylum procedures;
Abolish collective warehouses
as well as non-state persecution, persecution on grounds of gender or sexual orientation as grounds for asylum.
4.5 Resolutely confronting the enemies of democracy
"Fascism is not an opinion, it is a crime."German History
A democratic society is founded on the mutual promise of all members of society to respect and esteem each other as equals.
Without mutual recognition as citizens with the same democratic rights, regardless of color, gender or origin, religion or belief, neither social justice nor
democracy will endure.
Xenophobia, fascism, anti-Semitism, racism and homophobia are directed against the foundations of a democratic society.
They deny the principle of democratic equality and propagate solutions at the expense of the weaker and minorities.
Their guiding principle is that the strongest should prevail, in everyday life as in politics.
The reasons for the emergence of right-wing extremist attitudes are manifold:
They arise again and again from prejudices, de-democratization and de-solidarization and are fostered by the social division in German society and democratic deficits.
The rise of far-right parties and the spread of far-right ideas must not be downplayed or even justified as an understandable reaction to social problems.
The recurring criminalization of protest and resistance against the right - not least during marches - must be put to an end.
DIE LINKE demands: -Right-wing extremist violence to be outlawed,
prosecuted by the state
and punished consistently:
recognize and promote civic engagement against right-wing extremist violence;
coordinate the activities against right-wing extremism, racism and anti-Semitism of the federal ministries and of the federal and state governments through a "Commissioner of the German Bundestag for Democracy and Tolerance";
- establish an independent monitoring center for right-wing extremism, racism and anti-Semitism;
not leave the observation of the NPD and Nazi structures solely to the Office for the Protection of the Constitution;
strengthen and financially secure mobile counseling teams, exit offers and other public projects and initiatives against right-wing extremism, racism and anti-Semitism;
promote corresponding educational work in schools, training and politics;
- ban the NPD
and aggressively lead the social debate on right-wing extremism:
end the use of undercover agents from the offices for the protection of the constitution within the NPD;
fight parties and organizations that deny the right to life of others, revive national socialist ideas and want to abolish democracy,
and initiate proceedings to ban them before the Federal Constitutional Court.
4.6 Focusing more on the citizen
"We unite in ourselves the care of our house and at the same time of our city, and turned to the various activities, yet none is without judgment even in matters of state."Thucydides
Voluntary civic engagement enriches social life.
This reflects the ability and courage of citizens to take their affairs into their own hands.
A democratic society thrives on this commitment.
DIE LINKE advocates comprehensive support for civic engagement.
Voluntary work must not be misused as a stopgap measure for dismantling the welfare state.
Nor should it be a matter only for those who can afford it.
The same participation opportunities must be secured for the unemployed and low-income earners, the elderly and people with disabilities.
Volunteer work, self-help and honorary office must be given a higher priority in the state and society.
Precisely because civic engagement is not aimed at material gain, it must be honored through an effective culture of recognition.
Good framework conditions for civic engagement create the basis for maintaining and expanding social and democratic participation.
Commitment to society, family and working life as well as time for oneself must become more compatible.
The civic engagement of migrants is of particular importance for coexistence and participation.
They are to be supported with concrete projects.
DIE LINKE demands: -improve the legal, financial, insurance and infrastructural framework conditions for volunteer work;
- reimburse expenses for civic engagement or lump-sum expense allowances as a direct benefit and not offset them against state benefits;
- promote opportunities for volunteers to try out and receive free training in various fields of engagement.
Strengthen consumer protection against producer power.
Citizens are not powerless.
They can use their available financial resources consciously and, for example, not buy goods with ingredients that are harmful to health or leave products from socially unsustainable production on the shelves.
All too often, however, consumers are at a disadvantage compared to providers of goods and services.
They lack expertise and proper information.
DIE LINKE therefore wants to guarantee consumers comprehensive transparency and information
and strengthen their rights.
DIE LINKE demands: - strengthen consumer rights and anchor precautionary consumer protection:
grant consumers comprehensive rights to information and transparency;
Strengthen the rights of consumer associations and consumers;
Introduce traffic light labeling for food;
- Shape consumer policy in a socially just way:
support low-income, uneducated or inexperienced consumers in particular;
- reverse the obligations to provide evidence:
Extend producer liability,
Improve victim protection;
- Reorganize telephone sales:
Legal validity of contracts agreed by telephone is subject to written confirmation.
5. peace and justice - worldwide!
"I want earth, fire, bread, flour, sugar, sea, books, home for all."Pablo Neruda
The world we live in has not become more peaceful and secure in recent years.
It is shaken by multiple crises.
Wars over resources are increasingly being waged around the world.
Global capitalism has plunged financial markets into the abyss and the economies of many countries into deep recession.
In the industrialized countries, this is associated with tangible losses in prosperity for citizens.
In non-industrialized and resource-poor countries, poverty, hunger and epidemics are experiencing a catastrophic increase.
German foreign policy must become peace policy.
Good foreign policy that wants to do justice to the interests of one's own country in a world order committed to peace, justice and equality must be aware of what one's own actions in the world do to others:
For a resident of the southern hemisphere, it must be completely incomprehensible that the EU states alone are putting together bailout packages for banks totaling two trillion dollars, while a fraction of that would be enough to defeat the worst plagues of humanity, from hunger to illiteracy.
These inconceivable disproportions must be effectively combated.
In fact, however, the foreign policy of industrialized, resource-poor countries like Germany is increasingly taking on the character of an imperial policy of securing raw materials and energy.
Competition for the remaining raw materials is increasingly resulting in violence and wars.
Economic, energy and climate crises are exacerbating the global food and basic nutrition crisis.
Billions of people have neither sufficient food nor access to clean water and electrical energy.
Not to mention health care and education.
A peace-oriented foreign policy must also be committed to reforming the global monetary system.
and for a world reserve currency that is not based on a national currency.
Striving for dominance and the use of military force are not a basis for crisis management.
Those who want to achieve cooperation must respect international law and human rights.
The central institution must be the UN, its decisions must be respected.
DIE LINKE is the party of international law
and the enforcement of the prohibition of the use of force in international relations.
5.1 Development needs justice
"For the first time in the history of mankind, objective scarcity has been defeated, and the utopia of shared happiness would be materially possible."Jean Ziegler, former UN representative for the right to food
DIE LINKE demands a fundamental reorientation of our relations with the countries of the South.
Development and foreign economic policy must address the structural problems caused by the capitalist world economic order.
Effective German development cooperation requires a systemic change in economic, financial, energy, trade and agricultural policies.
The development cooperation of the Western industrialized countries has so far been aimed at their own economic advantages.
It has become an appendage of foreign economic and security policy.
Many times more aid flows from the North to the South than comes back to the rich countries through interest repayments, capital flight and unfair trade.
The German government has increasingly linked development aid with securing raw materials;
in the European Union, the German government in particular is pushing free trade policies toward developing and emerging countries in order to open up sales markets.
It is not uncommon for development aid to be used as a bargaining chip to force the opening of markets.
The current crisis shows: The policy of free trade and liberalization has failed.
It leads to more and more susceptibility to crises and even more dependency.
It hinders development in the South
and the global enforcement of the human right to food.
On the other hand, strengthening self-determined development and food sovereignty in the countries of the South are priority development policy goals for DIE LINKE.
To this end, development policy must strengthen South-South relations and regional markets as a counterweight to global trade policy,
promote the processing of raw materials at home
and ensure fair prices.
Support for small farmers must be stepped up, at the expense of the purely export-oriented agricultural industry.
Local producers must be protected from price dumping and predatory competition encouraged by EU agricultural export subsidies and free trade agreements.
Women play a fundamental and decisive role in the constant development at all levels, in education, in the economy, in family contexts.
Successful development policy - as shown by worldwide experience - is always also an active policy for the advancement of women.
Development cooperation must be geared at its core to liberation from poverty, illiteracy, oppression, exploitation and war.
In this context, global social, ecological and anti-militarist movements, such as the World Social Forum, trade unions, locally controlled development initiatives at municipal and regional level, self-help groups and non-governmental organizations, are important alliance partners, alongside national and supra-regional institutions.
DIE LINKE demands: - Realize the human right to food and food sovereignty:
Small farmers, adapted technologies and a fair distribution of land and resources should be at the center of support;
- Ban speculation with food:
regulate the financial markets, prevent hedge funds and speculative transactions with foodstuffs;
exclude the import of agricultural raw materials for biofuel production until the global food supply is sustainably secured;
- Make the advancement of women a development policy priority:
Consistently promote gender equality at all economic, political and social levels;
take into account the respective gender-specific division of labor, for example in agricultural production, when allocating funds;
invest in projects for the advancement of women,
support good quality basic education for girls and further training for women;
- Democratically reform the IMF and World Bank
and fully integrate it into the UN system;
Strengthen regionally based and oriented lending institutions;
- create fair trade structures,
Debt relief for developing countries:
abolish EU export subsidies;
renegotiate the "Economic Partnership Agreements" with the ACP countries (Africa, Caribbean, Pacific) and other free trade agreements;
create fair arbitration proceedings for insolvent states;
- ensure effective and reliable emergency aid:
put payments for international emergency aid on a binding basis and make them financially crisis-proof;
Grant aid without economic policy conditions;
- development policy to civil conflict prevention,
International law
and human rights
and an active peace policy:
End the subordination of development cooperation to foreign and security policy and so-called civil-military cooperation;
directly strengthen the democratic and progressive movements of the South,
Involve the target groups of the projects in planning and implementation
and better coordinate international aid;
- provide developing countries with licenses for inexpensive medicines;
- 0.7 percent of gross domestic product for development aid.
5.2 Global solutions require global cooperation
"Our task is to make the world more beautiful, safer and better than we found it."Muhammad Yunus, Nobel Peace Prize Laureate
International law is the only legal basis between states.
If it is allowed to be violated, no law applies anymore, but only the law of the strongest.
Therefore, unlike the other parties, DIE LINKE will not agree to a breach of international law.
But as long as the veto powers of the UN Security Council and their allies break international law without facing sanctions, the UN remains rather powerless.
We want the UN to be strengthened politically.
UN-mandated wars
as well as a further militarization of the UN.
For social development, health and education, and civil conflict resolution, member states must give the UN more resources and authority.
Only in this way can the UN help with international problems, promote and secure peace and social justice worldwide.
The democratization of the United Nations is indispensable.
Regardless of the pending UN reform, the current devaluation of international law must be stopped.
There are no "humanitarian" military interventions.
DIE LINKE therefore rejects all military and war operations that violate international law, including those with a UN mandate.
Wars are always inhumane and the most serious violation of human rights.
Germany and the EU must strongly support the UN's "Millennium Development Goals"
and help to ensure that reform of the global economic order does not remain a matter for the G8 and G20 countries, but is put on the UN agenda.
An effective global climate policy requires a UN that is active in climate policy.
The previous emissions trading system has proven largely ineffective.
Emission rights were generally given away.
The targets for reducing CO2 emissions were too weak.
Development policy control was not provided.
Global climate policy must be based on the principle of human equality.
Per capita, each person may then only emit the same amount of CO2 that is globally climate-compatible in the long term.
Anyone who takes this principle of global equality seriously recognizes that the industrialized countries in particular must act quickly and vigorously.
The left-leaning states of Central and South America show that economic cooperation can work to mutual advantage - without plundering and injustice.
The German government must seek the path of cooperation instead of confrontation with the leftist-oriented governments of Latin America and lift the blockade of Cuba.
DIE LINKE demands: -German foreign policy to be oriented toward strengthening the UN:
recognize, enforce and further develop international law as the contractual basis of relations between states;
- reform the UN democratically:
end the instrumentalization of the UN for mandating wars;
subordinate military alliances to the UN;
grant the UN General Assembly more rights;
- realize the UN Millennium Goals by 2015:
drastically reduce the worst scourges of humanity - such as poverty, hunger, food and drinking water shortages, epidemics and diseases, maternal and infant mortality, underdevelopment and illiteracy - and
enshrine their fight in binding international law;
- accept an active UN role in reforming the world economic order:
not leave a new world economic order to powerful states alone;
strictly regulate financial markets;
create a system of fixed exchange rates;
in World Trade Organization (WTO) policy, overcome the dogmas of privatization, liberalization and free trade
and strengthen developmentally meaningful goals within the framework of an ecologically sustainable and socially, politically and economically just world economic policy; -
strengthen the UN as a global authority in dealing with vital tasks such as the creation of food sovereignty, access to water and climate change;
- significantly increase compensation payments to the states of the South for the consequences of climate change;
- bring about a change in energy supply toward energy sovereignty for the countries of the South by means of a mix of renewable energies
and increased global knowledge and technology transfer.
5.3 German Foreign Policy: Enforce Peace Policy!
"If we are asked to raise the weapons of murder against our French or other foreign brothers, we declare: "No, we will not do that!" Rosa Luxemburg, at a rally in Fechenheim on September 25, 1913 (she was sentenced to one year in prison in 1914 for this "call to disobey the law and orders of the authorities").
German foreign policy has been militarized by the SPD and the Greens and
increasingly directed toward the imperial enforcement of capital interests.
Since the war of aggression against the former Yugoslavia, the Federal Republic of Germany has actively participated in actions that violate international law.
The prohibition of the use of force in international relations as the core of the United Nations monopoly on the use of force must be respected.
However, Germany participates either directly (Kosovo, Afghanistan) or indirectly (Iraq) in military interventions and wars that violate international law.
As a NATO member state, the Federal Republic of Germany accepts NATO's New Strategic Concept, which declares the pursuit of economic interests to be a military task.
The two major wars in recent years are the Afghanistan war and the Iraq war, which is a war for oil.
The war in Afghanistan, in particular, is tenaciously defended against any criticism because NATO sees its ability to intervene called into question if it fails.
Its real war aim is to show itself as a global interventionist power.
But this makes the situation in Afghanistan much more difficult.
There is no military victory in the so-called war on terror.
Measured against the global challenges, German foreign policy is counterproductive.
The German government's foreign policy is more oriented toward the confrontational and interventionist policies of the United States and NATO than toward the task of finding cooperative answers to global problems.
DIE LINKE demands: - to withdraw the Bundeswehr from Afghanistan immediately;
- not allow the Bundeswehr to be deployed abroad - not even under a UN mandate:
not send military advisors to support authoritarian regimes;
- Reduce the defense budget
and expand the civil peace service;
- immediately abandon plans for the military use of the Kyritz-Ruppiner Heide as a bombing range:
No bombing range anywhere!
- dissolve NATO
and replace it with a collective security system involving Russia:
prevent the establishment of the "missile defense shield" in Poland and the Czech Republic;
expand the civil partnership and cooperation agreements between the EU and Russia;
Shape the Eastern Partnership with states from the former Soviet Union, taking Russia's security interests into account;
- radically disarm:
abolish compulsory military service;
transform the Bundeswehr into a defense force and significantly reduce its size;
support the abandonment of military sites and the civilian use of abandoned military properties with a federal conversion program;
Only allow youth officers to appear in schools, universities and employment agencies with representatives of opposing views;
counter the trend towards privatization of military services
and in particular for the international ban on private armies;
- not agree to any NATO expansion attempt:
reject participation in the NATO Response Force (NRF) and multinational armaments programs;
not agree to any expansion of NATO's mission (strategic sea transportation, disaster control, energy security);
NATO doctrine of preventive wars
and the use of nuclear weapons;
take active steps towards a world free of nuclear weapons;
- implement UN Resolution 1325 "Women and Peace":
Protecting women and girls in war and crisis situations
and actively participate in peace processes;
national action plan for the implementation of UN Resolution 1325;
prohibit the production, use and distribution of cluster bombs and landmines,
destroy the stockpile of these weapons;
- Ban arms exports;
- close all military bases of foreign armies in Germany
and have all nuclear weapons destroyed.
5.4 Germany in Europe: For a Social, Democratic and Peaceful European Union
"International financial markets today have reached a level of complexity that rivals the world's weather."Susan George, 1998
The European Union is an indispensable field of political action for securing peace in Europe,
for coping with the global economic crisis, for
safeguarding employees' interests, for the
socio-ecological restructuring of the European internal market,
for solving global challenges and for global cooperation.
Europe and the European Union are not well equipped for this.
The governments of the EU states have gambled away the enthusiasm of many citizens for Europe for a long time to come.
The race for the lowest taxes, wages and social benefits was promoted, and the dependent employees of the European states were played off against each other.
The European Union has so far failed to create the policy instruments to respond adequately to global crises in economic, climate, energy, and food supply policies.
The European Union, the EU Commission and the European Court of Justice are so far committed to policies that are among the causes of these crises: Enforcement of European economic freedoms, service and capital freedoms, denationalization, privatization and deregulation.
That has to change.
DIE LINKE demands: - Establish a European economic government:
Coordinate monetary, financial and economic policy;
- commit the European Central Bank (ECB) equally to price stability, sustainable development and employment:
ECB by the European Parliament and the Council of Economics and Finance Ministers;
- replace the Stability and Growth Pact with an agreement for sustainable development, full employment, social security and environmental protection;
- include a social progress clause entitled "Ensure equal pay for work of equal value in the same place" in European treaties;
- Let citizens help shape a European constitution
and present it to all citizens of the European Union for a vote at the same time;
- realize equal rights for women and men,
Expand protection against discrimination:
Exclude discrimination against people on the grounds of ethnic origin, gender, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual identity throughout Europe;
- provide EU regional and structural policy with sufficient financial resources:
Development and expansion of transport links between Eastern and Western Europe;
develop cooperation in border regions, for example between Germany and Poland and the Czech Republic;
- abolish the border protection agency FRONTEX;
6. consistently social.
- replace the European Defense Agency with a disarmament agency;
- end military missions abroad within the framework of the European Foreign and Security Policy;
- expand cooperation with neighboring eastern and southeastern European countries;
make Germany a pioneer for reconciliation and understanding
; accelerate the expansion of transport links between western and eastern Europe;
- support and strengthen regional cooperation of the German-Polish and German-Czech border regions by the federal government.
For democracy and peace.
"What concerns me most is the blatant social injustice of the fact that the socialized costs of systemic failure hit the most vulnerable social groups the hardest.(.)
Politics makes a fool of itself when it moralizes instead of relying on the coercive right of the democratic legislator.
It, and not capitalism, is responsible for the common good."Jürgen Habermas, November 2008
In the current global economic crisis, even the neoliberal fundamentalists are calling for the rescuing state.
This is the hour of politics!
Anyone who misses the opportunity to fundamentally change the rules of the game during a crisis is setting the stage for the next crisis by failing to do so.
It acts irresponsibly towards the majority interests:
Work, income, prosperity, security, health, education, culture in a well-organized society that decides on its public affairs in democratic equality of all, instead of being blackmailed by banking and corporate power.
DIE LINKE stands for social justice, for the
restructuring of the economy and society, for the interests of wage earners
and for the equal participation of those excluded and discarded by capitalism.
DIE LINKE stands for a peaceful and solidary coexistence of peoples and states, for exclusively civil conflict solutions.
We are committed to this, in the German Bundestag and in society.
Left works!
The past four years have shown that.
The other parties react to a stronger LEFT party because they fear us and fear for their voters.
If other parties are now also courting votes with demands from the LEFT such as a minimum wage, a tax on stock market turnover, longer unemployment benefits, the abolition of wage discrimination against women, more spending on education, then that is a good thing, even though bad experiences with election promises have not been forgotten.
We will take them at their word!
We will raise the issues and put our proposals to a vote!
The policy change that is needed now, in the midst of the crisis, requires decisiveness and courage.
It also requires political pressure from society, from associations, businesses and social movements, active involvement.
Our Group will continue to be open to the protests and demands of employees and their trade unions over the next four years,
of the critics of globalization,
of people with disabilities,
the women's movement
and the unemployed,
of representatives from the world of science,
Culture
and religion
and by socially responsible entrepreneurs.
Their ideas and commitment are needed.
DIE LINKE works.
For this, we need your votes on election day, with which you commit our group accordingly.
The stronger DIE LINKE, the more social the country.
