Introduction
The Bundestag election on September 22, 2013 is just around the corner and the Pirate Party Germany wants to enter the Bundestag.
There, we can further advance the content with which we have been represented in four state parliaments since 2011, among others.
Our election program, which you now hold in your hands, was written by our members, discussed with great commitment at party conventions and adopted.
Here, of course, our core issues are represented, such as copyright, data protection, strengthening civil rights, transparency of the state, the Internet and education.
And you will find our ideas on social affairs, health policy, asylum policy, the environment and Europe.
A few positions are mentioned here as examples:
We are the only party to call for net neutrality to be enshrined in law - data transmission on the Internet must remain neutral.
We provide a concrete basis for calculating a statutory minimum wage,
which, however, we see only as a bridging technology until the introduction of the equally demanded unconditional basic income.
We advocate the use of freely accessible and freely usable educational resources (OER = Open Educational Resources).
Precisely because of our commitment to Europe, we want a transparent design and democratic control of the ESM.
We call for the introduction of nationwide referendums.
We want to express our political will not only in elections but also in votes.
We pirates want to change how politics is made and thus also politics itself.
We stand for a society that is based on solidarity and worth living in - and we are running a powerful election campaign so that we can then implement these goals in federal politics.
Vote for the Pirate Party on September 22, 2013 - we'll make sure your vote counts!
Freedom and fundamental rights
Preserving privacy, strengthening data protection and informational self-determination
The Pirate Party Germany is committed to strong data protection and the principle of informational self-determination.
This includes not only the economical collection, processing and use of personal data for specific purposes and the limited disclosure of personal data,
but also the strengthening of the rights of individuals to determine for themselves the disclosure and use of personal data.
In terms of the principle of information security, confidentiality during transmission and access as well as the integrity of the stored data must be guaranteed.
The Pirate Party Germany rejects the suspicionless screening of citizens
and the transparent customer.
In the digital age, more and more personal information is available in electronic form, is processed automatically, and is linked or passed on - even across national borders and between the public and non-public sectors.
Without the knowledge of those affected, the growing flood of data can be automatically compiled into personality profiles and, in the worst case, used against them - for example, through so-called credit scoring or the creation of surfing and movement profiles.
In order to ensure that privacy is preserved in the information society as well, the Pirate Party Germany is striving to implement the following measures:
Strengthening informational self-determination, promoting media literacy
In order to ensure the effective applicability of the fundamental right to informational self-determination under Article 2 (1), Article 1 (1) of the German Basic Law in the future as well, the Pirate Party calls for a data protection law that not only maintains the high level of protection in Germany in international comparison, but also expands it - even after the revision of EU data protection law.
Legislation must enable individuals to become aware of the possibilities, opportunities and risks of information links on the Internet and to make self-determined decisions about what data they release - for example, in social network services or via loyalty or bonus programs.
Citizens must be able to rely on public authorities and companies to handle personal data in a transparent and comprehensible manner in accordance with this fundamental right, and that violations and a lack of due diligence will be sanctioned accordingly.
Individuals must have an enforceable and free-of-charge right to self-disclosure, correction, blocking or deletion of their own personal data and to be informed immediately and completely about unwanted data outflows from companies and authorities.
In order to develop the existing right to information into a duty to notify, the Pirate Party calls for the introduction of the data letter and its anchoring in the data protection laws of the federal and state governments.
Companies, authorities and institutions that process, transmit or store personal data should be required to inform the data subjects annually by means of a data letter about the nature, purpose and - in the case of authorities and institutions entrusted with governmental tasks - the legal basis of the storage.
The disclosure of data to third parties should be communicated and justified.
In order to guarantee genuine freedom of choice in the use of the Internet in the spirit of informational self-determination, all products and services intended or suitable for processing personal data must be preset in a privacy-friendly manner (privacy-by-default).
Data protection should also be built into the development of new communications and information technologies from the outset (privacy-by-design).
Strengthen data protection authorities
The Pirate Party Germany is committed to strengthening the independence and the powers of control and sanctions of the Federal and State Data Protection Commissioners and the Federal Office for Information Security in order to improve the enforceability of individual data protection rights vis-à-vis governmental and non-public bodies, to prevent the misuse of personal data and to ensure protective measures against loss or manipulation.
To this end, the complete independence of the supervisory authorities is to be ensured in accordance with the EU Data Protection Directive and the case law of the European Court of Justice (ECJ).
The supervisory authorities must be equipped in accordance with their tasks so that they can also exercise their supervisory and control function.
For companies as well as public bodies, the Pirate Party also demands legally recognized voluntary data protection and data security audits as well as certifications by the independent authorities.
Ensure responsible handling of reporting data, curb data trafficking
The Pirate Party calls for a reporting law that does justice to the state's special duty of care with regard to data collected by force.
Personal rights must take precedence over the private economic interests of companies.
The reporting laws should therefore be consistently revised to ensure that reporting data is not passed on to third parties without the active consent of citizens at the collection source (optin) - this includes, for example, companies, address dealers, associations or political parties.
We reject an automated query.
In addition to information from the population register, this also applies to the correction of inventory data.
The use of personal data for address trading, advertising purposes or market or opinion research may only be possible with the consent of the data subjects.
The Pirate Party is therefore calling for the abolition without replacement of the so-called list privilege, the central exemption in German data protection law for address trading.
The Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG) must be amended accordingly and supplemented with a mandatory consent requirement.
The disclosure of reporting data to the contribution service of the public broadcasters must be ended and the clause in the 15th Amendment to the Interstate Broadcasting Treaty (RÄStV) for screening citizens' "individual life circumstances" must be deleted without replacement.
Preventing suspicion-independent data storage
The Pirate Party Germany is fundamentally opposed to data retention (VDS) of telecommunications connection data.
In the Pirates' view, the purpose and means of this surveillance measure are not in a balanced relationship.
The storage of data without any reason is a further step towards unlimited telecommunications surveillance and places the population under general suspicion.
The Federal Constitutional Court declared the German data retention regulations unconstitutional and null and void back in March 2010.
Even if the ruling sets narrow limits for a possible new regulation, from the Pirate Party's point of view, no design of the underlying EU Data Retention Directive can be outlined that would ensure compatibility with the German Basic Law and the European Charter of Fundamental Rights.
We also reject an introduction through the back door.
The Pirate Party is therefore in favor of finally abandoning the plans for data retention, abolishing the EU VDS Directive without replacement and, in the interest of protecting the privacy of citizens, accepting any penalties that may be incurred by the EU Commission until then.
The right to demand the immediate deletion of billing data that existed prior to the introduction of data retention must be reinstated.
The secrecy of correspondence must be extended to a general secrecy of communications in order to protect electronic communications.
The right to anonymous payment on the Internet and to anonymous communication must be defended.
The Pirate Party rejects the EU's efforts to establish and maintain long-distance data retention.
The collection and storage of travel data without suspicion, as well as the reversal of the presumption of innocence, are not compatible with our idea of a free democratic state.
The Pirate Party is also critical of other forms of suspicion-independent data collection, such as the hotel reporting requirement or the successor project to the ELENA electronic remuneration statement procedure, OMS (Optimized Reporting Procedure in Social Security).
The Pirate Party rejects the collection, storage, and comparison of biometric data without any reason due to the high potential for misuse.
In principle, the collection of biometric characteristics should be voluntary and should be monitored and evaluated by independent bodies.
The creation of central biometric databases for police purposes or for the insurance industry must be avoided.
Identity and passport documents must also be valid without biometric features - even abroad.
Against surveillance software: transparency and source code disclosure
The Pirate Party Germany is clearly against the production, maintenance, support and preservation of surveillance software.
It condemns commercial trade in surveillance software, including surveillance software services.
Surveillance software is any software that can provide third parties with access to non-public data, communications and activities of a computing system without the actual users of the computing system being aware of it.
The reason for this position is that surveillance software is used both domestically and globally to undermine human rights such as the right to privacy.
Often, the private data obtained in this way is used to persecute and even torture opponents of the regime, and to fight movements for more democracy.
In order to take active action against surveillance software, the Pirate Party calls for a legal obligation on manufacturers and service providers of surveillance software to establish full transparency about all products, and about all contractors and customers who use surveillance software and services.
Furthermore, the Pirate Party demands the legal obligation to disclose the complete source code of surveillance software.
The disclosure of all this information has to happen to the public, which means: not only to a parliamentary control committee.
Monitoring
"Digital networks" into the Basic Law
The Pirate Party advocates the expansion of Article 5 (1) of the Basic Law to include the two words "digital networks".
New: Article 5 (1) "Everyone shall have the right freely to express and disseminate his opinions in speech, writing and pictures and to inform himself without hindrance from generally accessible sources. Freedom of the press and freedom of reporting through broadcasting, film and digital networks shall be guaranteed. There shall be no censorship."
Those affected by surveillance measures must be informed
Covert surveillance measures invite abuse.
For this reason, those affected by state wiretapping and surveillance measures must always be notified.
The current regulations on the notification requirement are ineffective due to the numerous exceptions.
The Pirate Party therefore advocates that the monitoring authority must, without exception, notify all those known to it to be affected by a monitoring measure within a fixed, non-extendable period and inform them about the data collected.
No federal or state Trojans
Covert intrusions into information technology systems (e.g. federal or state Trojans)
For the Pirate Party, covert interventions in information technology systems by the state are not compatible with fundamental rights and the rule of law.
We therefore advocate for the elimination of the authority for government agencies to bug such systems.
If we do not find a sufficient parliamentary majority for the abolition and prevention of such encroachments, we will, in addition to the requirements of the Federal Constitutional Court, advocate strict regulation and control of this considerable encroachment on fundamental civil rights by means of the following measures:
The installation of complex software to carry out covert access permanently alters information technology systems on principle.
The integrity of the stored data is thus no longer guaranteed.
The findings obtained in this process are therefore completely unsuitable as evidence in court.
We therefore advocate a statutory ban on the use of evidence obtained in this way without exception.
A distinction between source CCTV and a more extensive intrusion is merely a theoretical construct that is far removed from reality.
In practice, we cannot see any difference in the depth of the encroachment on the fundamental rights of the persons concerned.
The intrusion threshold for source tapping is therefore at least as high as for any other covert intrusion into an information technology system.
Orders for these interventions are decided exclusively by judges.
We exclude an order in case of imminent danger by the executive (e.g. public prosecutor, head of authorities, ministries).
An order may only be issued if other milder measures have already been implemented and were unsuccessful.
Technical requirements - especially with regard to mandatory security mechanisms - are regulated in detail and uniformly throughout Germany by law or ordinance.
Compliance with the technical requirements is monitored by a government agency that is completely independent of the investigating authorities.
Programs and software to be used by the investigating authorities for covert intervention must be examined in advance by this independent body and approved for use.
Since the implementation of the intervention may only take place in absolute exceptional cases - i.e. as a last resort - it will be limited to very few simultaneous cases in the Federal Republic.
This task is therefore performed centrally by a small number of very well-trained specialists and bundled in a federal authority that is independent of the authorized agencies.
The authorized agencies of the Federation and the Länder may entrust this federal authority with legally permissible measures by way of administrative assistance.
This federal agency will be subject to strict parliamentary oversight.
The ordering court will be required to prepare a detailed report on the action taken within 30 days of completion.
The preparation of the report shall be entrusted to a judge who has not previously been involved in the relevant investigation.
The report shall state whether the measure was properly carried out within the framework of the law and in accordance with the provisions of the court order.
Likewise, it is up to the judge to evaluate whether the knowledge gained ultimately justifies the serious interference with the fundamental rights of the person concerned.
A parliamentary oversight committee will collect, regularly summarize and evaluate the judges' reports.
On the basis of the evaluations, it must be regularly checked whether these encroachments on fundamental rights are at all justified in practice and are needed overall.
Even if all of these measures are enshrined in law, we will continue to consistently advocate for the abolition and a ban on covert intrusions into information technology systems that is backed up by criminal penalties.
Protection of privacy in the Basic Law
The Pirate Party is committed to the unconditional preservation of citizens' privacy against state surveillance in any form.
In order to achieve this, the Pirate Party is striving for the abolition of the large-scale eavesdropping attack as
as well as the abolition of interference with the secrecy of correspondence and postal and telecommunications secrecy through an amendment to the Basic Law.
In order to abolish the grand eavesdropping attack, paragraphs 3 to 6 of Article 13 of the Basic Law (GG) are to be removed again.
In order to abolish the encroachment on the secrecy of correspondence and the secrecy of post and telecommunications, paragraph 2 of Article 10 of the German Basic Law (GG) is to be removed.
Experience with the "state Trojan", for example, has shown that the state cannot guarantee responsible handling of intrusions into citizens' privacy and that there is still no concept for effective control.
Asylum
For an asylum policy based on solidarity - human rights apply to all!
Principles
The Pirate Party Germany stands for an open, free and pluralistic society in which different cultures, world views and religions can live together peacefully.
We therefore advocate for an asylum policy based on solidarity and dignity, which is interested in the well-being and protection of people seeking asylum and renounces instruments of deterrence, isolation and discrimination without exception.
Asylum policy must always be oriented toward humanitarian and not nation-state or economic interests.
Expand grounds for asylum and lower hurdles for residence permits
The right to receive asylum in Germany has been drastically restricted by the amendments to Article 16 of the Basic Law in the so-called asylum compromise.
As a first step, we strive for the complete restoration of the fundamental right to asylum, "politically persecuted persons enjoy the right of asylum" (Art. 16 GG a. F.).
In addition, people who have fled discrimination, persecution on the basis of their sexual or gender identity, climate and environmental disasters, membership of an ethnic or religious group, or threats to their livelihoods due to poverty and hunger must also be recognized here as eligible for asylum.
We reject a hierarchization of reasons for flight.
We also reject blanket categorizations of countries as "safe countries of origin."
Protection seekers have a right to an individual examination of their situation.
When considering whether a person is entitled to asylum, a decision must be made in favor of the asylum seeker in case of doubt.
In this context, discriminatory and inhumane evidence procedures must be dispensed with.
More open borders instead of Fortress Europe
For years, the external borders of the European Union have been increasingly sealed off, which increasingly blocks refugees' access to Europe.
Through national police authorities, the military and private security companies, as well as the European Border Agency FRONTEX, people are forcibly prevented from entering the EU and thus deprived of the chance to find protection in Europe by applying for asylum.
In doing so, the health and lives of the refugees are endangered.
The reports of so-called "boat people" who want to flee to Europe by ship and drown there, although help would be possible, make us concerned and show that it is imperative to act here.
Instead of continuing to close off Europe, the EU must take measures to ensure safe border crossings for people fleeing, especially on the seas off Europe, to give them the opportunity to apply for asylum.
Rescue operations are to be organized by the state.
It is not the task of civil society to carry them out.
Where this happens, rescuers must not be hindered or criminalized for their civil courage.
We criticize the current practice of constantly constructing new criminal offenses in order to detain those seeking protection.
Free choice of residence for all people
Increased technical surveillance at the borders, increasing data collection on people entering the country (e.g. "smart borders", EURODAC) and the expansion of police powers make it clear that the European Union is not interested in accepting people seeking protection, but rather in sealing itself off.
We reject the third-country regulation and its concretization in the "Dublin" regulations.
Through this arrangement, centrally located states like Germany shirk their responsibility to those seeking protection.
Every person must be granted the right to freely choose his or her place of residence.
It also follows that every person must be given the opportunity to apply for asylum in the country of his or her choice.
We reject the patronizing postponement practice of the EU.
Extend basic rights to all people
Currently, asylum seekers are excluded from social coexistence to an unacceptable degree, forcing them to live in isolation and seclusion.
Restrictive regulations, such as the residence obligation, massively limit their freedom of movement and make a free, self-determined life, as well as participation in political or social events, almost impossible.
We are committed to ensuring that asylum seekers are given the opportunity to move freely and uncontrolled throughout the territory of the European Union.
End isolation - create decent and decentralized housing!
Asylum seekers are forced to live an isolated life in camps and communal accommodations, most of which are in a dilapidated condition and located far from city centers.
Moreover, due to the residence obligation, asylum seekers are often bound to individual municipalities or counties, which deprives them of the opportunity to visit friends, acquaintances or family members outside the county borders.
This situation is made more difficult by the fact that there is no entitlement to access new media, such as the Internet.
An Internet connection provides easy access to education and culture, offers the opportunity to maintain contact with legal representation while the asylum application is pending, to learn about the German legal situation, or to keep in touch with family members, friends.
We consider this inhumane state of affairs to be no longer acceptable and are committed to enabling asylum seekers to live in freedom and self-determination, without control, mistrust and isolation.
Housing must be organized in a decentralized manner for this purpose, and a departure from existing warehousing practices is essential.
Access to education, culture, language courses and new, modern communication media such as the Internet must be guaranteed barrier-free and free of charge.
Genuine livelihood security instead of discriminatory special laws
The ruling of the Federal Constitutional Court on the "Asylum Seekers Benefits Act" is clear and shows that it is unconstitutional to keep asylum seekers below the "subsistence level".
This shows the extent to which asylum seekers are already discriminated against by legislation in their everyday lives and deprived of a self-determined life.
We are committed to ensuring that asylum seekers are entitled to social benefits without maintaining or creating discriminatory special legislation.
The right to a secure existence and participation must apply to all people - also and especially to those seeking protection.
Create a fair asylum procedure - simplify administrative procedures
All people who apply for asylum in Germany must be given sufficient time to come to terms with the events they have experienced during their flight and in their country of origin.
To this end, it must be ensured that asylum seekers are provided with psychological care that supports and accompanies them.
In order to create fair opportunities and foundations in an asylum process, it is necessary to ensure that there is both sufficient time and a sufficient number of qualified staff.
In addition, there is a need to refrain from frantic blanket judgments and hierarchization among certain groups of refugees in order to create true equality of opportunity.
In times of increased numbers of asylum seekers, an increase in resources at the Federal Office for Migration and Refugees must be ensured for this purpose in order to avoid unnecessary and disruptive waiting times.
In this context, there must be no loss of quality in the assessments and decisions, as is the case in the so-called "fast-track" procedure.
The Pirate Party is also committed to guaranteeing asylum seekers a legal right to legal representation as well as to an interpreter in order not to burden them additionally with high costs, organizational difficulties and language barriers.
For an end to deportations and detention pending deportation
We advocate for a general end to deportations and detention pending deportation.
Deportation is a state tool that can only be carried out with the help of coercive measures that conflict with fundamental rights and human rights and are unworthy of a democratic society.
The consequences of deportation almost always lead to hopeless situations for the person concerned and often to danger to life and limb.
Deportations to crisis regions and to areas where conditions may pose a threat to health or life must be rejected.
Embassy screenings to establish identity and obtain passport replacements are discriminatory and therefore also to be rejected.
Detention pending deportation must be suspended immediately nationwide.
Detained persons shall be released immediately.
ILA - International Liberty Agreement
The Pirate Party will - in cooperation with the worldwide network of Pirate Parties and all other parties and organizations that have the same or similar ideas - initiate the negotiation and conclusion of an international treaty - the "International Liberty Agreement (ILA)" - that sets binding minimum standards for civil liberties, especially but not exclusively in digital networks.
Negotiations are conducted in public from the beginning.
In this process, the respective civil societies and interested organizations are involved in the discussion by the negotiating states.
It also promotes international networking and exchange among these organizations.
This should ensure that the agreement ultimately represents not only a consensus of governments but also, as far as possible, a consensus of populations.
Among other things, the ILA should contain agreements on indispensable requirements for freedom of communication, information and speech, the
the conduct of investigative, administrative, civil and criminal proceedings to ensure that people are not deterred from exercising their fundamental rights by the fear of the negative consequences of ultimately unjustified accusations ("chilling" effect, etc.),
the non-restrictable right of access to information and communication media, in particular an explicit exclusion of access blocks as punitive sanctions for simple offenses ("three strikes"),
the obligation for both sides to attempt to settle disputes about non-commercial, alleged legal violations initially free of charge and out of court,
freedom from liability for network providers and services that publish content posted by users, and
agreement on international distribution licenses to make it unnecessary to restrict access to content based on a user's current location (and also cross-border trade in media).
Strengthening the rights of prostitutes
The decision to engage in prostitution falls under the right to free choice of occupation as well as the right to sexual self-determination.
The decision to engage in prostitution must therefore be accepted by the state and society.
The Pirate Party rejects discrimination and criminalization of sex workers and their clients.
Self-determined sex workers are not victims.
Rather, they practice their profession on their own responsibility on the basis of a free decision.
Their activity requires special skills and knowledge and deserves social recognition.
Therefore, we will examine all special regulations governing prostitution to determine whether they are suitable, necessary and appropriate to ensure the recognition and rights of sex workers.
Strengthening the rights of self-determined sex workers is the best way to combat any form of heteronomy.
It serves to ensure equal legal treatment and the free and unhindered exercise of the profession.
Pirates for fan rights
The Pirate Party Germany is committed to safeguarding the rights of fans
and to an objective dialogue at eye level between all stakeholders in soccer and other sports.
The current pressure by the federal and state interior ministers and police authorities on the associations to create new repressive measures against large sections of the fan scenes or to tighten existing ones must be stopped.
The prosecution and sanctioning of criminal offenses must be carried out by the police within the legal framework, instead of shifting it to the law of associations, where the means and procedures do not meet the requirements of the rule of law.
Against collective punishment
We firmly reject the practice of holding clubs or fan groups liable for the offenses of individual supporters and plans to legitimize this approach by law.
Likewise, we Pirates see no legal basis for the attempts of some associations to pass on high penalty payments, which the associations and clubs have agreed with each other, to third parties.
Peaceful and respectful coexistence is only possible without such threatening backdrops, which have strongly negative long-term consequences for the predominantly young people affected.
Violent sports
The "Violent Sports Offenders" file is a file maintained by the Central Information Office for Sports Operations in which information is collected on individuals whose personal details have been recorded during sporting events - usually soccer.
In the view of the Pirate Party, the way this file is currently maintained is questionable under data protection law and represents a violation of basic legal standards.
The Pirate Party is therefore calling for the abolition of the "Violent Offenders in Sport" file, or at least for compliance with the principles of the rule of law, such as the presumption of innocence.
This includes that entries in the file "Violent Offenders in Sports" may only be made after a final conviction or at least an urgent suspicion of having committed a violent act.
Currently, this is solely at the discretion of the officers handling the case.
In case of innocence or discontinuation of the proceedings due to insignificance, the entry must be deleted immediately.
In order to enable the persons concerned to take legal action, they must be informed in writing immediately after registration, stating all the data stored.
No restrictions on the freedom of the person
The Pirate Party opposes the practice of many police authorities to impose so-called ?ereichsbetretungsverbot or exit bans on fans without a court order, as well as efforts to make this possible nationwide.
This restriction of the fundamental rights of those affected is unacceptable to us.
Stadium bans
At present, nationwide stadium bans are often issued on suspicion, particularly by the German Football Association (DFB), without those affected being able to comment on the matter.
This often has major social consequences, especially for those who live in the stadium.
The Pirates stand for the right to participate in cultural life and therefore demand that the issuance of nationwide stadium bans be regulated on a case-by-case basis and in compliance with minimum standards under the rule of law, including a fair, mandatory hearing of the person affected and his or her representatives.
In addition, the relevant fan representatives and representatives of the fan scene must always be involved in the hearings.
The purpose of this procedure is to determine whether the fan is in acute danger or whether he cannot be brought back on the right track with the help of appropriate measures.
If the causes of the fan's misconduct lie outside the stadium, a stadium ban only shifts the problem and may even exacerbate it.
Hooligans and organized violent criminals are not deterred from committing crimes outside stadiums by stadium bans.
Here, the work of the fan projects and fan representatives must be supported to prevent young people from drifting into the hooligan scenes.
Admission controls
It is essential to ensure that the dignity of stadium visitors is preserved during admission controls to stadiums.
We consider full-body checks to be an inhumane measure, disproportionate to the misdemeanors to be prevented, and we strongly oppose them.
Position of the Pirate Party on pyrotechnics
The Pirate Party is committed to allowing the controlled use of pyrotechnics by fans where local conditions permit.
For many fans, pyrotechnics are an integral part of fan culture and an important means of expressing their emotions.
Previous attempts to prevent the use of pyrotechnics have failed and have only led to ever-increasing surveillance and coercion of fans.
Currently, pyrotechnics are secretly brought into the stadium and ignited there covertly under the protection of the crowd.
The resulting risk of injury could be significantly reduced by controlled use within specially designated zones.
Where the use of pyrotechnics by fans is possible, e.g. in Norway or Austria, very positive experiences have been made and also in Germany, e.g. in ice hockey, there are already positive experiences.
We therefore demand that the DFB resume the dialogue on the legalization of pyrotechnics that began in 2011 and that politicians create the legal conditions to make this possible in parallel.
dare democracy
Right to vote
Introduction of open lists, cumulation and variegation
Citizens should have more influence in federal elections on which people and parties represent them in parliament.
The Pirate Party is in favor of "open lists" so that voters can vote for specific list candidates with their second votes.
The order of candidates previously determined by the respective party shall no longer be unchangeable.
Citizen participation
Direct democracy
The Pirate Party wants to increase the direct and indirect co-determination opportunities of each individual.
Citizens should be able to decide directly on laws in referendums and thus assume responsibility:
A law passed in parliament is not to come into force if citizens reject it in a vote (optional referendum).
Important EU reforms and constitutional amendments must always be confirmed by the citizens in a vote (mandatory referendum).
The Pirate Party is in favor of introducing popular initiatives, referendums and plebiscites at the federal level.
We support the addition of Union-wide citizens' petitions and referendums to the European Citizens' Initiative in the area of EU legislation.
All procedural hurdles must be surmountable for citizens at a reasonable cost.
Co-determination
Participatory budgeting
The Pirate Party advocates citizen participation in a variety of regulated and tested forms:
Citizens nationwide are to express their opinions on the sensible use of investment funds and on savings measures in the federal budget.
The opinions are to be weighted and taken into account in the preparation of the budget by the Bundestag.
Introduction of nationwide referendums
It is long past time to fulfill the promise of Article 20 of the Basic Law at the federal level as well, according to which citizens exercise state power not only in elections but also in votes.
Direct democracy can significantly enrich politics and curb disenchantment with politics.
In principle, citizens are to be given the right to submit new bills of their own to a referendum in a three-stage procedure (right to legislative initiative).
In addition, there is to be the possibility of stopping laws that have been passed by parliament before they come into force (optional referendum).
Finally, referendums on the transfer of sovereign rights and amendments to the Basic Law should be automatic (mandatory referendum).
These three variants of arriving at a referendum have been used in Switzerland for many years with great success.
The number of signatures, deadlines and registration options described are based on proven hurdles in Germany and abroad.
Introduce a three-step process for popular initiatives:
1. popular initiative:
100,000 eligible voters sign in free collection for a bill or a submission on another subject of political will formation (e.g., call for action to the federal government).
Representatives of the popular initiative have the right to be heard in the Bundestag, in the
Bundesrat and in their committees.
If the Bundestag rejects the popular initiative, a referendum can be initiated.
2. referendum petition:
If the federal government or one-third of the members of the Bundestag consider the referendum to be contrary to the Basic Law, they may appeal to the Federal Constitutional Court.
A referendum has come about if at least one million voters have signed it within six months, or at least two million in the case of amendments to the Basic Law.
Registration can be made at the office and in free collection.
3rd referendum:
The Bundestag may (if necessary with the consent of the Bundesrat) put its own bill to a referendum vote.
Every person entitled to vote receives a voting brochure in advance containing the statements of the representatives of the referendum as well as those of the Bundestag and Bundesrat.
As in elections, the majority of the votes cast is decisive.
Laws requiring the consent of the Länder come into effect if, in addition, the number of votes in the Bundesrat of those Länder in which a consenting majority was achieved in the referendum corresponds to the majority required in the Bundesrat (in the case of amendments to the Basic Law: two-thirds majority).
Optional referendum
If the subject of a referendum is a law that has been passed by parliament but not yet countersigned and executed by the Federal President, it is deemed to have been passed if 500,000 voters sign it within three months.
Such a law can only take effect subject to approval in the referendum so requested.
Mandatory referendum
The transfer of sovereign rights (to the EU or other intergovernmental institutions) and amendments to the Basic Law require approval by referendum.
Donation transparency
Analogous to the Political Parties Act, donations above a de minimis threshold that are made for the benefit of an initiative are to be disclosed promptly.
Information
Balanced information of the public on the contents of referendums and plebiscites must be ensured.
Before the referendum, every person entitled to vote receives an information brochure in which the initiative, the Bundestag and the Bundesrat explain their views.
To promote public discussion and inform the public in advance of a referendum, the initiative receives government reimbursement.
intErnEt, nEt policy anD artErvErsEnt
Strengthening network neutrality and anchoring it in law
The Pirate Party Germany advocates the legal establishment of the neutral character of data transmission on the Internet (principle of net neutrality) in order to secure freedom of information, press and opinion and to
maintain the innovative capacity of the network.
The Pirate Party rejects curtailing the non-discriminatory transmission of data by introducing quality classes, supply restrictions or access barriers.
It must be left to the people connected to the communications infrastructure to choose what they want from the range of services on offer.
To ensure that the Internet remains a place of innovation and equality, legislators must make a clear commitment to concentrating application-specific functions at the end devices connected to the network (end-to-end principle) and consistently prohibit interference in the network layer or viewing of the transport layer of the data being passed through.
Copyright
Introduction
Copyright law represents a balancing of interests between authors, users, the general public and rights holders.
However, this balance is currently being struck primarily in favor of the rights holders.
Our reform will correct this imbalance and, above all, ensure that copyright law no longer shies away from the digital transformation, eliminates misunderstandings and abuses, and restores the balance between creators, rights exploiters, and the general public to the benefit of cultural creators and consumers.
General
For the reform we seek, the rights of the general public enshrined in copyright law, the so-called copyright barriers, must be significantly expanded.
Furthermore, the term of validity of the copyright must be lowered.
The current duration of 70 years after the death of the author leads the purpose of copyright, namely to protect the author per se, ad absurdum, because no author personally benefits if his work is protected until well after his death.
According to the pirates' idea, the duration of copyright will last at most until 10 years after the author's death.
For certain types of works, we require deadlines from publication for practicality reasons.
For example, copyright will apply to films for a maximum of 50 years after publication - and to software for a maximum of 20 years after publication.
User empowerment
In the interest of the general public in the freest possible access to education and culture, the Pirates' copyright reform will include the following core features:
The right to private copying and the creation of remixes and mashups will be made easier, copy protection measures will be completely prohibited, and the use of file-sharing networks will be fully legalized.
The past has shown that the freest possible distribution and handling of culture contribute to its dissemination and have a positive impact on the development of the cultural goods market.
The honest acquirers of works regularly face criminalization and various restrictions.
Making a private copy is often not possible, remixing/mashing is full of uncertainties and reselling as second hand is not possible.
Our ambition is to reinforce the rights of fair acquirers of works.
No user should have to worry about copyright after legally acquiring a work.
Strengthening of authors
In addition to the aforementioned concessions to users, the rights of authors vis-à-vis rights holders and rights exploiters must be significantly strengthened.
Among other things, we Pirates will grant authors secondary exploitation rights, allow rights to lapse more quickly if they are not exercised, and prevent unknown types of use from being granted across the board.
Furthermore, we will limit the granting of exclusive rights of use to a maximum of 20 years and subsequently allow these rights to revert back to the authors.
In addition, we will rule out the possibility of publishers being able to secure additional shares in authors' remuneration.
For the actual creators of works, our current copyright law is full of little paternalisms, contractual workarounds and so on in favor of the rights acquirers.
In a reform, we will therefore also start here and give the authors themselves more rights and control over their own works again.
Free education and research
In the educational context, all educational institutions must be able to use media free of copyright levies.
Education is far too important a commodity to subject it to unnecessary restrictions.
Education is the engine for knowledge, business, innovation and creativity and is indispensable for the further development of a society as well as the sovereign participation of its members in it.
In addition, the position of public libraries must be strengthened
as well as the digitization and archiving of works and access to them should be expanded and facilitated.
For example, the absurdity that only as many digitized copies of a work may be lent as there are physical copies is to be eliminated.
We will also enable scientific research institutions to use the media as freely as possible.
Research, like education, should be subject to as few restrictions as possible - be it research in the natural sciences or research in the context of contemporary history.
Research and science
Research and science receive several billion euros in public funding and support every year.
Their results must therefore subsequently be made fully available to the public.
This promotes the dissemination of knowledge and enables its consistent further development.
In order to allow scientific publishers to continue their work, a possible embargo period here could be a maximum of six months.
Promotion of alternative distribution models
The Pirate Party is strongly committed to promoting alternative payment and financing models for authors and artists and to spreading them in the public perception.
Our focus is on both self-promotion opportunities and funding through micropayment systems or crowdfunding models.
By spreading and accepting these new possibilities as widely as possible, we want to enable and establish a self-determined and fair payment model by the users.
In the opinion of the Pirates, this self-determined participation in the cultural market can, in turn, enable new ways of financial remuneration for works in general and minimize many currently existing problems of copyright law.
Public domain of all official works
In order to promote and improve a transparent state and transparent authorities as well as the traceability of official processes, all official works and works commissioned by authorities must be usable by the population without restrictions in the future and should be generally exempt from copyright.
According to our will, this should also apply to unpublished and internal works of the authorities if there is a special public interest in them due to a current political situation.
In this way, it can be prevented that copyright can be used as an excuse in the event of internal errors by the authorities in order to withhold disapproved documents.
Infrastructure
Free, legally binding digital signatures and email encryption for all
The Pirate Party is committed to setting up a state-funded trust center that gives everyone, regardless of income, the opportunity to encrypt documents and e-mails for tap-proof correspondence and to sign them digitally with legal force.
The certificates required for this purpose should therefore be available to private individuals (not legal entities) free of charge for purchase and use, and should serve to enable anyone to conduct tap-proof communications and legally secure business or conclude contracts via the Internet.
The certificates must be created in such a way that the state is technically unable to decrypt content encrypted with these certificates (i.e., it must not have knowledge of the secret keys).
Legal guarantee for anonymous, as well as autonymous and pseudonymous access to network services
A compulsion to use officially recorded names is to be rejected.
This practice has already failed after corresponding legislation in South Korea.
The Pirate Party is committed to legally guaranteeing pseudonymous as well as autonymous access to users of social networks and similar services.
In the same way, anonymous access to the network must be unequivocally guaranteed by law.
A person's freedom of expression and self-definition must not be curtailed for the sake of any security.
Abolition of the "hacker paragraph" § 202c StGB (German Penal Code)
The Pirate Party advocates the complete abolition of the so-called "hacker paragraph" § 202c StGB (German Criminal Code), as it creates considerable legal uncertainty and opens the door to arbitrary prosecution of people working in the IT security sector.
Protection of freedom and privacy on the Internet
Inadequate data protection on the Internet repeatedly leads to data loss, data theft and data misuse.
At the same time, surveillance, filtering, blocking and deletion measures used by Internet service providers in the interest of private rights holders endanger the free exchange of opinions and information on the Internet.
To remedy this, we want to significantly curb the "Stoererhaftung" (interference liability) of Internet providers.
Providers of Internet access (e.g., WLAN providers) and Internet storage services should no longer be required to prevent infringements by other persons in the manner of a private police force.
We also reject monitoring of Internet use by Internet access providers to send warnings or block Internet access ("three strikes").
In the future, rights holders will only be able to demand the deletion of allegedly illegal content posted by users with a court order.
To strengthen data privacy and data security on the Internet, telecommunications secrecy is to be supplemented by a "telemedia usage secrecy" for Internet service providers.
Internet use should be as well protected from government intrusion as telephones are from wiretapping.
We also call for user profiling to be permitted only with the user's consent, for the retention periods of each Internet service provider to be made public, and for users to be better protected from unreasonable, page-long data processing consent clauses.
Free access to public content
Year after year, the general public invests many billions of euros in the generation and preparation of texts, data and media.
Examples include the results of government-funded research, the productions of public broadcasters, and the products of cultural and educational institutions and public administration.
Citizens have no or very limited access to much of this content, even though they have already paid for its production.
The Pirate Party is committed to ensuring that, as far as possible, all content produced by public bodies or created with the help of public funding is made freely available to the general public.
Availability shall not be impeded by application procedures, licenses, fees, or technical means.
The content is made available online in open formats and archived.
Redistribution and commercial use are expressly permitted.
We see the universal availability and linkability of information as an important part of the public infrastructure on the basis of which new knowledge is created
and with the help of which the public sector can be controlled and optimized.
In exceptional cases, certain information may be temporarily or permanently exempted from the publication requirement.
However, there must be specific, serious reasons for this (e.g. protection of personal data or preservation of very important secrets).
The justification must be explicitly stated and published in each individual case and is generally subject to appeal.
In the field of science, publication in accordance with the open access principle will become a central criterion in the allocation of public funding as soon as possible.
Public broadcasters will no longer be prevented, but rather required, to make their productions permanently available online.
The Freedom of Information Act will be revised and the scope for systematic circumvention of information obligations will be eliminated.
In the long term, a publicly accessible citizen information portal will be created.
Authorities and other institutions are instructed to place their public data there or to connect their own databases to the portal.
The system must offer extensive categorization, search and export functions as well as suitable programming interfaces for automated queries.
Education and research
Preamble
Our vision of an educational system is built on a positive view of humanity.
Everyone has the right to free access to information and education.
This is necessary in a liberal democratic society in order to enable everyone to participate in society to the greatest possible extent, regardless of their social background.
Education is our most important asset for the preservation, transmission and increase of knowledge, progress and social prosperity.
The education system must not be geared to the labor market and the economic usability of education.
Our society needs people who are competent and critical in mastering their lives and tasks and who are aware of their social responsibility.
Education funding
Expenditure in the education sector, measured as a percentage of gross domestic product, has been below the OECD average in the Federal Republic of Germany for years.
The OECD rightly criticizes this thriftiness in the wrong place.
The Pirate Party therefore calls for an increase to at least the OECD average.
Education is not just a matter for the states, but a task for society as a whole.
The Pirate Party advocates lifting the ban on cooperation.
The federal government must be allowed to fund public educational institutions.
We reject calls from other parties to partially relax the ban on cooperation in order to give preference to selected areas such as universities of excellence:
We insist that the entire education system be improved.
Free access to tax-funded educational institutions must be guaranteed regardless of religious affiliation, gender, and parental income.
We categorically reject educational fees of any kind for tax-funded educational institutions, as they restrict access to education.
Early childhood education
Education begins at birth and never ceases to be an important part of life.
Early childhood education is central to this.
All children, regardless of existing differences, must be supported in such a way that they can start their school career with the best possible prerequisites.
This requires free, flexible, all-day and easily accessible services in crèches, kindergartens and childminders.
The Pirate Party is committed to equal funding opportunities for public and private institutions.
School
Individual educational paths and forms of learning
Individual educational paths and forms of learning, as well as independent learning, require a variety of teaching methods and a shift away from curricula toward clear learning objectives.
Every student has the right to mentor support.
Individualized school tracks, a flexible course system, and the use of mentors eliminate the need to repeat an entire school year.
They also make it easier to change schools and move to other states.
We reject numerical grades and so-called head grades.
Assessments are intended primarily to provide learners with feedback on their educational progress, rather than for interpersonal comparability.
Longer shared learning and equal opportunities
In a European comparison, Germany stands out for its particularly high level of social selection in the education system.
Due to the early division into different school types, educational success is particularly dependent on the financial means and educational background of the parental home.
Therefore, the Pirate Party supports the long common learning of different students in schools with internal differentiation.
Teachers need to be made aware of unconscious selection mechanisms and their effects in order to be able to counteract them.
Understanding and promoting multilingualism as an opportunity
Bilingual socialization is valued in Germany only for popular languages.
The Pirate Party sees multilingualism as a qualification characteristic also for young people with a migration background.
It is important to include the mother tongue when learning other languages in order to gain a firm footing in these languages.
To achieve this, the existing pedagogical knowledge from bilingual teaching, e.g. at European schools, must be made available to all schools.
Inclusion in education
School attendance should support all children and young people - with and without special needs - in their development into self-determined, responsible and socially competent members of society.
Every child should be able to attend a school of his or her choice close to home and without barriers.
The right of children in need of support and their legal guardians to choose the type of school they want to attend should be enshrined in law in all federal states.
Free teaching, learning and other aids, qualified staff for teaching and assistance services, and up-to-date technical equipment must be guaranteed.
Pedagogical concepts must be revised for individual educational paths.
Democratization of educational institutions
A society built on the principles of self-determination and co-determination must also base its education system on these foundations.
Therefore, all educational institutions must be democratically constituted and transparently organized.
Their co-design and use must be open to learners and teachers; this also refers to the learning content.
The development of a critical and independent personality is supported by the democratization of educational institutions.
Democratic values are not only taught, but also lived.
Vocational school and dual training
Vocational training according to the dual system has been a guarantor for skilled workers for decades and is a role model worldwide.
Efforts to convert this system from broad and qualified basic and specialized training to company-specific apprenticeship training are rejected by the Pirates.
In the view of the Pirate Party, compulsory vocational training only makes sense in direct connection with dual education.
We therefore call for the abolition of the current compulsory vocational school system,
but advocate the retention of schooling within a dual training program.
The pirates demand stronger control of the enterprises, so that apprentices are not abused as cheap workers without training.
Vocational schools must be more open to new teaching methods and must also appeal to young adults who have turned their backs on the delivery methods of mainstream schools.
Job-specific knowledge and skills may not be required as a prerequisite to training.
Rather, they must be taught or refreshed as part of the training.
Attempts of the economy to repel demands for a training place levy with the argument of missing suitable applicants, see the Pirate party critically.
University
In recent years, the study landscape has been radically restructured within the framework of the Bologna Process to ensure international comparability of degrees.
The shortening of degree programs goes hand in hand with superficial and school-based learning and an unacceptable number of dropouts.
The reform was associated with a drop in quality without actually achieving comparability.
The Pirate Party therefore strives for a critical revision of the Bologna Process.
The financial preference given to individual fields of research on the basis of their economic exploitability, as in the Excellence Initiative, for example, jeopardizes the freedom and diversity of research.
Innovation also takes place in areas that are not the focus of media (and economic) interest.
For this reason, the Pirate Party rejects short-term project funding and advocates improved long-term base funding for universities.
The Pirate Party calls for an adjustment of copyright law:
teachers and learners must be given the leeway and legal certainty to work freely with copyrighted material.
Unlimited job opportunities for academics - amendment to the Wissenschaftszeitvertragsgesetz (WissZeitVG - German Act on Temporary Academic Contracts)
The Pirate Party Germany is in favor of deleting Section 2 Paragraph 1 of the Wissenschaftszeitvertragsgesetz (WissZeitVG).
The WissZeitVG must be revised in such a way that fixed-term contracts with an upwardly open term can be awarded to scientists in budget and third-party funded positions without specifying a maximum employment limit.
Adult Education
In the course of lifelong learning, the education system must be open to the acquisition of new competencies and skills for all age groups.
In this context, the training offered should not be geared primarily to better usability on the labor market, but above all to individual needs.
The Pirate Party therefore sees a duty to promote lifelong learning: by providing free accessible teaching offers, teaching material and the possibility to make use of individual coaching.
Exams and courses must adapt flexibly to individual life circumstances in order to enable more people to take advantage of continuing education opportunities.
OER (Open Educational Resources)
Technological progress creates new opportunities to exchange knowledge and learning concepts internationally and to develop them further together.
To take advantage of this opportunity, we support free and open teaching and learning (OER) materials.
The Pirate Party is committed to the development and use of such materials.
National and international OER projects are a concrete way to transfer this vision into educational reality.
Oer - Free educational materials in higher education
In a globalized world, education policy does not stop at national borders.
The Pirate Party supports the use of freely accessible and freely usable educational resources (OER = Open Educational Resources)
and advocates an orientation towards the UNESCO guidelines for higher education.
The UNESCO guidelines provide cornerstones for this, which facilitate cooperation on OER not only between different educational institutions and federal states, but also internationally in the academic field.
We call for the use of OER in higher education, with a framework based on the aforementioned UNESCO guidelines.
To fundamentally raise awareness of the OER cause and promote IT/connectivity and cooperation among universities.
We call for sharing high quality learning and teaching materials for sustainable OER development.
Church and education
Freedom and diversity of cultural, religious and ideological views in education characterize modern societies.
Ideological neutrality throughout education is a necessary prerequisite for the inclusion of all faith communities.
(Pre-)school, vocational and academic education
Inclusive school system
Inclusion is a human right.
It must not and should not stop with the education of our children, because education is the prerequisite for full participation in society.
The Pirate Party is committed to ensuring that every child, whether with a disability or special educational needs or without them, can attend a place of learning or a school close to home.
All places of learning or schools must have barrier-free access for all children, not just limited to building requirements.
Furthermore, they must have adequate equipment and qualifications of staff, assistance services, teaching and learning materials and other aids for each child.
We are committed to ensuring that no child is turned away from the learning site or school of their choice because of a lack of access requirements and resources.
The right of the child and his or her legal guardians to choose the place of learning or the school (mainstream school vs. support center) must be enshrined in law in all federal states.
Free access to the results of scientific research
The Pirate Party advocates general and free access to all tax-funded research results (open access).
To promote the publication of scientific results according to the Open Access model, start-up funding from federal funds is to be granted as an infrastructure measure for a general, non-topic-limited Open Access journal along the lines of PLOS One.
Furthermore, an open access fund is to be set up from federal funds, which will cover the publication costs to be paid by researchers in open access journals up to a certain amount.
The goal of this fund is to remove open access publications from the benefit consideration within researchers' budgets.
The Pirate Party advocates strengthening authors' self-archiving rights (e.g. on authors' homepages).
In addition to journals, these provide the public with another free access option to the results of scientific research.
Open Access in Development Policy
The Pirate Party has recognized that free access and exchange of knowledge must be a fundamental part of German development work.
Therefore, we demand that all development policy actors, as soon as they receive funding from the BMZ (German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development), are obliged to publish the results of their development policy projects, their raw data as well as expert opinions that relate to the efficiency and effectiveness of the projects, according to the standards of the "Berlin Declaration on Open Access to Knowledge in the Sciences and Humanities" (2003).
Publication will take place via a free Internet platform to be set up by the BMZ, on which all publications can be searched both by country and by keyword.
Patents and trademark law
Concrete reform proposals for the patent system
Basic
Patents are part of industrial property protection.
Their purpose is to encourage inventors to publish their inventions in a patent specification by means of a time-limited monopoly.
Contrary to widespread opinion, they are not suitable as an innovation incentive.
Patents are currently used as "weapons" to force competitors out of the market, which clearly inhibits progress.
Some companies - so-called "patent trolls" - have even specialized in blackmailing companies with innovative products with the help of patents and overpriced legal disputes.
The Pirate Party advocates a reform of the current patent law in favor of more innovation and freedom.
Patentable inventions
Besides classical technical inventions, there are efforts to open up new types of patentable inventions through new laws or interpretation of existing laws.
Among them are three problematic patent subjects whose effects are highly disproportionate to the goal of disclosing the invention.
One of these is patents on life.
Genetic engineering in particular produced a large number of patents here on methods for identifying and creating gene sequences, which effectively amounts to patenting gene sequences.
However, such gene sequences are a discovery, not an invention, such as a law of nature.
Protecting them sets innovation too far back.
For this reason, patent law must be designed in such a way that no gene sequences are patentable, even via the detours of patenting technical processes.
The trend of patenting business models originated in the USA.
In contrast to the patenting of technical inventions, which represent a competitive advantage, the patenting of business models leads to the monopolization of entire markets.
Patent law must explicitly exclude the patenting of business models.
Most recently, political calls for patents on "computer-implemented inventions," so-called software patents, have surfaced in recent years.
This patenting of individual aspects of computer programs, which is practiced in some countries, inevitably leads to the death of small and medium-sized software companies, since software is particularly dependent on using certain elements that are easily memorable and quasi-standardized for the user.
Software is already sufficiently protected by copyright law; for this reason, protection by patents is not necessary at all.
Short-term measures to improve patent law
Patent terms
While product life cycles have continued to shorten in the past, patent terms have remained unchanged.
In the course of patent reform, we call for robust surveys of the product life cycles of the various industries and the shortening of patent terms to the appropriate extent.
Decouple court costs in patent disputes from the amount in dispute
The amounts in dispute in patent infringement proceedings can quickly reach enormous sums.
This drives up legal costs, which not least suits the business model of many patent trolls.
These use the cost risk as leverage to reach an out-of-court settlement without reviewing the patent.
Although only fractions of the amount in dispute are paid by the defendant companies for these settlements, they are still correspondingly extensive due to the amount in dispute.
Patents, as monopolies guaranteed by law, place great demands on state bodies.
If the legislature guarantees a patent, then courts have a special obligation to review it.
For this reason, the Pirate Party demands that court costs in patent disputes be limited exclusively to the actual costs incurred in order to enable the judicial review of patents without great financial risk.
Commitment to use patents
The Pirate Party demands that a granted patent should only be enforceable against a product on the market if the patent holder or a licensee can credibly demonstrate an effort for an economic use appropriate to the invention.
On the one hand, this is intended to counter the practice of patent trolls who exclusively hoard patents without having any interest in manufacturing corresponding products.
Second, it eases the problem of patent licensing prices.
As a monopolist, the patent holder currently has great freedom in pricing patent licenses, especially if it does not commercially exploit the patent itself.
The usage tie results in a game-theoretic state that at least resembles a non-monopolistic market.
Combating anti-competitive patent abuse
In addition to their legitimate use, patents are also used in a grossly anti-competitive manner for the purpose of market domination by a few large companies.
In practice, they often grant each other the use of their respective patents through so-called "cross-licensing", while small companies in particular are denied access to patent use and thus to the market.
In cases where large parts of the market use a patent but a small part is denied it, the Antitrust Division should have the opportunity to examine the facts.
In the event of market-dominating abuse of the patent, it should be possible to allow the patent to expire prematurely.
Medium-term democratization of the patent granting process
Evaluating whether an applied-for patent should be granted is often difficult even for experts.
This problem can be mitigated by having the entire "community", rather than just individual experts, decide whether to grant patents.
In the medium term, therefore, anyone who has the appropriate verifiable technical qualifications should be able to participate in the patent granting process.
This not only promotes transparency in patent granting, but also counteracts the granting of trivial patents, the publication of which may bring no significant benefit, but problems for the national economy.
Long-term abandonment of the patent system in favor of competition-driven progress
The positive aspects of the publication of inventions by patents are quite pleasing, but the question arises whether they justify the braking of innovation by the time monopolies.
A competitive situation, on the other hand, has a much more positive effect on innovation, since all companies must continuously improve in order to maintain or expand their market position.
Resting" on patents is then no longer possible.
For this reason, the Pirate Party's goal is to replace the patent system in the long term with other mechanisms for disclosing inventions that do not involve legal monopolies.
The development of such models should be actively promoted by the Federal Republic of Germany and the European Union.
enviRonment and consuMPtion
Sustainability
The Pirate Party is committed to ecologically, economically and socially sustainable development through its policies.
By this we mean responsible and generationally equitable management of the resources of an intangible or tangible nature that are necessary for general well-being.
Energy supply
Sustainability and security of supply
We Pirates want to transform the energy industry into a long-term, environmentally friendly, decentralized and transparent system.
The goal of the Pirates' energy policy is to provide affordable and environmentally friendly energy to enable a high standard of living and quality of life in the future.
Important parameters here are efficiency and sufficiency, i.e. the renunciation of unnecessary consumption, as well as social and societal compatibility.
The Pirate Party Germany stands for a long-term secure energy supply.
We will therefore replace energy generation from fossil fuels and nuclear power with sustainably available and environmentally friendly resources as quickly as possible.
This also includes the adequate expansion of distribution networks and energy storage facilities.
The Pirate Party Germany stands for the conversion from finite energy sources to generative energy sources such as wind, solar and water power as well as domestically produced regenerative energy sources such as biomass.
Regenerative energy sources should only be used in accordance with the principle of sustainability and should not compete with other goals such as nutrition or resource conservation.
The aim is to achieve decentralized generation, as this enables regional self-sufficiency as well as overarching interconnected solutions and synergy effects.
The expansion of photovoltaic and wind power plants requires an adjustment of the grid topology and at the same time an economically and energetically efficient storage of energy.
Equal grid access for a large number of generators with large regional differences in generation capacity and time distribution requires the increased use of intelligent management systems.
The quantities of energy offered and purchased are measured and optimally coordinated at the municipal level while ensuring data protection.
In general, consumption should follow energy production more closely than before, and energy production should follow consumption less closely.
In addition, we will promote energy-saving measures and actively promote efficient combined heat and power generation.
We reject fracking for the extraction of unconventional natural gas.
To compensate for fluctuations in availability and to take advantage of generation peaks, we need diverse energy storage facilities on a large scale.
These storage facilities are one of the most important elements of a sustainable energy infrastructure.
Thermal, chemical, pressure and potential storage require large volumes.
Geothermal storage of heat, chemical storage of electricity in underground reservoirs and new types of hydropower storage plants also in the lowlands, but also small storage facilities directly at the end customers are possibilities whose research, development and market introduction must be intensively supported.
Financing the energy transition with solidarity
The number of companies exempt from the EEG surcharge must be significantly reduced.
Only companies that are actually existentially dependent on low electricity prices should receive a reduction or exemption.
The reduction or exemption should also be dependent on energy efficiency and load flexibility measures implemented or planned by these companies.
Energy Storage Promotion Act
The Pirate Party Germany advocates an Energy Storage Promotion Act, similar to the EEG, to create investment incentives for the construction of electricity storage facilities that support decentralized energy supply.
Care must be taken to ensure that the funding takes into account expansion in line with demand.
Nuclear phase-out: end of energy generation by nuclear power plants
The Pirate Party Germany is committed to ending energy production through nuclear fission.
This is possible in three years.
The risks associated with uranium mining, transport, enrichment, operation, reprocessing and emissions are too high, and the disposal of nuclear waste is unresolved.
In addition, there is the risk of accidents, potential disasters and attacks.
Nuclear energy is the most expensive form of energy generation in economic terms.
All associated costs are to be apportioned according to the polluter-pays principle.
We want to shut down the existing nuclear power plants hand in hand with the expansion of renewable energy sources.
Processes and applications that produce further nuclear waste should be avoided as far as possible as long as there is no sustainable solution for dealing with radioactive waste.
Lifetime extensions and new construction of nuclear power plants are ruled out.
We reject the promotion of nuclear power plant projects abroad - including through state guarantees.
All decommissioned nuclear power plants immediately lose their reactor operating licenses.
This is intended to prevent a renewed turnaround to nuclear power.
Facilities for purely medical and scientific applications are exempt.
All nuclear facilities are to be provided with full liability insurance.
The disposal of the facilities and the waste produced is to be ensured through reserves in escrow accounts.
The amount of these reserves shall be determined by independent experts.
Nuclear waste
The Pirate Party Germany is committed to a responsible solution for dealing with nuclear waste.
We reject further exploration of the salt dome in Gorleben and advocate a nationwide search for truly suitable storage sites.
The Pirate Party Germany wants nuclear waste to be stored only in such a way that it can be retrieved if necessary.
This also applies to light and medium radioactive waste.
Storage must be monitored at all times.
The costs for the disposal of the generated waste have to be borne by the polluters.
Anyone who manufactures radioactive products or places them on the market must keep a record of disposal and bear the costs.
Climate change
The climate changes caused by human activities require consistent measures at all levels of action in order to enable future generations to enjoy dignified living conditions.
All measures must be measured against this goal.
To this end, we are prepared to break new ground and are committed to consistent climate protection legislation that sets an example by enabling largely climate-neutral administration and supporting municipal climate concepts.
Furthermore, effective incentive measures such as energy taxes should be used to consistently reduce emissions.
We take a critical view of the so far very ineffective certificate trading.
Introduction of an environmental code and abolition of mining law
Almost 50 years after the enactment of the first environmental laws, it is time to summarize them in a clear and transparent manner.
The Pirate Party advocates the establishment of a federal environmental code in which the relevant laws and regulations are compiled in analogy to the social codes.
The Pirate Party demands the abolition of the mining law.
Today's mining law is part of a tradition of non-transparent, undemocratic, authoritarian legislation that undermines fundamental rights in projects such as fracking, lignite mining and CCS (Carbon Capture & Storage)
and prevents the pending revision of environmental legislation.
The necessary new regulations replacing the mining law are to be included in the Federal Environmental Code to be created.
Water management
Drinking water
Water is a communal good and must be available to every citizen.
We stand for the remunicipalization of the water supply, as it serves as basic supply infrastructure.
We strive for high quality drinking water and want to achieve this also by reducing the discharge of pollutants.
The Drinking Water Ordinance is to be regularly adapted to current findings on water constituents.
Self-supply of water to private households should be allowed in principle.
Insofar as a private domestic water supply is possible, we reject a compulsory connection to the municipal drinking water network.
The quality inspection is to be carried out independently.
Waste water
Wastewater is a valuable material, and we strive to use the valuable ingredients in a way that conserves resources.
We advocate the abolition of the obligation to connect domestic wastewater to the wastewater network if compliance with the effluent parameters according to the EU Framework Directive is ensured on the company's own responsibility.
Industrial wastewater and wastewater originating from hospitals must be suitably pretreated.
Mixing with domestic wastewater must be avoided.
Water protection
Water resources shall be kept free from encroachment.
In all areas, interventions in the soil must be checked for their compatibility with water protection and adjusted if necessary.
Construction and traffic
The way we live, reside and move around has changed dramatically in recent years and decades and will continue to evolve.
Progressive urbanization, demographic change and changes in our climate are all contributing factors.
The active design of new living spaces and new mobility must ensure quality of life and prosperity not only for us, but also for future generations.
Building and living
Human dignity also includes dignified housing, so housing must be affordable for all.
Currently, a strong social segregation can be observed in the cities, which is particularly evident in an increasing concentration of low-income households in the large housing estates on the outskirts of the city as well as an intensive gentrification - i.e. an upgrading with far-reaching social consequences - of the inner-city neighborhoods with old buildings.
Gentrification can be prevented through integrated, participatory and transparent planning.
and greater consideration of social aspects.
In addition, a federal government re-entry into public housing is essential.
The development of building culture must be a shared, publicly funded concern.
In all construction measures, special consideration is to be given to natural resources, i.e. nature and landscape;
urban sprawl is to be avoided.
Awarding of public contracts
Construction is also responsibility, so it must be ensured that only suitable skilled workers and companies can work on all building and civil engineering projects.
The construction industry and its clients must be monitored more closely than in the past.
All public contracts and awards should be published in a transparent and comprehensible manner and should be controllable.
Construction supervision as a control authority must be significantly strengthened.
We want to create a procurement register with the help of which companies that have already attracted attention will in future be excluded from the award of public contracts until they have demonstrably remedied the reasons that previously led to their being barred from future construction contracts.
This information should be available not only to authorities, but also to the interested public.
Age- and family-friendly building and living
The Pirate Party is committed to intergenerational housing.
Urban development, housing and social infrastructures must be adapted more closely to the needs of a society with increasing life expectancy in response to demographic change.
We demand and promote the barrier-free conversion of housing
as well as the adaptation to the needs of young families
and older people.
All new buildings are to be barrier-free, child-friendly and age-appropriate, and old buildings are to be modernized accordingly wherever possible.
When investing in public infrastructure, such as hospitals and train stations, the principle of low barriers must apply.
Ensuring affordable housing
Affordable housing is becoming increasingly scarce, especially in cities.
There are many reasons for this: rising demand for larger apartments, the continuing trend toward single-person households, lower incomes, rising rents due to "gentrification" and, above all, the withdrawal of the public sector from creating affordable housing.
Affordable and, above all, age- and family-friendly housing is increasingly only available in peripheral locations, while the expensive inner city locations are reserved for a better-earning target group.
This leads to unacceptable social segregation in our society.
The Pirate Party therefore calls for the permanent promotion of non-profit housing construction at the federal and state levels.
This not only secures housing for financially worse-off households, it ultimately also saves on transfer payments and has a dampening effect on the generally rising rent level.
In this context, cooperative housing and rental housing syndicates, which have the purpose of providing permanently affordable housing for their members, are also to be promoted.
As part of transparent planning, the public sector must account for which land is publicly owned and why it is not being made available for the creation of affordable housing.
Land owned by the public sector is not to be sold, but rather granted on a leasehold basis according to project quality, with periodic rent reductions.
The land in question is to be used primarily for cooperative and social housing.
Abolish modernization levies
Currently, owners can pass on the costs of modernization measures to the rent at a rate of 11% per year.
This levy is charged permanently, even if the modernization measures have long since been paid off.
The Pirate Party demands that these levies be abolished.
Energetic renovations
The Pirate Party demands that after energy renovation has been carried out, a rent increase is permitted at most in the amount of the average energy cost savings.
The tenant must not suffer any financial disadvantage from the energy refurbishment if the heating consumption is average.
In order to finance the energetic renovation of residential buildings, the owners can take advantage of subsidies for energy saving for the renovation of housing (KfW, urban development subsidies, EU funds, etc.).
The use of subsidies must have mandatory priority over the allocation to rents.
Rent cap for new leases
For new leases of existing apartments, the rent may not be more than 10% above the local average comparable rent according to the valid rent index.
Basic rent increase
The cap (Section 558 (3) of the German Civil Code) on the adjustment to the local comparative rent (rent index rent) is to be changed to a maximum of 15% in four years.
A rent that exceeds the local comparative rent by more than 20% is to be considered disorderly.
Termination, rent reduction, operating cost allocation
At the beginning of 2013, the black-yellow federal government passed the Rent Law Amendment Act, which came into force in April of the same year.
This shifts a necessary balance between owner and tenant interests to the disadvantage of tenants.
The Pirates' concern is to restore a fair balance of interests here.
Ordinary termination
Termination notices for late payment shall, like termination notices without notice, become invalid if the tenant pays the outstanding amounts within a period of time.
Termination without notice, as well as termination with notice for non-payment of rent increases, should only be possible if the entitlement to the rent increase has been legally established and the tenant nevertheless fails to pay the amount of the increase.
The possibility to terminate the contract due to own use is to be limited to own use for living and to relatives in a direct line.
Right to reduce rent
The restrictions on the right to reduce rent imposed by the Landlord and Tenant Law Amendment Act of 2013 are to be withdrawn, so that a right to reduce rent in the event of restricted usability of the rented property due to modernization measures does not only exist after three months.
Operating cost allocations
The tenant should always have the right to check heating and operating cost statements and receive copies of the cost receipts, as previously only regulated by law for social housing.
The billing of heating and operating costs must always be based on the actual living space and not on the agreed space.
Urban and regional planning
We advocate a broad opportunity for citizens to participate in urban and regional planning.
It must be ensured that participation in planned projects is possible at an early stage and in a comprehensive manner.
The urban development of building areas should be carried out in a way that protects land and the environment.
Regional planning procedures and the planning of infrastructures must not be allowed to fail due to existing boundaries and responsibilities.
Solution-oriented cooperation between the federal, state and local governments must therefore be initiated and intensified, as must cooperation within Europe.
Transport and infrastructure
We oppose the privatization of transport infrastructure.
This is the only way to ensure equal access conditions for all users.
And this is the only way to ensure that revenues from user charges are invested in maintaining and, if necessary, expanding the infrastructure.
The maintenance and new construction of transport routes must be carried out according to a wide range of social, economic and ecological standards.
Construction projects must also be reviewed for future developments in the overall transportation system.
The existing public transport service must be further expanded.
Furthermore, access barriers such as high charges, complicated charging structures, and vehicles with physical barriers must be massively reduced to make the use of public transport more attractive, even outside metropolitan areas.
We are committed to testing the various models for ticketless public transport in pilot projects and support the development of alternative mobility concepts.
We are committed to promoting low-consumption mobility.
A short-term approach to more environmentally friendly transport can only be a consistent reduction in consumption.
Replacing petroleum with biofuels is not the answer.
We advocate the use of alternative drive concepts and methods of energy supply,
as well as the further development of established technologies toward less consumption.
We also support the research and application of complementary approaches such as the use of modern telematics systems or the development of alternative traffic concepts.
Freight transport belongs on rail or water, as far as this is possible there.
Energy-intensive transport by road or air is to be reduced.
We are committed to promoting transportation and structural policies that reduce traffic.
Traffic and industrial noise emissions
The Pirate Party recognizes traffic and industrial noise as environmental pollution and as a health risk.
The right of the population to protection from traffic and industrial noise is part of the fundamental right to physical integrity.
Everyone has the right to protection from traffic and industrial noise, taking into account the state of the art.
Active protection (avoiding noise at the source) is preferable to passive protection (at the point of impact).
The night is particularly worthy of protection.
Noise emissions must be considered as a whole in terms of their impact, taking into account all health costs, and economic opportunities must be compared with health risks.
Record industrial and traffic noise through mapping on an OpenData basis
The Pirate Party is committed to mapping road, rail, aircraft and industrial noise emissions - using all available data, regardless of minimum exposure limits.
The on- and offline presentation of emission levels must be uniform nationwide.
Noise sources are to be marked accordingly.
All existing data should be published transparently and machine-readable on the Internet according to the OpenData principle in order to enable a dynamic, ideally web-based presentation of individual and total loads.
Affected persons must have the opportunity to find out about their individual burdens quickly and without complications.
Noise emission calculations are to be validated by measurements at the request of those affected.
The Pirate Party supports the introduction of a noise label.
With the help of such a certification instrument, which has to be developed in an interdisciplinary-scientific way, noise sources of all kinds should be able to be labeled in a simple and citizen-friendly way.
Agriculture
Strengthening agriculture
We want an efficient, regionally adapted agriculture in which small farms can also participate on an equal footing
and which is competitive under the conditions of sustainable management and ecological consumer awareness.
This requires that farmers and their associations, together with the food trade, quality seals, nature conservation and animal protection associations, but also the representatives of politics and consumers network and transparently negotiate the conditions, possibilities and their implementation together.
Consumer will
We want to ensure that farms are not subject to the price pressure of food corporations and the processing industry, as they have been in the past.
We do not want an agricultural policy that is aimed exclusively at growth, but takes neither sustainability nor the consumer's will into account.
Industrial animal production
We reject industrial factory farming.
It affects the quality of life of all of us, especially in rural areas, is usually accompanied by unacceptable standards in livestock farming, and endangers traditional peasant agriculture.
We are committed to species-appropriate husbandry for all farm animals.
We want to achieve the standards of laying hen husbandry for all poultry husbandry.
We believe the current coop space for broilers and turkeys at the Masten-de is too small.
Space requirements must be reviewed with appropriate professionals and consistently upgraded as necessary.
The keeping of cloven-hoofed animals shall be adjusted by the key of livestock units (LU) per hectare of agricultural land in the region.
This is the only way to ensure that animal husbandry is ecologically sound and sustainable, since both the production of feed and the environmentally friendly utilization of excrement are in harmony with the available land and nutrient cycles are closed.
Existing laws and regulations must be applied consistently and compliance with them monitored more strictly than before.
Natural resources
We are committed to an agriculture that conserves natural resources in the long term.
Seeds, whether genetically or conventionally bred to be resistant to pesticides, can pose a particular threat to the environment through cross-pollination into existing ecosystems.
Resistantly bred plants only work in agriculture with the simultaneous use of specially adapted crop protection products.
This forces agriculture to use specific agents from certain manufacturers.
This production constraint leads agriculture into direct dependence on the rights holders of seeds and crop protection products.
We fundamentally reject the combination of seeds with crop protection products and their protection by patents.
Agricultural subsidies
The Pirate Party Germany advocates at EU and federal level that in the future no public money in the form of agricultural subsidies be given without consideration in the areas of climate, environment, nature, and animal and species protection.
This requires an ongoing reassessment of these services in terms of their benefits to society.
The long-term goal is to reduce agricultural subsidies.
In order to protect farms from the consequences of the sudden abolition of subsidies, they are to be degressive during the transitional phase and capped at a level of payment to be determined for individual farms.
Animal welfare
Right of association
We support the introduction of a nationwide right of action for recognized animal protection organizations.
As living beings, animals cannot stand up for their rights themselves, so they rely on representation in the form of associations.
Although animal welfare and environmental protection have the same constitutional status under Article 20a of the Basic Law, no corresponding legislation has yet been passed in several German states.
Animal welfare in livestock farming
We advocate the legal establishment of higher minimum standards in farm animal husbandry.
The space in stables must be sufficient and allow the animals to behave in a manner appropriate to their species, so that they can follow their natural urge to move as far as possible.
The housing system must allow for beneficial natural social contacts, for example between conspecifics, and provide sufficient resting opportunities.
Continuous noise that affects the animals' psyche should be avoided.
The animals must be given sufficient access to fresh air and daylight.
The way in which farm animals are kept must be such that no amputations of body parts are necessary, provided that labor and animal welfare guidelines do not conflict with this.
Measures such as beak trimming or tail clipping, which are used when birds are kept too close together, should be prohibited.
The killing of large animals such as cattle and pigs, as well as serious procedures such as the castration of piglets, may only be carried out under anesthesia.
Transport times of large animals from the farm to the slaughterhouse must not exceed six hours.
Economic practices that result in a large proportion of animals - for example, on the basis of sex - being killed immediately and disposed of as waste must be changed.
Branding, for example thigh branding of horses, must be consistently prohibited.
Animal testing
Animal testing should no longer be mandatory for pharmaceutical substance testing and other torturous experiments, especially when non-animal alternative methods are available.
In order to be able to bring about a decrease in animal experiments in favor of research on alternative methods, it is necessary to eliminate subsidies for animal experiments and shift them to non-animal research methods.
If there are scientifically proven alternative methods for certain test procedures, animal testing must not be used for them.
In addition, a global publication of all results should be as complete as possible in order to avoid repetitive tests.
Permits for animal testing are to be approved differently depending on the "severity".
Trials that cause great suffering over a long period of time are said to be considerably more difficult to approve than trials that cause no suffering or only very short-term suffering.
Approval procedures should be transparent and comprehensible.
In the non-medical area, such as for cosmetics and personal care products, we reject animal testing.
This also applies to tests regarding individual components of the products.
Independent unannounced inspections of the test laboratories are to be carried out to verify compliance with legal regulations.
Consumer protection
In the relationship between manufacturer, distributor and consumer, the latter is usually inferior.
Balancing this imbalance in a meaningful way is the Pirate Party's concern and the task of consumer protection as we envision it.
Our aim is to give greater weight to the legitimate interests of consumers as consumers of goods and users of services, and in terms of data protection, copyright and transparency.
We will work to simplify and improve the comprehensibility of the many legally permissible options, misleading terms and formulations in advertising and contract texts.
In particular, product contents relevant to health and the environment must be clearly recognizable.
In the case of financial products, the risks must be presented to the same extent as the opportunities.
The publication of medical studies must be independent of their outcome.
All appropriate studies must be registered before they are conducted.
In the case of curative procedures, the theoretical basis on which they are based must be stated.
The costs of medical and dental care must be comprehensible and also understandable for the patient.
Abuses such as the trade in personal data by government agencies must be stopped
and the commercial use and linking of private data by companies such as Facebook and Google is only permitted with express consent (opt-in).
We want to strengthen education about the associated risks.
The Pirate Party Germany advocates extending the right of association action for state-recognized bodies to the area of consumer protection in order to clarify a legal issue in a binding manner for all affected consumers.
Extension of egg labeling also to processed egg products
The Pirate Party advocates an extension of egg labeling to processed egg products to improve consumer and animal protection.
art and culture
Freedom is at the heart of the Pirates' cultural policy.
Only through the courage to try can culture break new ground, try itself out and work across borders.
We want intellectual, spatial and economic freedom for culture and creative artists.
We are at the beginning of a revolutionary paradigm shift toward an information and knowledge society that will significantly shape our understanding of culture.
We Pirates do not see this structural change as a threat, but rather as an opportunity to find new ways of participating in culture and mastering the cultural policy tasks of our time.
Our understanding of culture is polycentric, diverse and interactive.
Our goal is to enable all people to participate in culture, free from financial, social, geographic, demographic, intellectual or physical barriers.
We view culture as a pluralistic, participatory good created through collaboration and diverse equal influences.
We understand cultural education as a lifelong space of opportunity in which art and culture can be experienced and tried out.
This space must be defended and expanded not only in institutional education, but wherever we experience culture together.
The Internet and increasing virtualization are expanding the possibility space of cultural experience.
We Pirates are driving the development of new models of participation, new freedoms of knowledge, and new ideas of networking.
We are also committed to democratization, participation and transparency in cultural policy.
WORK AND SOCIETY
Unconditional basic income and minimum wage
We Pirates advocate the introduction of an unconditional basic income that fulfills the goals of the "right to a secure existence and social participation" from our party program.
It shall:
secure livelihoods and enable social participation,
represent an individual legal entitlement
, and are guaranteed without means testing and without compulsion to work or provide other benefits in return.
We know that an unconditional basic income will significantly change the paradigms of the welfare state.
Instead of classic party politics, its introduction must therefore be accompanied by broad citizen participation.
We are aware of many committed people who have been campaigning for an unconditional basic income for years, both inside and outside political parties.
We want to bring this commitment to the political stage of the Bundestag and use the opportunities available there to support a broad and, above all, well-founded discussion in society.
To this end, we want to establish an Enquete Commission in the German Bundestag, whose goal should be the concrete elaboration and calculation of new as well as the evaluation of existing basic income models.
For each concept, the likely consequences and advantages and disadvantages should be outlined and made transparent to the public.
At the same time, we will work in the Bundestag to ensure that the legal basis for referendums at the federal level is created before the end of the legislative period.
They are intended to enable citizens to vote directly on both the basic income models presented in the Enquete Commission and other basic income models as draft legislation.
In order to be able to decide on a variety of concepts at the same time, referendums should also be able to be held using preferential voting procedures.
Until the introduction of an unconditional basic income, the Pirates are committed to a nationwide statutory minimum wage.
As a short-term measure until an expert commission is established, the Pirate Party calls for the introduction of a general statutory minimum wage calculated as follows:  (60% of the average annual working wage in Germany + €1,000 advertising allowance) divided by 2,080 hours [52 weeks à 40 hours per week]
In the case of temporary contracts, this minimum wage should be increased by 8.33%!
For 2013, this means: €9.02 for permanent and €9.77 for temporary employment contracts.
Minimum wage in public tenders
We demand that the state impose a mandatory minimum wage on contractors in public tenders.
Unconditional basic income and steps towards it
Guidelines on unconditional basic income
A basic income can be seriously financed
The Pirate Party starts with cautious assumptions and a low basic income - should the development then be more favorable than the assumptions, the increase of the basic income is quickly decided.
However, the introduction of a basic income must not lead to the weaker position of the economically weaker.
Gradual change of the tax and social system
The introduction of a basic income will significantly change the tax and social system and will thus have to be done in several steps.
These can be many small steps, but some larger steps can also be taken.
Combination of basic income and income/pension
A basic income is paid in addition to, for example, earned income and pension or retirement benefits.
These incomes will then be taxed more heavily, with the BGE supporting tax progression, as it can be seen as a basic security or a tax allowance.
Social insurances with basic income
For the time being, we want to continue unemployment and pension insurance as social insurance financed on a parity basis.
Health insurance funds are to be converted to a tax-financed health care system so that all incomes are included, regardless of income type and contribution assessment limits.
At the same time, adequate funding for the health care system must be ensured.
There must be no "treatment according to cash situation".
Introductory phase of the Bge
In the medium term, basic income must meet the "four criteria" of
- without conditions,
- living,
- calculated individually,
- without means test
suffice.
In the introduction phase, models that only partially meet these criteria are conceivable.
Preparation of the unconditional basic income
Increase in the standard rate of minimum benefits
In terms of minimum security, the standard rate of unemployment benefit II must be increased until a basic income is introduced in order to abolish poverty in the long term.
Abolition of child poverty
The Pirate Party advocates the introduction of a basic child income at the federal level.
According to UNICEF, the proportion of children suffering from child poverty in Germany is 8.8%.
Basic income rates for children and youth may differ from those for adults.
It must be taken into account that children are not able to earn their own living.
Overall, we want to see a significant improvement in the situation of families,
regardless of the family model.
Child poverty excludes children of low-income parents from social participation, especially from many educational opportunities.
In this way, disadvantage due to origin is solidified from the very beginning.
Equal educational opportunities for all can be realized much more effectively with a basic child income than, for example, with bureaucracy-intensive "education packages."
Basic educational income
The Pirate Party advocates replacing BAföG benefits with a basic education income.
This basic education income secures the income of those who are undergoing training, studies or further education but are not entitled to basic security benefits.
Abolition of old-age poverty, prevention of future old-age poverty through the further development of basic benefits
The Pirate Party is committed to the abolition of old-age poverty and the prevention of future old-age poverty through the further development of basic security in old age and in the event of reduced earning capacity in the direction of a basic income for the elderly and people with reduced earning capacity.
Improving the income situation of immigrants and refugees
The Pirate Party is committed to improving the situation of immigrants and refugees.
In a rich country, the material situation of the worst off, and that includes many refugees and many of the immigrants, can and must be significantly improved.
Unconditional basic income global
The Pirate Party supports initiatives worldwide to introduce an unconditional basic income and is committed to an intensive exchange of experience on pilot projects to date and intermediate steps to be taken.
Sockle income as an intermediate step towards unconditional basic income
The Pirate Party calls for the introduction of an unconditional sock income as an intermediate step towards an unconditional basic income.
The base income is to be composed of one or more, independent financing modules and ultimately develop into an unconditional basic income.
Moreover, the introduction of the base income already creates a new, streamlined administrative structure for the unconditional basic income.
Socket income is not taxable income and is not counted against existing Social Security benefits.
Base income from unification of sales tax rates
The Pirate Party demands the increase of the reduced VAT rate from currently 7% to 19% with the aim to create a uniform standard tax rate and to simplify the so-called value added tax.
By distributing the additional tax revenue as base income, the increase in the VAT rate is social because the base income not only offsets, but even to a small extent exceeds, the cost increase from the higher VAT rate for families and low-income people.
Socket income through financial transaction tax
The Pirate Party advocates the introduction of a financial transaction tax.
The distribution of the additional tax revenues takes the form of a base income.
Base income from income tax
The Pirate Party calls for a reform of the income tax through a generally understandable tax system that does without exceptions and applies to all types of income.
This major reform includes: Base income instead of "top-up",
person-related basic allowance for all instead of outmoded
Marital splitting,
Deduct health and long-term care insurance contributions from taxes instead of deducting them,
uniform procedure instead of special regulations - Abolish various
Exceptions.
Only by combining the four reform components is it possible to design a more balanced tax system while at the same time introducing a base income.
European unconditional and tax-free base income
The Pirate Party Germany advocates that a minimum levy of e.g. 0.1 to 0.2 % be imposed at EU level on all non-cash transactions and that an individual unconditional basic income be paid out to all EU citizens each month.
Half of the transaction fee is borne by the remitter and half by the payee, and is automatically paid by the executing bank.
It is also due when cash is withdrawn or deposited.
Neither the levy nor the European unconditional basic income are affected by other possible transaction taxes or transfer payments at European or national level;
They can be supplemented by such measures and, for example, topped up from national funds to provide an unconditional basic income that secures livelihoods and participation.
Changes in social legislation on the labor market (SGB II, SGB III and IX)
Promotion of qualified/elderly people looking for work
The Pirate Party demands that unemployed persons with completed vocational training and appropriate work experience be qualified through suitable further training, if they so desire.
This should also apply in particular to older employees.
Immediate suspension of work opportunities (§ 16d SGB II) and citizen work
The Pirate Party demands that the so-called "one-euro jobs" (placement in work opportunities with additional compensation, AGH-MAE) be suspended with immediate effect because they do not provide access to the primary labor market.
In many cases, these state-subsidized assignments even destroy regular jobs in small businesses, because no public contract can be carried out more cheaply than by a "1-Euro jobber".
Likewise, the Pirate Party rejects the model project "Citizen Work" initiated by the Federal Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs with the participation of the European Union and the European Social Fund of Germany.
Here, unemployed persons are employed for three years in municipalities, cities or districts subject to social insurance contributions, but without being insured against unemployment.
This means that no entitlement to insurance benefits (ALG I) is acquired within this employment, so that the person concerned remains in "Hartz IV" receipt after three years.
In both cases the sanction regulations of the SGB II, which are rejected by the Pirate Party, apply.
Strengthening of the unemployed self-help groups
In order to strengthen the rights of those entitled to benefits within the complex social and administrative law, the Pirate Party demands a qualitative and quantitative upgrade of the local unemployed self-help groups.
The organizational structure and financing should be analogous to the Federal Association of Consumer Centers and their respective consumer centers.
Thus, a good 85% of the funds would be covered by the federal ministry in question.
Funding is to come from the federal budget.
Associations and support groups that offer or carry out work opportunities with extra compensation are to be excluded from the use of these funds.
File inspection/transparency in job centers
The Pirate Party demands the unrestricted right to inspect files.
The possibility must be granted to view all personal documentation, including digital documentation (records, profiling, etc.) immediately after each appointment and to have it handed over upon request.
Binding, comprehensible information and counseling guidelines are to be created for the job center, which must be accessible to the beneficiary.
Beneficiaries must be fully and specifically informed in writing of their rights and obligations in advance.
All internal work instructions shall be disclosed.
Quality standards for job placement (job center)
The Pirate Party pursues the concern that the employees of the job centers receive permanent employment contracts as a rule, in order to ensure permanently uniform training and processing standards.
This will create the basis for providing more comprehensive information, advice and mediation to those entitled to benefits.
We demand regular, high-quality continuing education and training for employees in the job centers, which must impart professional and social skills.
The Pirate Party advocates that employees in the placement sector only advise those occupational groups whose job descriptions they know and with whose professional content and requirements they are familiar.
The assignment and support of the unemployed in the placement area should no longer be based on the first letter of the claimant's name, city districts, BG numbers or other bureaucratic criteria.
Transparency in unemployment statistics
The Pirate Party is in favor of honest unemployment statistics that, for example, do not include people in support measures.
We are committed to ensuring that the Federal Labor Office publishes unbiased figures that reflect reality.
Legal aid
The Pirate Party is committed to ensuring that everyone, regardless of income, has the opportunity to assert their rights before a court of law.
We therefore reject restrictions in the area of legal aid and counseling assistance law if this raises the eligibility requirements for the granting of assistance.
The personal rights of those affected must be safeguarded and the recipient must be able to rely on the fact that once financial assistance has been granted, it will not be withdrawn during the proceedings.
Abolition of sanctions in Hartz IV (§§ 31, 32 SGB II, § 39 a SGB XII)
The Pirate Party Germany is committed to improving the situation of the unemployed, in particular the abolition and immediate non-application (moratorium) of sanctions in Hartz IV (§§ 31, 32 SGB II, § 39 a SGB XII).
Strengthening employee rights
Limitation of temporary work
Temporary work is a useful and necessary tool for the economy to cope with peaks in demand.
In recent years, however, it has become apparent that this instrument is being abused by more and more companies to circumvent protection against dismissal and collective wage agreements or minimum wages.
In some companies, temporary workers have become a form of competition and leverage against the permanent workforce, even within the company itself.
Often, temporary workers cost employers even less than permanent employees because the hirers employ the temporary workers at low(est) wages.
In the long term, this leads to a low-wage spiral.
Temporary work should be limited for this reason - as has been the case in the past.
To this end, we will set a maximum permitted assignment period of six months for temporary workers.
The Pirate Party will amend the German Personnel Leasing Act (AÜG) accordingly.
Following the French model, temporary workers should not be a cheap source of supply with which regular employees can be put under pressure, but should be compensated for the flexibility demanded of them with a wage supplement.
In addition, we will introduce a maximum quota of temporary workers per company in relation to the respective core workforce of ten percent.
Minimum wage / fair pay
Nationwide statutory minimum wage
Work must provide employees with a living wage.
As long as an unconditional basic income has not yet been implemented, this is possible primarily through legal regulations and collective agreements.
Therefore, the Pirate Party is committed to fair and safe working conditions
and a comprehensive statutory minimum wage in Germany and throughout Europe.
Expert Commission
Following the Dutch model, a commission of experts with equal representation is to be convened to draw up recommendations on raising the minimum wage every six months.
This recommendation will be forwarded to the legislature to increase the minimum wage in a timely manner.
Equal representation is intended to balance the interests of employees and employers.
Public tenders
We demand that the state impose a mandatory minimum wage on contractors in public tenders.
Gender-independent opportunities
The Pirate Party Germany demands equal pay, opportunities and development possibilities regardless of gender.
East-West gap
The Pirate Party Germany is committed to reducing wage differences between eastern and western Germany.
Here, the public sector is to act as a role model.
Prevent abuse of professional internships
The Pirate Party sees vocational internships as a useful and necessary supplement to vocational training.
They convey practical relevance and facilitate entry into professional life.
On the other hand, it recognizes many problems that necessitate new regulations for the employment of interns.
The Pirate Party is committed to stopping abuse by employers.
An internship not required for training or study must be limited to three months, or an appropriate intern's salary must be paid after three months have elapsed, and the intern must be placed on the same legal footing as a permanent employee.
Upon application, companies should be able to receive financial support from the Federal Employment Agency.
Combating "precarious entrepreneurship".
The Pirate Party explicitly supports and promotes free enterprise
, but advocates that dependent employees are not employed as subcontractors without the obligation to pay social security contributions and thus the entrepreneurial risk is outsourced without being rewarded accordingly.
Co-determination
The Pirate Party is committed to co-determination in all areas of public life.
This also includes working life.
In our understanding, democracy also includes participation in decision-making processes in the working environment.
Works Councils
We are committed to strong works councils and want to defend the Works Constitution Act.
Co-determination is an essential element of participation in economic life.
The establishment of works councils must be made easier.
We therefore support all necessary legal safeguards in the Works Constitution Act and the Dismissal Protection Act.
Church labor law
The Pirate Party advocates putting churches on an equal footing with other tendentious businesses in labor law.
This would mean that protection against dismissal, co-determination, the right to strike, freedom of association and employee rights would apply in accordance with the law on works constitutions and staff representation.
For this reason, the Pirate Party is in favor of deleting Section 118 (2) of the Works Constitution Act (special regulation for religious communities) and redrafting Section 9 of the General Equal Rights Act in accordance with EU regulations.
The Pirate Party advocates that for companies financed predominantly from public funds - for example in the area of social and health care - compliance with fundamental rights and the rules of the General Equal Rights Act must be a prerequisite for public funding.
Measures against mobbing
The Pirate Party advocates for comprehensive legal protection against bullying in the workplace and in schools.
In order to effectively counter bullying, bullying must be prosecuted ex officio as a criminal offense and compensated by tangible damages at the expense of those causing the harm.
Employee protection must be supplemented by an adaptation of the applicable labor and social law provisions when jobs or the ability to work are lost as a result of bullying.
The Pirate Party advocates the creation of a framework law at the federal level for federal, state, and county bullying officials with jurisdiction over all other agencies subordinate in the administrative structure.
They should be given the right to veto legal acts related to their investigations under an anti-bullying law to be created.
They are to publish an annual report.
Telework
The modern working world demands a high degree of flexibility from the employee.
In return, the Pirate Party also demands flexibility from the employer.
Employees should therefore be able to work from home at their own request, provided their job allows it.
The employer must provide the necessary technical infrastructure.
A telecommuting workstation with the necessary equipment should only be mandatory for permanent use, so that occasional use of telecommuting, e.g., when a child is ill, is possible without bureaucracy.
The employee may report occasional home work at short notice and informally.
At the same time, home-based work must not lead to surveillance, an expansion of working hours or the undermining of occupational health and safety regulations.
To prevent performance-related illnesses such as burnout, informal pressure to be continuously available outside working hours is also not permissible.
Temporary work
General requirements
Temporary workers are required to have special talents, a high degree of flexibility and to accept a higher risk of unemployment.
The employment conditions of temporary workers may therefore not fall below the standard industry or collectively agreed regulations, as these are "special employment relationships".
Similar to the fight against undeclared work, employment relationships are to be monitored more closely.
During periods of non-employment for which the temporary worker is not responsible, the temporary worker must still be paid.
The same applies in the event of medically certified incapacity for work.
The Pirate Party is campaigning for temporary employment agencies to be held liable for non-payment of travel costs/supplements to employees and for progressively increasing sanctions to be imposed in the event of repeated violations, up to and including the withdrawal of business licenses.
The temporary employment relationship shall lead to a permanent employment relationship after six months at the latest, unless the employee wishes to remain employed in temporary employment.
The probationary period is to be waived in the event that the temporary employee is taken over by the user company.
The Pirate Party demands that the statutory notice periods for temporary workers be put on an equal footing with the regulations for permanent employees of the company.
These deadlines are also to be implemented in a timely manner in standard industry collective bargaining agreements.
Equal treatment for equal performance
The Pirate Party advocates that company fringe benefits, such as subsidized lunches or other voluntary benefits in the sense of the entrepreneurial freedom protected by the Basic Law, be retained
but be equally available to all employees.
Therefore, the Pirate Party demands that temporary employment relationships be at least equal to regular employment relationships in terms of benefits in kind such as professional clothing.
We therefore encourage greater cooperation between the parties involved and call on them to counteract this discrimination, for example by means of company agreements.
The Pirate Party demands that temporary workers be placed on an equal footing with regular employees in all respects.
This also implies that the works council of the hirer company must also be responsible for the temporary workers in the matters of the company, insofar as these are not such matters that exclusively concern the hirer company.
In these cases, the duties of the works council must also apply in full to temporary workers.
Employee leasing in the SGB
In order to let no employees "second class" develop, the Piraten demand that in integration agreements no more request is specified to make applications with time work enterprises/personnel service providers.
Refusal to apply shall not be deemed a lack of self-effort or cooperation.
Working conditions of special groups of people
Employees in job centers
We call for regular, high-quality training and further education for employees in the job centers, which must impart professional and social skills.
Parent-friendly working conditions
The Pirate Party advocates flexible, parent-friendly working conditions and childcare options in companies and businesses.
Raising children and working must be equally compatible for both parents....
The Pirate Party advocates that when filling positions in federally owned public administrations and companies, single parents with children below school age be given preference in the case of equal qualifications.
Special consideration shall be given to the entitlement to part-time employment.
Further organizational approaches to reconciling work and family life should be encouraged.
We reject the existing support programs for hiring single parents.
They are merely a windfall.
In contrast, measures in the organizational area to make working hours and situations more flexible are to be promoted on a case-by-case basis.
False self-employed
The Pirate Party supports and promotes free enterprise.
We are committed to ensuring that dependent employees are not employed as subcontractors without the obligation to pay social security contributions.
This must be prevented from creating "loopholes" for circumventing the payment of a minimum or collectively agreed wage.
Honorary teachers
The Pirate Party is committed to ensuring that teachers on a fee basis receive adequate remuneration.
It must be taken into account here that honorary employees must also pay taxes and pension insurance contributions from their hourly rates.
Call center employees
The hours of operation for employees in call centers should adhere to the usual business hours (8:00-20:00) and these should be announced one month in advance in each case.
This also applies to any on-call duties that may be required.
It shall be possible to work outside normal business hours if the employee so desires.
If an employee with ALG II tops up and urgently needs clarification with the job center regarding the payment of a top-up amount, he or she must be released at short notice for this purpose.
This also applies to short- and long-term appointments with doctors.
Old-age provision
Atypical, unsteady employment histories and the pension cuts of recent years mean that in the future fewer and fewer workers will be able to receive a poverty-proof old-age pension through the pension insurance system, which
would result in old-age poverty.
We Pirates are committed to a sustainable fight against poverty in old age, which is a direct consequence of decades of misguided pension policies.
The pension system will also be adjusted for the long-term goal of an unconditional basic income.
Every pensioner should receive a minimum pension in old age that enables a secure existence and social participation.
Therefore, the current pension system must be restructured in such a way that future pensioners can once again assume a secure pension in old age.
To achieve these goals, the pension system must be restructured in such a way that the revenue base is broadened and the stronger participate adequately with contributions to the pension insurance system.
Basic approach to the basic pension
All existing pension systems, occupational pension schemes and public service pensions will be merged into one pension fund.
All taxable income and capital gains are required to pay pension contributions.
No occupational group will be exempt, and the assessment ceiling will be eliminated.
All people living in Germany pay into the pension fund on the basis of their income.
The contributions of self-employed persons will be based on their respective company figures, so that their existence will not be endangered.
Pension benefits range from minimum to maximum pensions.
Pensions are adjusted annually by a factor that takes into account the rate of inflation.
This factor also takes into account the change in other costs, such as health care costs.
The state pension fund manages itself autonomously, without direct access by the state.
The state creates the legal framework.
The pension fund is earmarked for the pension!
Company pension plan
In 2004, the legislator passed the GKV Modernization Act (GMG), whereby the insured person must pay the full social insurance contribution for statutory health and long-term care insurance on the capital payment of a company pension scheme in the form of a capital-linked direct insurance policy (§ 248 sentence 1 SGB V in the version of Article 1 No. 148 GMG).
This obligation to pay contributions was thus extended to one-time benefits from endowment insurance and also retroactively to so-called old contracts.
Thus, a one-time payment of €100,000 from a direct insurance policy and the current contribution rate of 15.5% (health insurance) and 2.2% (long-term care insurance) results in a contribution of €17,700.
As a result, those affected must pay €147.50 per month in contributions to the health insurance fund for 10 years.
The Pirate Party sees the retroactive obligation to pay contributions for old contracts as disregarding the protection of confidence and the status quo for the contracts.
For this purpose, the employer did not pay any social security contributions for the contributions during the accumulation phase.
We demand that the obligation to pay contributions to statutory health and long-term care insurance be completely abolished again for old contracts.
The Pirates are generally in favor of introducing a duty to provide information to policyholders prior to the conclusion of a contract for a company pension plan.
The state and insurance companies should provide transparent and comprehensive information about contribution payments in old age.
Overall, there should be a new regulation of occupational pensions with clear and transparent rules.
The current rule that contracts are tax-subsidized, but in old age the social security obligation takes full effect, often makes occupational pension schemes a losing proposition, instead promoting the private insurance industry and favoring employers in particular.
In addition, the company pension scheme reduces payments into the statutory pension scheme, which further weakens the solidarity system through a lower gross salary subject to social security contributions.
Transparency in private pension provision
The Pirate Party advocates clearly comprehensible cost structures for private pension insurance:
The effectively incurred costs and fees of a private pension insurance are to be shown as the sum of all individual items in the total term, which are to be paid by the insured to non-governmental insurance companies, directly next to the expected maturity benefit (payout sum) in the insurance offer as well as in the insurance policy.
The insurance advisor must explicitly point out the fees in the conversation.
The speculative nature of the potential maturity benefit disclosed must be clearly shown.
In the consultation as well as in the offer and contract documents it must be clearly pointed out that possibly the guaranteed values are not significantly exceeded.
People with disabilities
Integration assistance/implementation of the un disability rights convention
The Pirate Party is committed to ensuring that integration assistance for people with disabilities, and thus personal assistance, no longer falls under social assistance.
The condition that disabled people are not allowed to own assets and have no right to income above € 1,400 must be changed immediately in the spirit of equality and self-determination.
Assistance for people with disabilities
Assistance must be made possible for all people with disabilities who wish to claim it, including in particular people with learning difficulties, people with psycho-social disabilities, children and young people with disabilities and people with reduced mobility.
Currently, funding for personal assistance is still allocated through the social welfare agency.
However, this has the effect of judging people with disabilities based on their income.
However, according to the Pirates, this violates the principle of equality.
Personal assistance must be accessible to every person with disabilities, regardless of their financial situation.
The separation of funding allocation by the social welfare agency allows access for all.
Aids for hearing impaired people
The Pirate Party of Germany advocates, within the framework of the Social Code Ninth Book (SGB IX) in the Severely Disabled Persons Card Ordinance (SchwbAwV) § 3 the mark "Tbl" for deaf-blind or hearing-impaired people to include and in the SGB IX Part 1 Chapter 7 Benefits for participation in life in the community the right to comprehensive "assistance" for deaf-blind or hearing-impaired people to establish.
Deafblindness is not a disability resulting from the addition of blindness and deafness, but already occurs when one remote sense cannot be compensated by the other remote sense.
The exceptional severity of the impairment of deaf-blind people consists in the comprehensive exclusion from life in the absence of appropriate assistance.
Commons: Right of way for cooperation, self-organization and public spirit
The Pirates are committed to creating space for self-organization, sharing responsibility, and organizing institutions in a sustainable and successful way.
To this end, the possibilities and limits of cooperative organizational models (so-called "commons") for the sustainable use of shared resources are to be reviewed in an ongoing process, and institutions are to be reformed or newly created as needed.
Understanding commons as an educational task
The contents and concepts of organizational models and institutions designed according to commons principles are to be made a learning goal in educational institutions and projects.
To this end, we can draw on many excellent examples, also from Germany.
Most importantly, students should already be practicing shared responsibility and decision-making.
Enabling participation with commons
Existing common goods must be preserved, developed and increased.
Loss of common property is to be avoided.
If common property has been lost, society is called upon to reappropriate it.
Low-income people in particular need public places and facilities. Parks, playgrounds, marketplaces, community centers, swimming pools, community gardens, public sports fields or simply open spaces offer opportunities for social participation.
In regions with demographically critical forecasts, innovative forms of social interaction should be promoted, for example in the form of community centers.
Neither for leisure, nor for free space one needs a justification.
Free space enables creativity, but also tranquility.
And that's what we need.
That is human.
Give priority to commons
Before privatizing or nationalizing areas of social responsibility, it must be examined on a case-by-case basis whether self-organization and self-administration would be possible.
In the case of equal or better suitability prognosis, priority is to be given to these.
Guide and support commons projects
All levels of economic policy decision-making and administrative structures must be equipped with appropriate expertise.
These bodies are thus enabled to advise, support and promote self-governance projects in institution finding and implementation, or to moderate any conflicts that may arise.
Use open source software in administration
For public administration, the use of open source software is generally preferable.
Only if there are serious reasons against the use of open source software in special cases should proprietary solutions be considered.
Free alternatives should always be considered for new purchases and upgrades.
Invitations to tender are to be designed accordingly.
The individual authorities are to be supported in the changeover to open software.
A model for this can be the state capital of Munich with its LiMux project.
Disclose data
Data form the basis of political discussion.
Their extraction is often funded by taxpayer dollars, as in the case of transportation and environmental data and public budgets.
This data belongs to the citizens.
Their timely, comprehensive and low-threshold publication is the basis for citizens to get involved in political discussions when needed.
This publication is to be made public domain in a nationwide standardized data portal.
Application procedures, restrictive licensing models and fees should generally be avoided.
Redistribution and also commercial use shall be expressly permitted.
In addition to formats prepared for reading, the data should also be offered in free machine-readable formats suitable for further machine processing and preparation.
Improve international scientific networking
The implementation of the program points mentioned in the preceding paragraphs must be based on the scientific findings of commons research.
To this end, guiding and implementing institutions should become involved in national or international associations or research institutions and create corresponding organizational responsibilities within their administration.
State institutions must publicly account for activity and progress in this area in their annual reports.
fAMILy AnD SOCIETy
Preamble
The Pirate Party stands for a contemporary and just family policy based on the principle of free self-determination over matters of personal life.
We want politics to do justice to the diversity that exists.
The Pirate Party is committed to overcoming the one-sided preference for traditional role, family and work models.
True freedom of choice will only exist when longer career breaks or part-time work become the social norm, regardless of gender.
Free self-determination of coexistence
We Pirates are committed to all conceivable forms of coexistence.
Politics must do justice to the diversity of life plans and enable a truly free decision for the individually desired form of living together.
We reject an exclusively historically based preference for selected family models.
The Pirates are committed to full legal equality for all civil partnerships.
Other civil partnerships
We Pirates advocate that the term "marriage" be replaced by "registered civil partnership".
The rights and obligations based on marriage are to be transferred to the "registered civil partnership".
Furthermore, we want to open up registered civil partnerships for all forms of homosexual, heterosexual and polyamorous (love relationship with more than one person) partnerships.
Thus, beyond its monogamous claim, it should also legally regulate the cohabitation of more than two persons.
Realize children's wishes even in non-classical family pictures
The Pirate Party is committed to the equal recognition of life models in which people take responsibility for each other.
Communities in which children grow up or people are cared for deserve special protection and support from the state and society.
We are committed to dismantling existing gender role attributions and social expectations.
The desire to start a family must not remain attached to the classic image of the family.
Gender identity or sexual orientation must not play a role in this.
Family support where children are!
People must not suffer any disadvantage if they devote part of their lifetime to children or those in need of care.
We Pirates would like to see a serious political debate on the concept of an unconditional basic income.
We Pirates demand special financial support for families or care communities in which children grow up or people in need of care are looked after and cared for.
In terms of family policy, we consider the realization of a basic child income to be feasible in the short term.
Already today, the state pays about €400 per child in direct, monthly transfers to families.
However, income-based distribution distributes these payments differently.
We reject this because it contradicts our understanding of equal opportunities.
Every child is entitled to financial support from the state.
The existing marital splitting system does not fit into our image of the family, as it also provides financial support for childless marriages, and should be gradually abolished.
Free and flexible care and education services
Care and education services provided by the state shall be made available to children free of charge.
Corresponding offers are to be realized close to the place of residence or optionally close to the place of work - also across municipal borders.
All care and education services must take into account the resulting changes in parents' needs.
Childcare must also be guaranteed outside the usual opening hours.
Migration and inclusion
Migration policy is about people.
That is why policies must be designed to address the expectations and problems of those affected.
Migrants should therefore be involved in all processes that affect their opportunities, rights and obligations.
Germany is a country characterized by immigration.
The Pirate Party values our pluralistic society, which thrives on the diversity of different people.
Migration and mobility enrich our society.
Mobility encompasses a larger concept than migration alone, as it also involves short-term visitors, tourists, students, researchers, business travelers, or visiting family members.
We therefore advocate a mobility-friendly visa policy that facilitates, for example, learning and working for people from third countries.
This concept must also be established at the European level and national regulations harmonized.
For a liberal right of residence
Facilitation of spousal reunification
According to the Basic Law, the family is under special protection.
Nevertheless, it is mandatory for spouses who come from non-EU countries to attend and successfully complete a German language course before entering Germany.
We Pirates see this primarily as a deterrent to spouses who are not well off financially, since German courses abroad are often expensive and sometimes involve a great deal of effort.
We demand the abolition of compulsory German language skills even before entry.
It is perfectly sufficient for spouses joining the family to take German courses here on site.
Legalization of paperless
We need a more intensive policy for people who are in Germany without a valid residence permit in order to end their lack of rights and prospects.
It is important that both long-term concepts are developed and short-term measures are implemented.
This affects, for example, migrants who are highly valued as domestic workers, in the hospitality industry or in elderly care, but who no longer have a valid residence permit for a variety of reasons (rejected asylum applications, expired toleration permits for refugees from civil war zones, revocation of residence rights, expired visas, non-renewed work permits, loss of residence rights due to divorce).
For these people, we want to improve access to education
and ensure medical care.
Bremen has already launched exemplary projects in this area.
We also call for an initiative to legalize people who are in Germany without a valid residence permit.
They are to receive an unlimited residence and work permit in order to be able to lead a regular life in dignity.
Citizenship - multiple and by birth
We advocate the acceptance of dual and multiple citizenships in order to lower the hurdle to accepting German citizenship and the associated right to vote.
The obligation to choose a nationality (option obligation) is abolished. People who have lived in Germany for a long time should have the option of taking German citizenship, regardless of economic criteria.
This is part of the integration process, not its goal.
We advocate an unconditional right to German citizenship for all people born in Germany, regardless of their ancestry.
For the participation of all people
We are committed to the participation of all people in social and political life.
In this context, origin must not play a precondition for the possibility of participation.
It is important for everyone to be able to influence the policies that directly affect them.
Voting rights and civic participation for all people
The right to vote is an important participatory right.
We advocate the same municipal voting rights for non-EU citizens as for EU citizens, regardless of their nationality.
Participation in other political processes, such as referendums, initiatives and decisions, as well as the submission and signing of petitions, should also be possible regardless of citizenship.
Strengthening the representation of the interests of all people
As long as people are excluded from the right to vote, we advocate for the strengthening of democratically elected, adequately resourced municipal foreigners' councils to articulate their own interests.
The foreigners' advisory councils and integration advisory councils at all levels are also to be strengthened financially and in terms of personnel as a representation of interests.
For a modern, cosmopolitan administration
In order to ensure a reasonable social policy, the responsible actors must have financial form and sufficient independence.
Independence and competence for the responsible actors
We call for a strengthening of the state ministry responsible for migration issues or the creation of a separate federal ministry for integration affairs in order to bundle the currently fragmented integration policy tasks.
In the process, the areas of responsibility under the Ministries of the Interior, Labor and Social Affairs and Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth will be merged into one area.
Integration policy must be stringent and coherent in one hand.
Intercultural opening of the administration
In order to meet the requirements of a diverse society, we are committed to the intercultural opening of the administration.
This includes multilingual offerings in forms and on government websites,
as well as education and training of staff in intercultural competence.
Diversity in the administration: Authorities set a good example through anonymized application procedures
In order for public authorities to respond appropriately to the interests of the population, they must also reflect the diversity of society within their own ranks.
To achieve this, appropriate application and selection procedures are needed.
Special offers for people interested in job applications are intended to strengthen interest and self-confidence and ensure more applications from all social groups.
The Pirate Party Germany demands anonymized application procedures in the administration in order to prevent possible discrimination based on gender, origin, nationality, appearance, age or other non-employment-related characteristics.
For a tolerant and successful labor market policy
Labor market policy should be oriented toward empowering people in their abilities,
recognizing diversity
and reducing discrimination.
In this way, the goals of making the labor market open and fair for all participants can be achieved.
and to be successful as an economy.
Abolition of the multi-class system on the labor market
We want to end a multi-class situation in the labor market.
Discrimination policies of any kind create unnecessary and unreasonable barriers for people, create unnecessary bureaucracy for employers, and hinder the development of the economy.
We are committed to abolishing the legal discrimination against people from non-EU countries in the labor market.
It also aims to promote the Europe-wide portability of social and pension benefits.
Recognition of foreign vocational and school qualifications and skills
Due to the unwillingness to recognize foreign qualifications, some highly qualified people are prevented from practicing their learned profession or from taking necessary further training measures.
We are committed to facilitating the recognition of foreign diplomas and certifications.
In many countries, the dual vocational training that is traditional here is not common.
This is particularly problematic for foreign employees who already have several years of sound professional experience.
Appropriate measures are to be taken for the recognition of non-formalized professional experience, qualifications and special skills from other countries.
For example, it might be possible to obtain certification equivalent to vocational training by taking an examination before chambers of industry and commerce or craft guilds.
We advocate for non-discriminatory test content that values intercultural competence and multilingualism.
Against discrimination and for tolerance
We are opposed to playing different social groups off against each other and thereby wantonly accepting the criminalization of entire ethnic groups.
Antiziganism in particular should be mentioned here as an old and new phenomenon that threatens social cohesion.
Tolerance must be both the basis and the goal of political action.
The Federal Republic of Germany must face up to its role as a balancing factor in the center of Europe and live up to its historical responsibility.
Countering discrimination at all levels
Many people are still disadvantaged in everyday life (e.g. in the allocation of housing, training and jobs) because of the color of their skin or other external characteristics.
Targeted measures must be taken against discrimination of this kind.
Instead of focusing unilaterally on the behavior and abilities of the disadvantaged, discriminatory structures must be uncovered, reflected upon and effectively combated.
Project funding
Promoting tolerance and fighting discrimination is a task for society as a whole.
Sufficient financial resources must be made available to support the groups involved.
We reject the attempt to equate racism, discrimination, intolerance and right-wing extremism with various forms of political protest.
The extremism clause represents a general state suspicion against civil society engagement and should be abolished immediately.
Comprehensible and responsible preparation of studies
Studies that are prepared in connection with the diversity of society should, as a matter of principle, be comprehensible and transparent, with the involvement of external expertise from research and science, and published in a timely manner.
Equal opportunities in the education system
The Pirate Party is committed to more equal opportunities:
Socio-cultural background must no longer determine educational success.
Equal opportunities through shared learning
In order to achieve equal opportunities, we advocate for children from different social backgrounds to learn together.
The different social and cultural backgrounds of the learners should be treated with respect.
Multilingualism is a value to be promoted.
We welcome native language instruction to reinforce the native language and facilitate the acquisition of German.
However, this must not be accompanied by selection of learners in different classes on the basis of language and origin.
Native language instruction should certify existing language skills and thus value them as a qualification.
The didactics of "German as a Second Language" should be more strongly integrated into teacher training and continuing education.
Promote and sensitize teachers
It is part of successful inclusion when migrants are also active as teachers.
This helps children without a migrant background to respect migrants and children with a migrant background to look to teachers as role models.
We propose the awarding of scholarships for student teachers with an immigrant background to encourage them to study teaching and to support them.
Teachers need to be made aware in their education and training of how selection mechanisms play out.
For example, they should be taught how their own backgrounds, education, and social positioning unintentionally affect their teaching and performance evaluations.
Free access to German courses
Currently, the course fee for the mandatory German courses for immigrants up to language level B1 is covered if they are unable to afford the course fee (e.g. receive ALG II).
This language level is just sufficient to pursue simple professional activities.
For a degree course, however, the higher C2 level is a prerequisite, for example.
We demand that language courses are generally free of charge in order to reduce barriers to inclusion or that at least the course fees for those in need are also covered for more advanced courses.
Health
In their health policy positions, the Pirates are oriented toward the well-being of patients without neglecting the side of health care providers and service suppliers.
In doing so, we take into account that in healthcare, too, every euro can only be spent once and that it is therefore necessary to budget wisely with the available funds.
For us, good health care is characterized by its low-threshold access, which enables all people in Germany to receive appropriate treatment according to the current state of knowledge.
Transparency in the healthcare system
It is hardly possible for patients to check the quality of medical treatment both in hospitals and, in particular, in private practices.
The Pirates therefore demand the comprehensible preparation, publication and prioritized further development of quality characteristics.
Furthermore, we call for the traceability of decision-making processes from their inception, through processing and consultation, to the adoption of resolutions.
This applies both to the decision-makers in the self-administration of the health care system and to the political bodies that participate in it.
This includes resolutions on the use of jointly raised funds, e.g. compulsory insurance contributions.
Strengthen patient representation
In the bodies of self-government of the health care system, the patient representation participates without voting rights.
The Pirates are working to ensure that the patient representation side is given voting rights and becomes an equal part of the self-governing bodies of the health care system.
The patient representative body must be provided with independent financial and organizational resources with the aim of greater transparency.
Reduce oversupply
Access to medical services for patients today is highly dependent on where they live.
For example, there are significantly more physicians per inhabitant in large cities than in rural regions.
Therefore, the Pirates strive for a demand planning in which every deviation from the average of the supply density has to be justified publicly.
To close gaps in care, we will work to ensure that municipalities are given the right to take over family doctor contract physician seats and hire physicians there.
Apart from regional peculiarities and an urban/rural divide, there tends to be an overprovision of medical services in Germany that is maintained at the expense of the community of insured persons, especially by doctors' practices and hospitals.
With the goal of a balanced distribution, an oversupply of health care services in a region above the average must therefore be counteracted with appropriate incentives.
The Pirates will advocate that any deviation from the average coverage density must be specifically and publicly justified.
Where regional authorities or municipalities deliberately maintain above-average care, they are responsible for financing it from their own budgets in order to relieve the burden on the insured community.
Avoid undersupply
People in the Federal Republic of Germany have a right to adequate health care.
This also includes ensuring that there are sufficient physicians of all specialties close to the community or to the place of residence.
Demand planning for SHI-accredited physicians must provide for a sufficient number of SHI-accredited physicians in sensibly subdivided and homogeneously structured service areas, taking into account regional conditions.
In rural regions with under-supply, the model of mobile medical practices and the employment of physicians by the municipality is also a sensible addition.
We see the diversity of providers (public, non-profit and private providers) as an incentive for competition on the quality of care.
At the same time, we consider the provision of preventive health care and treatment of diseases to be the state's duty of care.
We are therefore in favor of initiatives aimed at preserving clinics under public ownership.
End misuse
Certain services that, from the healthcare providers' point of view, are on the one hand costly and on the other hand not adequately remunerated, are not provided or are provided only to a limited extent.
In addition to outreach treatment, this puts patients with disabilities, chronic conditions, or limited mobility at a particular disadvantage.
The Pirates will work to ensure that these patients in particular receive appropriate consideration on the part of health insurers and medical practices as well.
Where the free negotiation of the fees by the self-administration partners does not adjust these lack promptly, Piraten will use themselves for the fact that there are additional negotiation possibilities with participation of all concerning, i.e. the self-administrations and their representatives also patient representatives are put voting-entitled to the side.
At the same time, the negotiations are made as transparent as possible by publishing the respective positions.
To combat misuse of care, the Pirates also focus on promoting evidence-based medicine, i.e., making decisions relevant to care after extensive research into available sources of knowledge.
Only robust studies assessing the effects of therapies and medications can form the basis for decisions on reimbursement by health insurers.
Therapies and medications for which proof of efficacy has not been provided may only be covered by the statutory health insurance funds if no curative therapies are available for the disease to be treated or a scientific evaluation with the highest level of evidence is prohibited for ethical reasons.
Strengthening health services research
The basis of a modern health care system is the continuous review of the health care services offered.
Today, we still know far too little about the effectiveness of certain preventive measures, for example.
That is why we want to massively strengthen health services research.
Funding is to be provided through the introduction of a positive list, as exists in the majority of European countries.
It guarantees that patients are only prescribed drugs with a high degree of benefit and proof of concept and a reasonable cost-benefit ratio.
In addition, the savings will be used to support non-commercial research in the field of pharmaceuticals, particularly to explore therapies for rare diseases.
Health education
There is scientific consensus that education and environmental factors have a major impact on people's health.
We advocate for the testing of a "health education" subject in schools that teaches what factors positively and negatively affect health and how to maintain it.
The subject is to be financed as part of a prevention strategy from the statutory health insurance.
In addition to school-based education, we see the need for comprehensive health education as the next step in social inclusion of people with health limitations.
The focus of education should be on those diseases and disorders as well as disabilities that are often affected by prejudice and exclusion.
The Pirates see the public broadcasters in particular as having a duty here, but also the private broadcasters, print and online media, to make their social contribution to effective health education.
Particular emphasis should be placed on conveying the message that people with health limitations are an equal part of society.
Financing
We regard the financing of the healthcare system as a task for society as a whole.
We therefore see the inclusion of all citizens in the social insurance system, taking into account as many types of income as possible, as a sensible model for financing this system.
However, we recognize the restrictions on freedom of choice in this type of financing for citizens and providers of private health insurance and understand their concerns.
We therefore advocate a referendum to achieve a social consensus on this important issue of community coexistence.
Review compensation systems
Each form of compensation sets incentives, some of which are desirable, but some of which lead to undesirable outcomes that are harmful to the overall system.
This usually intensifies as the compensation system is applied.
For this reason, compensation systems must regularly be subjected to independent analysis and adjustment.
This applies to per-case flat rates in hospitals as well as to flat-rate or individual service payments in the outpatient sector.
Here, model projects are to be used to develop and test new forms of remuneration on a regional basis.
Emergency Medicine
In emergency situations, patients' chances of survival depend directly on the response of involved citizens.
In order to put the population in a better position to act correctly in such situations, we are calling for programs to promote first aid measures in general and secondary schools.
Appropriate behavior in emergency situations should also be facilitated through the establishment and promotion of school first-aid services on a voluntary basis in schools.
In support, we would like to promote the distribution of defibrillators in public spaces.
In order to ensure that every patient receives the best possible initial care once the ambulance service arrives, regardless of where they are, we advocate uniform minimum standards for ambulance equipment throughout Germany.
Electronic health card
We recognize the benefit of providing physicians with rapid access to patient data relevant to diagnosis and treatment.
Electronic communication in healthcare is key to breaking down barriers to care and providing continuity of care for chronically ill patients.
In its currently planned form, however, the Pirates reject the electronic health card.
We also call for the mandatory introduction of decentralized storage options directly on the chip card.
This memory, supplemented by the possibility of legally secure electronic signatures, enables all the requirements of a modern IT infrastructure to be met while at the same time ensuring data protection.
This gives patients full decision-making authority over their data and allows them to reap the benefits of this technology.
Dispensing the "morning after pill" without a prescription
We want to campaign for the "morning-after pill" (with the active ingredient levonorgestrel) to be available without prescription.
This is in line with the recommendations of the World Health Organization and is already practiced in most other European countries.
Taking the "morning after pill" can prevent unwanted pregnancies and abortions.
In addition, it is relatively well tolerated; no prior medical examination is necessary.
Therefore, the prescription of this drug for women is an absolutely unreasonable interference with the right to self-determination.
Quality of care and safety of care
The Pirates are in favor of clear and unambiguous rules on staff deployment in hospitals and long-term care facilities.
Expert committees are to establish numerical keys based on empirically established facts, according to which the maximum number of patients per three-year registered nurse is defined.
In addition, depending on the area, the minimum and maximum number of nursing assistants to be used in relation to three-year certified staff must be determined.
In departments with special workloads, such as intensive care units, special codes are to be applied, which, as in the case of intensive care medicine, have already been defined by the German Interdisciplinary Association for Intensive Care and Emergency Medicine (DIVI).
These determinations are made or confirmed by an expert committee of the federal or state government, but not of the landscape associations.
Mandatory continuing education in nursing
Professional nursing care in the form of health care and nursing care for the elderly is subject to enormous work and knowledge pressure.
The constantly increasing scientific knowledge in the field of medicine as well as in the field of nursing and the economic and social challenges make a permanent and well-founded continuing education inevitable.
The Pirates demand a further training obligation and a further training proof of professionally occupation-care-giving, in order to become fair the modern pflegerischen as well as medical requirements.
The form of proof can take the form of a points system similar to the model project "Registration of Professional Caregivers".
The training courses must be established in such a way that employers are obliged to grant leave of absence.
Drug and addiction policy
New start: drug and addiction policy
The Pirate Party strives to cooperate with all social groups that deal with the use of psychotropic substances and its consequences without prejudice.
Together, we will pursue policies that counteract risky drug use through prevention,
and help high-risk users and those with severe addictions through treatment services.
The legislator may only intervene where the protective rights of others are affected.
It aims to ensure effective youth and consumer protection and curb organized crime.
Maturity needs education - prevention is the foundation
The goal of our drug and addiction policy is a self-responsible and socially acceptable culture of enjoyment.
We want to empower people of all ages to be mindful of psychotropic substances and to use them in a self-determined way.
In order to better assess effects and possible dangers, competent education is needed, which should begin as early as possible.
It must also teach the ability to deal with the various drugs in common use.
We believe that strengthening social skills and self-confidence is an important basis for effective prevention.
Sustainable prevention starts at school
Addiction prevention measures in schools and the level of training of teachers are inadequate.
Pilot projects have shown the lasting effect of good prevention starting at primary school age.
On the basis of the experience gained there, a nationwide educational concept and appropriate, undogmatic teaching material for sound instruction must be developed.
External expert speakers are to deepen the knowledge of teachers and students, especially at the secondary level.
Prejudices are thus overcome by knowledge.
The students take the knowledge they gain into their social environment as a matter of course.
Prevention as a task for society as a whole
Comprehensive education about drugs, their use and possible consequences must not be limited to schools, but must be directed at society as a whole.
Doctors, hospitals, citizens' offices, social service agencies, youth centers and similar institutions should have appropriate information materials available and provide points of contact.
Prevention programs must be designed with the target group in mind.
The use of street workers and social workers must be expanded, especially in small towns and rural areas that have been underserved up to now, with a particular focus on the addictive substance alcohol.
There is an urgent need to significantly increase funding for low-threshold help services in addiction support.
Preventive work will include substance-related and non-substance-related addictions on an equal footing.
No advertising for drugs
Avoiding the one-sided positive portrayal of addictive substances is an essential aspect of prevention.
We therefore call for a ban without exception on advertising and sponsorship of products containing psychotropic substances in concentrations that are likely to cause addiction.
Consumer protection - also for drug users
Knowledge of the active ingredient and additives is the basis for low-risk drug use.
Comprehensive, on-demand drug-checking opportunities should be facilitated on-site.
The Pirate Party calls for the establishment of a nationwide online reporting center for problematic substances to minimize risk and harm for drug users.
This reporting office records harmful extenders, unusually high dosages or degrees of purity, and the sale of substances under false names.
As a first step, we will make the results of forensic examinations of seized drugs available to everyone.
Programs to accompany consumption and help with problematic consumption must be expanded.
Treatment options should be offered as early as possible, not only when addiction is present or when secondary diseases have already occurred.
They must not be focused exclusively on abstinence.
We call for the nationwide availability of drug consumption rooms as another important element of harm prevention and reduction.
Enabling - not preventing - diamorphine programs
More dispensing sites are urgently needed for diamorphine treatments.
Implementation of diamorphine programs needs to be facilitated so that more affected individuals can access them, including those with less harmful patterns of use.
In addition to injections, inhalation and oral administration must also be permitted and intensive psychosocial support must be provided for the participants.
If necessary, the patient should be referred to further therapy services.
In addition to physicians, medical staff, therapists and social service employees must also be required to undergo specialized continuing education.
Facilitate access to medical cannabis
Cannabinoid-containing drugs should be treated the same as other marketable drugs.
It is at the discretion of the treating physician whether the genuine substance should be used.
The costs are to be borne by the health insurance companies.
Decriminalization of consumers
The private use of psychotropic substances must be completely decriminalized.
Cultivation and production for personal use must not be penalized.
The Pirate Party demands as an immediate measure a federally regulated guideline value of 30 grams for the tolerable possession of cannabis for personal consumption for adults, in order to at least end the criminalization of cannabis consumers and to relieve the authorities.
New version of the Narcotics Act
We call for a new version of the Narcotics Act in which the psychotropic substances covered are reassessed:
Only if a danger to others cannot realistically be ruled out may the individual's rights to freedom be restricted.
Strengthening informational self-determination
Informational self-determination must also be guaranteed in the area of drug and addiction policy:
data relating to drug use from police investigations that have proved fruitless must be deleted again immediately.
Registers on drug use may not be kept.
General and suspicion-independent drug testing in the workplace is rejected by the Pirates.
They are to be limited to hazardous occupations and activities.
No arbitrariness in driver's license revocation
Endangering road traffic while under the influence of intoxicants cannot be tolerated.
But we do not accept the automatic and blanket sanctioning of the consumption of drugs and medications by the driving license authorities:
As a criterion for the revocation of a driver's license, scientifically proven threshold values for active substance concentrations must be established that comprehensibly define an acute inability to drive.
There must be a direct connection between the consumption and the driving of the motor vehicle.
The mere suspicion or finding that a person has consumed or is consuming drugs or medication does not allow any conclusions to be drawn about their current fitness to drive and does not justify a preventive withdrawal of their driving license.
No restrictions for e-cigarettes
The current free trade and use of liquid-vapor e-cigarettes should not be restricted beyond the protection of minors.
Instead, we call for the creation of quality standards for the production and trade of e-cigarettes and liquids.
By contrast, we reject the inclusion of e-cigarettes in the Non-Smoker Protection Act or taxation in accordance with the Tobacco Tax Act.
Conversion of the tobacco tax
Tobacco and nicotine must be integrated into general drug education and addiction prevention in order to lead tobacco out of the perception as an "everyday drug" and to make its potential danger clear.
This lays the foundation for responsible self-determination in dealing with tobacco.
Public tobacco advertising is inconsistent with these goals.
Therefore, the Pirates are striving for a general ban on tobacco advertising.
The Pirate Party calls for the transformation of the tobacco tax into an earmarked levy.
This is to be used for education, addiction prevention and addiction-related research, withdrawal and cessation treatments, and as a contribution to follow-up costs in the healthcare sector.
Stop alcohol advertising and improve declaration requirements
The addictive potential of alcohol is insufficiently recognized in everyday society.
This should be countered by increasing the inclusion of alcohol in general drug education and addiction prevention.
The Pirate Party opposes advertising for alcoholic beverages, beverages containing alcohol, and high-proof alcoholic beverages declared as over-the-counter medicines.
All these products are likely to cause dependencies.
For all products containing alcohol that are fit for human consumption, the amount of alcohol in the product must be clearly and visibly indicated on the front of the package.
Any alcohol contained must be declared.
Existing gaps in the declaration requirement must be closed.
In the case of alcoholic beverages and beverages containing alcohol, the addictive potential must be clearly indicated.
Several non-alcoholic beverages are to be offered in the catering trade, which are cheaper than the cheapest alcoholic beverage.
Licensed specialist dispensers - introduce now
We call for model trials for licensed specialized dispensaries.
In these, the sale of tobacco, liquids for e-cigarettes, spirits and other psychotropic substances takes place.
Young people are not allowed there.
Qualified personnel should offer advice on responsible use and potential hazards.
Like all stimulants, the substances offered must be subject to consumer protection and regular quality control.
The products must not be artificially increased in price so that obtaining them on the black market is not an alternative.
In the future, it should be possible to grow or produce currently illegal psychotropic substances legally.
Psyche
Crazy is also normal
The goal of the Pirate Party's political work is the greatest possible inclusion of all people.
To achieve this goal, we include psychiatric and psychotherapeutic care in our program.
Health policy has the goals of providing medical and psychosocial assistance, guaranteeing treatment where it is needed, and maintaining people's health.
That is why we advocate for psychiatric and psychotherapeutic care for people in the Federal Republic of Germany that focuses on the needs of patients.
The Pirate Party also calls for the targeted and timely expansion of community-based psychiatric care,
an inclusive labor market policy for people with mental disorders,
and a significant improvement in the legal situation of people with mental disorders.
Health education
The Pirate Party is committed to comprehensive health education as the next step in social inclusion for people with mental disorders.
The focus of education should be on those disorders that are often affected by prejudice and exclusion and thus significantly impair the quality of life and medical therapy of those affected.
In addition, the possible treatment and complementary help offers and facilities should also be included in the education in order to strengthen the acceptance of such in the population and also to enable the use of the possibilities, no matter whether inpatient, partial inpatient or outpatient, with less personal concerns and reservations.
Ultimately, the Pirate Party also focuses on educating the victims themselves, especially about their legal rights and offers of help.
The Pirate Party sees the Federal Center for Health Education (BZgA) as a suitable body for coordinating and organizing comprehensive education.
However, the Pirate Party also sees the public broadcasters as being primarily responsible here, but also the private broadcasters, print and online media, to make their social contribution to effective health education.
Particular attention should be paid to conveying the message that people with mental disorders are an equal part of society.
More psychiatric units at general hospitals
The Pirate Party is committed to continuing the expansion of psychiatric departments in general hospitals with the aim of ensuring that all districts and independent cities are supplied with psychiatric departments with associated day clinics and psychiatric outpatient clinics in the sense of community-based psychiatry.
In planning regions, bed capacities freed up by bed reductions in general hospitals are to be used for the establishment of psychiatric departments with appropriately qualified staff.
In the long term, it must be ensured that these initially small units can take over regional, community-oriented compulsory care within a reasonable period of time by increasing the number of beds and making structural improvements suitable for psychiatry.
The medium-term goal is to replace the system of specialized hospitals with a nationwide system of specialized psychiatric departments at general hospitals (example Saarland).
More Psychiatric Outpatient Clinics
The Pirate Party supports the concept of multiprofessional psychiatric institutional outpatient clinics as part of community-based psychiatric care and advocates for their further nationwide expansion in the Federal Republic of Germany.
Psychiatric institutional outpatient clinics are established at psychiatric departments in general hospitals.
The Pirate party speaks itself thereby for the settlement of psychiatric departments with psychiatric institute ambulances in central easily attainable situation of the districts and circle-free cities, with area-wide districts additional field offices of the psychiatric institute ambulances are to be established.
General hospitals that initially start with psychiatric wards for the development of the psychiatric department should also start psychiatric outpatient departments already with these wards.
Building blocks of complementary care
The Pirate Party demands that in all local authorities the structures of social, complementary care for people with mental disorders be built up to meet the needs or (in the case of sponsorship by non-profit associations) be maintained through appropriate funding.
This complementary care is at the core of social inclusion; it includes, above all, support in the areas of housing, work and leisure.
Residential: Most mental disorders first appear in adolescence and early adulthood.
For this group of people, assisted living communities have proven their worth, as well as for "re-homing", for the repatriation of long-term patients who were shifted to so-called "homes" and excluded there.
Such residential communities, often supervised by social workers, are to be established to meet needs.
Work: The work situation of those affected is often fatal; either the 1st labor market remains closed to them due to stigmatization, or they are actually not up to the demands.
In regions where social-psychiatric work has been carried out for many years, a range of job opportunities in the 3rd labor market has emerged, from simple supplementary service companies to completely autonomous companies that must be continued.
Leisure: Sharing leisure time meaningfully with others is also not as easy for people with mental disorders as it is for others.
Various clubs where everyone (even those not affected) can meet, patient cafés in the middle of the cities, etc. are therefore indispensable building blocks of complementary social psychiatric care.
Day care centers: In contrast to day hospitals, day centers do not provide medical care, but therapists of all types of training (e.g., occupational therapists, art therapists, music therapists, etc.) work together with health care workers, nurses, social workers and committed citizens to shape the daily lives of those affected.
Day care centers have also been shown to be particularly useful when dementia patients are elderly cared for by their working children, and therefore need to be offered on a widespread basis.
Nationwide emergency number
The Pirate Party is committed to ensuring that psychiatrically trained personnel are deployed in all emergency call centers.
This is intended to provide short-term crisis intervention in mental health crises, similar to what is already done in Israel.
For mental health emergencies, there should be an easy-to-remember toll-free number that connects callers to the control center.
Furthermore, psychiatric emergency assistance should be available by email and text message throughout the day.
Internet offer of the Federal Ministry of Health
In the course of raising awareness about mental disorders, the Pirate Party demands that the Federal Ministry of Health (BMG) provide an Internet site with the following content:
- Database of all practicing psychiatrists, medical and psychological psychotherapists, psychologists and all psychiatric specialist hospitals with: Addresses, waiting times/number of free consultation hours/number of free places, field of expertise, specialty, presentation and explanations of therapy offers, applications for download and application declarations.
A telephone hotline is to be connected to this Internet offering, which can also provide information on the content.
The BMG is to coordinate the content of the program and provide technical expertise.
Knowledge of psychiatric symptoms and crisis intervention.
The Pirate Party demands that physicians receive extensive and ongoing psychiatric training in all specialties in which they are confronted with persons with psychiatric diagnoses, but especially in emergency medicine.
It is also particularly important to provide in-depth education and training in crisis intervention and de-escalation skills for physicians, police, and emergency medical services personnel.
More importance must be attached to this content at an early stage, i.e. while still studying or training.
Nursing staff in psychiatry
The Pirate Party calls for a significant increase in staffing ratios on psychiatric wards.
Furthermore, nursing staff on psychiatric wards should be better trained in dealing with patients with mental disorders through more extensive and practice-oriented continuing education measures.
Inclusive labor market policy for people with mental disorders
Special regulation working hours
The Pirate Party calls for a comprehensive amendment and elaboration of the regulations in the existing disability law, which would give people with chronic somatic and chronic mental disorders, who are limited in their ability to work due to their disorders, the option to choose a working time model that meets their limitations.
To this end, it must be ensured that the adoption of a working time model is made possible in a non-discriminatory and successful manner, while strictly observing data protection and using the supervisory authorities.
Special regulation vacation periods
The Pirate Party calls for a reform of the legal regulations in order to grant more vacation days to people with chronic mental disorders, in accordance with their disorder-related recreational needs.
With regard to special regulations for working hours and vacation time, the associations of employers, the medical sciences and those affected should jointly develop and present the working time models and the proposals for additional vacation days within the framework of an Enquete Commission in the German Bundestag so that the German Bundestag can decide on them.
The Pirate Party is campaigning in the German Bundestag for the proposals of the Enquete Commission to be put to the vote.
Exemption option from overtime for people with mental disorders
The Pirate Party demands an exemption option for overtime for people with chronic mental disorders, similar to the regulation in §124 SGB IX, (http:
www.gesetze-im-internet.de/sgb_9/BJNR104700001.html
Version Art. 13 para. 26 G v. 12.4.2012 I 579), for people with severe disabilities.
Rights of psychiatric patients
Personal budget
Since January 1, 2008, people who are entitled to participation benefits have a legal right to the Personal Budget.
The Pirate Party supports this concept as a partial step towards the realization of the inclusion of people with health diseases or disorders and participate in its constant improvement in line with reality.
Applications are to be made possible in a simple and unbureaucratic manner, independent of the service provider.
Furthermore, the Pirate Party demands that people with a claim to participation benefits be comprehensively informed about these legal rights and the application procedure.
Quality in diagnostics
The Pirate Party calls for reform of the guidelines that ensure more careful psychiatric diagnosis.
Psychiatric diagnoses must be adequately justified and substantiated before they may be made.
The diagnoses are to be discussed with the patient.
The scientific professional associations and associations of those affected should jointly develop a reform of the guidelines that ensures the necessary conscientiousness in making the diagnosis, but also meets the requirements of everyday clinical practice.
In addition, it should be possible to have diagnoses that do not apply or no longer apply deleted at the request of the person concerned.
Amendments to the guidelines required for this purpose are to be drawn up jointly by the scientific associations and associations of those affected.
Free access to patient records
Every patient has the right to read his or her medical record in its entirety.
The Pirate Party calls for all patients to have free, unrestricted access to their patient records.
The inspection is to be made possible unbureaucratically, free of charge, promptly and in a therapeutic environment (obligation to accompany).
Fewer bureaucratic hurdles for patients
The Pirate Party advocates that patients who are undergoing psychiatric treatment or who wish to enter such treatment should be entitled to receive support from a social worker or social pedagogue from the time the need for treatment is established, if it becomes apparent that the patient will not be able to manage his or her daily life independently in the medium to long term.
This support is intended to provide the patient with practical assistance in everyday life without the need to initiate care proceedings.
Europe
Vision for Europe
Preamble - European Program
The European Union today, as a supranational institution, is a project of its member states and not of its citizens.
We Pirates are therefore of the opinion that the future of Europe should not be aligned with the interests of the individual member states, but with the common interests of all people in Europe.
The deficit of democratic legitimacy in the European Union has existed since its foundation and has not been addressed decisively enough in the course of the European unification process.
Fixing this and putting Europe on a solid democratic footing is the primary goal of all Pirates.
To achieve this goal, it will be important in the further course to bring political processes closer to the citizens and to create a common European communication space.
Political decisions at the European level must be preceded by Europe-wide debates in which all people can participate appropriately.
Without equal and non-discriminatory communication, there will be no such appropriate participation, and thus no appropriate decisions in the interest of the common good.
The Internet as a new communication space offers enormous opportunities to open up political development opportunities to all people, to overcome topdown one-way political communication and to break through the dominance of the mass media.
We Pirates will therefore defend the freedom of the Internet on a European and global level with all determination.
Democracy Add-on for Europe
We Pirates demand the convening of a constituent assembly (constitutional convention) for the European Union.
The aim of the Constitutional Convention is to restructure the EU's political system and its relationship with the member states and regions and to put it on a democratic footing.
The process of drafting a European constitution must be transparent and involve European citizens in a comprehensive way.
The members of this assembly should be democratically elected and at the same time represent the diversity within the Union.
The citizens vote on the developed draft constitution throughout the Union and at the same time.
We Pirates also demand that citizens be able to decide directly on European legislation in EU-wide votes.
On the one hand, citizens are to be able to submit their own legislative proposals by means of a modified and expanded European Citizens' Initiative, as well as to stop EU laws within the framework of the European legislative process.
The European Citizens' Initiative should be easy to use in practice and free of charge.
Second, amendments to the EU treaties or an EU constitution should only come into force if citizens approve them in Europe-wide, simultaneous referendums.
These are to be carried out in the short term.
Current EU legislation is dominated by the executive branch, the European Commission, at the expense of the actual legislative branch, the European Parliament.
That is why we Pirates demand that the separation of powers be rebalanced in favor of the legislature.
To this end, the initiative and decision-making rights of the European Parliament as the EU's parliamentary legislator are to be extended.
European Economic and Monetary Union
The European Union is currently in the midst of the most serious crisis since its founding.
The single currency, the euro, was unable to fulfill its original role as the engine of further European integration.
In the wake of the recent economic and financial crisis, the glaring design flaws of the European Economic and Monetary Union have contributed significantly to the widening of imbalances among the euro states.
The unilateral European rescue policy of austerity dictates, wage, pension and social cuts is a double slap in the face of the citizens:
By socializing the losses while privatizing the gains, the flawed crisis management leads to social and economic division between and within the member states.
Moreover, the crisis policy is an undemocratic step backward in the European integration process.
We Pirates strictly reject the mass financing of sovereign debt of dubious value via the European Central Bank (ECB) and the European Stability Mechanism (ESM).
In order to effectively solve the debt crisis in Europe, we Pirates therefore call for the short-term implementation of early one-time debt cuts of sovereign debt in the European Union
as well as an effective restructuring, and if necessary, recapitalization of ailing banks.
If the equity ratio of a bank becomes too low after consistent participation of the owners, the affected bank is to be stabilized by converting debt into equity.
As a final step, nationalization should be considered if insolvency is ruled out due to the macroeconomic consequences.
A cushioning of social cuts through the protection of small investors or private pensions and life insurance must be guaranteed up to a maximum amount.
The European Union cannot exist without solidarity.
To get the economically ailing euro states back on their feet, we Pirates are therefore calling for a "Marshall Plan for Europe" - a reconstruction and investment program that both promotes short-term economic development and strengthens longer-term growth potential.
The aim is to restructure and modernize the European economies towards an energy-efficient and resource-conserving economic structure.
In order to restore rule-of-law and market economy principles in the EU, an independent review and, if necessary, reversal of all bailout measures taken for financial institutions and public budgets must be carried out.
This requires disclosure of all related cash flows.
The financial sector's conduct, which is detrimental to the common good and in some cases criminal, in combination with inadequate banking regulation and supervision in the EU, are major causes of the financial and euro crisis.
We Pirates demand an effective European supervisory mechanism that is independent of the ECB and that recognizes future credit excesses at an early stage and effectively prevents them.
In order to stabilize the European banking sector in the future, a separation of the "investment banking" business area from the rest of the business activity (separation banking system) must be prescribed by law throughout Europe.
In order to make the Eurozone more independent from the vote of US rating agencies and thus from the international financial markets, we Pirates advocate the immediate establishment of an independent European rating agency.
In the forced interference of the European Commission in the budgetary policy of individual member states, we Pirates see a disregard for the principle of democracy and an acute danger for economic development and the unification process in Europe.
We Pirates therefore reject the European Fiscal Compact as a democratically illegitimate intervention in the budgetary sovereignty of the member states.
Further steps toward the integration of the euro area imperatively require enhanced democratic legitimacy and accountability
as well as the extension of parliamentary control rights.
European energy policy
A functioning European internal energy market must focus on security of supply, resource conservation, consumer benefits and competitiveness.
The unfinished structure of the existing EU internal energy market needs to be adapted to the energy and climate challenges facing Europe.
We Pirates are committed to the decentralized integration of energy markets in the European Union with many small and medium-sized energy suppliers.
In order for a decentrally organized energy market to guarantee an affordable and secure energy supply for households and businesses, we Pirates want to enforce net neutrality of the European energy infrastructure.
With energy networks in independent hands, anti-consumer, oligopolistic structures on the European energy markets can be broken up and the position of consumers strengthened.
We Pirates stand by the EU's climate goals.
In reducing greenhouse gas emissions, we are focusing on increasing energy efficiency, a functioning system for emissions trading at European level, and the promotion of renewable energies.
We are pushing for greater cooperation on investment in European energy infrastructure.
State subsidies for fossil and nuclear energy production counteract the change we are striving for towards a sustainable, climate-friendly and, as far as possible, self-sufficient energy supply in Europe.
These include, in particular, indirect subsidies in the form of statutory indemnities for nuclear power plants.
We Pirates demand the abolition of all subsidies and aid for the promotion of fossil and nuclear energies.
Transparent pricing and disclosure of the energy source mix is critical to a functioning consumer energy market.
Only if European consumers have insight into both at all times will they be able to make informed purchasing decisions in line with their individual preferences.
We Pirates demand a Europe-wide obligation of energy suppliers to provide consumers with the relevant data in an accessible manner.
State-of-the-art Internet-based technologies (SmartGrid) will play a key role in the implementation of the European internal energy market.
However, the associated detailed documentation of individual energy consumption harbors considerable risks of misuse.
The highest data protection standards must be observed here.
Digital Agenda for Europe
The digital revolution is changing social and economic structures across Europe.
Free and equal access to the Internet is a basic prerequisite for participation in digital life.
We Pirates therefore want to anchor the right to digital participation in society in the European Charter of Fundamental Rights
and provide greater EU support for the Europe-wide expansion of an efficient communications infrastructure.
The aim is to ensure seamless broadband coverage in the EU in the next few years.
To ensure a lasting incentive for investment, fair competition and equal treatment of players in the digital space, the principle of network neutrality must be enshrined in law across Europe.
In the course of the Europe-wide expansion of networks and their modernization, there must be no monopolization of the communications infrastructure.
The Internet as a communication space knows no boundaries.
We Pirates therefore consider the artificial national barriers for cultural goods within the European Single Market as an obstacle to further European integration and call for their removal.
Overall, there is a need for a rethink in the area of intellectual property rights and a move away from their restrictive enforcement.
A further monopolization of information and culture must be stopped.
Therefore, there is a need for fundamental rights to ensure that the state may grant or maintain monopoly rights to intangible property only if they do not conflict with the public interest.
In addition, they must be limited in time and may not be retroactively extended in terms of content or time.
The creation of commons, such as free software, free cultural goods, open patent pools, and free education, must be safeguarded and promoted through appropriate legal frameworks.
Social life, which is increasingly taking place in digital spaces, should not be restricted by intellectual property rights.
This is to be ensured by fair use clauses.
We call for Europe-wide standards for copyright contract law that strengthen the position of authors vis-à-vis exploiters and balance it with the interest of the general public.
Comprehensive transparency and fair co-determination by their members must also be established in the Europe-wide regulations on collecting societies.
In addition, we are committed to uniform data protection law throughout Europe that guarantees the highest data protection standards, especially for consumers.
This must be at least equivalent to existing national levels of protection.
The reform of European data protection law must give priority to data economy and informational self-determination.
This applies in particular to the collection, use and disclosure of data by public bodies.
In this context, we Pirates call for the introduction of effective uniform sanctioning powers for the EU Data Protection Supervisor and the data protection authorities of the Member States, including in the form of deterrent fines.
The independence of data protection authorities must be ensured at all times.
We Pirates reject international trade agreements such as ACTA, which contradict the aforementioned principles on intellectual property rights and data protection.
We demand an end to any plans and laws aimed at placing the population under general suspicion.
Regulations that have already been adopted, such as data retention, must be abolished.
European home affairs and security policy
We Pirates want to fundamentally reorient European refugee and asylum policy.
A "Fortress Europe" is not acceptable.
European refugee and asylum policy must be based on respect for human rights and respect the provisions of the Geneva Refugee Convention and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.
All Member States must receive refugees and asylum seekers according to their capacities.
A European refugee and asylum policy characterized by solidarity must not leave individual member states alone with the financial, logistical and administrative burden.
The practices of the EU border protection agency Frontex, which are contrary to international law, are an expression of the European Union's inhumane policy of exclusion.
We Pirates therefore demand the abolition of Frontex.
Similarly, European neighborhood and development policy must be geared to effectively improving living conditions and the human rights situation in the states concerned.
We Pirates strongly oppose any tendencies towards a repressive, Europe-wide surveillance structure.
For us Pirates, the forced use of drones within the EU security architecture is an expression of a fatal aberration.
Apart from narrowly defined absolute exceptions, we Pirates fundamentally reject the use of drones in the European Union.
European transport policy
We Pirates regard mobility as a fundamental right, but the operation of a subsidized car and the socialization of the external effects - especially the environmental consequences - on the other hand as an obstacle to a sustainable transport policy.
We support the reduction of car traffic within the framework of multimodal transport planning, which aims at emission-free urban mobility.
At the European level, we Pirates also strive for a fair distribution of the costs of transport for all modes of transport in accordance with the polluter-pays principle.
We Pirates see the networking of the transport infrastructure, and in particular the expansion of the trans-European rail corridors, as an essential contribution to the European integration process.
In addition to the structural connection of the infrastructure systems, the unification of technical standards and the elimination of administrative barriers are indispensable foundations for the creation of a European transport area.
In the area of freight transport, we Pirates consider shipping and rail-based transport systems to be forward-looking.
The expansion of transnational freight lines is the most urgent goal and the shift of traffic volumes to rail is indispensable to meet environmental policy objectives as
well as to relieve the road networks and optimize the capacity of all modes of transport.
We see the Europe-wide promotion of inland waterway transport as an ecologically sensible alternative to road freight transport.
The capacities of the ship as a mode of transport must be expanded at European level.
Technical standards must also apply to ships with non-European registration.
We Pirates demand a unification of the European airspace to increase safety and efficiency as well as to enable innovative routing.
Reducing noise pollution and environmental impact is a central goal of the Pirates' aviation policy.
In addition, we call for the standardization and expansion of passenger rights, particularly in the area of data protection.
We Pirates continue to advocate the use of new communication technologies to avoid traffic where possible.
Opinion on Fiscal Union and ESM
Transparency and democratic control of the esM
The ESM Treaty violates the fundamental legal principles and principles of a democratic state order enshrined in the German Basic Law (such as the parliamentary reservation and the rule of law principle)
as well as the transparency principles of the Pirate Party.
The Pirate Party demands: Decisions of the European Board of Governors on the use of funds and the enlargement of the bailout funds should be decided and controlled by the democratically elected representatives of the people in the European Parliament.
All lending activities should be transparent.
The ESM's annual financial statements and annual report are to be made publicly available in machine-readable form.
The committee's audit reports should be made public.
Any increase in the share capital is to be decided by the democratically elected representatives of the respective national parliaments.
The European Parliament should be given the power to waive the immunity of the members of the European Board of Governors and the Management Committee.
The salaries of the members of the Board of Governors and the Management Committee shall be disclosed.
Time change
The Pirates want to abolish the time changeover in the European Union.
The time in effect after abolition is to be standard time.
The time change has no advantages, but only disadvantages and medium to high changeover effort.
From the point of view of the EU and the Bundestag, it is only retained because of a uniform changeover within the EU, although this could also be achieved by abolishing it.
aussE policy
Foreign and security policy program
The changes in international relations brought about by the digitalization of the world make it necessary to develop foreign and security policy concepts for the 21st century that take these into account.
As pirates, we cannot look the other way when human and civil rights are violated.
The prerequisite for a responsible foreign and security policy within the framework of the Pirate Code is a consideration of social, political, economic, environmental, and military factors.
Pirates are inventive in bringing sustainable and effective solutions to the international discourse.
The Pirate Party advocates a global security policy that not only addresses the symptoms of conflicts, but also seeks to address their root causes.
This can only be achieved with a foreign security policy approach that includes an overall consideration of political, legal, social, economic, environmental, and military issues.
Our security policy must be a long-term prevention policy that focuses on mediation and de-escalation.
We remain committed to a culture of political restraint by military means.
The primacy of politics means that the use of military means can only ever be a last option.
The current measures against terrorist threats correspond to a reactionary policy, which curtails the rights of innocent citizens across the board.
But we will not give up freedom and civil liberties in favor of an unproven improvement in the security situation.
From the Pirates' point of view, a prevention policy is needed instead.
We need to analyze the reasons why people become radicalized.
A long-term foreign security policy approach is required for this, which also includes an overall consideration of political, legal, social, economic, environmental and military factors.
Transparent foreign policy
The long-term foreign policy objectives of the Federal Republic of Germany must be documented in a transparent and openly accessible manner.
Documentation must be provided in a white paper to be published by the Federal Foreign Office and updated as appropriate.
Transparent European Foreign and Security Policy
In the course of developing the treaty foundations of the European Union, institutions of a common foreign and security policy were developed and expanded.
The Pirate Party demands transparency, also in foreign policy.
It therefore advocates that the EU institutions define and publicly communicate the EU's long-term foreign policy objectives.
Pirates against cyberwar
We resolutely reject overt and covert actions by state, private and public organizations that use cyberspace as a conflict domain and endanger the civilian population.
We consider malware that is capable of endangering human lives by attacking social supply networks (keyword: KRITIS) to be an unacceptable security risk and demand a commitment from governments, in particular the German government, to peacekeeping measures, in accordance with the international conventions on improving peaceful human coexistence through technology in the world.
The Pirate Party Germany calls on all governments of this earth to jointly protect the global information and communication networks and to recognize them as a high common good of all people.
Strengthening human rights globally
Rejection of corporal punishment
The Pirate Party advocates the abolition of corporal punishment internationally in the spirit of human rights.
Rejection of the death penalty
The Pirate Party advocates the abolition of the death penalty internationally in the interests of human rights.
Categorical rejection of ethnic cleansing
The Pirate Party categorically rejects forcible displacement, resettlement, deportation and murder.
It supports UN initiatives that aim to prevent them.
The United Nations (UN)
Strengthening the United Nations (unO)
The United Nations, as the most important institution for peaceful understanding between the states of the world, needs internal reforms in order to be prepared for the new challenges.
Adequate participation of all continents in the Security Council must be ensured on a permanent basis.
In particular, given their growing regional importance, emerging economies are to be more closely involved in the mechanisms for exercising global responsibility.
The United Nations can only fulfill its tasks if the member states meet their contribution payments.
There is a case for involving the United Nations more closely in the coordination of disaster relief projects in the future.
Nuclear disarmament and arms control
Vision of a world free of nuclear weapons
The Pirate Party shares the vision of a world free of nuclear weapons and would like to realize this through concrete steps - wherever they arise.
To this end, we support initiatives that promote communication, confidence-building and transparency between states, taking into account their respective security interests.
The goals of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation are to be pursued in parallel.
Steps towards a world free of nuclear weapons
Rejection of nuclear sharing
The Pirate Party rejects nuclear sharing and advocates its abolition within NATO.
Withdrawal of nuclear weapons from Germany
The Pirate Party advocates the unilateral withdrawal of nuclear weapons from Germany.
Withdrawal of us nuclear weapons from europe
The Pirate Party advocates the unilateral withdrawal of US nuclear weapons from all European states.
This would be a confidence-building measure to facilitate further nuclear disarmament.
Expansion of iaeO controls and improvement of funding.
The Pirate Party advocates the introduction of nuclear safeguards for the civilian nuclear fuel cycle in nuclear weapon states as well.
To this end, the IAEA's endowment must be improved to the point where it can meet its growing obligations.
Transparency of nuclear weapons and warheads stockpiles
The Pirate Party advocates the publication of military nuclear material stockpiles and warhead numbers.
Renunciation of the first use of nuclear weapons
The Pirate Party advocates an unconditional renunciation of the first use of nuclear weapons.
Support of the ctBt and FM(c)t contract
The Pirate Party supports all efforts that promote the entry into force of the CTBT (Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty).
We also support all efforts to begin negotiations on the FM(C)T (Fissile Material Cutoff Treaty).
Promotion of nuclear weapon free zones
On the way to a nuclear weapons-free world ("Global Zero"), the Pirate Party advocates the creation of a nuclear weapons-free zone in Central Europe and other regions worldwide as a confidence-building measure.
economIc and fInancIal
Preamble
The economic, financial and social order should serve all people and the community.
Traditional indicators, such as gross domestic product (GDP) or the growth rate, which are only conditionally linked to the prosperity of people and the sustainability of economic activity, should therefore no longer be the sole benchmarks for economic policy.
The Pirates' guiding principle is an order that is both liberal and
as well as fair
as well as sustainable.
Since freedom, justice and sustainability are universal fundamental values, we also want to work towards taking these values into account beyond the national framework.
A social order in which the individual development of the human being is central is libertarian.
It is both strengthened and constrained by the common good.
Therefore, freedom and responsibility are inseparable.
Equitable means that the framework conditions in the economy and society are designed in such a way that both participation and an appropriate life are fundamentally guaranteed.
Sustainable is a responsible approach to resources and the environment that is designed for the long term.
Budgetary and subsidy policies, as well as the financial system, must serve people and the real economy in the long term.
Economic policy
The economic policy of the Pirate Party is based on a humanistic view of mankind and is determined by freedom,
Transparency
and fair participation.
This is the foundation of our concepts for a free and social economic order, the goal of which is the self-determined development and well-being of all people.
Worldwide networking and digitization are making entirely new forms of production, work and exchange possible.
These new forms of economic activity offer enormous potential, but also require further development of the economic order.
This is an opportunity to politically reshape a central area of society.
For pirates, economic policy is not the same as growth policy.
The goods and services sold through the market are only a very incomplete and sometimes misleading measure of the prosperity and quality of life in a society.
Economic policy must not be geared to these control variables alone; instead, it must be open to people's individual lifestyles, regardless of the extent to which they are involved in economic activity.
The economic policy of the Pirate Party is to create the framework for the realization of these life designs in a globalized economy.
Ecology
The Pirate Party is committed to the sustainable use of natural resources.
This also includes ensuring that the economic use of natural resources is priced in such a way that exploitation at the expense of the general public is not possible.
We see great potential for the German economy, especially for small, innovative companies, in the switch to renewable energy sources and in the decentralization of generation and distribution structures.
We will help to ensure that this potential is exploited and that innovations and jobs are created nationwide as a result.
Consumer protection
For a free market economy to be social, the rights of consumers must be strengthened against the power of suppliers.
However, this cannot be done by further patronizing the individual and issuing warnings that make little sense.
Instead, the Pirate Party wants to oblige producers and service providers to publicly provide comprehensive and understandable information regarding their products and their production.
The opportunities offered by new media here should not only be used for advertising, but also for such information.
Only informed consumers can freely decide what they spend their money on and thus exert direct influence on providers.
Labor market
Work and man
For us, work is not just a tradable commodity, but always also a person's personal achievement.
It is therefore a requirement of human dignity that every person is free to decide what profession he wants to pursue and what work he wants to accept,
but also that this achievement is appreciated accordingly.
Technological development means that not every monotonous, meaningless or even dangerous task has to be performed by human hands.
We see this as a major step forward, which we welcome and want to continue to drive forward.
We therefore consider the pursuit of absolute full employment to be neither contemporary nor socially desirable.
Instead, we want to work to ensure that all people share fairly in the overall prosperity and, to this end, will examine the introduction of an unconditional basic income.
Minimum wage as a bridging technology
It is one of the tasks of the state to ensure that human dignity is respected even in the free market.
Those who are fully employed should not live below the poverty line and be dependent on supplementary government benefits.
Moreover, dumping wages distort competitive conditions within and between free markets.
In order to enable all people to earn a dignified living and participate in society, we will therefore campaign for a nationwide statutory minimum wage.
In the medium term, however, we want to establish a more comprehensive system for general, unconditional livelihood security with the "right to a secure existence and social participation".
Company co-determination
The Pirate Party advocates greater democratization of the economy.
However, this process takes place not only at the level of the state and the market, but also within individual companies.
The working environment is an essential part of the living environment to which people have an appropriate claim to shape, which ultimately also benefits companies.
We will therefore defend the existing co-determination rights for employees and further expand them where necessary.
Involving the employee base in corporate governance fosters more socially responsible and sustainable decision-making and entrepreneurial innovation.
Abolition of compulsory membership in chambers and associations (except chambers of lawyers, notaries and doctors)
The Pirate Party advocates the abolition of compulsory membership in chambers and associations such as the Chamber of Industry and Commerce (IHK) and the Chambers of Agriculture or Crafts.
Lawyers', notaries' and doctors' associations are not covered by this objective.
Globalization
We see the increasing global networking as a fundamentally positive and enriching development.
The Internet, with its almost unlimited possibilities, is becoming an increasingly important economic factor in this context, going far beyond national politics.
The worldwide expansion of a free Internet is therefore not only an idealistic, but also an economic policy goal of the Pirate Party.
We will work to ensure that globalization serves the common good of all people.
In concrete terms, this means that we will work to strengthen the rights of people in less industrialized countries on the global market,
and that we will advocate for the alignment and improvement of framework conditions for all workers and consumers in increasingly interconnected markets.
inNoVaTioN aNd rIGhTioN
Political transparency and anti-corruption
Disclose influence on political decisions
The Pirate Party Germany demands the disclosure of the influence of interest groups and lobbyists on political decisions in order to protect the democratic process and to make the basis of decisions transparent.
In order to strengthen the independence of members of the Bundestag and government members against illegitimate influence, the Pirate Party strives for the implementation of the following measures in the areas of transparency of political processes, party financing, secondary activities of members of parliament and punishability of bribery of members of parliament:
Establishment of a lobby register for the German Bundestag
The Pirate Party Germany recognizes the consultation of stakeholders - for example, non-governmental organizations, trade unions, environmental protection, civil rights and business associations - as an integral part of society's political decision-making process - as long as this exchange is sufficiently open and transparent.
We reject the disproportionate influence of individual groups by shifting political decision-making to informal networks of relationships outside the formal legislative process.
The Pirate Party calls for a lobby register for the Bundestag, in which lobbyists and interest groups must register on a mandatory basis in order to receive a house pass and the opportunity to be heard on legislative proposals by the German Bundestag.
Such a register should initially be anchored in Annex 2 to the Rules of Procedure of the German Bundestag (registration of associations and their representatives) and replace the existing "Public List on the Registration of Associations and their Representatives".
It must be meaningful in terms of budget, scope of activities, number and names of active persons and - in the case of freelance lobbyists, lobbying agencies, law firms and think tanks - clients and principals.
All information must be updated regularly and incorrect or outdated data must be corrected immediately.
The President of the Bundestag is to maintain the register until further notice and act as a supervisory body to ensure that the information provided is truthful and that the entries are regularly updated.
It must consistently investigate external complaints from individuals and legal entities about violations, independently initiate investigations in suspected cases, and publish an annual report containing the results of investigations completed.
Complainants and respondents should be able to request a review of the decision.
Violations of notification requirements and deadlines must be punished with fines and further sanctions - up to and including blacklisting in the event of particularly serious misconduct.
For reasons of transparency, such a register should be published on the website of the Bundestag.
It must be designed to be machine-readable to enable linking to MP and voting data in the spirit of OpenData, and to ensure sortability and searchability.
It should be examined whether the management and control of the register can be transferred in the medium term to an independent public institution, for example the Federal Audit Office or the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, and whether its further development can be regulated by a separate federal law.
Expansion and strengthening of the criminal offense of bribery of members of parliament
The Pirate Party Germany demands clear and comprehensive regulations for effective action against bribery of members of parliament, in order to adapt the legal situation to the global minimum standard of the UN Convention against Corruption (UNCAC), which was already signed by Germany in 2003, but has still not been ratified due to lack of implementation in German law, and to put an end to Germany's international backseat role in the criminal liability of members of parliament for corruption.
The criminal offense of bribery of members of parliament should be brought closer to that of bribery of public officials (Section 334 of the Criminal Code).
§ Section 108e of the Criminal Code (bribery of members of parliament) must be revised to include not only the direct buying and selling of votes, but also the acceptance and granting of advantages in other cases of exercising a mandate or opinion-forming function in the parliamentary system.
The new version must also cover intangible promises and the criminal offense must be extended to include the acceptance or granting of advantages to third parties as well as advantages granted or accepted after the act or omission.
The acceptance of donations by individual members of parliament must be prohibited by amending Section 44a (2) of the Act on the Legal Relationships of Members of the German Bundestag (Members of Parliament Act).
A de minimis provision ("snacks clause") for hospitality at parliamentary evenings and other events as well as exceptions for allowances in the context of normal parliamentary behavior ("parliamentary customs") are intended to ensure that members are not restricted in the free exercise of their mandate.
Both the snack clause and the parliamentary customs are to be anchored in an annex to the Rules of Procedure of the Bundestag and laid down by the President of the Bundestag in an implementing provision.
Tightening of transparency and supplementary income rules for members of parliament
The Pirate Party Germany recognizes the role of sideline activities for the professional re-entry after the time of the parliamentary mandate - especially for freelancers and personally liable managing directors of small corporations.
However, non-transparent regulations and loopholes currently make it difficult or impossible for voters to assess whether and to what extent members of parliament have a conflict of interest due to their additional income.
The Pirate Party demands clear statements on the amount of additional income of members of the German Bundestag as well as the identification of possible conflicts of interest and dependencies - this is currently not possible according to the current status of the Act on Members of Parliament and the Rules of Procedure of the German Bundestag.
We note that it is precisely the area of "functions" in companies, clubs, associations and foundations that has become a massive problem.
Companies and lobbying associations buy their way into the seats of members of parliament, in particular through advisory board mandates.
As a rule, these are considerably more attractive than remunerated sideline activities due to high expense allowances and attendance fees - while at the same time requiring less time.
We therefore call for a tightening of the transparency and supplementary income rules in Annex 1 to the Rules of Procedure of the German Bundestag (Rules of Conduct for Members of the German Bundestag) and in the tenth section of the Act on the Legal Relationships of Members of the German Bundestag (Members of Parliament Act).
This includes the obligation to also declare one-time or regular monthly income of less than €1,000, as well as an end to the concealment of the actual income of members of the Bundestag via graduated disclosures.
Instead, MPs must be required to declare the actual economic profit from an activity down to the penny.
In order to protect their clients, attorneys-at-law should at least have to state the industry from which their clients come.
Publication of the identity of clients should be possible with consent.
Since the exercise of the mandate is at the heart of the activities of members of the Bundestag, the maximum number of functions in supervisory, administrative and advisory boards or other bodies should be limited by amending the rules of conduct and the Members of Parliament Act accordingly, so that members can conscientiously perform their primary activity.
Violations of rules of conduct and reporting obligations must be punished by higher administrative fines than before, among other things.
Incidental income, expense allowances and pecuniary benefits as well as clients must be published in machine-readable form via the President of the Bundestag immediately after receipt in order to be able to link the data with the lobby register and voting behavior in plenary sessions and committees.
Curbing political sponsorship
The Pirate Party Germany rejects the non-transparent financing of political events through sponsorships.
Associations and companies try to circumvent the comparatively stricter requirements for party donations by sponsoring party conventions and summer parties of government authorities and to gain access to decision-makers and elected officials by renting booth space.
The Pirate Party calls for the addition of a reporting requirement for political sponsorship to the Political Parties Act in order to end the practice of indirect corporate contributions to political parties, the federal government, and state governments and to establish direct accountability between sponsorship and political action.
In the future, sponsorship money must be listed by name in the parties' annual reports, stating the amount, so that its origin cannot be disguised as event income, as has been the case in the past.
In order to put an end to the alimentation of corporate political influence efforts via tax funds, sponsorship and direct donations by companies must be treated equally in the future and the tax deductibility of sponsorship expenses by legal entities must be abolished.
Events of the federal government, the state representations of the federal states as well as the German head of state are to be financed from budget funds instead of sponsorship money, so that the incentive for the budget committees of the parliaments increases to examine the sensefulness of opulent summer celebrations more exactly than so far.
Introduction of waiting periods for top politicians
The Pirate Party Germany rejects the idea of retired top politicians taking on short-term political lobbying activities for companies and associations in their former areas of responsibility.
So that elected officials and government officials have less incentive to make their political actions dependent on the interests of possible future employers, the Pirate Party calls for the introduction of blocking periods (so-called "waiting periods") for members of the federal government, state secretaries, state ministers and senior government officials, provided that this does not conflict with higher-ranking law.
Barring periods must apply to policy areas for which decision-makers were responsible in their previous political capacity and where there may be connections between decisions made in office and intended activities after leaving.
The blocking period for holders of office and mandates in the federal and state governments must generally be at least one year and must be pronounced, reviewed and monitored by an independent body.
The waiting period is to be extended to up to three years in cases of particularly serious conflicts of interest.
In addition, a three-year notification requirement is to be introduced, which is based on Section 42a of the Framework Law for Civil Servants and Section 69a of the Federal Civil Servants Act.
To this end, the position of an independent Federal Commissioner for Ethics and Anti-Corruption is to be created, who is subject to the official supervision of the BMI and the legal supervision of the Federal Government, but is not subject to any technical supervision.
The latter must punish violations of notification regulations and waiting periods with public reprimands and fines and be advised by a Federal Ethics Council, also to be set up, with equal representation from members of the German Bundestag, civil society and business, which will assess the notified, planned activities and make public recommendations to the Federal Commissioner.
Adaptation of the Law on Members of Parliament to the requirements of the UN Convention against Corruption
The Pirate Party Germany is in favor of adapting the Act on the Legal Relationship of Members of the German Bundestag (Abgeordnetengesetz) to the requirements of the UN Convention against Corruption.
This includes:
to define the mandate obligations of a Member of Parliament, to
define the concept of undue advantage, and to
prohibit the acceptance of donations by Members of Parliament.
Donations should only be allowed to be accepted from parties or voter groups.
If necessary, a special regulation could be created for non-partisan and non-attached deputies.
Internal security
Safety in freedom
Preserving and expanding our civil rights and freedoms are key political challenges for us.
The increasing number of surveillance laws and surveillance measures with reference to "international terrorism" and other "threats," the lack of standing of such laws before the constitution, the measures against political protest, some of which have been declared unlawful, and the recurring scandals at German intelligence services demonstrate a serious need for action.
National Crime Prevention Strategy
In order to counteract the very causes of crime, we want to focus our security policy on promoting crime prevention measures and projects whose effectiveness - unlike surveillance measures - has been scientifically proven (e.g., prevention projects with young people from socially at-risk families).
This is particularly important to us for children and young people.
We want to develop a national prevention strategy for this purpose.
Strengthen security awareness
Perceived safety is an important prerequisite for our personal well-being.
However, research results show that the high level of security in Germany is widely unknown and that the risk of crime is sometimes greatly overestimated.
We want to launch a program to increase security awareness and provide factual information about crime in Germany in order to counteract distorted assessments and portrayals of the security situation.
Systematic evaluation of monitoring powers and programs.
Protecting against crime is an important governmental task.
We are convinced that it can only be fulfilled by an intelligent, rational and evidence-based security policy based on scientific knowledge.
In order to promote smart security measures and put an end to harmful measures, we want a German Fundamental Rights Agency under the authority of the Bundestag to systematically examine all existing and newly created powers and programs of the security authorities for their effectiveness, costs, harmful side effects, alternatives and compatibility with our fundamental rights (systematic evaluation).
On this basis, we can then remove or prevent encroachments on fundamental rights where this is possible without sacrificing security - i.e., without affecting the crime rate - or where the encroachment proves to be disproportionate.
We also want to dispense with measures whose efficiency is so low that the resources they tie up can contribute more to our security elsewhere.
Respect privacy of law-abiding citizens
In order to preserve our historical heritage of civil liberties and to ensure the effectiveness of danger prevention and criminal prosecution, we advocate that in the future government information collection, monitoring and surveillance should only be targeted at individuals who are specifically suspected of committing or preparing a criminal offense.
In order to protect our open society and in the interest of an efficient security policy, we want to refrain from the unprovoked, mass, automated collection, comparison and storage of data.
In a liberal state governed by the rule of law, such a broad registration of any innocent person is unacceptable and harmful.
Adopt freedom package
We want to repeal unnecessary and excessive surveillance laws of recent years with a "freedom package," including the
transfer of executive police powers, including online searches, to the Federal Criminal Police Office,
joint files between police forces and intelligence services,
the nationwide collection of biometric data and their storage in RFID identification documents,
the lifetime tax identification number,
the electronic bank account register, the
mandatory electronic health card, the
surveillance of homes, doctors, lawyers, clergy, members of parliament and other persons of trust, the
compulsory identification of cell phone and Internet users,
the ban on anonymous electronic cash (payment cards)
over 100 Euro as well as
the extradition of personal data to the USA and other states without effective protection of fundamental rights.
Stop new surveillance plans
To halt the progressive dismantling of civil liberties since 2001, we call for a moratorium on further encroachments on fundamental rights in the name of fighting crime until a systematic review of existing powers is completed.
In particular, we reject
a comprehensive logging of all our telephone or Internet connections (data retention) for whatever duration,
a retention of flight, ship and other passenger data, a
systematic monitoring of payment transactions or other mass data analysis (Stockholm Program of the EU),
the use of surveillance drones as well as the
use of dragnet software in online networks.
Strengthening the conformity of legislation with fundamental rights
In recent years, the Federal Constitutional Court has had to repeal more and more laws that violate our fundamental rights and freedoms.
To prevent unconstitutional legislation, we want to give one third of the German Bundestag or two parliamentary groups the right to obtain a legal opinion from the Federal Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of a proposed law.
In addition, the Federal President is to be given the right to appeal to the Federal Constitutional Court in the event of constitutional doubts before a law is enacted.
Following the example of other rights of action for associations, we want to give civil rights organizations the opportunity to sue on behalf of the general public before the specialized courts and the Federal Constitutional Court against violations of fundamental rights.
Democratize security research
We want to democratize security research using taxpayers' money and align it with the needs and rights of citizens.
In the future, advisory bodies will include an equal number of representatives from all parliamentary groups, criminologists, victims' associations and non-governmental organizations, in addition to administrative and industrial representatives.
A decision on whether to invite tenders for a project should only be made once a public inquiry into the impact of the respective research objective on our fundamental rights (impact assessment) has been conducted.
We reject the development of technologies for increased surveillance, recording and control of citizens.
Instead, security research must be extended to all crime and misfortune prevention options, with an independent examination of the effectiveness, costs, harmful side effects, and alternatives to each proposal.
Criminal justice reform through prevention and decriminalization
Evaluation of past criminal justice reforms
In recent decades, the criminal justice policies of the other parties have been characterized mainly by the criminalization of previously unpunishable behavior and by the tightening of penalties.
Often, such reforms are hastily implemented following intensive discussion of spectacular individual cases in the media.
We want to counter such blind actionism and develop criminal law again in a meaningful way by using scientific research for this purpose.
The guiding principle here should be that there should be as little interference as possible with the fundamental right of all people to freedom.
Prison sentences should be provided only for those cases where this is appropriate due to the seriousness of the offense and the extent of the offender's guilt.
Focus must be on prevention of crime, not punishment
Although someone who is in prison cannot commit any further crimes to begin with, there he comes together with other people who have also committed crimes and to whom he then feels a sense of belonging.
Only through punishment do offenders feel labeled as criminals and behave accordingly after release from prison.
While incarcerated, prisoners also have plenty of time to teach each other skills that they can use to commit additional crimes after their sentence ends.
For example, a study from the early 1980s came to the conclusion that less is often more, i.e. people who were not punished or were hardly punished at all were less likely to reoffend.
It should also be noted that young people in particular are increasingly committing crimes.
From the mid-20s onward, the number of people committing crimes declines drastically, without any explanation being found in particularly strict penal laws or restrictive punishment.
Special consideration should therefore also be given to this difficult phase of young people's development.
Even though we consider social integration to be the best crime-prevention measure, other measures that target more vulnerable groups of people, such as those with criminal records or certain milieus, should also be promoted.
Our goal is to reduce the overall crime rate through such measures.
Review of all criminal offenses under proportionality aspects
In order to generally prevent counterproductive stigmatization through punishment, we want to review all criminal offenses to determine whether they are meaningful and necessary.
Also it is to be considered that a detention place per day costs approx. 80 €, - to 100 €, -, monthly thus approx. 2,700 €, - and annually approx. 32,000 €, - financed by the taxpayer, completely apart from the costs of the prosecution and the court process.
Does that pay off if someone has only caused a few euros' worth of damage by fare evasion, for example?
Today's criminal offenses that punish behavior not worthy of punishment are to be downgraded to misdemeanors or application offenses, lowered in the range of punishment, or made entirely exempt from punishment.
Criminal law must serve the real protection of legal interests
Punishable acts are only those that injure or significantly endanger the individual legal interests of other people, such as life, health or property.
Purely abstract endangerment offenses should be examined to determine whether concrete, individual legal interests are endangered (for example, physical integrity, concrete human dignity), whether endangerment is proven (such as reduced/absent driving ability due to drunkenness), and whether the endangerment reaches an appreciable extent (i.e., does not only lead to the violation of a legal interest in absolute individual cases).
If these conditions are not met, decriminalization should be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Even those offenses in which there are no victims, such as possession and purchase of drugs by adult users, should be exempt from punishment, because it is not the task of criminal law to protect responsible citizens from themselves.
No punishment in the case of only minor wrongdoing
But here, too, we want to review whether certain acts should not remain unpunishable if they are only slightly unlawful, for example because only very little damage has been caused or they are not socially harmful.
For example, it is questionable whether someone who picks up discarded food from a trash can or items from bulky waste should be punished for doing so.
Offenses that are not harmful to society include so-called "white-hat hacking," in which hackers test, without being hired, whether companies or government agencies have security vulnerabilities in their computer networks and inform them when such vulnerabilities are discovered.
Whistleblowers (people who draw attention to wrongdoing) also often have to commit criminal acts in order to prove their accusations.
In particular, those that are intended to protect private or government secrets (e.g., Sections 94, 95, 96, 109g, 203, 353b, and 355 of the Criminal Code), but are not worthy of protection here as an exception.
The communication of such secrets in the context of whistleblowing should be legalized, at least limited to the necessary extent.
Abolition of mere moral criminal law
The question also arises as to whether a modern state has the right to enforce certain moral concepts by making corresponding behavior punishable, even though no other legal interest of others has been violated.
Examples of this are Sections 173 and 184 of the German Penal Code, which criminalize coitus between relatives of full age who are capable of giving consent and the dissemination of pornographic writings, even if only by sending them to a willing recipient.
Discriminatory is also § 183 StGB, which only punishes exhibitionistic acts of men, but not of women and "transsexual squirrels".
Defense of the free democratic basic order and the rule of law
On the other hand, bans that are necessary to defend our free democratic basic order and the rule of law should not be abolished.
Germany must remain capable of defending itself against efforts that are directed against the Basic Law and the constitutional order guaranteed therein,
but here, too, it should be examined whether individual provisions of the Criminal Code are actually necessary for this purpose, such as the prohibition against insulting the Federal Republic of Germany or denigrating Germany's colors, flag or national anthem.
In particular, greater consideration should be given here to freedom of expression and artistic freedom.
Imposition of penalties must be particularly justified
Criminal law is the state's sharpest tool against the freedom of its citizens and should therefore only be used with a sense of proportion.
Punishment should therefore be - as the lawyers say - ultima ratio, i.e. the last resort, when it comes to the state's influence on its citizens.
Prison sentences interfere particularly severely with a person's fundamental right to personal freedom and therefore also require special justification.
As a liberal party, we should apply particularly strict standards to such justification.
This is what we want to work for.
No ban on the sale of alcohol
We reject a ban on the sale of alcohol at night.
We consider the sales ban to be ineffective, since alcohol can also be purchased in stock or the ban is circumvented in other ways.
We want to promote education about the dangers of alcohol use among all age groups.
Justice
Ensure adequate equipment of the courts
We will work to ensure that the courts are equipped materially and in terms of personnel in such a way that all pending proceedings can be concluded within the set deadlines of the Federal Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights.
Strengthening the independence of prosecutor's offices
Public prosecutors must be able to perform their duties independently of political influence.
Therefore, the possibility of instructions in individual cases by the federal and state ministers of justice, which has been provided for up to now in the Judicature Act, should be abolished.
However, it should still be permissible for ministries to issue case-group-related instructions to public prosecutors' offices.
Comprehensive prohibitions on the use of evidence
The Pirate Party advocates the creation of comprehensive prohibitions on the use of illegally obtained evidence in criminal, misdemeanor and administrative proceedings.
Especially when the fundamental rights of suspected citizens or third parties are interfered with, it is essential for a constitutional state and its law enforcement agencies not to break the law themselves and disregard the rights of its citizens in the process.
At present, however, tangible consequences for law enforcement officers are virtually impossible if measures such as house searches or telecommunications surveillance are subsequently declared inadmissible.
Even accidental findings that are not related to the actual reason for the measure are regularly recognized as full-fledged evidence for further proceedings in such cases.
The Pirate Party is of the opinion that only a complete exclusion of evidence acquired through illegal investigative measures from all proceedings is suitable for putting a stop to the creeping erosion of civil rights resulting from the regular transgression of the limits of the Code of Criminal Procedure laid down in the Basic Law.
This includes any evidence whose collection was first stimulated by the findings of the illegal action.
It is to be expected that the resulting discipline will lead to increased diligence on the part of the emergency services in the selection and use of their instruments and in the execution of their work, without any significant impairment of the investigative work.
No flying jurisdiction for infringements on the Internet
We will work to ensure that the flying jurisdiction does not apply to actions for legal violations committed on the Internet as long as a German court has jurisdiction under the other provisions.
The current legal situation, which in the case of publications on the Internet allows an action to be brought wherever the relevant content can be accessed, is contrary to the spirit and purpose of the provision, since such a place of jurisdiction allows the court to be selected according to the chances of success and thus puts the defendants at a disadvantage.
We reject this and want to create a consumer-friendly regulation.
Extend requirement to state reasons for negative decisions
In all court proceedings, actions and motions are not to be rejected solely on the basis of standardized formulas; rather, the reasons must comprehensibly show why the specific submission should not have been admissible and well-founded.
Strengthening the position of the investigating judge
The position of the investigating judge must be strengthened.
In particular, decisions reserved for judges that grant a request by the public prosecutor's office or the police must be carefully and independently reasoned.
In this context, the interference with the rights of the accused and third parties shall also be explicitly addressed.
Guarantee of a 2nd instance
It must be possible to review every first-instance decision in appeal proceedings, regardless of the amount in dispute.
This is to ensure that individual judges cannot make arbitrary decisions in proceedings in which they are the first adjudicating authority.
This is to ensure that court proceedings produce justice.
Reimbursement of costs if proceedings are discontinued
We will work to ensure that the defendants in a closed investigation are reimbursed for the costs of the defense attorney and his expenses, as is already regulated in the case of an acquittal.
This will enable defendants to obtain legal counsel at an early stage without risking having to bear the costs of unjustified proceedings against them.
More transparency through the publication of all court decisions
The Pirate Party demands more transparency in the judiciary.
In order to promote this, all court decisions should be accessible to everyone free of charge and anonymized online and, if of particular importance for the development of the law, should also be published in the same way as part of a legal information system.
In the case of legitimate, overriding interests worthy of protection, publication may be objected to by application of a party.
Duty to record statements made in court
In criminal trials, the defendant's statements and evidence must be documented comprehensively, permanently and comprehensibly in such a way that they can be evaluated by inspecting the files.
The same applies to the taking of evidence in all other judicial proceedings.
Audio and video recordings of interrogations and court hearings
In the future, the work of the courts is to be facilitated by recording the entire course of the hearing in audio or video and audio, and the possibilities of reviewing first-instance judgments are to be expanded.
The records made in this way shall be stored on a data carrier and taken to the respective file.
The same shall apply to police and prosecutorial interrogations in preliminary proceedings.
Inspection rights to these records may only be available to the court and the other parties to the proceedings and only for internal procedural purposes.
Adequate compensation for the wrongfully imprisoned
Compensation for victims of unjust prosecution must be increased to an appropriate rate.
Furthermore, extensive compensation should be sought for any disadvantages suffered, in particular compensation for lost social insurance periods and lost fictitious income.
The current low compensation of €25 per day of detention is inadequate.
We call for fairer compensation for those found completely or at least essentially innocent.
It is also incomprehensible that catering costs are still deducted from this amount without a legal basis.
Fighting corruption
Disclose and effectively combat corruption in the business world
The Pirate Party advocates legal foundations for the systematic prevention and prosecution of corruption at the federal, state and local levels.
Bribery and advantage-taking reduce the level of economic prosperity and lead to high material and immaterial damages every year - which are ultimately paid for by taxpayers and consumers.
Consumers, employees and business partners must be enabled to obtain a quick and uncomplicated overview of a company's adherence to rules and integrity so that they can factor corruption offenses into their decisions and, in turn, contribute to a corrective steering effect.
Germany's ambition must be not to remain in the middle of the pack in Europe when it comes to fighting and preventing corruption, but to take a leading position.
Therefore, the Pirate Party calls for the implementation of the following measures in particular:
Strengthen conditions for the prosecution and punishment of corruption offenses
The Pirate Party seeks the introduction of effective corporate criminal law based on the Swiss model, so that proceedings can be opened against legal entities and companies can be held directly accountable for corruption offenses.
The criminal offense of bribery in business transactions (Sections 298 et seq. of the German Criminal Code) must no longer cover only the purchase of competitive advantages, but must be extended to the purchase of breaches of duty in accordance with the so-called business master model.
In the case of corruption offenses, both the statute of limitations must be extended and the scope of fines increased.
Focus prosecution offices for corruption and white-collar crime must be established in all federal states and provided with the appropriate human and financial resources.
The reports on corruption prevention prepared by the ministers of the interior are to be designed according to a uniform format for reasons of comparability and comprehensibility.
The Conference of Interior Ministers is also to maintain a machine-readable corruption register in the form of a central blacklist and publish it on the Internet.
This register is intended to record legally binding cases of corruption in Germany as well as corruption offenses committed by German companies abroad.
Companies or individuals with serious misconduct should be excluded from public procurement for a certain period of time.
Protect whistleblowers in public administration and the private sector by law
The Pirate Party advocates a general and comprehensive legal regulation for the protection of persons who make public cases of corruption, insider trading or ethics violations (so-called "whistleblowers").
The Council of Europe's Criminal Law Convention on Corruption, which Germany has already signed, including the supplementary convention, must be ratified and implemented, and whistleblowers in the private sector must be protected by a legal provision.
In the public sector, the protection of whistleblowers enshrined in civil service law must be extended to employees.
The legislator should also oblige companies and public bodies to set up whistleblower systems in order to open up a confidential communication channel for reporting criminal offenses and ethical violations.
Anchor corruption prevention measures and moral values in corporate principles
The Pirate Party calls for statutory regulations to anchor anti-corruption or corruption prevention measures in company-specific management principles (corporate governance).
Legislation should require companies in the private and public sectors to introduce systems for monitoring compliance and to present these in their corporate reporting.
These include, for example, the development of anti-corruption guidelines, the appointment of a corruption officer from a certain company size, the provision of internal auditing with corresponding powers and the definition of a catalog of measures in the event of violations of the guidelines.
Bribes paid to public officials abroad must be punished more consistently than in the past as corruption.
To ensure that companies with integrity do not suffer any disadvantages in global competition and refrain from concealing foreign bribery by accounting for it as commissions, Germany must insist on the consistent prosecution of bribery payments in international organizations.
and the anchoring of moral values in economic agreements.
Using public procurement as a model for integrity criteria and freedom of information
The Pirate Party is committed to freedom of information and the application of integrity criteria in the awarding of public contracts.
We call for greater use of the preventive instrument of an integrity pact, particularly in large-scale construction projects, in order to commit clients and bidding or executing companies to integrity and to send a clear signal externally and internally.
The framework data of all public awards must be published in machine-readable form via a central web portal - including the contractor and contract sum as well as subcontractors as soon as their contract volume exceeds certain threshold values.
The Pirate Party calls for the nationwide introduction of freedom of information and transparency laws with active publication obligations for public administration documents and for contracts between the public and private sectors.
Furthermore, the effectiveness of contracts with the public sector is to be linked to their publication.
Exceptional circumstances, such as business and trade secrets, must be weighed against the interest of the public.
Hurdles that make it difficult to apply for information, such as high fees and long processing times, must be removed.
The provisions of freedom of information laws must be consistently extended to companies in which the public sector has a stake - even if the public shares in a company are less than fifty percent.
Weapons
Amendments to the War Weapons Control Act
In accordance with the UN instrument for marking and tracing firearms (so-called Small Arms), the Pirate Party advocates forgery-proof marking of firearms produced or imported in Germany and under license abroad for military purposes, as is already regulated for civilian firearms in the Weapons Act.
By means of forgery-proof marking, illegal arms exports to crisis regions via third countries can be transparently traced and the responsible manufacturers/exporters can be prosecuted.
An export ban can then be imposed on third countries that have been proven to resell weapons to crisis regions.
In order to implement this goal, the Pirate Party advocates a rapid amendment of the War Weapons Control Act.
Better statistical recording of gun misuse
The Pirate Party demands detailed figures on weapons in the police crime statistics with regard to type of misuse, type and origin.
These figures should explicitly include the status of the weapons, that is, whether they were legal, illegal, or free.
Meaningful statistics are necessary in order to be able to make well-founded statements about the effectiveness and consequences of weapons legislation.
Police
Mandatory identification for police officers
The Pirate Party advocates mandatory identification for police officers.
Officers on duty at meetings shall be required to wear license plates that are visible and recognizable from a distance.
The identifiers must be pseudonymous (for example, in the form of a number) and may change from assignment to assignment.
It must be possible at any time, even retrospectively, to assign a license plate number to a person with a court order.
The supervisor is responsible for the effective enforcement of the identification requirement and the proper maintenance of the assignments of identifiers to individuals.
Police officers shall be required to prevent violations by other police officers or, if this is not possible, to report them and to identify the officer(s) involved.
Violations of these duties (wearing the license plate, keeping the assignment list correctly, preventing/reporting violations) are subject to sanctions.
No Bundeswehr in the interior
The Pirate Party rejects the deployment of the Bundeswehr within Germany.
Excluded are purely humanitarian, unarmed missions to rescue people, animals and significant property in the event of a disaster.
