24th Ordinary Federal Delegates Conference July 9/10, 2005, Berlin
Resolution: Election program 2005 (editorial status: 15.7.2005)
Dear Voter,
With the election manifesto that you are holding in your hands, we would like to convince you of our path of solidarity-based modernization.
and ecological responsibility.
We are committed to a society in which people can go along with the necessary changes without fear of unemployment and exclusion.
We want to convince you that the important issue of ecology remains on the agenda.
Without ecology no life is possible, no work and no economic development, no justice and no freedom.
For us, solidarity-based modernization also means:
We promote the strengthening of civil rights
and a tolerant society.
And we want to win you over for the just shaping of globalization
and the protection of human rights.
Our society is undergoing a profound transformation.
Economic pressure is also increasing in the wake of globalization, and at the same time Europe is in crisis.
Despite numerous environmental policy successes, environmental pollution continues to increase
and an ecological global economy is a long way off.
Social security systems are eroding due to changes in the economy and age structure.
We are witnessing the increasing exclusion of a part of society.
The world of work is changing dramatically.
Traditional full-time jobs are disappearing, millions are unemployed and many are living in insecure employment.
Moreover, public budgets are dramatically in debt and many municipalities are on the verge of bankruptcy.
We want to address these difficulties openly.
The answers are neither easy nor convenient.
Only if we and you together have the courage to face these questions openly can we together give our society a real perspective.
In the past seven years, we have been able to make important progress: in the nuclear phase-out, in energy policy, in environmental and climate protection, in foreign and peace policy, in the integration of Europe, in citizenship law and in migration policy.
Whether in consumer and agricultural policy, in pension and social policy, in life partnership, in women's policy, we note: on the credit side of the red-green coalition there are mainly Green successes.
And we have many more ideas and concepts in all these areas that we want to put into practice.
In this program, we present to you where we have had successes, but also where we have not been able to prevail.
We will also tell you where we have learned and want to provide new impetus.
Our society needs strong GREENS so that we can continue on our path of solidarity-based modernization.
and ecological responsibility.
In our program, we talk about green goals and visions and about concrete proposals that we want to implement step by step.
And it is for these goals that we are soliciting your vote in the federal election.
Freedom needs participation and justice
Green policy aims at freedom and self-determination.
But we can only achieve them if things are also fair.
Our policy also focuses on those who are affected by exclusion or face an uncertain social future.
We formulate offers for a self-determined life in social security.
Millions in our society have been out of work too long or are afraid of losing their jobs.
Many feel excluded or insecure.
At the same time, the uncertainty reaches deep into the middle of society.
According to the German government's new Poverty and Wealth Report, the wealthiest ten percent of Germans now own almost half of all net wealth.
The bottom ten percent own nothing but debt.
We Greens have taken care of new social problems and imbalances and worked persistently to overcome them.
This tenacity is required if the burning social question of our time - participation and social cohesion under the conditions of globalization - is to be answered.
As the modern, value-oriented and emancipatory force that is leftist and liberal and value-conservative, we are about expanding the horizon of justice, and taking sides with the excluded and insecure.
But for more justice, we also need economic modernization that creates new jobs.
Greens stand for sustainable economic dynamism.
Who is inside and who is outside?
And how do we bring the excluded back in?
These are the central social questions of the globalized and post-industrial age, to which the just welfare state must provide an answer.
In many cases, there is arrogant talk of a new "underclass" that needs to be put on the right track.
Such a policy places itself "above" these people.
We find that offensive.
It also fails to recognize the diversity of life situations affected by social exclusion.
We are talking about the long-term unemployed, single parents, unemployed academics, young people without school or vocational qualifications, older people without a job and many migrants.
In our society, there are people who never got in, there are people who have fallen through from the middle to the bottom, and there is a growing group of "insecure" people who are afraid of falling out.
The goal of an emancipatory social policy must be to offer every person, from the very beginning, the conditions and opportunities for development that make fair participation in social, economic, and societal as well as political life possible.
We need a social policy that effectively and reliably protects against poverty and prevents exclusion.
We give these people an answer, freedom
and social security by enabling self-determination and recognition.
Jobs and prosperity will only exist in Germany if we have the courage to take on more freedom and responsibility.
Contrary to the neoliberal policies of CDU/CSU and FDP, we know:
Freedom can only be lived if one does not live in daily fear for one's own existence.
We do not want a society in which the prosperity of some is bought with the poverty and fear of decline of others.
But we are also not concerned with the illusion of security that stifles freedom.
Our society needs more dynamism, but we can only demand more initiative and personal responsibility from people if
we simultaneously ensure that they can also bear this responsibility and do not fall into a bottomless pit.
We want a citizen-friendly state that supports and assists people in their self-determination,
that neither bullies and controls them nor
merely proclaims laissez-faire.
Freedom needs social security.
Single parents can only work if the possibility of childcare is ensured.
A private pension plan can only be afforded by those who have an adequate income.
And only those who do not have to fight for their own survival are capable of social commitment.
That is our difference to the neoliberal policy of Merkel/Westerwelle/Stoiber, which leaves people lying when they have fallen down.
We do not believe in the omnipotence of the state and want a vibrant civil society based on solidarity.
However, such a society will only exist if the state fulfills its basic duties and protects people from poverty and arbitrariness.
We offer you a policy that continues the necessary course of economic and social renewal,
without people having to fear ending up on the sidelines.
We argue that justice means equal freedom, not the freedom of elbows.
Freedom needs education and work.
It also needs the opportunity to choose between gainful employment, other work, and volunteerism.
If the new social question arises because of social exclusion and denial of social participation, then this cannot leave our idea of distributive justice unscathed.
In other words: We are facing distribution issues of a new kind.
Even if we consider individual social transfers at the lower end of the scale to be in need of improvement, it should be noted that the main problem lies in the design of educational institutions.
and access to the labor market.
These are essential for individual self-determination and social recognition.
To counter individual exclusion, we need reliable security and access rights, such as a poverty-proof basic income and real employment opportunities.
Environment makes the difference
Modernization is not possible without ecological responsibility.
Our environment is the endangered foundation of our lives.
Climate destruction is progressing at a dramatic rate, the polar ice caps are melting and global warming is increasing.
To sideline ecology in this situation for short-sighted reasons would be to saw off the branch on which we are sitting.
But environmental protection is not only a question of life and survival, it is also a tangible economic issue.
Prosperity and economic dynamism need environmental and climate protection, but the industrialized countries consume an irresponsible amount of global resources.
Countries such as China and India are experiencing a rapid economic rise, naturally claiming an increasing share of limited natural resources.
Energy and raw materials are becoming more expensive and environmental pollution is increasing dramatically worldwide.
We must therefore gradually reduce our dependence on oil.
Those who develop efficiency technologies and renewable energies today hold the key to solving the energy question of tomorrow.
This is at the core of our "Away from Oil" strategy.
The world's population is growing, and with it the challenge of food security.
It would be irresponsible to react to this with agro-genetic engineering instead of a new GMO-free agricultural policy
that also takes into account the interests of developing countries.
We GREENS are a strong voice for environmental protection and nature conservation, for new agriculture and consumer protection.
We are guided by the goal of sustainable development and sustainable business practices.
There will be no return to dangerous nuclear energy, as the CDU/CSU and FDP want.
We do not want to leave a nuclear world to our children.
The vast majority of Germans see it the same way, and we will fight to ensure that no government can ever turn back the clock here.
Germany has become greener
We Greens have been able to achieve a lot.
The past seven years have been a period of green changes and departures.
We have ensured a new departure in environmental policy
and achieved significant successes in consumer protection.
Thanks to us, Germany is now the global market and technology leader in wind power and photovoltaics.
Tens of thousands of new jobs have been created as a result of this active industrial policy.
Throughout the country, medium-sized companies are installing new systems, craftsmen are installing energy-saving technology and thermal insulation in buildings, and home builders are proudly pointing out the solar panels on their roofs.
Through us, farmers have gained new opportunities as energy farmers and through the promotion of organic farming.
Through us, the power of consumers has been strengthened and thus sustainable economic activity has begun.
Our republic has become greener.
In social policy, we have reformed the citizenship law that dates back to imperial times and, by recognizing Germany as a country of immigration, we have finally cleared the way for a sustainable integration policy.
Without us, there would have been no compensation for the Nazi forced laborers.
With the registered civil partnership for same-sex couples, we have achieved a small cultural revolution.
We have promoted equality between women and men, the compatibility of family and career and the best opportunities for all children.
We have worked for an open and tolerant society in which all people can live in self-determination and in security and peace.
Despite all the difficulties, there was also progress in the economic and social spheres.
We have cleared the reform backlog of the 1990s and have taken the first steps toward securing our social security system in the long term and adapting it to the requirements of demographic change.
In addition to distributive justice, we focus on participatory justice, gender justice, intergenerational justice and international justice.
Under difficult macroeconomic conditions, we have made the pension system more generationally equitable,
mitigated the increase in health care contributions,
and made children and families better off.
We have noticeably eased the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises,
thereby securing jobs and social security in the right place.
The merger of unemployment and social assistance was a correct, albeit insufficient, step in the direction of a basic social security system, which, moreover, still has many individual flaws.
Global responsibility for security, equitable globalization, peace and human rights became the guiding principles of German foreign policy.
We have campaigned for this in Europe as well as within the framework of the United Nations.
Black and red blocks
Since 1999, many things have been blatantly blocked in the Bundesrat by the CDU/CSU to the detriment of citizens.
Often, approval of necessary reforms was linked to extortionate demands that served conservative lobby interests or violated the political balance.
This applied to tax policy, federalism reform, the Environmental Code, healthcare and labor market reform, immigration and civil rights.
Green has been a driving force in government.
However, we have also repeatedly come up against limits with our coalition partner.
Instead of taking sides with small and medium-sized enterprises, the SPD often proved to be the structurally conservative party of large corporations.
For example, it took years of wrangling to finally abolish the tax discrimination against gas compared to coal and nuclear and to ensure competition in the energy industry and progress in emissions trading.
In transport policy, we have increased investment in rail by 60% and introduced the truck toll, but
too many billions are still being spent on overpriced prestige projects.
We have not yet been able to achieve a comprehensive modal shift to rail and environmentally friendly mobility.
The dismantling of environmentally harmful subsidies has not progressed fast enough.
In domestic policy, we often had to ensure that Otto Schily did not overtake the CDU/CSU on the right.
The SPD was in favor of modernizing society, but not infrequently blocked at the same time, as in the case of immigration policy or the Equal Opportunities Act for the private sector.
We have championed the phasing out of compulsory military service, but have not yet been able to bring it to a conclusion.
Honest balance sheet - learning from mistakes
We have had to tackle many things at the same time in recent years because the challenges facing society called for bold reforms.
Part of taking stock honestly is realizing that we, too, have made mistakes and have to learn from them.
There are no easy answers to the dramatic problem of mass unemployment, globalization and climate destruction, as the neoliberals or old left populists would have us believe.
Old certainties have faltered, and the reforms that have been introduced have not always created new certainties and equitable prospects for the future in time.
The answers we gave were often perceived as cold and criticized as unfair.
We have underestimated the uncertainty in large sections of society and have not made it clear enough that we need to ensure reliability and proximity to the people, especially for the major social risks and in times of upheaval and need for help.
Only the rich can afford a poor state, so we must examine all ways of ensuring the state's ability to act and its sustainable financing in the sense of ecological and solidarity-based responsibility.
It was a mistake to leave labor, economic and social policy too much to the SPD in recent years, which claims a core competence here but in many cases fails to deliver.
In labor market policy, for example, supporting job seekers is not yet sufficiently matched by demanding them.
After six months, it is still too early to take final stock of the impact of ALG II on the labor market.
However, as the party of self-determination, we want to give spouses a stronger claim of their own.
We want unemployed partners without their own benefit entitlement to have their own access to active assistance and their own health insurance coverage.
Finally, private pension assets must be protected more strongly than before from being offset against unemployment benefit II.
Non-wage labor costs are still too high, especially at the lower end of the income scale, and we need to work to bring them down significantly, thus creating work in the new service fields - especially in the innovative employment fields such as health, education, care, communications, the environment and new energies.
We need to invest more ideas and more resources in education and research,
leading to more innovation in technology and processes.
We know that we will only get to more work and social security if we continue on the difficult path of change.
The goal is to secure solidarity and a social civil society through reforms of the welfare state.
We are reforming it because we need it in the future.
We have understood that we need to pay even more attention to bringing everyone along on this journey.
We want to continue modernizing our country, but we will stand up for fairness and solidarity in the process.
It all comes down to GREENS
We do not promise you that it will be easy to continue on the path of solidarity-based modernization.
and ecological responsibility.
However, we are sure that it is worth fighting for and that it is the right way for our country.
Along our values of ecology, self-determination, justice, and democracy, we develop our green agenda for the common good.
With our economic and social policy, we want to create the conditions for new apprenticeships and jobs with a future and combat social exclusion.
Our society needs a creative and productive climate in which new areas of employment emerge and innovation thrives, incorporating the skills of all people.
We advocate a reduction in non-wage labor costs in the lower income range in order to create employment in the new service fields.
To ease the burden on contributions, we want to eliminate unnecessary subsidies and include top incomes and corporate profits to a greater extent.
We want solidarity-based citizens' insurance,
basic social security and
Introduce minimum wage regulations,
develop a European social order
and fight resolutely against tax evasion and tax avoidance.
We want to step up the fight against climate destruction and for a new energy policy.
We want to shape our economy in a way that conserves resources.
With new energy, we want to create hundreds of thousands more new jobs in the environmental sector
and work to protect nature.
And we are fighting for a transport policy that makes driving more ecological and rail travel cheaper and more attractive.
We want a new agriculture and strong rural areas,
we want to strengthen consumer rights and healthy food for all.
For us, consumer health takes precedence over economic interests.
That is why it is right to consistently pursue the agricultural turnaround with a Consumer Information Act and to disclose what is in food and consumer goods through comprehensible labeling, so that everyone can decide freely.
We want to give people prospects for the future through education.
Education must not be a question of money.
It is right to support children individually from the beginning and to prevent them from being sorted out at school.
Our goal is to massively reduce the percentage of those who don't get a degree and significantly increase the percentage of those who do get to graduate.
We want all children and young people to be given a perspective and none to have to live in poverty and insecurity.
That is why it is right to support children individually, to help them to have their own rights and to secure life with them.
In view of the economic challenges of demographic change and societal changes, we need an active policy for lifelong learning.
Continuing education must finally become a new pillar of our education system.
Equal rights for women and men must also mean equal opportunities for both sexes.
We want a world of work that pays women equal wages for work of equal value, offers them equal opportunities for advancement and in which they do not fail because of the double and triple burden.
We want to continue the commitment to democracy, civil rights, minorities and a society open to the world.
We do not meet the reality of multicultural democracy with isolation and discrimination internally and externally, but with a policy of recognition and integration.
Tyranny and the state-organized mass extermination of people are part of recent German history.
We cannot make up for the suffering of the victims of Nazi terror.
We keep the memory alive and it keeps us awake.
This strengthens our commitment against anti-Semitism and right-wing extremism.
We advocate fair globalization both nationally and internationally.
and a foreign policy committed to peace, non-violence, human rights and democracy.
We want a strong democratic and solidarity-based Europe and are committed to a transparent EU that is close to its citizens.
It is true that international security requires much more than the military, namely crisis prevention, human rights, democracy, poverty reduction, geostrategic environmental policy and fair opportunities for developing countries.
GREENS instead of black-yellow republic
Whoever comes up with simple answers in view of the difficult situation like CDU/CSU and FDP, after having blocked for years in the Bundesrat, is lying.
And those who do not even have the courage to disclose their plans now, in order to scare as few voters as possible, are lying twice.
In view of people's worries about unemployment, black-yellow offers not more, but less social security and social rights:
restriction of protection against dismissal, curtailment of workers' rights, encroachment on collective bargaining autonomy.
In view of the social imbalance between rich and poor, black-yellow offers not more, but less justice: a
capitation fee for health insurance, a burden on lower incomes and relief for top earners.
Black-yellow represents a tax concept that rewards the rich and weakens people with lower and middle incomes.
The CDU/CSU and FDP talk about reforming the social insurance systems, but they mean two-tier medicine.
Black-yellow wants not more, but less ecology:
re-entry into nuclear power and endangerment of many jobs in the field of renewable energies as well as genetic engineering
in agriculture and food.
Black-yellow answers the challenges of modern society not with self-determination and recognition of different life plans
, but with exclusion, standstill in equality policy , regression in rights for gays and lesbians, dismantling of refugee rights, integration as a coercive measure.
The CDU/CSU respond to security threats by systematically dismantling civil liberties.
But those who abolish freedom in the name of security will end up losing both.
The imbalance in the tension between capital and labor is to be increased by the CDU/CSU and FDP.
Mrs. Merkel calls this "agenda work".
But in fact it destroys the social aspect of the market economy.
With its majority in the Bundesrat, black-yellow gave a foretaste of what Germany would expect under Merkel/Westerwelle/Stoiber:
many of the regulations in the reforms that are perceived as particularly unfair are the fault of black-yellow in the Bundesrat.
In the health care reform, the CDU/CSU has made itself the shill for the pharmaceutical industry and the pharmacy lobby, doggedly defending their privileges.
The wrangling over dental prostheses was caused by the CDU/CSU's dominance in the Bundesrat.
The CDU/CSU put the brakes on additional income opportunities under HARTZ IV.
The reasonableness regulations for HARTZ IV were enforced by the CDU/CSU.
The empty public coffers and the associated cuts at the federal, state and local levels are also the result of the CDU/CSU blocking the reduction of tax subsidies.
Select GREEN
Since our founding, we GREENS have been a force for social and political renewal in the Federal Republic.
Together with many comrades-in-arms, we Greens have had a lasting impact on society, even from the opposition.
We look confidently at what we have accomplished in the federal government over the past seven years.
And we have a lot planned.
If you give us a mandate for this, we are prepared to participate in government and will support you on the path of solidarity-based modernization.
and ecological responsibility.
We can also opposition.
We will not leave our country to the black-yellow coalition without a fight.
We also warn against a grand coalition.
Only a vote for GREEN can prevent Merkel.
The policies of Alliance 90/The Greens have shown: GREEN faces up to the challenges and difficulties our society is facing.
We create visions and concepts.
We will not let up in our commitment to more justice, more self-determination, more ecology and more democracy.
We therefore ask you: Vote for BÜNDNIS 90/DIE GRÜNEN on September 18.
Vote for a solidary and ecological future.
Creating new work - work with a future - participation instead of exclusion
We Greens want to win you over for a departure towards work with a future that enables everyone to participate in society and gainful employment instead of excluding many.
We want change and commitment in our society, because in a rapidly changing world, not everything can remain as it is in our own country.
But unlike the CDU/CSU and FDP, we want to go down this path in such a way that everyone can join in.
We must not allow one section of society to end up in a social cul-de-sac.
Anyone who has fallen down must be able to get up again.
Those who have been kicked out must be able to come back.
Freedom also needs social security.
Freedom without justice is always only the freedom of the few.
That is why a globalized, increasingly unleashed capitalism needs a self-confident state capable of acting and
a strong EU as a corrective.
We want political action to support citizens and encourage self-determination and freedom instead of patronizing them or lulling them into a false sense of security.
With the red-green tax reform, the reduction in non-wage labor costs, the reforms in the social security systems and in the labor market, we have improved the framework conditions for companies.
and new jobs significantly improved.
Small and medium incomes
as well as families with children were noticeably relieved.
Small and medium-sized enterprises additionally benefit from the crediting of trade tax against income tax.
Nonetheless, many of the companies that benefited from these reforms failed to deliver on the promise of the economy to create new jobs when relief was provided.
Unemployment remains dramatically high.
Many unemployed people suffer from a lack of recognition and social exclusion.
A "class of the excluded" is increasingly disconnected from social participation in work, education and prosperity.
At the same time, fears of a crash and insecurity are growing deep into the middle of society.
Right-of-way for work must not mean that many are left behind.
Our country cannot win the race for lower wages, less co-determination, poor social standards and ever lower taxes that the CDU/CSU and FDP are striving for.
Not cheaper, but more innovative and creative is the chance of products from Germany.
That is why in our program we describe ways of a new labor policy, the development of new fields of employment, the reduction of non-wage labor costs in the lower income range.
We call for the expansion of a basic social security system,
the introduction of minimum wages and the
establishment of a citizens' insurance scheme
, as well as the restructuring of working lives.
As a long-term and coordinated program, the whole package is our answer for a welfare state in the age of globalization.
We want to assert the primacy of politics and shape globalization.
This is a laborious process that does not always bear fruit right away.
For this to happen, however, the business community must also acknowledge its responsibility.
Resource-light management
The Greens are part of a tradition that is critical of growth.
We oppose a policy of "growth at any price" without regard for people and nature.
At the same time, overcoming oppressive unemployment, financially securing the welfare state and reducing the national debt are inconceivable without economic dynamism.
The central challenge for a sustainable economic policy lies in decoupling economic growth and nature consumption.
Instead of playing economics and ecology off against each other, the aim is to exploit the opportunities offered by environmentally compatible energy technologies, materials and products.
Our vision for a sustainable economy is "resource-light":
the production of products and services with minimal use of raw materials and energy.
The aim is to continuously increase material efficiency, to recycle waste as completely as possible, and to replace environmentally harmful substances with environmentally friendly ones.
The companies benefit from a reduction in their material costs, and the national economy from lower raw material imports.
At the same time, resource-efficient management improves environmental quality and avoids conflicts over increasingly scarce raw materials.
We want to promote the transition to a resource-light economy by focusing research and technology funding on environmentally compatible products and technologies.
Removing subsidies that encourage wasteful use of scarce resources.
A higher cost burden on nature consumption through levies, the further development of tax instruments within the framework of ecological financial reform or tradable certificates.
Creativity, education and innovation create work
Many products on which our prosperity was based in the past can now be produced more cheaply in other countries.
We do not want to win the competition for lower wages, worse working conditions and fewer employee rights.
We are working at the international level to ensure that the same environmental standards that apply in Germany are also observed and introduced in other countries.
Instead, the future of our country lies in innovative concepts, creative products and well-trained people.
We want to put our economic development on a new footing with new products and services.
The renewable energy sector, with hundreds of thousands of jobs, shows the potential of innovative products.
New opportunities are emerging, particularly for the chemical industry, through the replacement of hazardous chemicals with substances that are harmless to health and the environment, and through the use of renewable raw materials and new biorefinery technologies.
White biotechnology is highly innovative in the environmentally friendly and resource-saving production of enzymes - for example for detergents.
We Greens want to use the potential of white biotechnology to improve industrial production processes and drive innovation in this field.
Numerous new jobs can be created here.
Anyone who wants to undo the last seven years, as the black-yellow coalition has done, is putting jobs at risk.
Our GREEN strategy "Away from Oil" is an unprecedented program for work with a future.
Here, too, it becomes clear that economy and ecology are not contradictory.
Growth at the expense of nature can at best achieve short-term success and postpones the problems at the expense of future generations.
In the medium and long term, only an economy that does not destroy the natural foundations of life on which it is based can survive.
There are many areas in which GREEN ideas can be used to get into the black: Health, care and (continuing) education are huge growth markets.
Integrated, environmentally friendly transportation systems are the lifelines of a world that is growing together.
Global demand for decentralized energy technologies such as fuel cells or computer-controlled micro power plants is increasing.
Nanotechnology, new materials, microsystems technology and information and communications technology also offer opportunities for hundreds of thousands of new jobs.
The transformation to a knowledge society will generate new fields of employment and services worldwide.
Tourism is an important economic factor with millions of jobs.
But only low-impact tourism that respects nature and culture is sustainable and thus fit for the future.
We want to promote and expand this.
Nature conservation creates jobs.
And this is especially true in places where there are otherwise no economic development alternatives in sight.
Innovation and creativity need education and research.
That is why we want to invest in our education system
and increase spending on research and development to three percent of gross domestic product.
Germany's economy is most efficient when there is a good mix of small, medium-sized and large companies.
We want to make the concerns of small and medium-sized enterprises particularly well heard
and ensure a new climate for business start-ups.
They are indispensable for innovation and employment.
Financing and succession problems, poor payment practices, including from the public purse, and increasing litigation, corruption and moonlighting have hurt small and medium-sized enterprises in recent years.
We want to counter this with targeted measures, such as an anti-corruption law.
More jobs in the service sector thanks to lower non-wage labor costs
It is not wages that are too high in our country, but non-wage labor costs.
Particularly in the labor-intensive service sector, in part-time work and in the lower wage range, high non-wage costs exclude people from accessing the labor market.
The gap between gross and net income has a particularly inhibiting effect on employment here and leads to inadequate wages, little regular employment and a slide into undeclared work.
Non-wage costs in the lower income range are real barriers to employment.
Other countries have many more jobs in these areas.
We also want to increase this potential for new jobs for our country.
That is why we want to relieve employment relationships in the lower income range noticeably from non-wage labor costs.
Instead of having non-wage labor costs start abruptly at the full rate, we want to let them rise slowly with increasing salaries through subsidies, similar to tax rates.
Many jobs only become attractive for employers and employees in this way, undeclared work is not worthwhile and employees are fully covered by social security despite lower social security contributions.
Women in particular will benefit from this, as they are more often employed in low-wage and part-time jobs.
Especially for people with lower qualifications, this approach opens up new perspectives for participation in the labor market.
By designing the subsidy schemes, we want to ensure that deadweight losses are minimized and that new jobs are not created at the expense of existing higher-quality employment.
We are sticking to the goal of full tax financing of noninsurance benefits.
Especially in the household area there is often a need for a few hours of household or gardening help.
This does not result in a full position.
If several of these jobs are combined in the service pool, living wage jobs can be created from this.
The country needs new entrepreneurs
New employment is increasingly taking place in self-employment.
We need a new culture of self-employment and start-ups, especially for women, as they are still disadvantaged when it comes to loans, for example.
For small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, the excess of regulations and bureaucracy have become a critical obstacle to the realization of business ideas and the creation of jobs.
Bündnis90/Die Grünen are therefore committed to reducing bureaucracy.
New laws should be constantly reviewed for their impact and usefulness and, if possible, be limited in time.
Where the bureaucratic burden exceeds the intended benefit, it must be simplified or eliminated altogether.
Bureaucratic hurdles and chamber constraints must be dismantled.
We want entrepreneurial commitment and responsibility for jobs at the location to receive more recognition in society.
For us, this also includes a modern public administration that supports, encourages and promotes medium-sized companies.
Small and medium-sized enterprises need a solid capital base to invest and create jobs.
We want to develop and expand suitable financing instruments.
After all, the success of small and medium-sized enterprises depends to a large extent on solid financing and long-term loan commitments, especially in the start-up or innovation phases.
However, the adjustment to the inter-national financial requirements of Basel II and a lack of willingness to take risks on the part of banks are hampering the development of small and medium-sized enterprises.
In addition, innovative start-ups in particular must be given new access to guarantees and venture capital.
In addition, we are committed to modernizing company law.
European law has long since made new forms of enterprise possible in Germany as well.
The goal of the green reform: less bureaucracy and more speed for founders.
At the same time, however, it must remain ensured that clear legal frameworks provide a solid foundation for companies.
Diversity is productive
The potential of migrants and their children can be found in all areas of society.
World market competitors such as the USA and France have long recognized that multilingualism and diverse cultural experiences are beneficial for the economy and for national economic productivity.
Recent studies show that greater diversity increases everyone's income.
We therefore want to encourage German business to create a "Diversity Charter" on a voluntary basis that addresses social realities and potentials in an appropriately positive way
and also enhances its attractiveness in the international competition for top talent.
For a self-confident and independent East German perspective
Our goal is equal living conditions in a country based on solidarity.
Access to the labor market is the central justice issue in the East, and the creation of new jobs is therefore at the heart of our policy.
The economic catch-up process is slower and more difficult than many expected.
We have begun a realignment of our funding policy and intend to continue it.
The funds must be used more specifically for new employment and must not be used by the federal states to cover the general budget.
Eastern Germany has long since caught up in terms of transport and communications infrastructure.
Additional funding in these areas generates only limited growth impetus.
We therefore want to increase funding for education, research
and direct economic development,
Promote the development of growth regions for industry and services
and, above all, support small and medium-sized enterprises in the long term.
Technology transfer from universities to regional industry is an important key to this.
Eastern Germany has every chance of becoming a pioneer in services and on the way to a knowledge-based society.
Earlier and to a greater extent than the west of Germany, the east is facing declining population density in some regions.
There, the exodus of young and qualified people is exacerbating the demographic problems that already exist.
Politics must not keep quiet about this development.
By continuing the "Urban Redevelopment East" program, we want to continue to make an important contribution to the future viability of cities.
However, a prudent reorganization and restructuring also creates new perspectives, for example in tourism, agriculture or in the field of renewable energies.
At the same time, it is a matter of aligning the funding policy for eastern Germany in such a way that high-quality jobs are created that offer young, qualified people career prospects.
This includes the establishment and expansion of knowledge, education and research regions in the East.
Soft tourism is to be promoted in a targeted manner, including ecological transport infrastructure.
Demographic change is not the only reason for the increased need for support in large parts of eastern Germany.
Many regions and cities in the West face the same problems.
For them, it is also important to ensure effective promotion.
These regions and cities are linked by a structural weakness that we want to counter by continuing the Urban Redevelopment West program.
For a new collective bargaining policy - working time, participation in productive assets and further training
Millions of people in our society are permanently unemployed.
Others live in extremely insecure employment with temporary contracts, periods of unemployment and poor income.
At the same time, many people with secure jobs want more flexible working hours, time off for family or other pursuits.
Instead, many can hardly save themselves from overtime.
We therefore want a new working time policy that brings together both interests.
Working time accounts, part-time family work, job rotation and job sharing are promising instruments for flexible working time arrangements.
The general extension of weekly working hours, on the other hand, is the wrong way to reduce unemployment.
The exclusion of older people through early retirement schemes is unacceptable.
Instead of bringing more people into work, they usually even lead to job losses in the medium term.
We will take measures with the aim of shortening work.
We suggest that collective bargaining should examine the possibility of reducing working hours while foregoing a proportion of wages.
The existing work could thus be distributed among more shoulders in certain areas.
We are aware of the difficulties of such a proposal and that there is no room for such solutions in the lower wage groups.
But for many, such a model could combine job security with more individual freedom.
The compatibility of family and career requires not only a limit on working hours but also the ability to plan working hours and time off.
European legislation must also give priority to the goal of reducing working hours rather than extending them.
It can also be the task of collective bargaining policy to enforce greater participation of employees in productive assets.
In addition, we support the approaches to a collectively agreed regulation of continuing vocational training and want to see this further expanded.
In many local alliances for work, employers and trade unions show how flexibility and security can be combined.
We reject wage dumping, interference in the autonomy of collective bargaining, protection against dismissal and co-determination.
Work must pay - agree minimum wages
More and more people earn in a month what others earn in a day.
We want to prevent wages on which one cannot live.
We want to expand the Posted Workers Act for this purpose.
We advocate for regionally and industry-specific differentiated minimum wage regulations that guarantee poverty-proof wages.
Where poverty-proof, generally binding collective agreements cannot be reached and in areas without collective agreements, there must be a legally binding minimum wage threshold.
Their determination is to be made with the participation of trade unions and employers.
We want to create the legal prerequisites for this.
We reject a system that leads to "working poor".
The appalling explosion in the alimony of some managers, which is sometimes presented as a matter of course, is no longer just a problem for the companies concerned.
It has become a symbol of a justice gap.
That is why we stand for the disclosure of the compensation of Executive Board members, the limitation of Supervisory Board mandates to a maximum of five per person, and a ban on switching from the chairmanship of the Executive Board to the chairmanship of the Supervisory Board of the same company.
Between market and state - creating new jobs
We want to create more new employment relationships subject to social insurance contributions in transitional labor markets between the first and second labor markets.
The principles of individual support must be anchored in the integration into the labor market.
The position of the unemployed person in the assistance process must be strengthened, decisions must be made transparent and personal rights must be respected.
We advocate for the establishment of ombudsman offices and funding for independent counseling.
One example of this is the so-called integration companies that already exist.
Analogous to the integration companies, we want to further develop the social business enterprises.
Particularly disadvantaged long-term unemployed people can contribute their previous state transfer payments, such as unemployment benefit II, and in return receive a collectively agreed employment relationship.
The integration companies are organized as private commercial or non-profit organizations.
They can open up new employment potential on a permanent basis or act as a bridge into the primary labor market for those affected.
At the same time, however, we will encourage initiative, responsibility, risk-taking and independence.
More training for young people
Young people need a perspective.
Unemployment statistics show it quite clearly: Those who remain without training have a much higher risk of becoming unemployed.
In view of demographic change, our society cannot afford to leave a large number of young people without training.
We must find new ways to ensure that more companies train young people again in the future.
We want to examine pay-as-you-go systems if voluntary commitments by industry continue not to lead to the necessary training places.
In the further development of labor market reforms, we want to consider young people as a target group in their own right
, and youth welfare services within the framework of labor market policy should once again be given priority and expanded.
Within the framework of the employment communities, we want specialized job centers with youth-specific support programs for young people with special support needs to cover the entire area.
In addition, there is a need for local alliances of all stakeholders - schools, chambers, companies, labor administration, politics and, in particular, with the voluntary and public youth welfare services - with the aim of planning and implementing jointly responsible concepts for the social and vocational integration of young people.
In perspective, we are striving for our own youth development law.
Expanding basic social security
By merging unemployment and social assistance, we have taken a step toward basic social security.
The previous, incapacitating social welfare system is a thing of the past, shunting between the two systems has been ended and, for the first time, previous welfare recipients are also entitled to placement in work and training.
But we must also note that many have been materially worse off as a result of the reform, without the improvements in placement and qualification already having sufficient effect.
Promotion still comes up short in the implementation of the reform.
In addition, individual assistance still has to be applied for from different offices, which is often difficult for those affected to understand and makes it more difficult to take advantage of.
We want to put poverty-proof basic social security on the political agenda and implement it step by step.
It must be designed to be income- and wealth-dependent and must provide positive incentives to work.
The transitional phase, whereby the unemployed become recipients of ALG II after only one year of unemployment, is to be extended to up to 3 years on a staggered basis, depending on the years of effective employment.
This includes the perspective of enabling everyone to live independently without financial dependence on their partner.
The current priority is to simplify the application process by automatically coordinating the authorities involved,
to equalize the standard rates between East and West Germany,
to decouple the receipt of assistance more strongly from the income of the partner, to
exempt necessary pension expenses,
and to provide access to active labor market assistance for people who are not receiving benefits.
Additional income opportunities for ALG II recipients must be further improved.
The standard rates of social assistance and ALG II must be raised significantly so that they protect against poverty and ensure the socio-cultural minimum subsistence level.
The amount is to be determined in a transparent procedure involving the welfare associations.
The benchmark and goal remains to enable social participation on the basis of the socio-cultural subsistence minimum.
In particular, the situation of families with children must be taken into account.
By introducing a basic child allowance, we want to prevent children from becoming a risk of poverty for families, especially for women.
This is preventive social policy.
The offers for integration into the labor market must also be further improved.
Only gainful employment that is paid at a rate customary in the locality is to be considered reasonable.
In times of economic stagnation, there are no alternatives to an active labor market policy.
Therefore, the business policy of the Federal Employment Agency must be fundamentally improved.
The Federal Employment Agency must become better, more flexible and, above all, faster in this regard, and the resources used must be targeted to the needs of job seekers.
Clear local decision-making powers over labor market policy, personnel, budget and administration are necessary.
It should be possible for the municipalities to assume full responsibility for implementation.
Cooperation between the local employment agency and the municipality on an equal footing also contributes to this.
The long-term unemployed are entitled to competent advice and support in the integration process.
Therefore, we demand qualification in case management for all professionals who act as personal contact persons for the long-term unemployed.
Without a targeted use of employment promotion programs, many long-term unemployed will be permanently excluded from the labor market.
The social follow-up costs of this development far outweighed the short-term savings effect.
An individual basic social security does not mean either immobilization or alimentation, but is for us the basis for a self-determined life.
The measures taken so far to reform employment services must be subjected to a performance review.
Using active labor market policy as an opportunity
In Germany, the structural change from an industrial to a service society has not yet been completed.
While industrial jobs will continue to decline, as in other countries at the same level of development, the personal services sector still promises significant employment growth in the future - primarily due to demographic change and because it is personnel-intensive per se.
An innovative active labor market policy can exploit the opportunities offered by structural change and create new employment.
We want to use subsidized employment in the second labor market specifically for qualification in the personal services sector - with bridges into training and the first labor market.
We want to promote in the second labor market - through employment subject to social insurance contributions.
The people concerned thus have a normal job, and a corresponding position in society.
A relatively high refinancing ratio is achieved through taxes and social security contributions paid.
Employment subject to social security contributions in the second labor market needs continuity and must be possible for several years.
Especially for the unemployed over 55 years of age, this can create a dignified transition to retirement.
Unemployed persons who independently build up perspectives beyond the primary labor market should also be able to receive support if this improves their social integration.
Those who make an active effort and, for example, train on their own initiative, look for internships, engage in civic activities or build up self-employment, seek socio-psychological assistance, tackle debt relief or actively propose other measures should be able to receive an allowance on top of the basic assistance according to the level of commitment.
In addition, we want to make it easier to choose between phases of gainful employment and periods of voluntary suspension in order to balance working life fairly and in a spirit of solidarity among people.
Health for all
A reliable, efficient healthcare system that is affordable for all is central to healthcare and economic policy.
Health and illness are closely linked to people's living and working conditions.
That is why Green health policy is not limited to caring for sick people.
It also includes the framework conditions for a healthy environment
and consumer protection.
To improve the health opportunities of all population groups, we need an overall health-promoting policy that links health policy with education, economic, labor and social policy.
Our goal is to ensure necessary medical care for all people - regardless of income, gender, origin, social situation and place of residence.
In doing so, we are focusing on more collaboration in the healthcare sector.
This meets patients' need for short distances and for supply chains in which healthcare providers work hand in hand.
We are committed to ensuring that outpatient and inpatient care are better integrated and that integrated care is further expanded.
We want to ensure the provision of primary care in particular.
The shortage of skilled workers in rural and eastern regions must be counteracted.
We want to abolish co-payments (e.g. practice fee, prescription fee, etc.) for recipients of social benefits and basic old-age security.
The co-payments are a particular hardship for these groups of people and often undermine all efforts at prevention, preventive health care and the earliest possible therapy.
For non-prescription drugs, it should be possible to cover the costs again if necessary.
This especially affects adolescents and adults with serious illnesses such as allergies.
Our goal is to make prevention and health promotion an independent pillar of our health care system, so that diseases resulting from environmental pollution, poor nutrition, lack of exercise or smoking, for example, do not arise in the first place.
One focus will be health promotion in early childhood and health education in kindergartens and schools.
The health protection of non-smokers in public must be further developed.
The health sector must take greater account of gender differences in prevention, diagnosis and treatment.
Similarly, health promotion, health research and rehabilitation must be gender sensitive.
The classical methods must face the challenge of complementary forms of diagnosis and therapy, such as homeopathy and anthroposophy; it is not the origin but the quality of a method that entitles it to be included in the range of care.
We want to create incentives to break up encrusted and inefficient structures in the healthcare system.
We want to strengthen patients' rights, better safeguard their self-determination and self-organization, and improve access to information.
The strategy set out in the 'Action Plan Drugs and Addiction' adopted in 2003 to analyze and respond appropriately to addiction problems in our society must be continued.
The aim is to keep addiction problems to a minimum and to help people who have an addiction problem at an early stage.
One for all - the green citizen insurance
We are fighting for the introduction of citizens' insurance.
We want insurance for all citizens to make our health insurance system more solidary, fair and sustainable.
More competition between health insurers in a uniform competitive framework and more competition between service providers for the benefit of patients makes sense in this context.
We want a citizens' insurance system into which everyone pays according to their actual ability to pay and which guarantees everyone the necessary and appropriate medical care regardless of their wallet.
It is not understandable that entire occupational groups and high earners are released from the solidarity with the legally insured.
We want to change that.
We want to maintain the parity of contributions.
Children remain insured free of charge.
Exemption from contributions also applies to spouses and partners raising children or providing care.
Splitting is introduced for all other married couples and registered partnerships.
In this case, the income of the spouse or civil partner is distributed arithmetically between the two persons.
In principle, the partners can choose different health insurers.
Unisex tariffs are offered in the citizens' insurance scheme.
We would find it wrong if a gatekeeper had to pay the same amount as a manager.
That is why we reject the CDU/CSU's capitation fee.
To ensure that the inclusion of additional types of income does not place a burden on small and medium-income earners in particular, we want to grant exemption limits for the additional types of income and moderately raise the income threshold for assessing contributions.
In this way, we are also making a further contribution to easing the burden on small and medium incomes and to greater economic dynamism.
Strengthen and further develop long-term care insurance
Dignified care requires self-determination and solidarity.
We want to further develop the nursing care insurance system as quickly as possible, both financially and structurally, and
want to see solidarity-based citizens' insurance here as well.
In addition, supplementary provision will be necessary in order to be able to react to the rising costs of care in an ageing society.
We need service improvements quickly for people with dementia, mental health and intellectual disabilities.
The benefit rates, which have remained constant since the introduction of long-term care insurance, must be adjusted in line with price trends.
We want to align outpatient and inpatient care rates.
We need comprehensive reform to support those affected and their families.
It should be noted that unpaid care has so far been provided predominantly by women.
We want to improve the framework conditions for outpatient care and for people to remain in their own homes, and promote new forms of housing and independent housing and care advice.
We want to take greater account of the needs of older people when designing housing and living conditions.
To this end, the Home Act must also be revised.
In addition, care and assistance services must also be geared to the needs of different target groups, such as people with a migration background.
We advocate for greater transparency of care costs and actual services provided.
Improved quality controls in the outpatient and inpatient sectors are absolutely essential in order to highlight not only grievances but also possible courses of action and thus enable the elderly and those in need of care to live with dignity.
We call for a professional network of support for family caregivers to protect them from overexertion and negative health consequences, and we advocate for the development of a care and support mix.
To strengthen sovereignty and optimize individual assistance arrangements, the results of the model project "Personal Care Budget" should be taken into account.
Prevention, rehabilitation and social support - also at home - must be strengthened by better linking long-term care insurance with other statutory benefit areas.
The framework conditions for professional nurses and trainees in the nursing professions must be improved.
Politics for Young and Old - For a New Generational Contract
A coexistence of generations and equal life chances are our goal.
The expected demographic and social changes resulting from low birth rates and rising life expectancy pose major challenges for society.
It can only succeed if young and old shape it together.
Demographic change also calls for further restructuring of pension systems.
Fewer working people have to co-finance more non-working people.
In the future, too, people must be able to rely on their livelihood being secure in old age and on being able to continue to lead a self-determined life.
In the long term, we want to create the legal conditions for developing pension insurance into a citizens' insurance scheme for all.
An intergenerationally equitable policy faces the task of distributing the costs of this as fairly as possible between all generations and income groups.
In the statutory pension insurance system, the so-called sustainability factor has redesigned the intergenerational contract.
The statutory pension will become more of a basic provision.
We will therefore continue to promote supplementary private provision in various forms.
However, we will not release employers from their responsibility to help finance our social security systems.
The effects of demographic change are already becoming apparent in individual regions of Germany.
In addition, there is migration - especially of the younger generation - from regions with high unemployment or from regions where the population has little confidence in the economic future.
This is particularly the case in eastern Germany, but also in individual regions of western Germany.
The migration of young people to economic centers is changing villages and cities.
It will be impossible to provide the same range of public services everywhere.
However, we want to ensure that no region is completely left behind through innovative decentralized solutions
and everywhere the opportunity for new civil society
and entrepreneurial commitment remains.
Demographic change presents us not only with economic challenges, but also with major social and cultural ones.
More and more people want to and can lead an active life into old age.
And that's a good thing.
Proclaiming a "generation war" helps no one; rather, we are concerned with solidarity between the generations.
For older people, the question of how to shape their own lives and the social role for the third age is different today than it was in the past.
Fewer young people have to find new ways of living together with more older people.
To answer all these questions, we need a new intergenerational contract, in the interest of the young and the elderly.
The new intergenerational contract also includes a new social approach to old age.
In the future, we would like the elderly to form a more active part of social life than they have in the past.
The generation over 50 has a currently long untapped potential both for the labor market
and for the development of society.
We also want to use the experience and qualifications of older employees to develop products and services for a better quality of life in old age.
We want to create living conditions for older people in which they can lead a largely self-determined life by promoting new forms of housing and diverse education.
We want to strengthen the solidary coexistence of the different generations.
To this end, it is also necessary to create the necessary infrastructure for old and young in the city districts.
In addition, the services and forms of access must also be geared to specific target groups and be culturally sensitive.
The desire for self-determination and independence has led to the emergence of diverse, communal forms of housing and assistance.
For a large proportion of people, house communities or multigenerational living represent an alternative to the home.
A key concern is the design of housing, care and support services in the normal residential area.
We support the formation of small social networks, neighborhood assistance and civic engagement.
In contrast to the CDU/CSU and FDP, we are fighting for an unbureaucratic law that protects the elderly in their everyday lives.
Emancipatory social policy against exclusion, decline and poverty
The fear of exclusion, social decline and poverty reaches far into the center of our society.
Single parents, people returning to work, immigrants and their children, the long-term unemployed and young people without training are affected and threatened by this.
Our answer is targeted programs tailored to these groups.
This is often more about qualified support than financial transfers.
That is why we need a public infrastructure that enables participation and social mobility.
While the CDU/CSU want to cut child and youth welfare, for example, we have adapted it to current sociopolitical challenges.
ALLIANCE 90/THE GREENS are committed to combating discrimination against young people under the age of 25.
That is why we also want to defuse the sanctions that young people face under HARTZ IV legislation if they refuse a reasonable job.
Promoting the social civil society
For the Greens, the guiding principle of an active civil society in which people take their destinies into their own hands is an important fundamental pillar of social policy.
We are fundamentally concerned with a new balance in the distribution of tasks and responsibilities between the state and citizens.
However, we do not understand this to mean that citizens are simply saddled with tasks that the state believes it can no longer perform itself.
Civic engagement is not the cheap Jacob of the welfare state, but aims to strengthen public spirit, social solidarity and the renewal of democracy from below.
Civic engagement makes it possible to experience practical solidarity by getting involved in social, cultural and political affairs.
With the help of volunteer agencies, the Greens want to give everyone the opportunity to get involved with others and with society.
We also want to expand existing youth volunteer services and introduce new models for all age groups.
Volunteering needs a minimum of professional infrastructure.
Further expand participation and self-determination for people with disabilities
The equal participation of people with physical, mental and emotional impairments in life in the community, their right to self-determination in all areas of life and access to the labor market are goals of our policy.
To enable access to the labor market, we need effective vocational training and professional integration tools for people with disabilities.
At the same time, we want to continue breaking down the barriers in the minds of employers and employees:
People with disabilities are capable and motivated.
They simply need a working environment that meets their particular requirements.
To this end, we will continue to promote the development of barrier-free communication technologies.
With the personal budget, we have created the conditions for people with disabilities to live self-determined lives in their own homes.
They themselves decide in what form they organize help and support.
In this context, outpatient services must have clear priority over inpatient services.
We will continue to follow this path.
We want to bundle all benefits for people with disabilities in a Participation Benefits Act.
Services for people with disabilities must not be made dependent on the financial situation of public budgets.
Your individual needs must be taken into account.
Generational Justice
We must not leave the world to our children worse than we found it.
This ecological principle of sustainability must also apply to public finances.
Shifting financial burdens into the future is robbing the opportunities of the younger generation, is the creeping expropriation of our grandchildren.
This means that public-sector debt must be curbed.
Future generations face a debt burden that will make it increasingly difficult to finance environmental and social objectives and education.
In addition, demographic developments mean that the proportion of people in working life will become smaller, while the proportion of old people drawing pensions will increase significantly.
We must also not abandon the then old - today young!
If we do not want to leave our children completely shattered public finances, we must introduce a sustainable fiscal policy that limits and reduces debt and interest burdens.
Investing in jobs, education and care while consolidating budgets
The state needs stable revenues in order to be able to act.
However, the public coffers of the federal, state and local governments are empty.
Debt is on the rise.
Tax revenues have fallen short of expectations.
At the same time, the state faces costly tasks without which the future cannot be won.
We need more money for education in order to give our children the best possible start.
We need more money for childcare to help parents balance family and work.
We need more money for investment in our schools,
Universities
and transport infrastructure.
The irresponsible blocking of the reduction of tax concessions by the CDU/CSU and FDP in the Bundesrat has not only caused Germany to miss the Maastricht criteria, but has also made necessary investments in the future impossible.
Although they would have urgently needed the funds from the subsidy reduction in the states governed by the CDU/CSU, they put their party-political motives above the common good.
We want to launch a national agreement on stability and economic dynamism in which the federal, state and local governments agree on measures to comply with the newly defined EU debt limit, which enables investment in the future.
And how they can increase spending on education and care, research and development, and restore the state's investment rate.
With such an agreement, we want to avoid leaving irresponsibly high debts to future generations.
However, it would be just as irresponsible to give our children a poor education.
and send it into the future with a dilapidated infrastructure.
We want to promote new jobs in the new service sectors of education, health, care, culture, science, research, ecology, etc. with a coherent and investment-oriented policy.
That's why we want to get investments underway in these areas.
We want to increase investment, not least to strengthen the domestic economy.
Priority is given to municipal investments.
We want the federal government to provide municipalities with earmarked funds to increase municipal investment.
This will also lead to more employment.
In this way, we want to halt the significant deterioration of municipal infrastructure
and, at the same time, strengthen the domestic economy by activating the regional economy in order to make progress in reducing unemployment.
Such a program must have a steering effect in terms of ecologically sustainable development.
In determining the scope of such a municipal future program, there is a tension between the great need of municipalities and the limited funding options of the federal government.
Therefore, a specific decision on the scope can be determined only after the actual needs and impact of the proposed subsidy reduction or the proposed government revenue increases have been determined.
Many cities are unable to expand their investment sector on their own.
Declining tax revenues in recent years have led to a serious deterioration in municipal finances.
Most cities are thus forced to adopt a rigid austerity policy, which exacerbates the local labor market situation.
At the same time, a renovation backlog has developed in public buildings, making it at least considerably more difficult to perform tasks of general interest, for example in the school sector.
Manageable projects - below the threshold of €5 million for an EU tender - are to be funded, for example in the area of school and ecological building refurbishment, to increase the attractiveness of city centers.
By supporting small projects up to a certain maximum limit, it can be ensured that local and regional, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, can benefit and that the tendering procedures are as unbureaucratic as possible.
In perspective, the introduction of a modern tendering instrument must ensure that ecological, social and regional concerns are sufficiently taken into account in tenders.
Low municipal contributions must ensure that financially weak municipalities, where the investment backlog is particularly high, can participate in the investment program.
Simple tax system: All should contribute, the strong more than the weak
Our tax system must be simpler
and fairer.
Mr. Merz's beer mat may belong in the pub and not in the tax office, but in the future an employee's tax return should fit on one sheet of paper.
Whether someone pays taxes or not should not depend on whether they have a particularly shrewd tax advisor.
The tax reform of recent years has reduced the burden on taxpayers in Germany by around 60 billion euros a year.
We are not promising you any more tax cuts.
In view of the state of public budgets, we need to stabilize tax revenues.
We do not make unrealistic election promises because they lead to further national debt.
That is why we want to reduce tax concessions and tax subsidies
and combat tax evasion.
This is also a contribution to greater justice.
Relocating operations abroad must not also be worthwhile from a tax perspective.
We do not accept that companies have high profits but do not pay taxes.
That is why we want to stabilize corporate income tax revenues, for example by extending minimum taxation.
We reject tax giveaways in corporate income tax, and any reductions in tax rates must be fully offset by cuts in tax concessions.
We find it unacceptable that top private earners can escape taxation by relocating abroad.
Therefore, we seek a solution similar to the United States, whose citizens living abroad are subject to income tax in the United States.
In this model, taxes already paid abroad are credited against the income tax liability.
We want to close tax loopholes for alcohol and tobacco.
We will fight tax fraud.
In the case of value-added tax alone, the state loses 20 billion euros every year through criminal machinations.
That is why we want to overcome the ineffective coexistence of 16 tax administrations.
Realistic and fair budgetary policy
Anyone who wants to implement new projects and consolidate public budgets at the same time must show their colors on the issue of counter-financing.
A bona fide policy identifies funding sources and sets priorities.
The more successful the federal and state governments are in realizing the revenue improvements proposed here, the more their room for maneuver will grow.
In addition to a critical review of all government tasks (expenditure side),
the principle of solidarity must once again be given a higher priority in tax policy (revenue side).
Under current income tax law, it is not possible to increase the inclusion of private top incomes and capital gains without simultaneously burdening partnerships and SMEs.
That has to change.
Structurally, we therefore want to separate the taxation of companies and private individuals in the income tax.
We want to keep taxes for the middle class at a low level.
As part of this tax reform, we want to increase tax revenues for top private earners by raising the top tax rate to 45%.
They can and should once again make a stronger contribution to the financing of our community.
We want to use this, as well as the reduction of subsidies and tax privileges and consistent action against tax evasion, tax avoidance and tax fraud and the abolition of the splitting of income between spouses, to create financial scope for reducing non-wage labor costs in the lower income bracket,
for education
and support,
for our social responsibility
and budget consolidation.
We reject an increase in value-added tax.
We want to improve the countries' ability to invest.
The reintroduction of a wealth tax on private assets will contribute to this, as will the increase in revenue from higher inheritances.
This is what we are committed to.
We want to use the revenues from a Europe-wide kerosene tax and the Tobin tax to finance public development aid.
We are not resigned to states being driven into a downward tax competition by corporations.
That is why we will also take initiatives at the European level to set Europe-wide framework conditions for global capitalism.
These include agreements on a uniform consolidated corporate tax base and on the minimum taxation of companies.
The European Union has the potential to regain lost fiscal capacity to act at the national level across Europe.
We want to take advantage of this opportunity.
Reliable revenues for municipalities
Our cities and municipalities need reliable revenues to be able to fulfill their tasks and invest in public infrastructure.
We are retaining the trade tax and want to develop it further into a municipal business tax.
Non-profit elements such as interest, rents and leases must be included to a greater extent in order to stabilize municipal revenues.
We want to strengthen the property tax in its character as a municipal property tax and further develop it in a socio-ecological way.
For both types of tax, deferrals or waivers of tax liability can be used to avoid excessive burdens on businesses in difficult economic situations.
By further developing the Socially Integrative City, Urban Redevelopment East and Urban Redevelopment West programs, we aim to support local authorities in coping with social and demographic change.
Strengthen fair competition
We want to set up a register at the Federal Office of Economics and Export Control of companies that have been excluded from the award of public contracts by public-sector clients due to serious misconduct, such as corruption, moonlighting or illegal employment.
This will ensure that no more contracts can be awarded in Germany to companies in ignorance of their illegal practices.
The data obtained must be handled carefully and in compliance with all data protection regulations.
Ecological financial reform
The ecological tax reform is a success of Green government participation and it is working, as even the CDU/CSU had to admit in the end.
The eco-tax reduces non-wage labor costs by 1.7 percentage points,
and greenhouse gas emissions from transport have been reduced by 10%.
Further development of the ecological financial reform creates additional incentives for the economical use of scarce resources,
promotes further investment in energy-saving technologies and
thus allows new jobs to be created.
We therefore want to reduce environmentally harmful subsidies such as the distance allowance and abolish coal subsidies, introduce a tax on kerosene and VAT for cross-border flights, and consistently reduce unjustified eco-tax exemptions for large consumers.
In view of the high oil prices and the growing fuel tourism in the border areas, an increase in the mineral oil tax does not make sense.
Because we must nevertheless prepare ourselves technologically and economically for the post-oil age, we are counting on creating scope for further development of the Ecological Tax Reform through higher EU-wide minimum tax rates for energy and resources, which will make scarce resources more expensive and labor even cheaper.
Gaining momentum ecologically - More green for the environment and consumers
Ecological responsibility
and strengthening consumer rights are central elements of the policies of Alliance 90/The Greens
and not something that can only be afforded in good times, but rather a prerequisite for climate protection,
innovation
and future-proof work.
We want to convince you of this.
With blind economism and forgetfulness of the future, the CDU/CSU and FDP are not only putting our livelihoods at risk, they are also leading economic policy into a dead end.
If we do not take care of the environment and climate today, our great-grandchildren will still have to pay the costs.
We have brought a breath of fresh air and competition into old monopolies and demonstrated:
We bring new energy to the economy.
Ecological modernization is an important and successful part of our government's actions:
through wind power, solar and biomass, we have created hundreds of thousands of jobs with a future in the SME sector.
We have changed course in agricultural policy, giving farmers new opportunities and new income and strengthening rural areas in a targeted manner.
We have given consumers more rights.
With their shopping basket, they ensure that companies take people's protection interests seriously and respond to the new challenges with good products.
More ecology
and consumer protection is not just a question of international competitiveness and economic calculation.
Our advocacy of ecology is committed to responsibility for people and the earth.
"We have only borrowed the earth from our children", this motto was at the beginning of the green movement and still makes the difference today.
Ecological policy is also a question of justice.
Without the protection of the natural foundations of life, there is no freedom and no prospects for life.
Healthy life, healthy nutrition and work without sickening noise, poison and pollutants must not be a question of money.
Ecological policy is a policy for innovative, dynamic and sustainable economic development.
It stands for work with a future and for a better quality of life - nationally and globally.
Away from oil and nuclear
In terms of energy policy, we have set out for new shores: Away from limited oil and uranium reserves, toward infinite energy from the sun, wind, water, biomass and geothermal energy and the expansion of renewable raw materials.
We have consistently promoted electricity generation from clean, renewable sources with the Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG).
Hundreds of thousands of new jobs and companies that are among the world's best and produce international export hits are the result of this renewal boom.
What the chip is today, the solar cell will be tomorrow: key technology of a new, solar age.
Instead of putting these successes at risk, as the CDU/CSU have done, we want to exploit Germany's potential and expand its leading position.
In this way, we also ensure that many billions of euros of value creation take place in the country.
Our goal by 2020 is called: "4x25".
By the end of the next decade, we want to produce a quarter of the electricity, a quarter of the heat, a quarter of the fuel and a quarter of the goods still produced chemically from renewable energies and renewable raw materials.
To this end, in the next legislative period we will introduce legislation to promote renewable heat generation, bring offshore wind farms online, and specifically promote the introduction of renewable raw materials.
We want to support the economical and energy-efficient use of resources politically.
We are focusing on the three strong "E "s: renewables, energy efficiency, and conservation.
In the long term, we want to comprehensively place the industrial production of goods and fuels on a renewable raw material basis.
We want to bring competition to the energy networks and thus create more consumer-friendly conditions on the energy market.
We have entered the solar age, but we also know that we are not yet ready to completely dispense with fossil fuels.
We rely on combined heat and power generation and on converting natural gas and coal into electricity as efficiently as possible.
We want to reduce coal subsidies and phase them out completely by 2012.
Due to the extremely high damage caused by mining, coal mining in the Saarland must be ended by 2010 at the latest.
Instead, we are promoting structural change in the affected regions, creating work with a future and thus giving people a perspective.
Because we have created calculable framework conditions for ecological modernization with emissions trading, investments are finally being made again in the power plant fleet in Germany after decades, and the need for renewal amounts to almost 20 billion euros.
Instead of regulatory requirements, we have relied on market-based mechanisms.
Emissions trading ensures that climate protection takes place where it can be realized most cost-effectively.
To achieve this, the total amount of permissible emissions must be continuously reduced and special regulations dismantled.
With emissions trading and the Renewable Energies Act, we have made climate protection a growth driver.
The CDU/CSU and FDP want to put the brakes on this modernization.
In doing so, they are harming climate protection, jeopardizing billions of dollars in investments, and preventing more than half a million jobs that the renewables industry alone plans to create over the next 15 years.
With Alliance 90/The Greens, Germany is an international pioneer for ambitious environmental policy and consistent climate protection.
We are fighting to keep it that way,
because this is an important contribution to making globalization fair.
We want to further develop the Kyoto process.
The U.S. and emerging economies such as China must be involved.
We are fighting for ambitious medium- and long-term goals.
We advocate for an international renewable energy agency.
We want to continue the successful climate protection policy of recent years.
To achieve this, we must reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2020 and by 80% by 2050.
The EU must also remain a pioneer and continue to advance international climate protection.
We expect the EU to soon commit to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2020 compared to 1990 and to develop a long-term European climate protection strategy.
In order to achieve our energy policy goals, we also want to network the power supply more closely internationally.
The diverse potentials of renewable energies can then be exploited even more broadly and efficiently.
Alongside the expansion of highly efficient power plants and renewables, we are focusing on greater efficiency and energy conservation.
Economical and efficient use of energy and smart management of the power supply not only save resources but also create competitive advantages in the global marketplace with intelligent products such as modern, low-consumption electrical appliances.
We aim to double the share of combined heat and power generation by 2010, giving priority to decentralized solutions and the use of renewable energies.
We want to set up a climate protection fund to initiate and finance measures to reduce energy consumption in schools, hospitals, municipalities and private households.
In the national climate protection program, we want to significantly strengthen the CO2 building renovation program.
It already secures more than 25,000 jobs in the regional construction industry.
With solar urban renewal, we are setting new impulses for modern urban development.
From 2006, an energy passport is to inform all tenants and all buyers about the energy requirements of a dwelling.
We expect this to result in a modernization boost for the housing stock, falling ancillary housing costs and many new jobs that are secure in the long term and cannot be relocated abroad.
Electricity and gas prices are at a very high level by European standards; at the same time, energy utilities are generating billions in profits.
We support local and cross-regional consumer initiatives that fight abusive pricing policies.
For this reason, we have just implemented a system change in the energy industry and established state competition supervision of the monopoly areas in the electricity and gas sectors.
We want to achieve clear cost transparency for end consumers and prevent energy suppliers from pursuing a pricing policy at the expense of small consumers and private households.
Re-entry - no thanks
Nuclear power cannot be justified because an accident like the one in Chernobyl cannot be safely ruled out.
The issue of nuclear waste disposal remains unresolved worldwide.
Civilian and military use can hardly be separated.
In India, Pakistan and North Korea, the path to the atomic bomb led through the civilian use of nuclear energy.
In times of international terrorism, "dirty bombs" containing nuclear waste or an attack on a nuclear power plant are not pipe dreams, but a real threat.
We advocate the fastest possible decommissioning of the plants that are particularly at risk, namely Philippsburg 1, Isar 1, Biblis A and Brunsbüttel.
The Atomic Energy Act provides the opportunity to do so.
Accidents occur again and again, several nuclear reactors are not even secured against airplane crashes.
Only ALLIANCE 90/THE GREENS guarantee the continued shutdown of nuclear power plants as widely supported by the population.
We have succeeded in resolving a decades-long paralyzing energy policy confrontation in Germany.
It is irresponsible that CDU/CSU and FDP want to go back to the nuclear age 20 years after Chernobyl.
Instead of focusing on conservation, efficiency and renewables, they want to fight the risk of climate change with the risk of nuclear technology.
The nuclear phase-out also opens up major economic opportunities.
On the other hand, anyone who holds out the prospect of lifetime extensions for nuclear power plants that have been written off is preventing investment, innovation and new jobs.
GREENS have ensured that Germany has withdrawn from the plutonium economy.
We have enforced the construction stop in Gorleben, minimized Castor transports and ended the transports of spent fuel elements to reprocessing.
Uranium enrichment as part of the nuclear production chain should have no future.
Because the Repository Search Act has now fallen victim to the new elections, we will introduce it without delay in the new legislative period.
There must be no premature commitment to the Gorleben site.
The approval and commissioning of a repository for radioactive waste in the Konrad mine, in the Gorleben salt dome and elsewhere requires a systematic, unprejudiced and scientific comparison of the suitability of several sites with intensive public participation.
In our view, Gorleben is not suitable for geological reasons (multi-barrier concept).
We want to abolish the privileged treatment of tax provisions, which gives the nuclear industry enormous competitive advantages.
The Asse II nuclear site, which is acutely threatened by flooding, must be decommissioned quickly in a transparent process with legally anchored citizen participation.
Only with strong Greens will the nuclear phase-out be continued and further reactors - Biblis A and B, Brunsbüttel and Neckarwestheim I - be taken off the grid by 2009.
Of all things, these dilapidated old plants with a regular place in the annual accident reports are to be operated longer according to the will of black and yellow.
This must be prevented.
We reject the export of nuclear technology abroad.
We want to abolish the EURATOM Treaty and replace bilateral nuclear agreements with cooperation agreements in the field of renewable energies.
We reject further government funding of research into nuclear fusion.
Ecologically Mobile
Mobility creates freedom.
At the same time, consequences such as noise, exhaust fumes, accidents and land consumption have a negative impact.
In terms of climate policy, our transport system has no future and cannot be exported.
ALLIANCE 90/THE GREENS want to make people's need for mobility environmentally compatible.
The amount of traffic in industrialized countries cannot be generalized on a global scale and is therefore not future-proof.
We rely on efficient public transport as the backbone of an environmentally compatible mobility system, on integrated transport concepts, on the implementation of the national cycling plan, on the model of the pedestrian- and bicycle-friendly city, and on the clean car of the future.
We want to network and promote all these areas and be a global leader in them.
With clever and sustainable concepts, we thus also gain the key to one of the largest growth markets of the future.
Rail is the most environmentally friendly means of mass transportation.
We are fighting to ensure that investments in the rail network continue to be at least as high as those in the road network.
We reject a hasty IPO of Deutsche Bahn AG because this would lead to excessive cutbacks and savings at the expense of passengers.
The rail network is not suitable as an investment property and must remain in public hands.
This promotes lively and non-discriminatory quality competition between different rail companies for the best offers for the best customers.
We want to transfer the regional networks to the federal states with the necessary funds
and further develop the station modernization program.
We want to dispense with overpriced prestige projects such as the tunnel under the Thuringian Forest, "Stuttgart 21" and the Transrapid Munich in order to concentrate scarce resources on projects that are important for transport and a modern rail network in the region.
We want to halve the number of traffic fatalities in Germany by 2010 and establish a new guiding principle in road safety policy.
For reasons of road safety and environmental protection, EU-wide harmonization of the maximum speed for passenger cars on freeways is necessary.
The car makes a decisive contribution to people's mobility.
But no car has to consume 16 liters.
We need cleaner and quieter cars that are much more efficient.
We are working to ensure that ambitious fuel consumption limits apply to cars throughout the EU from 2008.
With a clear and simple labeling of cars - efficiency classes A to G - we want to get the competition for low fuel consumption going.
A change in the motor vehicle tax according to CO2 emissions is also to be initiated quickly.
The future belongs to nearly emission-free cars with fuel from renewable raw materials or other renewable energies.
Until that time comes, gas-powered vehicles can be a climate-friendly and particulate-free alternative to conventional fuels.
In any case, our aim is to significantly reduce the average fuel consumption of all vehicles; 3 liters is not a utopia.
We want to extend the mineral oil tax exemption for biofuels.
Every year, 65,000 people in Germany die from particulate matter in the air they breathe.
The air is particularly thick in metropolitan areas.
Cities must be given the opportunity to ensure clean air, for example through environmental zones, with driving bans for old stinkers or the levying of a congestion charge, the revenue from which is used to improve public transport.
An unbureaucratic subsidy for efficient diesel soot filters via the motor vehicle tax for new vehicles and retrofitting, which the German government has decided to introduce, has been halted by the Bundesrat.
We will not let up so that the air in the cities becomes better!
Wherever possible, goods belong on the railways and not on the roads.
That's why we want to develop the truck toll further so that more goods are shifted to rail and fewer trucks bypass the highway, and we want to invest in the rail infrastructure.
We want fair competition between air and rail.
That's why we want to dismantle the tax advantages of flying, such as the VAT exemption on airline tickets, and make rail travel cheaper.
We reject government subsidies for airport expansion or new construction.
We call for greater cooperation between airports to avoid new runways.
We advocate a ban on night flights at airports close to residential areas.
We want to increasingly focus federal road construction funds on maintaining the network in line with sustainable infrastructure policy.
Environmentally friendly mobility also includes the abandonment of ecologically questionable road constructions.
We need mobility and traffic management that better organizes mobility and reduces burdens from motorized traffic.
While public transport in the area must become more similar to cars, e.g. through alternative forms of service without lines and timetables, we also demand that cars be used more like public transport and thus become more efficient: through the formation of car pools and car sharing as the fourth pillar of the environmental network "walking, cycling, public transport".
Mobility concepts developed by companies, schools, hospitals and large leisure facilities can make an important contribution to this.
In terms of funding for buses and trains, we want to build on the record level we have achieved in local and long-distance transport.
We want a reform of public transport financing with clear allocation of tasks and earmarking of funds to achieve greater transparency and competition.
With improved framework conditions for coastal shipping, environmentally compatible inland shipping and an active national ports policy, we want to exploit further opportunities to shift freight transport off the roads.
For ecological and economic reasons, we reject nonsensical expansion projects for our rivers, such as the expansion of the Elbe or Havel into water highways, as well as new barrages on the Danube.
Good environment, healthy life,
Green policies in opposition and government have contributed to a significantly improved quality of life in Germany.
But toxic chemicals in everyday life, soot particles and traffic noise, for example, continue to present us with major challenges, as do the wasteful use of scarce resources and the disposal of waste.
The protection of oceans, rivers and groundwater, forests, air and soil is the basis of all human life.
GREENS stand for precautionary environmental and health protection and want to create prosperity in a more environmentally friendly way and with fewer resources.
This is also an imperative for greater global justice and a crucial economic factor.
After all, preventive environmental protection helps to save billions of euros in costs instead of having to make expensive repairs afterwards.
The sustainability strategy for Germany is a strategic approach to reform that we intend to further develop and implement.
Environmental protection is also forward-looking industrial policy.
We had to push the German automotive industry so that it did not continue to lose market share to French competitors.
In chemicals policy, we want to ensure that the testing, evaluation and authorization of chemical substances is placed on a new footing in the interests of users and consumers.
Manufacturers must prove that their products are safe, not consumers that they are dangerous.
Whether in active noise abatement, electromagnetic radiation and mobile communications, or in chemicals policy, the Greens are committed to health-based limits,
innovative products,
greater transparency,
and precaution.
In doing so, they lay the foundation for economic development that is also sustainable.
For the Greens, water supply and wastewater disposal are components of services of general interest and must remain public tasks.
The CDU/CSU and FDP have blocked many important advances in the Bundesrat.
For us, healthy living, protection from aircraft noise and a better quality of life, which is not a question of money, remain at the top of the agenda.
Protect nature
We want to secure habitats for native flora and fauna and advocate the protection of biodiversity - not only in fenced protected areas, but also in the countryside.
Thus, at the same time, we preserve landscapes where it is a pleasure to relax and find balance and leisure.
We also want to create a network of interconnected protected areas.
The fact that Mecklenburg-Vorpommern has the highest tourism growth rates in all of Germany is not only due to the beauty of the state, but also because three national parks have been created there.
We reject the establishment of a ground-to-air firing range in Kyritz-Ruppiner-Heide.
We want soft tourism there instead of loud bombs.
A whole range of animal and plant species are acutely threatened with extinction in Germany.
Serious conflicts can arise when their last habitats are threatened by infrastructure projects, industrial settlements or other planning.
European nature conservation law then rightly sets high hurdles.
But planning can be controlled in such a way that it does not have to fail because of nature conservation.
Only the unimaginative and ideologues see the two as opposites.
We GREENS are committed to a precautionary and early balancing of interests through democratic planning processes.
We want water bodies to be able to develop naturally.
In order to bring our water bodies into good condition, nitrate pollution of ground and surface waters must be reduced, as must diffuse pollutant inputs from agriculture.
We want to reduce additional land consumption in Germany by 75 percent and give priority to inner-city development over building on greenfield sites.
We want to get at the subsidies that artificially fuel urban sprawl and land consumption.
We want to examine a sealing levy and take greater account of ecological criteria in a reform of property tax.
We stand for significantly reducing the commuter allowance and abolishing the homeowner allowance.
In the face of opposition, we learned the lesson from the devastating floods of recent years and pushed through a law on preventive flood protection.
The preservation of nationally important nature conservation areas is a task for the public sector.
We want our children to still see storks, enjoy the diversity, richness, beauty and tranquility of nature.
Those who consider nature conservation a luxury and want to save the protection of biodiversity for better times do not belong in government but in the species protection program for political dinosaurs.
Environment needs protection - effectively not bureaucratically
We want clear, lean laws and their effective enforcement to strengthen environmental policy and increase its acceptance.
A modern environmental law therefore needs an environmental code in which all environment-related laws are brought together.
That is what we want to fight for!
The key to this will be for the federal and state governments to combine much of the hitherto fragmented environmental law and to divide up responsibilities more clearly.
The planning times for infrastructure projects can be shortened without restricting participation rights for citizens.
We want clear labeling of products and an expansion of liability law so that good products quickly establish themselves on the market and environmental damage is prevented from the outset.
Unlike Merkel and Westerwelle, whose ideological attacks are aimed at lowering environmental standards, we want to reduce overregulation where it is necessary.
But we also know that reducing bureaucracy is not an end in itself:
an intact environment is a high value in itself and a positive location factor.
A strong voice for consumers
One thing you can be sure of with us Greens is an active consumer policy and consistently pursued consumer protection.
The BSE crisis had finally brought the misery in the food sector to light:
conventional agricultural policy had failed.
Green policy shows the alternative: nationally and internationally, we are committed to the agricultural turnaround, we have united the entire food production chain from field to fork under one roof
, and we have put consumers first.
People want to be safe with everything that ends up on their plate.
They want it to be good and healthy.
They want to know what's in it.
Rightly so.
However, it quickly became clear how inadequate consumer protection was in many other everyday areas as well: from harmful substances in baby jars to dubious providers of 0190 telephone numbers or insurance policies.
New products come onto the market every day, making consumer protection a permanent task.
Consumers are at the mercy of companies when they don't know what's in products.
At the same time, they face new challenges every day, such as in healthcare and retirement provision or in the digitalized world.
When people take personal responsibility, we want to secure framework conditions so that they are not ripped off.
The market alone will not by itself guide consumption and production in the ecologically and socially right direction in the interests of consumers.
They rightly demand that the business community meet them at eye level.
As Greens, we will increasingly promote information and advice services for consumers.
We take companies to task and show them ways in which they can turn consumer orientation into a locational advantage
and how assuming social responsibility can also become a competitive advantage internationally.
CDU/CSU want to abolish the Ministry of Consumer Affairs and return to a time when consumer rights had no voice in government.
Genetic food - No thanks!
The agro-genetic engineering lobby, in a grand coalition with the CDU/CSU, FDP, PDS and parts of the SPD, is launching a general attack against GMO-free agriculture and the majority of consumers.
Agro-genetic engineering, biopiracy and seed monopolies are threatening the diversity and security of our food base worldwide.
That is why the majority of consumers and farmers are right to oppose genetic engineering on their plates and in their fields.
We GREENS take people seriously.
We GREENS do not want any genetically modified food.
Agriculture and genetic engineering - that means monopolies of industrial conglomerates, that threatens GMO-free agriculture and endangers jobs in organic farming, and that means massive subsidies from public tax money and empty promises of jobs.
We do not accept attacks on consumers' freedom of choice and have introduced a Genetic Engineering Act that sets rules for the creeping introduction of genetically modified food in our fields and on supermarket shelves, ensures transparency, introduces a clear polluter-pays liability and thus successfully puts a stop to it so far.
Agricultural turnaround for nature-friendly agriculture and healthy food
Without us Greens, the agricultural turnaround would not exist.
Not in the EU and not in Germany.
Through the agricultural turnaround, we have finally begun to align the promotion of farms with sustainability criteria.
We must no longer look away from the consequences for future generations of land use that does not conserve resources.
We want good and at the same time inexpensive food.
We want to further promote organic farming as a pioneer of ecologically, socially and economically sustainable management and animal welfare.
The successful introduction of the organic label is an important part of the success story of the organic market.
The goal of BÜNDNIS 90/DIE GRÜNEN is to make products from organic farming accessible to all.
We also want to preserve biodiversity in agriculture, for example by preserving old animal breeds and plant varieties, which at the same time can help to move away from vulnerable monocultures.
Even if the EU's agricultural anchor is moving very sluggishly, the turning point has been irreversibly initiated.
At last, class and not just mass is being promoted.
This is the only way European and German agriculture can survive in international competition.
At last, grassland sites are no longer disadvantaged compared to arable farming.
EU funds must be increasingly aligned with societal goals such as resource conservation and rural development.
In this way, the potential of rural areas can also be exploited, especially in the areas of renewable raw materials and renewable energies.
The further modernization of European agriculture must also be consistently measured against the criteria of fair globalization.
Reducing traditional agricultural subsidies is an important step toward directing funds in a way that enhances the future viability of the agricultural industry.
This requires strong Greens: The CDU/CSU and the Farmers' Association have already announced that they want to maintain or reintroduce the encrustations and excesses of the outdated subsidy system.
Animals need rights
Animal welfare has achieved greater political prominence in recent years thanks to our numerous initiatives.
We will not continue to accept undignified conditions in the keeping, health and transport of animals or slaughter completely without stunning.
We reject the inappropriate keeping of wild animals in the circus.
Likewise, we reject their import as pets.
We will continue to defend the ban on the caging of laying hens against the eierbarones in the CDU/CSU and the farmers' association.
Animal testing must be consistently replaced by alternative testing methods.
We want a hunting law that finally takes into account the protection of animals, species and nature.
We have put forward very specific proposals to substantially improve fur farming.
The successful anchoring of animal protection in the Basic Law must now be followed by a right of action for animal protection associations.
Opportunities for rural areas
The agricultural turnaround has opened up new perspectives for farmers and rural areas as a whole.
The agriculture of the future needs a smart mix.
By promoting biomass and renewable energy, farmers can become energy hosts.
We have given new importance to the maintenance of the cultural landscape and nature-compatible tourism and have opened up additional sources of income for farmers.
Regional economic cycles and direct marketing additionally strengthen local value creation.
Renewable raw materials are the basis of ecological economic activity: in the generation of electricity and heat, as biofuel and as a basic material in the chemical industry, from house construction to the manufacture of canoes or bicycle helmets, their possible uses are wide-ranging.
Pollutant inputs and extreme weather conditions are taking their toll on the forest.
The forest must be protected through efforts in climate protection, air pollution control, preservation of biodiversity and near-natural management.
In addition to its ecological significance, it also plays a major role in the material and energy use of wood as a raw material.
We want to ensure the environmentally compatible use of the forest through certified management, such as with the FSC seal.
If we want to make a high quality of life in livable landscapes and good, healthy food available to everyone across the board, we have to think urban and rural together.
Healthy diet
With a change in policy, we have brought consumer protection and food safety under one roof and finally made the system more transparent.
We have placed risk assessment and crisis management in independent hands.
That was a feat of strength and we managed it in Germany and in parallel in the EU.
At last, not only food but also animal feed is being strictly controlled - after all, animal feed is the most frequent cause of food scandals.
But the additional enrichment of foods with additives also presents us with major challenges, because the boundaries to pharmaceuticals are becoming increasingly blurred here.
An important task in the future will continue to be to significantly reduce the contamination of food with pesticides or other pollutants.
More and more products are advertised as children's foods that children don't need and, above all, are too sweet, salty or fatty.
Accurate food labeling is becoming increasingly important, as children in particular are developing allergies and intolerances more and more frequently.
Improper nutrition can lead to significant health problems such as obesity and secondary diseases.
Every second person is already affected by this.
That's why we support healthy eating, exercise and stress management through a new nutrition movement.
We reject stigmatizing people based on their eating habits or body weight.
Health and pleasure complement each other.
Consumers have rights
Information must be easy to understand for everyone - old and young, and for all levels of education.
We remain committed to anchoring the right to information in a Consumer Information Act and to strengthening consumer representation through a right of action for associations, even though the CDU/CSU/FDP have already prevented this twice in the Bundesrat.
Our policy is oriented towards ensuring that everyone has access to basic services such as healthy food, sustainable energy supply, current account, reliable passenger transport, modern means of communication.
An active consumer policy supports the economy in its future viability.
It is not for nothing that successful companies in other countries are guided by an index of consumer confidence.
Some areas, such as telecommunications, financial services, e-commerce and the handling of consumer data, can only function if consumers also feel secure as contractual partners.
It is precisely here that we are ensuring greater consumer protection and thus aiming to prepare the ground for growth in the markets of the 21st century.
Protecting consumers' digital data1
The digitization of our society must not lead to restrictions on fundamental rights.
Our basic maxim here is: My data belongs to me.
This is just as true for "surfing" and e-commerce as it is for customer loyalty systems and digital cards of all kinds.
Consumers want more transparency and better protection of their privacy.
With the award of data privacy seals of approval we are planning, following independent assessment, data privacy can become a real competitive advantage.
Anonymous "surfing" and encrypted communication must also continue to be possible.
We demand a clear labeling obligation for the RFID chips used in goods logistics and the corresponding readers, as well as the obligation to deactivate the chips as soon as the goods pass into the possession of the end consumer.
It must continue to be possible to copy music for private purposes or to record films from television - even if they are digital media.
We want an assertive digital private copy in copyright law, which must not be undermined by copy protection measures.
Modern forms of media use such as file-sharing are part of today's youth culture.
We therefore reject the "criminalization of schoolyards and the right of rights holders to provide information to Internet providers.
Instead, we advocate a fair balance between the interests of consumers and the creators and exploiters of cultural goods.
The new education policy - social justice, performance and responsibility
The solidarity-based modernization of our country is inconceivable without equitable educational opportunities for all.
Education is the basis on which every person can shape life independently and take responsibility: for themselves, for society and for the environment.
Education policy is a cross-cutting task.
In a country poor in raw materials, education is the key to freedom, prosperity and social security.
For us, education is more than the accumulation of economically usable knowledge, but good education policy is always also good economic policy.
A knowledge society in the global value competition cannot afford to let talents and gifts go undiscovered.
A shrinking and aging society in particular has an increasing need for well-educated younger people and well-trained older people.
So far, however, the German education system has been selective in an almost scandalous way.
Like nowhere else in Europe, social and ethnic origin determines educational and life opportunities in our country.
We GREENS want to win you over for nothing more and nothing less than an education revolution in our country that finally gives everyone equal opportunities.
The course for the whole life is set in childhood.
Everyone - whether boy or girl - should have the opportunity to make the most of their abilities, regardless of their background or their parents' purse.
To achieve this, our daycare centers, schools and childcare services must change.
We want better services for everyone, at the top and across the board.
We must leave no child behind - all should be able to develop their talents.
That is why we are committed to individual support and to ensuring that the school of the future sees the increasing diversity of its students as an opportunity, so that everyone has better learning opportunities - the gifted as well as the disadvantaged.
The key to change in the education system is the autonomy of schools and colleges.
You must take responsibility for all students.
With independent and diverse educational institutions that are oriented toward educational standards and that are evaluated, better performance is possible than on the leash of the cultural bureaucracy.
We rely on competition for the best educational concepts and trust in the players in daycare centers, schools and universities.
We want to advocate for this new education policy at the state level and have it supported by the federal government.
Our universities should be neither pure learning and research factories nor ivory towers, but need scientific excellence as well as freedom and self-responsibility and a committed exchange with society.
We rely on a permeable education system instead of selection and exclusion, because it better meets the requirements of lifelong learning.
This also includes promoting extracurricular work with children and young people.
And education is worth something to us.
We adhere to educational federalism,
but at the same time call for uniform national educational standards for schools, universities and vocational training.
In order for the German education system to move into the international top group, we want to advocate a significant increase in funding for the education policies of the federal states as part of the federalism reform.
Promoting learning early - throughout life
We want to promote more and earlier.
In doing so, we must also reallocate in favor of the little ones.
Education begins with childcare.
That is why we want to use additional funds to improve educational quality and strengthen the educational mission of the daycare center.
We want to achieve that in the medium term the offer of a daycare center becomes free of charge starting in the last year before school.
The goal is for all children to take advantage of this offer.
The federal government must assume a share of the financial responsibility for this.
If this is followed by a school of individual support along the lines of the Pisa winners, we can also leave the tripartite school system of early selection behind us.
There, what is the goal for us applies: no child is left behind and no child is stopped.
Our all-day school program, with which we have already established this type of school in many places, helps us to do this.
In this way, we have promoted individual learning and relieved the burden on families.
Without the federal government, this success would not have been possible.
Where necessary, therefore, the federal and state governments must be able to continue to work together.
In order to increase the quality of education, we want to introduce quality standards at all levels, bring educator training up to the level of universities of applied sciences, and improve teacher training, in addition to expanding and reallocating funds.
We do not need civil servant status for this.
We want to make gender competence as well as intercultural competence a mandatory component of training.
The close connection between social background and educational success perpetuates the exclusion of children and young people with a migratory background in particular over generations.
The primary goal must therefore be to overcome the deficits of the German education system in dealing with social and cultural heterogeneity.
The acquisition of the German language is an important basic prerequisite for this, which is why the training of the pedagogical professions must be geared towards this.
Good vocational education and training is a guarantee for individual life perspectives and a modern location.
In recent years, however, demand for apprenticeships has always exceeded supply, and investment in continuing education has stagnated.
We want to change that and also ensure that large companies in particular do not shirk their social responsibility.
We have already streamlined and modernized vocational training.
Now it's up to the companies to also provide enough apprenticeships based on the improved conditions.
If the training pact cannot achieve this, we want to introduce a training levy.
Young people who have not been offered an in-company training position must be given the opportunity to receive equivalent school-based training.
They should be able to complete recognized qualification modules and degrees instead of being shunted off into waiting loops, as has been the case up to now.
In addition, we support adult learners to enable new flexible lifestyles with recurring learning phases.
In particular, we want to specifically improve services for migrants, older people, people with low incomes and low qualifications, and all those who want to get back to work.
In the future, employability will depend more and more on lifelong training;
training opportunities for older people in particular must be expanded.
Green approaches are to maintain publicly accessible and affordable continuing education for all or to expand it in line with demand, supplemented by low-interest education loans and state-subsidized education savings and a guarantee of subsistence during longer learning phases, e.g. through learning time accounts.
Catching up on school, higher education and vocational training qualifications should be promoted through an income- and asset-based system of grants and loans.
We want to support training and continuing education in the regions with a foundation for in-company training.
Sustainable universities for the knowledge society
Access to academic education is becoming increasingly crucial for individuals' chances on the labor market, but also for an emancipated, self-determined life.
In comparison with other OECD countries, especially the Scandinavian countries, Germany as a whole is at the bottom of the league in terms of the number of students.
We want the number of university graduates to increase.
University is for those who have what it takes, regardless of their parents' money.
That is why we have improved the Bafög by increasing the number of people eligible for support and limiting the loan portion to 10,000 euros.
We want to expand the Bafög to a support independent of parents.
Initial studies up to the diploma, master's degree, master's degree or equivalent shall remain tuition-free.
We want to facilitate access for qualified non-high school graduates.
We want to link university funding to a relevant extent to student demand in order to give more weight to their needs.
Vouchers, study accounts or indicator models can be used for this purpose.
At the same time, we want to give universities more autonomy, for example in the selection of students.
Universities should choose their students and students should choose their universities - both on an equal footing.
In order for students to be able to choose their university, better study conditions and a sufficient number of study places are needed.
Through fair competition, we bring more efficiency and transparency to universities.
Instead of the existing civil service law, we want a flexible collective agreement that protects young scientists and makes research and teaching as a profession possible even without a professorship.
We want to use the ongoing generational change at universities and research institutions to significantly increase the proportion of women in scientific leadership positions.
GREENS also think open university internationally.
That is why we support the Bologna Process, which aims to improve the mobility of students and academics in Europe.
This includes tiered degrees such as bachelor's and master's degrees as well as European degree programs.
They are intended to improve the international comparability of degrees and increase the diversity of study options, but not to create new barriers to access for students or to lower the qualification level of future generations of students by limiting them to short courses of study.
At the same time, we want to ensure that all degrees earned in Germany are also recognized nationwide.
We are committed - unlike the coalition government - to a democratically constituted university and to co-determination by students, staff and professors,
even if the committee structure needs to be streamlined and made more effective in many areas.
Research - Thinking tomorrow's world today
That is why attractive and reliable long-term future prospects for researchers and young scientists are more important to us than outmoded subsidies in concrete.
This can be ensured, for example, through the introduction of a performance-based science collective agreement.
We want to increase the share of research and development in gross domestic product to three percent by 2010.
In this context, we see strong and independent basic research at the universities in close connection with teaching as a decisive and sustainable means of maintaining and deepening a high level of education and a broad base for the knowledge society of the future.
We have set green accents in research policy:
Increased funding for renewable energies, renewable raw materials, gender research and the renaissance of peace research are just a few of the key words.
Here we want to follow up and reallocate the funds that the federal government spends on nuclear fission research within the framework of energy research funding to research in the field of renewable energies, among other things.
Innovative fields of the future also include medical technology, nanotechnology, communication and information technologies, and harmless forms of biotechnology.
However, an innovation debate that is only technology-centric is misleading.
We therefore also want to strengthen research in the humanities, social sciences and cultural studies, because it serves social reflection, helps to defuse intercultural conflicts at an early stage and is the first to reveal the social significance of many technological innovations.
Research needs responsibility: The GREENS are a technology-friendly party.
But we are not blind to risks, as in the case of nuclear research.
We have made technology assessment socially acceptable, and we will continue to develop it.
Ethical standards in research
Modern biomedicine has great potential, but we also see clear limits.
The careful balancing of progress and misdevelopment, of unilateral responses and multifaceted solutions, is an important political task that we must address.
Not braking, but steering - that is our guiding principle in biomedicine.
Human dignity and human rights take precedence over the research and exploitation interests of third parties.
That is why we reject research on non-consenting individuals for the benefit of others just as much as we reject consumptive embryo research and human cloning.
Cells and tissues are not commodities - not even for biomedical research.
Biomedical research must be oriented to the problems of patients, not to technical approaches.
We therefore need accompanying ethical research that is independent of direct research interests.
People who participate in research projects have a right to know that their data will not be misused by third parties.
We therefore want to introduce a research secrecy law that excludes the use of research data - for example by employers, insurance companies or the police.
Research results, on the other hand, should be made transparent in a study register in which all studies that have been started are publicly accessible.
Only legal certainty and transparency create public trust - and that is good for research.
Youth needs a future
Policy for young people is a cross-cutting task.
We always have young people in mind, whether it's access to work and training or social and health policy issues.
We want to create the social framework that ensures that all young people can realize their potential and fully develop their personalities and abilities.
The demands on young people are increasing; this must not lead to exclusion.
Disadvantaged young people in particular need individualized and tailor-made offers in labor market policy.
Green youth policy means giving all young people equal opportunities to participate in society, regardless of their social, cultural and ethnic background.
In recent years, the CDU and FDP have repeatedly wanted to cut back on the services provided under the Child and Youth Welfare Act to support young people and their families.
We want to maintain and further develop the standards in youth welfare in order to counteract a further divergence of society with serious consequences for young people.
Young people are experts in their own affairs.
We want the participation of young people.
We advocate lowering the voting age to 16 to improve political participation among young people.
Education instead of punishment - in juvenile criminal law, we are committed to strengthening the idea of education and prevention and not focusing unilaterally on repression against juvenile offenders.
Juvenile delinquency represents the beginning of a criminal career in only a few cases.
Instead of increasing the legal penalty framework, we are focusing on improving practice.
This includes a rapid response by the state and an expansion of victim-offender mediation.
We reject lowering the age of criminal responsibility and closed homes.
Right of way for children - respecting and promoting children
Together with you, we want to make our country child-friendly.
For us, solidarity-based modernization also means solidarity with the youngest and their mothers and fathers.
Children are the future of our country.
Children need right of way, respect and encouragement.
The wealth that children bring into our lives must not be allowed to become a risk of poverty for parents or single parents.
For us, family is where children are: in marriages, with birth or non-birth parents, in rainbow families, with single parents, with adoptive or foster parents.
And where there are children, politics and society have a duty.
A vibrant society needs children and cannot afford to forgo many mothers in the workforce simply because the childcare options are not right.
That is why we have improved the compatibility of family and career with the all-day school program and the law to expand childcare for under-3s.
The CDU/CSU and FDP wanted to prevent this improvement in education and care.
They are not prepared to assume their responsibility for educational design and quality by providing state funding and are still blocking the implementation of the all-day school program and its expansion.
With this policy, the black and yellow coalition is restricting the freedom of choice for a child.
This is an elitist notion of freedom, reduced to those who can afford it.
We want everyone to be able to afford family and career.
Children need their parents and they need a whole community that is aware of its responsibility for children.
State support is one thing, neighborhood assistance, strong social networks and consideration for children are another.
Children need space to run around and try things out.
And all children have the right to equal opportunities and participation in our society - regardless of their parents' background and income.
Lack of education, health, social and cultural skills, unhealthy nutrition and lack of exercise are an expression of increasing impoverishment already in childhood, which we want to decisively counteract.
This requires political decisions and a society based on solidarity.
Entitlement to Education and Care - Every Child Belongs
We need all children and want to make them strong to face the challenges of life in an increasingly complex world now and as adults.
Every child is gifted.
We are committed to ensuring that every child, regardless of gender, origin or disability, receives the best possible support and has equal opportunities to participate.
The motto is: Start smart!
Support must begin as early as possible for each child.
For this, we need a big further step forward.
That is why we stand for a legal right to childcare from the age of one.
When it comes to investing in our children's future, the federal government must not shirk its responsibilities.
The best possible support for children requires the greatest joint effort.
The municipalities must be financially equipped to meet this new legal entitlement.
The federal government must contribute to this.
Reading, writing and arithmetic are important basic prerequisites for further learning, for communication and for social participation.
Social behavior and the coexistence of genders and cultures, communication, musical skills, exercise and healthy eating, emotional intelligence are all part of holistic education.
Every child should be given the chance to develop these basic skills.
The promotion of these basic skills, too, must be integrated into all-day care for infants, children, and adolescents.
To achieve this, social workers, musicians, athletes, nutritionists, artists or craftsmen are also to be included in the school's offerings.
In addition, the offers for children and young people on site, in the district, in the clubs and neighborhood homes, but also directly at the schools must be expanded and made accessible to all.
We are focusing on expanding infrastructure without neglecting the transfer payments that are actually necessary.
We have increased benefits for families by fifty percent.
The child supplement for low-income parents as part of unemployment benefit II is a proper instrument to support families and prevent poverty.
We want to expand its scope and reach to a basic child benefit.
More space for children
The well-being of our children must be in our sights when we make policy:
In urban and traffic planning, to give children space and safety in the streets and public places.
In housing policy, to meet their space needs.
Children need exercise and healthy nutrition in daycare centers and schools.
The consequences of poor nutrition not only affect health and performance, they also shape a child's quality of life and development opportunities.
The late effects are a burden on our health care system.
We promote healthy eating to parents and educators and have begun to change eating habits by providing information to children and adults.
It is also important to better promote play, physical activity and health education in preschool and school sports.
In addition, exercise must be encouraged in everyday life, on foot and by bike, and through play- and exercise-friendly living conditions.
Support families
A family-friendly infrastructure also includes needs-based, high-quality counseling and support services for mothers and fathers.
We need low-threshold parent education services, and we need them where parents and children are.
Parents and daycare centers and schools need to work more closely together, not just when something goes wrong.
We want to promote the non-violent upbringing of children, which we have enshrined in law, through prevention programs and close cooperation between health and youth services.
Parenting is one thing.
At the same time, non-violent coexistence in schools can be supported through the training of conflict mediators or arbitrators.
In order to make children aware of their rights in accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child - which Germany must finally support unconditionally - we want to campaign for children's rights to be anchored in school curricula.
Children are more sensitive to exposure to pollutants.
Therefore, the limits must be even more consistently oriented to the reasonableness for infants and young children instead of being based on the constitution of an adult.
Equal rights - Equal opportunities - Consistent gender policy
There can be no solidarity-based modernization of society without gender justice - equal rights and opportunities for women and men in all areas of life are a prerequisite for this.
For us, opportunities for women means opportunities for all women and recognition of their different life plans and biographies.
We want women who are confident in their career paths.
We want young women studying computer science and building solar airplanes.
We want boys who become educators and fathers who take parental leave without being considered exotic.
BÜNDNIS 90/DIE GRÜNEN were the driving force behind equality policy in the coalition.
Today, we have a much higher degree of equality in politics, the workplace and society than in 1998.
Women claim leadership positions in politics, business and the media far more naturally, but the road to actual equality is still long.
Gender equality policy is a so-called hard policy area.
An offensive equality policy is a prerequisite for a modern society.
Experience from other countries shows that high female labor force participation creates more economic dynamism.
The result is more stability in the social security systems.
Targeted support for women can help increase demand for personal services.
We cannot afford to do without the ideas and creativity of women, but must encourage them through good training.
Green politics is politics for women - with priority.
We stand for women getting half the power and men getting half the responsibility.
However, hierarchies and power differentials between the sexes are far from being completely dismantled, and certainly not everywhere.
And women still bear double and triple the burden when they want to combine career and family.
The range of roles for men has not expanded to the same extent as that of women.
That is why we are committed, for example, to making it easier for men to access care and family work.
The goal of our policy is to promote the fair participation of both genders in all economic, political and social tasks.
We pay particular attention to the implementation of European and international commitments on equality.
Active for equality
When it comes to leadership positions for women, Germany ranks woefully low in international comparison.
That is why we want to continue to promote structural achievements:
Gender equality must remain a cross-cutting issue and be anchored in all policy areas, at all levels and also in households.
For this to happen, there needs to be more discussion about gender/s and their roles.
We want more women in science and research, including in top positions.
This also includes promoting gender-equitable management approaches.
We have successfully implemented the Civil Service Equality Act.
In order to achieve parity of women at all levels in the private sector in the long term, we need an Equality Act coupled with material incentive systems for employers that promote this goal.
We therefore advocate, for example, giving preference in the award of public contracts to employers who have demonstrably and sustainably ensured that there is equal representation of women at all levels and especially in decision-making positions.
The lack of representation of women in politics is a democratic deficit.
Even though more women have been in politics in recent years, they are still severely underrepresented.
We therefore demand and support measures to make all areas of life gender-equitable, including legal measures to ensure equal participation of women and men in political decision-making bodies.
Independent livelihood
We want women to be able to realize their aspirations in their professional and family lives.
The freedom to realize their aspirations, including the compatibility of professional and family success, requires courage and confidence, personal initiative and social security.
More and more women today are well educated but precariously employed with highly variable time demands and incomes.
Or they are single parents.
Solidarity-based modernization means that we must not allow any gaps in the goal of individual coverage.
That is why we need a stronger decoupling of social security from employment.
Increasing women's employment rates and securing their own livelihoods are goals of our women's policy.
We demand the implementation of the right to equal pay for equal work, equal access opportunities to all areas of work and a living wage, independent pension entitlement for women.
The Union's capitation fee for health insurance relegates them once again to the status of supplicants.
Spousal splitting sets the wrong incentives, is economically nonsensical, socially unjust and must be gradually abolished.
We need an infrastructure that enables everyone, regardless of purse and private social networks, to know their children are well cared for and with real opportunities to start in life.
We also want to create incentives for fathers to take on their share of child-rearing responsibilities.
The business community is also called upon here, e.g. by procuring company childcare facilities and family-conscious working time models.
Practical gender justice does not exist until the security of childcare that meets needs enables all women and men to plan their lives with children independently.
Women's rights are human rights
In Germany, one in four women will become a victim of domestic violence in the course of her life.
We consistently advocate the protection of women from violence.
With the Protection Against Violence Act, we have significantly improved the protection of women against violence.
A broad network of women's shelters and counseling centers is needed for all women who are victims of violence.
That is why we will work to ensure that municipalities and states provide better support for the work of women's shelters and women's counseling centers.
We need effective measures against perpetrators who stalk and threaten women.
Migrant women are particularly affected by violence.
Domestic violence, forced marriages and "honor killings" must be combated consistently, including through low-threshold counseling services.
We are committed to the consistent prevention of female genital mutilation.
These specific phenomena of male violence are human rights violations and cannot be justified culturally or religiously.
We want to give migrant women who have been forced to marry abroad a longer option to return to Germany.
We have already introduced an independent right of residence for female migrants and fought for the recognition of gender-specific persecution - against the resistance of the CDU/CSU.
We want to secure, if possible together with the self-organizations of migrants, the right to freedom, equality and above all physical integrity of women.
Trafficking in women is a form of slavery and a serious violation of human dignity.
We have tightened criminal penalties for human trafficking and forced marriage and improved victim protection.
We want to take further measures to empower victims, to better prosecute perpetrators, traffickers and clients who deliberately exploit the situation of forced prostitutes.
This includes a right to refuse to testify for the specialized counseling centers and further training for the judiciary and police, as well as a Europe-wide emergency number and improved cooperation at the international level.
We have strengthened the rights of prostitutes with the Prostitution Act.
The task now is to ensure that it is enforced so that employment relationships subject to social security contributions become a reality.
The CDU/CSU policy aims to relegate this issue back to immorality and make it taboo in the public sphere.
This is politics on the backs of prostitutes.
This kind of double standard is not to be had with us.
Right to reproductive self-determination
We want to secure and promote the right of girls and women to a self-determined life.
Therefore, we will work to ensure that their right to decide for or against pregnancy without external pressure is preserved.
Women need support in these borderline situations and no pressure, not even from the criminal law.
For us, however, the right to self-determination also means not differentiating between married and unmarried women when it comes to financing reproductive medicine.
Pregnant women must continue to have the right to refuse prenatal genetic testing.
We urgently want to improve medical education and counseling - including psychosocial counseling if a test diagnoses a disability in the unborn child.
Open Society and Democratic Participation - Strengthening Civil Rights.
We want to win you over to a modern social policy based on civil and human rights.
We see diversity as an opportunity and want to promote democratic participation.
We can only succeed in this in an open society.
A vibrant democracy requires not only the right to participate, but also the opportunity to do so.
Politics must create the conditions for this.
That is why civil and human rights are at the heart of our policy.
For us, civil rights policy is not a question of short-term tactical electoral calculations.
Unlike the FDP, we do not reduce civil rights to freedom minus justice.
For us, fundamental and human rights are indivisible.
ALLIANCE 90/THE GREENS stand for a policy of recognition and stand up against exclusion.
We promote a cosmopolitan and pluralistic civil society that respects different lifestyles and where discrimination has no chance.
No one may use violence and violate the rights of others in the name of a worldview.
Recognition and respect must go hand in hand with compliance with common and binding rules.
The yardstick for this is the Basic Law.
National and cultural borders are becoming increasingly permeable and people can more easily get in touch with each other.
We are able to communicate worldwide within seconds.
The international exchange of capital, data and goods has grown immensely.
Technical achievements are becoming ever more complex and the drive for knowledge and insight is constantly growing.
However, these developments also harbor dangers of abuse and pose new challenges to the democratic constitutional state in the 21st century.
In addition, there is a serious threat from internationally active terrorist groups.
We want to accept this challenge.
We want to make it easier to participate by increasing the opportunities for participation in the municipalities, the federal states, the federal government and in Europe
and civic engagement,
the diverse cultural scene
and promote the democratic use of new media.
The democratic constitutional state must be the guarantor of freedom, equality and social balance in order to ensure equitable social development.
In doing so, it also has the task of protecting citizens from violence, danger and injury.
A strong constitutional state, however, is never an overpowering surveillance state.
He is strong precisely because he is not allowed to do everything.
It respects the living environments in which citizens can be safe from state intervention.
We oppose those who recklessly dispose of fundamental and human rights.
The supreme principle of all state action must remain the inviolability of human dignity.
We oppose all attempts to weigh them against other legal interests.
Torture is not a tool of the rule of law.
Diversity has a future - For a policy of recognition and against exclusion
We stand for the recognition of diversity, for respect and equality of every human being.
The demand from the conservative camp to create cultural homogeneity through a guiding culture fails to recognize the diversity of our society and has a divisive effect.
We refuse to distinguish between "us" and "them" and thus reduce people to their supposed deficits and discriminate against them.
Where people from different cultures, with different abilities and life plans meet and learn from each other, there is dynamism and something new emerges.
There is enormous potential in modern, pluralistic society that is wasted without an active equality policy.
No one may be arbitrarily excluded from the market.
Everyone must have equal opportunities in accessing employment, goods and services.
That is why we need an anti-discrimination law - unbureaucratic, citizen-friendly and with a sense of proportion.
No one shall be discriminated against on the grounds of gender, ethnic origin, religion or belief, sexual identity, age or disability.
We stand up for the freedom of Christian, Jewish, Islamic and other religions, as well as the freedom to have no religion.
We want to continue to engage in a dialogue with the churches on the validity of labor and collective bargaining law in church welfare institutions.
The right of the churches to give preference to their own members through church welfare institutions remains unaffected.
This includes the legal and political recognition of Islam as a religion with equal rights and its social integration.
Equal rights for lesbians and gays
We have brought lesbians and gays from the margins to the center in society: a small cultural revolution.
We fight against exclusion and against social and institutional violence against transsexuals, intersexuals and transgender people.
The civil partnership law for lesbian and gay couples has met with great approval in society.
This prepares the ground to now also tackle the opening of marriage for same-sex couples, full adoption rights and full legal equality for lesbians and gays.
We want to strengthen social ties, not punish them.
We want to improve the legal status of non-marital cohabiting couples and bring rights and obligations into a fair relationship.
In school, different lifestyles must be treated as an important part of the curriculum, because no other place is so important for young people's personality development.
Individual compensation for Nazi victims has always been a high priority for us.
When we have budgetary leeway again, we intend to revisit our bill for a Magnus Hirschfeld Foundation.
The future task of integration
The multicultural society is a reality that we want to shape democratically.
It is enrichment and challenge.
It is not convenient, but it contains immense potential.
Migrants are a natural part of our society.
Cultural and religious diversity will increasingly characterize life in our aging society from generation to generation.
We can no longer meet these challenges with a policy on foreigners that is rooted in police and regulatory law.
That is why we have initiated a change of perspective:
Away from the old policy on foreigners and ethnic Germans and toward integration policy as a sociopolitical task for the future.
For us, integration is the process of living within a valid legal framework, with equal social opportunities and cultural self-determination.
In the medium term, we need an active immigration policy with an innovative points system.
Our country must open up interculturally - on the ground in the cities, in the regular social services, in associations, administration and politics.
The early linguistic integration of children is a key task of integration policy, but language acquisition is also essential for adults.
But only those who have access to education can integrate.
Our education system must become capable of dealing with social and cultural heterogeneity.
We are particularly committed to the further education of migrants and Germans with a migration background.
Participation in all school life must also apply to girls and be implemented consistently.
We have put an end to the lifelong lie that Germany is not an immigration country and have thus revealed integration deficits in the first place.
Living together in social diversity must go hand in hand with the recognition of common and binding rules.
The yardsticks are fundamental and human rights.
Respect for human dignity, tolerance, respect, non-violence, equality and the recognition of democratic and constitutional procedures are such basic prerequisites for living together.
A sustainable, modern integration policy cannot do without legal equality and the political integration of migrants.
We invite migrants to become citizens of this country and are committed to opening the doors - also in the upper echelons and management functions.
We advocate facilitated naturalization and generous acceptance of dual citizenship.
The automatic loss of citizenship for Germans who adopt another passport leads to considerable uncertainty and urgently needs to be reformed.
Civil and human rights for immigrants and the fulfillment of humanitarian obligations towards refugees are and remain core concerns of the policies of Alliance 90/The Greens.
This was our guiding principle in the negotiations on the Immigration Act.
Some reform approaches fell by the wayside in the conciliation process, while we were able to push through others.
In one crucial point, the claim and the reality of the law diverge.
In practice, chain tolerations still exist.
People who have lived here for many years are not given permanent residence status and thus no prospects for integration.
We see an urgent need for action here.
We advocate for a right to stay regulation.
In particular, children of refugees who have graduated from school must be given access to apprenticeships by being eligible for a work permit.
The integration courses must be accessible to all and closely linked to the measures of the Federal Employment Agency.
Funding and framework conditions for these language courses must be improved and unnecessary bureaucracy must be reduced.
We want to abolish the residence obligation, the exit centers and the airport procedure.
We clearly reject plans to set up refugee camps outside the EU.
With us, there will be no undermining of the principles of the rule of law.
Instead, we are fighting to eliminate the causes of flight.
We want to severely restrict the duration of detention pending deportation.
Particularly vulnerable persons such as minors, pregnant women, the elderly, single parents with children, the sick and traumatized persons may not be detained pending deportation.
We condemn in the strongest possible terms the form of deportations currently practiced in Germany to crisis areas such as Afghanistan.
Alliance 90/The Greens are committed to reforming the asylum law currently in force and making it more humane.
The high number of revocation proceedings initiated against positive asylum decisions by the Federal Office for Migration and Refugees is particularly problematic.
Termination of refugee status can only be considered under international refugee law if the return of the persons concerned in safety and dignity is guaranteed.
As a result of the revocation decisions, the persons concerned lose their secured status and the associated social rights (such as access to the labor market) at a time when it is completely unclear when they will be able to return home.
We will continue to advocate that the blanket initiation of revocations against entire groups of refugees be stopped and refrain from doing so in the future.
People living illegally in Germany are also entitled to basic human rights.
People must not be denied health care, schooling, and wages for their work.
It must be made clear that doctors, educators, social workers and judges must not be forced to denounce.
We are promoting a social consensus in order to make an offer of legalization to the people concerned.
We take our cue from countries such as Spain, France, Belgium, Greece and the USA.
Shaping security in accordance with the rule of law
It is the task of the state to protect citizens from terrorist attacks, crime and violence.
Following the attacks of September 11, 2001 in the United States, we were and are called upon to respond decisively and prudently to the threat posed by international terrorism
and to do justice to this task while safeguarding fundamental and human rights.
The people of our country can continue to rely on us to pay high attention to this task.
The counterterrorism laws have introduced measures that represent significant encroachments on civil liberties.
By setting time limits for laws, imposing legal hurdles and strengthening parliamentary control over their application and evaluation, we have ensured in the crucial areas that their application is limited and, in case of doubt, can be reversed.
We have abolished the leniency program, which is questionable in terms of the rule of law.
We stick to that.
Absolute security cannot exist and it would be wrong to promise it.
But here, too, we face the challenge of balancing freedom and security.
Where necessary, we then also use new ways and new technical possibilities.
For us, the prerequisite remains the protection of privacy.
We reject the rearmament of internal security pursued by the CDU/CSU.
The federal structure of the security authorities has proven its worth.
Nevertheless, cooperation between federal authorities must be improved, as must cooperation between the federal government and the states.
This must be done while strictly maintaining the separation of police and intelligence services.
We reject an amendment to the Basic Law on the deployment of the Bundeswehr within Germany; this is not necessary for the security of the people.
The prevention of danger is the responsibility of the federal states and thus of the police.
We also reject any attempt to undermine the state's monopoly on the use of force by creeping privatization of public order.
We want to counter white-collar crime more effectively.
Every year, billions of dollars are lost to the community through corruption and waste of financial resources in both the public and private sectors.
This must be countered by transparency and more responsible control, but also by means of criminal law.
The introduction of a consistent corruption register and the expansion of a binding code of conduct to protect public and private corporate assets would be a first step.
Man has a right to be left alone
This formulation of the Federal Constitutional Court in its ruling on the large-scale eavesdropping attack is the guiding principle of our policy.
Confidential communication in private rooms, on the telephone, with a pastor, lawyer or doctor must remain possible in any case.
We have developed a new concept for reforming the rampant telephone surveillance, which focuses on procedural safeguards, more effective judicial control and greater transparency.
Because Germany needs to get off its top spot in terms of the number of phone taps and clearly limit them.
We reject the big eavesdropping attack.
The data collection addiction is a serious threat to civil liberties.
We do not want to allow virtually all citizens to be placed under suspicion.
We want to take legal and technical measures to ensure that e-mails and text messages receive the same constitutional protection status as the traditional means of communication, letters and the telephone.
We reject the European plans to oblige telecommunications service providers to retain their customers' traffic data for access by the police and intelligence services.
The introduction of bio-metric passports envisaged in an EU regulation is expensive, ineffective in terms of security policy, not secure against misuse and problematic from a data protection point of view.
This EU directive may only be implemented by parliamentary act.
We have stipulated in law that there is no central reference file for biometric data.
We are sticking to this also at European and international level.
We advocate the further development and modernization of data protection.
This is a fundamental prerequisite for the further development of information technology in business, administration and everyday life.
This includes the introduction of preventive instruments such as data privacy seals of approval and audits.
We want to prevent discrimination on the basis of genetic constitution
and anchor the individual's right not to know in a genetic testing law.
Insurance companies or employers should not be allowed to access genetic data.
We reject the large-scale eavesdropping attack.
Federalism reform for clear responsibilities in the federal state
Federalism in Germany needs to be fundamentally reformed.
The excessive interdependence between the Bundesrat and the Bundestag hinders the necessary shaping processes at the federal and state levels.
It is no longer clear to citizens who makes and is responsible for which political decision.
The CDU-governed states have blocked the necessary reforms in the Federalism Commission.
We want this reform, also to strengthen the parliaments at federal and state level.
The Bundestag must deal with national issues such as the long overdue adoption of an environmental code,
The state parliaments must be able to decide on matters concerning the federal states.
We want to limit the participation rights of the Bundesrat to the real concerns of the Länder.
In European policy, the federal government's room for maneuver must be secured in order to effectively represent German interests in Europe.
In education policy, the federal government must continue to retain opportunities for participation.
In higher education policy, a reform of federalism must not lead to small-scale state structures:
Students and lecturers must be able to move easily between universities and federal states,
federal government and the states must work together on tasks such as university construction and research funding, but there must be structural reforms without financial cutbacks,
and the German science system must be represented by the federal government at the international level.
We want to give the state parliaments more of their own responsibilities again.
The regulatory competence for the civil service of the states or for areas of organization close to the citizen, such as the closing time for stores, is to be transferred from the federal government to the states.
However, we remain committed to the state goal of equal living conditions.
In the area of internal security, the federal states must remain responsible.
Shifting responsibilities to the federal government leads to duplicate structures and thus compromises public safety.
A reform of the fiscal constitution must strengthen the fiscal autonomy of the Länder
and at the same time safeguard the solidarity-based fiscal equalization system.
Strengthen cities and municipalities
We stand by local self-government in Germany.
It strengthens the ability to act locally and enables active participation by citizens.
A solid financial basis is essential.
We are sticking to the trade tax and want to develop it into a municipal business tax.
All local economic operators should participate in the financing of municipal tasks.
We want to strengthen the property tax in its character as a municipal property tax and as a counterpart for municipal infrastructure.
We want to help municipalities have a greater say in federal and state legislation.
We advocate for the right of municipalities to be heard at the federal level.
In recent years, we GREENS have responded to the challenges of economic and demographic change with an activating and innovative urban development policy and set the course for stock preservation and stock renewal.
Urban development funding, Urban Redevelopment West and East and the Socially Integrative City program therefore remain indispensable federal instruments for urban renewal and the social and economic stability of our cities and communities.
It is important to build on this.
Socially stable urban neighborhoods, affordable housing, sustainable mobility concepts and more green open spaces are the prerequisites for an improved urban quality of life and effective instruments against urban migration and urban sprawl.
The future of our cities lies in child- and elderly-friendly urban design.
Population decline and housing vacancies are increasingly threatening the economic basis of many cities and regions.
The federal and state governments must continue to help municipalities develop adaptation strategies for population decline and support them in maintaining the necessary infrastructures.
However, this is not enough.
In the future, we will need an integrative urban policy that brings together economic, social, ecological and spatial policy goals and instruments more strongly than before and focuses on the common goal of strengthening cities.
To achieve this, the financial resources of the federal government, the states and the European Union must be pooled across departments.
In the course of the reform of federalism, the position of local self-government is also to be expanded and its protection against state intervention strengthened.
The federal government may not transfer tasks to the municipalities without providing for their financing.
Citizen-friendly and strong judiciary
People need to be assured that they will be able to enforce their rights in a reasonable amount of time, regardless of their pocketbook.
We reject an expansion of fees in social court proceedings.
Justice is not cheap - cheap justice is nothing.
In particular, we want to exploit potential savings through efficient organization in the judiciary without curtailing people's legal protection and impairing the independent position of judges.
Judgments must be reviewable as a matter of principle, because legal recourse is the central guarantee in the constitutional state.
The procedural regulations must be further developed and simplified.
Reform of sanctions law is overdue.
We need a law on pretrial detention.
In juvenile criminal law, the aim is to strengthen the idea of education and to regulate the execution of juvenile sentences by law.
We want to strengthen victim counseling.
We reject the regular application of adult criminal law to adolescents and preventive detention for juveniles.
We want to strengthen mediation as a means of dispute resolution.
Crime does not stop at national borders; neither
does the validity of civil and human rights.
A prerequisite for European law enforcement cooperation is therefore that the rule of law guarantees for the accused keep pace with this development.
Today, unfortunately, these are lagging behind.
The minimum rights in criminal proceedings must meet high standards.
We want a rational drug policy for greater safety, based on the triad of prevention, assistance and decriminalization.
Criminalizing users is the wrong way to go if responsible drug use is the goal.
In the case of soft drugs such as cannabis, we want to enable a legal form of dispensing - as in the Netherlands - while taking into account the protection of minors.
Furthermore, we advocate reasonable regulations and limits in the area of road traffic.
For heavy addicts of so-called hard drugs, we want controlled medical dispensing (heroin project).
Interference desired!
Democracy thrives on the active involvement of citizens.
Participation means actively helping to shape the future.
Anyone who wants to get involved and exercise their civil rights needs information.
The administration must let the citizens look at its cards.
This is why we fought for the Freedom of Information Act, which represents a paradigm shift from official secrecy to a modern and transparent state.
We bring citizens closer to parliament.
By introducing popular initiatives, referendums and plebiscites at the federal level, we want to expand direct participation - while guaranteeing fundamental rights and the protection of minorities.
By strengthening the right to petition, we are keeping the channels of communication open between individual citizens and Parliament.
Further, we are committed to a constitutional amendment that would allow all immigrants with settlement rights to vote in local elections.
We want to give young people a voice through strong youth representation at all political levels and through the right to vote from the age of 16.
Democratic participation also brings Europe closer to the people.
The Bundestag must be more involved in European legislation.
Europe's citizens must be able to vote directly on important issues.
Therefore, we will advocate for a referendum at the European level.
Civic engagement is the breeding ground on which a vibrant democracy thrives.
Commitment needs recognition and encouragement - e.g. through the insurance cover we have introduced for volunteers - but not coercion.
By expanding youth voluntary services, we want to adapt the range of services to the high demand from young people.
Youth Volunteer Services are an important place of learning between school and work, offer orientation and strengthen independence.
We want to promote the commitment of the young elderly and those who are not gainfully employed or who are reorienting themselves professionally with age-open, flexible volunteer services.
Because many people sit at home with the feeling that they are not needed or no longer needed.
But our society depends on the potential of these people.
Those who do something for the common good also do something for themselves.
Right-wing extremists not a chance
The fight against right-wing extremism, anti-Semitism, racism and xenophobia is central to the policies of Alliance 90/The Greens.
The NPD is not only causing one scandal after another in the Saxon state parliament.
The number of right-wing extremist and racist crimes is on the rise, including acts of violence.
Anti-Semitism and other misanthropic attitudes are finding their way into the "center of society."
A central point is the education about the crimes of the Nazi era - in schools, media, through memorials such as the former concentration camps, the memorial for the murdered Jews of Europe and other memorials for Sinti and Roma and homosexuals.
We need a culture of remembrance that does not obfuscate, but enlightens and draws lessons from the Nazi era.
There cannot be a final stroke.
For this reason, the continuity of personnel between the Nazi regime and state authorities in the East and West after 1949 must also be further investigated historically.
Historical and political education must be complemented by human rights education that teaches democratic values at an early stage and formulates solidarity as a learning goal.
This includes a climate of recognition, participation and fairness, especially in our schools.
The most effective means against right-wing extremists is an active democratic civil society.
We must create a social climate that removes the ground from right-wing extremism and outlaws right-wing extremist propaganda and all forms of racism.
We must make right-wing extremist structures transparent and remove their financial and logistical breeding ground.
Right-wing extremist propaganda activities must be prevented by all means under the rule of law.
We oppose attempts by the Union to stigmatize initiatives against the right.
We need attractive democratic networks that make counter-offers.
At the federal level, we defend civil society programs for democracy and against right-wing extremism and ensure their continued funding.
Especially people who have the impression that they are not needed by our society, perceived as a burden and treated unfairly, we want to strengthen against brown propaganda.
We want to encourage those responsible in the police, judiciary and administration to take consistent action against right-wing extremism.
We must give a chance to those who want to leave the right-wing extremist scene.
Young people can find their way back into civil society via exit programs.
Existing programs need to be evaluated and further developed.
We want to sensitize police, judicial and administrative officials to take a closer look at right-wing extremism.
Strengthen cultural spaces
We GREENS support a strong and diverse cultural scene.
We want to defend their free spaces and strengthen their role in the public sphere.
Free cultural centers and opera house, film and visual arts, theater and club, literary house and catwalk are all important to us.
They contribute equally to the aesthetic and ethical orientation of our society.
Culture and art - especially contemporary cultural institutions and art forms - are social impetus and lifeblood.
Culture is also a condition for a democratic society
and a central dimension of a self-determined life.
Therefore, it must also be promoted where it does not "pay off" directly.
We oppose the political reduction of culture to a purely economic location factor.
We fight for the freedom of culture and the arts, even beyond the mainstream.
In large cities as well as in the countryside, public cultural spaces are under massive threat - in many villages, youth centers and cinemas are closing, and in cities, cultural initiatives are being squeezed out by shopping malls.
We are committed to a vibrant culture in cities and communities.
We are countering the increasing desolation of the inner cities with an idea of urban culture based on diversity and encounter.
Villages must not become zones of cultural wasteland.
Especially there are many people who make music or play theater.
Young people in particular need public places for creativity and exchange.
The preservation and creation of the cultural infrastructure of youth centers, studios, rehearsal spaces, municipal theaters, performance and exhibition venues is therefore the goal of our policy - whether under state sponsorship or through the promotion of private, self-organized initiative.
In order to ensure this, Alliance 90/The Greens are committed to strengthening the municipalities financially in the performance of their cultural tasks as
well as to strengthening civic engagement in the cultural sector.
Artists in Germany need an appropriate tax and legal framework.
Their social situation must be improved and young artists must be supported in a variety of ways.
When introducing the citizens' insurance, we want to support the living and earning situation of members of the artists' social insurance fund.
We advocate the continuation of the Enquete Commission on Culture in Germany.
We want to strengthen the Federal Cultural Foundation and the Capital Cultural Fund, because they play a crucial role in promoting a vibrant cultural landscape.
We support the recommendation of the Enquete Commission to include the protection and promotion of culture in the Basic Law.
Cultural policy is peace policy.
Foreign cultural policy and cross-cultural art are among the most important instruments for international understanding and relations.
Foreign cultural policy should therefore be strengthened, especially the non-governmental intermediary organizations such as the Goethe Institutes and the DAAD.
The intensification of international cultural exchange is just as necessary as the stronger dovetailing of foreign and domestic cultural policy.
We want to push ahead with the resolution and subsequent ratification of the "UNESCO Convention on Cultural Diversity".
We want to finally ratify the UNESCO Convention on "Measures to Prohibit and Prevent the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property."
A common Europe needs a cultural charter that aims at cultural understanding among nations.
Using media democratically
Information is one of the most important resources of our time.
Media competence - in the practical use of media as well as in terms of content evaluation - is therefore one of the key qualifications of the 21st century.
We are committed to a democratic and open information society with a diverse media landscape in which everyone can participate.
For us, an individual and free opinion mandate also means respecting the privacy of women and men and presenting the reality of women and men without discrimination.
We are committed to embedding gender equity in the media.
Federal and state media policy must create the appropriate framework conditions for this.
This includes, in particular, maintaining a diverse press and broadcasting landscape.
To achieve this, we need more effective supervisory structures and a permanent safeguard for the dual broadcasting system with sustainable public broadcasting and citizens' media such as open channels and free radios.
Public broadcasters must commit to their educational mission.
We want to expand citizens' and users' rights and
at the same time provide the economy with the necessary framework conditions for innovations to flourish.
We want to enable access to the Internet for all citizens.
This includes barrier-free Web offerings for the blind as well as courses tailored to the special needs of children or seniors.
The Internet enables fast, unbureaucratic dialog with politicians and administrators, but also increased bureaucracy reduction and greater efficiency.
We want to take advantage of these opportunities the network offers for more democracy and transparency.
We support new models and initiatives for the widest possible dissemination of knowledge and the creation of creative outputs, such as Open Access or Creative Commons.
We want to promote Free Software and Open Standards more strongly and will continue to vehemently oppose the patenting of software.
State-funded knowledge and scientific findings, e.g. in legal texts or scientific publications, must be as freely accessible as possible.
State-funded knowledge, e.g. in legal texts or scientific publications, should be as freely accessible as possible.
Many citizen media - e.g. portals, WIKIS, forums - have long taken place on the Net and must be able to develop as freely as possible.
To improve the dissemination of knowledge, universities, libraries and research institutions need modern usage and access options.
More sport and play for an active society
We advocate for better framework conditions for sports and exercise.
Both popular and professional sports play a key role here, strengthening integration and health prevention.
There must be a new offensive in the (re)construction of sports facilities and we need more sports opportunities for a play- and exercise-friendly environment.
In doing so, we want to observe the principles of ecology, sustainability and demographic development.
Being able to win and lose with each other, and playing sports in community are important experiences in all age groups, in addition to health prevention, that strengthen civil society and civic engagement.
We want to promote voluntary involvement in sports.
Through sport, bridges are built and connections are forged around the world.
It is therefore a particularly suitable means in international cooperation to achieve more cultural exchange and international understanding.
We demand a "clean", i.e. doping-free and fair, top-class sport.
We want to use the opportunities offered by the 2006 World Cup and other major sporting events in our country to make it clear that Germany is a modern, cosmopolitan and sports-friendly country.
We expressly support the organizational reform of German sports, with the aim of merging the German Sports Confederation and the National Olympic Committee into a lean and powerful sports organization.
Europe in One World.   Shaping globalization fairly
Solidarity-based modernization does not end at our borders.
We are not resigned to the fact that tens of thousands of people die every day as a result of poverty, while 20 percent of humanity consumes around 80 percent of resources.
International justice is also in our very own interest;
we too live better and safer lives when global injustice is reduced.
In Germany, the reference to globalized markets and worldwide competition is used by many as an argument to justify, justify and present as inevitable the relocation of jobs abroad and the lowering of social and environmental standards.
We are not resigned to this either - we want to shape globalization politically.
We Greens see globalization as a risk, but also as a great opportunity for more democracy and prosperity in the world.
But we take a critical view of the current form of globalization and say:
Globalization must not be a process of unbridled economization and needs social and ecological guard rails.
The scale and speed of globalization require the development of supranational institutions to maintain the primacy of politics under conditions of globalization.
Peace, security, non-violence, human rights, development, environmental protection, sustainability and the fight against poverty
are the benchmarks of GREEN foreign policy, as are the promotion of democracy and the rule of law.
In doing so, we are committed to strengthening multilateralism and to upholding and developing international law.
And we are counting on a more effective, more democratic EU that speaks with one voice as a strong global player.
On the basis of universal human rights, the South must find itself on an equal footing in globalization with its cultural diversity and ideas.
Reforms for a goal of the century
In September of this year, the UN General Assembly will set the course for world politics.
At its core is the question of whether poor and rich countries can find common answers to the global challenges of the 21st century.
The Millennium Development Goals were formulated five years ago, such as the goal of halving the number of extremely poor and hungry people by 2015.
Far too little has been done since then to implement these goals.
We urge that words finally be followed by deeds and that the proposals drawn up by UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan in this regard be implemented.
We need not only good will but more money for development and, above all, other structures.
Fair globalization needs reformed institutions, and this applies to the United Nations as well as to the World Trade Organization (WTO), the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank.
We are committed to comprehensive UN reform.
We want to make the United Nations more effective and better interlink it with other institutions in the interests of good global domestic policy.
We want to give greater weight to economic and social concerns and upgrade the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC).
In the IMF, we are seeking a stronger voting weight for developing countries.
We want to strengthen environmental structures and expand the United Nations Environment Programme into a UN Environment Organization (UNEO).
Opinion-forming and decision-making in the UN and the Security Council must become more representative and transparent.
Among other things, we advocate the establishment of a Parliamentary Assembly as a consultative body for the UN.
The Commission on Human Rights should be fundamentally reformed and upgraded.
For all of this, we are ready to take more responsibility in reforming the UN.
Our long-term goal remains joint permanent EU representation on the UN Security Council.
With regard to the WTO, we stand for granting developing countries fair access to our markets, advancing the agricultural turnaround internationally, ending unfair (export) subsidies by industrialized countries, and taking into account the protection interests of weaker countries.
Opening up the markets of the industrialized countries, removing trade barriers and dismantling ecologically harmful and economically nonsensical agricultural subsidies are essential if developing countries are to be given the chance to increase their prosperity by their own efforts.
The export of subsidized sugar must be stopped and cotton subsidies in the EU and the USA must be further reduced.
Trade must observe the standards of multilateral environmental agreements as well as the law of the inter-national labor organization.
We support the promotion of minimum social and environmental standards.
Our goal is to anchor such standards in the World Trade Organization in the medium and long term.
We want to actively strengthen trade with "fair products".
That is why we want to work towards ensuring that fair-trade products are preferably used in the German administration.
We want to ensure food security and the human right to food in international negotiations, as well as access to clean water, essential medicines, contraceptives and seeds.
The Millennium Development Goals have not yet been sufficiently reflected, especially in IMF and World Bank policies.
That has to change.
Developing countries need room for maneuver.
Neither the industrialized countries nor the developing countries and their governments can be released from their responsibility.
Good governance and the fight against corruption are key prerequisites for successful development and should be taken into account in further debt relief.
The transparency needed to fight corruption is a requirement not only for developing countries, but also for the international corporations operating there.
Democracy and development cannot be realized without the inclusion of the gender perspective and the assertion of women's rights.
That is why we want to consistently strengthen this perspective at European and international level.
In 2000, a number of African countries launched the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD).
Today, the first results are visible: A growing number of African countries are accepting civil society democratic self-regulation and taking steps toward good governance, fighting corruption and strengthening women's rights.
We are committed to dialogue on an equal footing and to a policy that treats our reform-oriented partners with respect.
In recent years, we Greens have shown that important impulses for a fairer shaping of globalization can also come from the national level:
in the reorganization of European agricultural policy
and in international climate protection
as well as in the resolute "No" to the war in Iraq
or the commitment to peace in the Middle East.
Understanding peace and security comprehensively
For us Greens, the concept of extended security is at the heart of our foreign and security policy.
It emphasizes civil conflict transformation, cooperative development, poverty alleviation, environmental preservation, and advocates human rights, democracy, nonviolence, and the rule of law, and includes dialogue among cultures and religions.
Conflicts over scarce resources, HIV/AIDS, failing states, international terrorism, and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction threaten collective security.
They also touch us, because shared security no longer exists.
The attacks in New York, Madrid, Istanbul, London and many other places have dramatically demonstrated this to us.
But to counter these risks, preventive wars or cultural confrontation are wrong and counterproductive.
Our security policy is not limited to half of humanity:
Especially in violent conflicts, women are victims of violence in many ways, but they are also the main forces behind reconstruction.
Therefore, we advocate for a gender-responsive peace and security policy, for which UN Resolution 1325 'Women's Peace Security' is an important basis.
We also support Kofi Annan's proposal for an international terrorism convention.
Germany makes civilian, police and military contributions to peacekeeping and peace consolidation on behalf of the UN and within the framework of the EU, NATO and the OSCE.
The military missions in the Balkans and Afghanistan were also very controversial in our party and still are to some extent.
The presence of German soldiers in ISAF and KFOR operations today serves to contain violence and is a prerequisite for peaceful reconstruction.
Decades of development and reconstruction can be destroyed overnight by civil wars, genocide and massacres.
Without peace there is no development.
Under Red-Green Germany actively contributed to the creation of more peace and security in the Balkans, East Timor and Africa, even if this required the courage to walk a tightrope (Afghanistan).
We support the development of a common EU foreign and security policy
and its clear commitment to the UN Charter.
We also want to exploit potential savings in military budgets through greater cooperation between states.
Transatlantic cooperation remains a cornerstone of German foreign policy.
And we will actively engage in the development of a new transatlantic agenda.
In doing so, we are committed to effective multilateralism, but against going it alone and against any strategy that weakens the UN and undermines international law.
For this reason, and because of the devastating consequences to be expected, we opposed the war in Iraq.
For the same reason, we call for clear support from all parties for the EU's negotiating approach in the nuclear dispute with Iran.
We support dialogue and democratization in the Middle East.
Whether vis-à-vis China or in the case of Russia's war in Chechnya, we actively advocate human rights.
We have been actively engaged against human rights abuses in Sudan.
We have taken a clear position on the prison scandal in Abu Ghraeb and on the military detention center in Guantánamo Bay.
Africa is still a continent with many crisis areas and bloody civil wars.
That is why we Greens are resolutely committed to sustainable peace development in Africa.
This also includes strengthening the African Union and a peace-oriented development policy.
The primacy of civil conflict transformation and violence prevention must be reflected financially at the international, European and national levels.
It was we GREENS who pushed civil crisis prevention in the policies of the German government.
The Center for International Peace Operations (ZIF) and the new Crisis Prevention Action Plan are regarded internationally as exemplary.
We want to strengthen state and civil society capabilities for civil crisis prevention (including the Civil Peace Service and the Peace Research Foundation) in terms of personnel, funding and structure by means of a civil deployment law.
We continue to advocate that the European Civil Peace Corps finally be implemented and that a Civil Peace Management and Disarmament Agency be established.
Less armaments means more security
The path to peace and equitable globalization also leads through disarmament.
Globally, we are committed to international disarmament, arms limitation and the strengthening of arms control regimes, which must always include dual-use goods.
The EU should seize the opportunity to distinguish itself as a security policy actor in the field of international arms control.
We are also prepared to take unilateral steps.
Armaments tie up money that is urgently needed for more development.
Small arms, which are available in large numbers, represent one of the greatest threats to people in crisis regions today.
Especially since a high proportion of these weapons are manufactured under German license, we feel a special responsibility to combat their uncontrolled proliferation more effectively.
Landmines, cluster bombs and radioactive munitions have a long-lasting effect after the end of a conflict and primarily affect the civilian population;
we are committed to a comprehensive ban on these weapons and want to continue to actively support their clearance.
In Germany, we want to work to ensure that the nuclear weapons stationed here are withdrawn and rendered harmless.
In this way, we are contributing to the emergence of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Europe and to an urgently needed progress in disarmament.
We want to work to ensure that no nuclear weapons can be deployed from military bases in Germany
and to enforce Germany's renunciation of so-called nuclear sharing.
In recent years, we have pushed through a tightening of arms export guidelines and improved transparency in this area.
Hampered by a lack of parliamentary participation rights, it was only Alliance 90/The Greens that opposed the expansion of arms exports, including to problematic recipients.
In the interests of forward-looking security policy, we want to impose clearer limits on the export of military equipment in Germany and the EU, make it more transparent and subject it to parliamentary scrutiny.
As one step, we are seeking to abolish the legal right to export licenses for military equipment enshrined in the Foreign Trade and Payments Act, so that arms deliveries to crisis regions and authoritarian regimes can be prevented more easily and consistently than before.
We strongly oppose the lifting of the arms embargo against China.
Armaments policy as a whole must become more transparent.
We seek to push back the influence of the arms industry on political decisions and strengthen the parliamentary role in this area.
We want to critically examine military acquisitions for their necessity and appropriateness.
As a basis for a broad public discussion on the sense or nonsense of individual armaments projects, planned projects must be made public in good time.
We will continue to oppose the construction of an air-ground firing range in Kyritz-Ruppiner Heide.
Our goal is the definitive end to such plans.
The cost of about 250 million euros for a senseless military project would be irresponsible.
Abolish conscription - enable the Bundeswehr for the UN
The transformation of the Bundeswehr for international crisis management was overdue.
However, where tasks and operational areas experience an increasing dissolution of boundaries, clear limits must be drawn.
The Bundeswehr may be deployed exclusively for the purposes and in accordance with the rules of the UN for the prevention of violence and law enforcement in the service of collective security.
Power-based interventionism runs counter to this.
Wars must not be a means of politics.
We have begun reforming the Bundeswehr and redesigning it so that it can meet modern requirements, but its deployment is strictly tied to a UN mandate.
Compulsory military service can no longer be justified in terms of security policy.
Without this justification, the encroachment on the fundamental rights of young men is no longer acceptable, even from the point of view of military justice.
That is why we are fighting for their abolition and want to replace them with a voluntary flexible short service.
We want to use the funds freed up in the area of civilian service to expand voluntary services and create regular employment relationships.
More money for justice - Effective use of funds
Fair globalization costs money.
We have been the driving force behind Germany's commitment to provide 0.51% of gross domestic product as official development assistance by 2010 and 0.7% by 2015.
At present, however, we are still a long way from achieving these goals.
Germany is not alone in this respect by international standards.
Other countries have not noticeably increased their development aid either.
That's why we need to work together to find new ways of financing development.
We are therefore increasingly focusing on international and European cooperation and are pushing ahead with the introduction of international taxes.
We support the Europe-wide introduction of a kerosene tax, which has many advantages from a green perspective: On the
one hand, it has an ecological steering effect, and on
the other, it can generate revenue to finance development.
To counteract the dwindling national room for maneuver, we are focusing on drying up tax havens worldwide and combating currency speculation.
We welcome and support the initiative of the parliaments of Belgium and France to introduce a more advanced Tobin tax, initially at European level.
It is intended to help limit harmful foreign exchange speculation
and also generate revenue for development financing.
The task also lies in spending these funds effectively, fairly and without paternalism.
This also includes the aspect of gender equity.
Democratization also requires the establishment of solidarity-based, socially graduated tax systems.
However, money alone will not solve the problems of developing countries.
We want to significantly improve the quality of development cooperation and European cooperation in this area in order to solve global problems.
As the number of hungry people has actually increased in recent years, rural development must be given greater priority in the future.
We are focusing on promoting land reforms and resource-conserving, adapted agriculture that also gives small farmers more development opportunities.
Also to improve water and energy supply, basic education, to develop basic health services and social security systems, to contain HIV/Aids, malaria and tuberculosis
and for the expansion of protected areas that serve to preserve biodiversity, enormous additional efforts are required.
This includes Germany increasing funding for the Global Fund to fight HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.
Innovative forms of financing must also be used for this purpose.
The reform of foreign economic policy that we have begun must be continued.
It is ecological
and development-friendly.
Government export credit insurance also plays an important role.
We want to continue the ongoing reform of the guidelines for Hermes guarantees and increase transparency,
ensuring high international environmental standards
and anchor better protection of human rights in them.
We GREENS understand justice not only as a national task, but as a goal of our GREEN foreign policy.
That is why we want to give a voice to weaker countries and actively advocate for them.
Human rights without discount
There must be no human rights discount and no double standards - in the fight against terrorism as well as in the shaping of political cooperation.
Human rights are universally valid and indivisible.
Stability comes from democracy and freedom,
not from disregard for human rights or repressive measures.
With the establishment of the International Criminal Court, human rights and the fight against impunity and tyranny have won an important victory, but we are not satisfied with it.
We defend the Court against hostility and efforts to create exception clauses.
And we are pushing for the U.S. to finally join the Court.
We also want to strengthen our human rights work at the regional level.
The OSCE is an important partner in this.
ALLIANCE 90/THE GREENS stands for strengthening people's economic, social and cultural rights as well.
Minimum social standards and compliance with them are the prerequisite for a decent life - everywhere.
Women in particular are denied their rights in many places.
This is not only scandalous in terms of human rights.
We also fight for the integrity of women in development policy.
In particular, we oppose female genital mutilation.
Studies have shown that wherever women's rights are massively restricted, economic and social development also fails to advance.
We strongly support projects and programs that promote women and girls and strengthen women's rights.
Citizens for Europe: Getting Europe in good shape
European unification is a successful project that has brought more than fifty years of peace, security and prosperity.
With the accession of the Central and Southeastern European countries last year, the division of the continent was finally overcome.
Many tasks cannot be solved at the national level.
Within the framework of the EU, we can develop the creative power needed to secure the foundation of the social market economy.
From A for education to Z for immigration, Europe brings solutions with added value for all.
The Greens come from the European civil rights movements, among others.
We were the force that advocated the European Constitution from the very beginning.
We were the first pan-European party to set a good example.
BÜNDNIS 90/DIE GRÜNEN are the European party.
After the French and Dutch no to the EU Constitutional Treaty, we do not want a return to national egoism.
We understand the rejection as an expression of concerns about one's own social and economic situation, as criticism of individual EU projects and as a rejection of national governments.
A common constitution for Europe remains our explicit goal.
We therefore regret the failure of the ratification process in the referenda.
We therefore want to commit ourselves to ensuring that the European Parliament and the national parliaments, together with the citizens, make a new start where governments have not made any progress.
We advocate that the European Parliament take the initiative for a Europe-wide referendum on Europe Day 2007.
European citizens should vote on the institutional framework and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the current Constitutional Treaty, which are similar to a national constitution.
In doing so, we want to provide the EU with the necessary, democratic, transparent and effective framework for its actions.
We are counting on a Europe-wide referendum to decide the constitutional question.
In order to prepare for a European referendum on a new constitutional framework for the EU, we want a broad social discussion that is European in content and form.
We call for sectoral and Europe-wide citizens' forums.
The citizens' forums are to be initiated from civil society and through impetus from parliaments at all levels and will take place starting in the fall.
However, we do not want citizens' forums only at the national level, but we want civil society organizations in all their diversity to lead this discussion together across national borders.
Through such citizens' forums, we want to invite celebrities from sports, culture and entertainment to contribute to a European public sphere.
The task of the national parliaments, the European Parliament and the EU Commission is to coordinate and finance them.
National parliaments have an important role to play in mediating and shaping this process.
This requires a great deal of exchange and dialogue - but we believe this is urgently needed.
And we are confident that the citizens can be won over to a democratically constituted EU that offers future prospects for 450 million people.
More European democracy and transparency
We want a Europe of citizens.
Europe is more than that of governments.
In order to advance Europe as a joint project of its citizens, we call for more democracy and transparency, a Europe based on solidarity and ecology,
and the EU as a responsible partner vis-à-vis neighboring states.
We need a significant strengthening of the European Parliament as the direct representation of citizens.
We consider the introduction of a Europe-wide citizens' petition upon submission of one million signatures to be correct and important.
We stand for an EU that ensures equality and protection against discrimination in all member states.
Refugee protection includes the duty' to ensure that those who need this protection actually have access to the EU.
We clearly reject the idea of building refugee camps in third countries, such as North Africa and Ukraine.
Europe needs a European public sphere.
The prerequisites are the Europeanization of the media, more transparency and lively exchange.
We support the civil rights movements throughout Europe, which, as recently in Ukraine and Georgia, have contributed decisively to democratization and peace.
A Europe based on solidarity and ecology
Both the new and the old member states benefit from the European single market.
But Europe is more than a common market.
A European economic area is unthinkable for us without social and ecological standards.
Intra-European competition must not lead to tax, social and ecological dumping.
We need common European tax bases and a common tax corridor to slow the erosion of national tax revenues.
We want to strengthen the compatibility of European social security systems.
We also want to counter the intensifying wage competition throughout Europe with minimum wage regulations.
We oppose a services directive that uses the principle of origin to build up pressure on social, eco-logical and labor standards.
However, it should not be forgotten that one of the core ideas of Europe is to overcome borders between states.
Our goal is full freedom of movement in Europe.
At the European level, too, the following applies: consumer protection,
sustainable management
and ecology secure the foundations of life for us and for future generations.
Ambitious ecological targets and standards are also the prerequisites for economic modernity and innovation, which will make us competitive in the long term against the other two major economic areas, the USA and Asia.
In the upcoming financial negotiations, we will advocate that the Federal Republic continue to make an appropriate contribution to a budget that corresponds to the increased tasks of the EU.
But this also requires that the EU's internal policies be reformed where necessary.
In particular, we stand for a more far-reaching reform of the Common Agricultural Policy.
We want to reduce rebates to individual states.
Responsible partner vis-à-vis neighboring states
The need for change that we declare vis-à-vis Europe must not lead us to slam the door in the face of countries like Turkey or the Balkan states that are hoping for Europe.
Europe does not end at the borders of the EU.
We are committed to further intensifying the EU's neighborly relations with the non-member states of Eastern and Southeastern Europe and the countries of the Southern Mediterranean.
In many countries, the prospect of membership has led to stabilizing the internal democratization process and triggering social change.
For us, the memory of Srebrenica is linked to a special responsibility for the perspective of the countries of the Western Balkans into the European Union.
We want Turkey to become a modern and democratic country.
We welcome and support the debate in Turkish civil society about the dark chapters of its own history, as in the Armenian question.
We want civil rights, women's rights, ethnic minorities as well as religious and ideological communities to be respected in Turkey.
We want to further promote the path of democratic modernization in Turkey with the start of long-standing accession negotiations.
Turkey's path to Europe is also a contribution to security in Europe and in the world.
The CDU and CSU and populists on all sides are stirring up existing resentments and exploiting them to prevent negotiations with Turkey.
There is no compromise for us on issues of human rights and democracy.
