Strengthening the center. Germany Program 2009 Program of the Free Democratic Party for the 2009 Bundestag Elections adopted at the Federal Party Congress in Hanover, May 15-17, 2009.
1. preamble: strengthening the center
People are at the center of liberal politics.
We stand up for the freedom of the individual in responsibility for a better future of our country.
We want a liberal civil society in which individuals do not live in isolation from their fellow citizens, but together with them in a community of values.
It is characterized by openness to the world, tolerance and solidarity and is committed to human dignity.
In a liberal civil society, citizens decide on the future of Germany.
Liberal civil society thrives on people's commitment and political participation.
Because it is through them that policy is shaped.
It draws its strength from the initiative and creativity of its citizens.
It is facing up to the many challenges of demographic change.
We liberals trust in people's willingness to perform and in
a state that draws its strength from limiting itself to its sovereign tasks.
We address all mature and responsible citizens.
They recognize for themselves what needs to be done and do not need a patronizing state bureaucracy to do it.
The FDP is the party for everyone who wants to shape their own lives and not be patronized by the state.
We want to redefine the standards of political action: Freedom before equality,
Generate before distributing,
Private before state,
Personal responsibility instead of faith in the state,
Equal opportunities instead of egalitarianism.
Anyone who wants more freedom and equal opportunities in Germany needs a strong FDP.
We advocate more freedom and responsibility and less government paternalism.
Freedom is more than an abstract concept.
It is the basis for the free development and unfolding of the personality.
The yardstick of all politics must be freedom.
Because only it expands the scope for action.
Our realistic view of the present provides answers and proposed solutions that are free of ideological delusion.
We want to seize the opportunities of the future by successfully mastering its challenges.
This also includes defending the freedoms that we enjoy as a matter of course in Germany today.
We are not willing to give up civil liberties for a deceptive security.
We liberals stand for a policy that is based on respect for civil rights.
and the constitution.
It is central to Germany's future viability to give all citizens equal opportunities for free development.
Responsible citizens know that the state does not take all their troubles away.
But they must be able to trust that he will not place additional burdens on them.
The FDP is the advocate of the middle of society.
The center stands against extremes, but it is more than something between left and right.
It is one thing above all: a basic attitude.
For them, a willingness to perform, diligence and the will to advance are not foreign words.
Their thinking in generational and social contexts, their sense of responsibility and diligence, their personal responsibility and strong will to achieve are the foundation of our society.
The FDP is the partner of the middle.
Because it is these people who make our community strong.
They take care of a good education of their children, provide for the family and live solidarity with the weak.
Environmental awareness and a strong sense of justice are taken for granted by the middle of society.
The squeezing of the middle has to stop so that performance finally pays off again.
This is particularly true for SMEs, because SMEs are not a business computing unit.
Middle class is a state of mind.
With a pioneering spirit and patriotism, courage and a sense of responsibility, the middle classes once rebuilt our country and made the German economic miracle possible.
Those who get up earlier in the morning, who build up an existence for themselves and others at their own risk, who provide for themselves, who don't ask what the state owes them but what they can achieve for others, deserve everyone's respect and need political backing.
These middle-class virtues are also in demand today to move our country forward.
Without such people who exemplify a comprehensive supply principle, there can be no free society.
The Mittelstand stands for freedom and responsibility.
Germany needs a policy that strengthens, not weakens, the middle class.
The FDP not only wants to maintain prosperity in Germany, but to let everyone share in it.
When the center is strengthened again, those who work hard and seize their opportunities will be rewarded.
To this end, Germany already has a proven and solidly successful concept: the social market economy.
We believe it is wrong to question their performance
and demanding ever new and more far-reaching state regulations.
Germany needs more social market economy, not less.
History has shown that the social market economy can best create lasting prosperity.
We advocate a state regulatory framework that effectively prevents the abuse of market power,
but leaves citizens with their own responsibility.
We set personal responsibility against the paternalism of the bureaucratic excesses of the social democratic welfare state.
We are in favor of the liberal welfare state.
The central task of the state is not to create absolute equality, but to ensure equality of opportunity and achievement for all people.
Our policy of freedom creates prosperity through fair competition
and responsible social cooperation.
Only in this way can social security systems, such as the health care system, remain efficient and affordable.
The policy of state-imposed equality has always led to lack of freedom.
Solidarity needs personal responsibility.
By providing a regulatory framework, we want to help ensure that everyone can explore their opportunities in freedom, find their own values and pursue their own happiness:
Liberals want a society based on solidarity.
Unlike others, we do not think of solidarity first and foremost in terms of handing out other people's money, but in terms of standing up for one another in the family, in the social environment and only lastly through the state.
A self-reliant life also includes being able to provide for oneself.
We counter envy, resentment and ill will with courage and recognition for achievement.
Performance must be worthwhile.
The FDP wants to leave citizens more of their hard-earned money again.
We want simple, low and fair taxes for more net income.
For liberals, education is a civil right.
Only good education enables participation in society and empowers people to lead a free and self-determined life.
We liberals stand for competition for the best solutions and for diversity that promotes children's talents and offers the greatest possible learning success for everyone.
Only good education creates the basis for innovation and social development.
We do not presume to know the future.
But we are certain that the creative struggle for new solutions is the best way to shape our future.
Prohibitions on thinking are not only out of place in research.
Policies for dealing with natural resources must be open to technology and free of ideology.
That is why we are also focusing on progress through modern technology in environmental and energy policy.
Germany's intensive international networking is both a prerequisite for our economic strength and a guarantor of our security and the preservation of our values.
That is why German foreign policy must play an active role in shaping globalization.
This will best succeed if we seek to close ranks with our European and transatlantic partners.
With them, we want to give new impetus to disarmament and thereby ensure lasting peace.
In our multipolar world, where major foreign policy challenges currently intersect with a global economic crisis and a new political beginning in the United States, more international cooperation is necessary and feasible.
New emerging powers must be integrated into the joint exercise of global responsibility, and international organizations must be reformed accordingly.
In its search for the best concepts for Germany's future, the FDP relies on dialog with citizens.
We want to promote the opportunities of freedom among people and be inspired by people's creativity and capacity for innovation.
Only through intensive exchange can everyone's knowledge be translated into concrete policy.
Our program is intended to take away citizens' fear of the future and show them the opportunities of freedom.
The middle of society in particular has great potential, which has been increasingly inhibited in recent years.
What is needed now is the courage to make changes.
Freedom needs courage, and the FDP has the courage to stick to its vision of a liberal civil society.
Politics needs trust.
We are convinced that liberal policies deserve trust.
We are campaigning for this with our program for the 2009 Bundestag elections.
2. More freedom and fairness through a social market economy Principles of the social market economy
Our economic policy guideline is the social market economy.
It reaches far beyond economic goals and is an indispensable part of a free and open society.
We Liberals respect, protect and defend the economic order of the social market economy with all our might.
The system of the social market economy has not only led to great prosperity for broad sections of the population, but also to a unique social peace in the Federal Republic of Germany.
The state's regulatory policy sets the framework conditions for the social market economy.
Their primary goal must be to enable citizens and companies to unleash their productive powers.
At the same time, it is a permanent task of the state to adapt and improve this regulatory framework to social and economic developments.
Free economic action by citizens is the foundation of the social market economy
and the engine of growth and prosperity.
The people in the center of society realize the core idea of the social market economy in an exemplary manner.
Every employee and every entrepreneur whose daily work provides a livelihood for himself, his family and, through taxes and duties, for the socially disadvantaged, creates prosperity and security for all.
Social policy should enable people to participate more and provide security against major life risks.
We liberals know that state protection of the subsistence level is necessary.
Anyone can find themselves in a situation where they can't go on without support.
We do not honor convenience.
The goal of liberal social policy is to enable all citizens to act in a self-determined and responsible manner.
A new tax and transfer system for Germany
The FDP therefore advocates a tax system that promotes social justice,
State fairness
and a sustainable financial policy.
Together with the performance-based citizen's income, this overall tax and transfer system follows the principles of performance equity and performance rewards throughout
and avoids abuses to the detriment of the citizen's community.
A fair tax must largely dispense with exceptions and special regulations for individual cases:
The same amount of income is taxed in the same way.
Flat rates replace the individual regulations that today can only be administered with complicated evidence and a high level of bureaucracy.
Our simple and comprehensible graduated tax rate with a basic tax-free allowance (tax rate 0 percent) and three further levels of 10, 25 and 35 percent reduces the tax burden and
creates the urgently needed financial leeway for citizens and companies: for more private consumption, for provision for old age, health and care, as an impetus for growth and investment.
To this end, every citizen - whether adult or child - receives a basic tax-free allowance of 8,004 euros.
For income exceeding the basic tax-free amount, a tax rate of 10 percent applies to the first 20,000 euros of taxable income, a tax rate of 25 percent applies to portions of income between 20,000 euros and 50,000 euros, and a tax rate of 35 percent applies to portions of income above 50,000 euros.
Income increases lead to a higher tax rate and thus to a higher tax burden due to the progressive tax scale.
Due to the so-called cold progression caused by inflation, higher benefits of citizens are penalized.
For this reason, the legislature is required to review the tax rate together with the subsistence minimum report, by reviewing the amount of the basic tax allowance and the child allowance every two years, and to adjust it if necessary.
An optional two-year assessment period reduces the declaration burden for citizens and eliminates the need for numerous design considerations, such as the arbitrary splitting of craftsmen's invoices over the turn of the year.
Costs associated with income from business activities are deductible as income-related expenses.
For employees, work-related expenses are taken into account by means of a lump-sum expense allowance without proof for reasons of simplification.
Social security contributions up to the income threshold are deductible without restriction.
The FDP rejects the inclusion of private capital gains in the final withholding tax.
A speculation period should be introduced for gains from the sale of shares.
Only gains within this period should be subject to the final withholding tax.
Capital gains from investments that serve as retirement provisions and are tied up for the long term are tax-free.
Relieving the burden on families
A new, performance-based tax law is urgently needed, especially for families:
Family-related financial burdens are not adequately taken into account in the current tax law.
In the liberal concept of a fair tax, families win in several ways.
Spouses reach the next higher tariff level at double income.
The introduction of a basic tax-free allowance of 8,004 euros for adults and children means that many families will no longer have to pay income tax.
Child benefit will be increased to 200 euros per child per month for those families who cannot use the child allowance because their income is too low.
Taking into account the lump sum for income-related expenses and the deductibility of pension expenses, a family of four is still tax-free with a family income of 40,700 euros.
Childcare costs and care costs can be deducted from taxes up to 12,000 euros per year against proof of the costs.
Tax class V, which often makes taking up gainful employment unattractive for tax purposes, especially for women after a family break, will be abolished.
Competitive corporate taxation
Germany needs internationally competitive taxation of its companies.
German companies do not need fair-weather tax legislation, but regulations that stand the test of time, even in times of crisis.
The errors of the 2008 corporate tax reform will be eliminated.
The interest barrier, the restriction on the use of losses for takeovers and restructurings, the punishment of investments abroad (relocation of functions) and the rules on adding interest, rents, leases, leasing and license fees to the assessment basis for trade tax are exacerbating the crisis and will be abolished.
The declining balance depreciation method (depreciation for wear and tear) will be reintroduced, as will immediate depreciation of low-value assets.
It will be raised to 1,000 euros.
This provides additional liquidity, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, and helps them to overcome crisis situations.
The tax burden for companies must not exceed the average taxation level of developed industrialized countries, otherwise the competitiveness of the German economy will be jeopardized.
A fair corporate tax behaves neutrally with respect to legal form, financing and restructuring decisions in companies.
A two-tier rate of 10 and 25 percent applies to companies regardless of their legal form.
For corporations with profits in excess of 20,000 euros, the corporate income tax rate will be raised from 15 percent under current law to 25 percent.
In return, the trade tax will be replaced by a concept of municipal financing that ensures a sufficient level of financing for the municipalities and guarantees them steady revenues.
A limited liability company is taxed like a partnership upon application.
This option creates more legal form neutrality, especially for small and medium-sized family corporations,
and makes the complicated regulations on hidden profit distribution superfluous.
The FDP calls for the conversion of sales tax from debit to actual taxation.
It is only fair that companies should not have to pay their tax until their bill is paid.
This strengthens the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises in particular.
If input tax can also only be claimed after the invoice has been paid, there will be more time to efficiently combat organized VAT fraud.
For more dynamism in the economic development of our country, entrepreneurial restructuring should no longer be hindered by tax law.
The FDP proposes that all transformation transactions, such as in particular the contribution of businesses in exchange for the granting of company shares, disposals of company shares, mergers or divisions of companies, be carried out at book values without the disclosure of hidden reserves as long as no withdrawal for private consumption takes place.
The same applies to the change of legal form.
Finally enforce budget consolidation
A concept for a fair tax must be linked to the consolidation of public finances.
Both tax structure reform
and fiscal consolidation are equally important policy goals.
They are not contradictory, but two sides of the same coin.
It is a central issue of intergenerational justice that each generation manages its tasks on its own.
It is irresponsible to leave our children ever higher mountains of debt.
The Federalism Commission II has begun a path out of the debt state.
In order to complete this consistently, the FDP is calling for a principled ban on new debt for the federal government, states and municipalities.
The permanent structural new federal debt of 0.35 percent of GDP is not a sustainable solution given the current record level of debt.
In the interest of future generations, government spending must in principle be geared to the level of revenues.
New debt can only be justified in emergency situations.
In normal times, budgets must generate surpluses so that the debts of previous years can be repaid and provisions can be made for worse years.
Strengthen federal structures
Federalism in Germany offers great opportunities: greater proximity to citizens, more democracy and competition as a method of finding the best political solution to pressing problems.
To this end, the financial relations between the federal government and the states, within the states and between the states and the municipalities must be reorganized.
Above all, this means more tax autonomy for all local authorities.
For the future, therefore, provision should be made for a tax surcharge on the previously reduced income and corporate income tax revenue by the states and municipalities with their own right of assessment.
The new inheritance tax is a particular burden on small and medium-sized businesses and family-owned companies - although it was precisely they who were promised relief.
Recently, siblings no longer count as family and are treated as strangers for tax purposes.
At a time when our neighboring countries are abolishing inheritance tax, Germany cannot afford such an anti-location and anti-citizen tax policy.
Instead, the FDP wants to make the inheritance tax a genuine state tax.
Countries can thus respond much better to regional differences - for example, in property values.
The federal states can decide for themselves whether and in what amount to levy inheritance tax.
Revenues from inheritance tax flow entirely into the budget of the respective state and are not included in the fiscal equalization system.
At the same time, this is an important contribution to strengthening the financial autonomy of the Länder.
Citizen's Income - Strengthening the Opportunities for Participation of Every Individual
The citizen's income enables a self-determined life, encourages people to take up their own activities and is therefore performance-based.
Social benefits that are financed by taxes are to be combined as completely as possible in a single transfer benefit - the citizen's income.
This makes the citizen's income simple and transparent.
The citizen's allowance combines unemployment benefit II including benefits for housing and heating, social allowance, basic security in old age, social assistance (excluding social assistance in special circumstances), child supplement and housing benefit.
In the case of the Citizen's Income, benefits are generally granted as a lump sum
and administered by a single authority, the tax office.
The citizen's income ensures the livelihood of citizens who do not have sufficient income.
By combining and lumping together benefits and their administration in one agency, the people who will benefit from the Citizen's Income are those who we want it to benefit: the needy, not the resourceful.
The citizen's income entitlement for a single person without children is to amount to a national average of 662 euros per month.
This amount corresponds to the current average expenditure for basic benefits, accommodation and heating of an ALG II recipient.
When calculating the citizen's income entitlement, all adults and children of a so-called community of need are taken into account.
The community of need includes all persons living in one household, as far as they are obliged to support each other.
In this context, children receive their own citizen's allowance within the framework of the community of need.
Additional lump sums are granted in case of inability to work, for training or for disabilities.
Regional peculiarities in housing costs can be taken into account with surcharges.
The citizen's allowance is calculated and paid by the tax office.
The calculation also includes tax entitlements, child benefit entitlements and, if applicable, support payments for health or long-term care insurance.
The prerequisite for the citizen's income is indigence and, in the case of earning capacity, the willingness to take up employment.
If a reasonable job offered is refused, the citizen's benefit is reduced.
The citizen's income is intended to promote and recognize the taking up of one's own gainful employment to a greater extent than before.
To this end, the crediting of own earned income against the citizen's income is to be redesigned.
An allowance of 100 euros is granted for the single person capable of working without additional needs.
In addition, 40 percent of gross earned income up to 600 euros is exempt from deductions; from 600 euros up to the end of the Citizen's Income, 60 percent of gross earned income is exempt.
At the same time, we want to better protect private pension provision against state intervention.
To this end, the protected assets for private or company pension plans, including Riester and Rürup pensions, are to be tripled and amount to 750 euros per year of life.
In addition, other assets up to 250 euros per year of life are not taken into account when calculating the citizen's income.
We want to promote all gainful employment and make it more attractive than receiving transfer payments.
We want to increase the income limit for mini-jobs without contributions for employees from the current 400 to 600 euros.
For incomes between 600 and 1000 euros, the employee must pay social security contributions on a sliding scale.
Full social security contributions are payable for income above 1000 euros.
Depending on the amount of income, social security contributions and taxes are due.
In conjunction with our tax concept, this ensures that taking up a job is always worthwhile - even when taking up a low-paid job.
Our citizen's income provides a minimum income that promotes employment and does not penalize earned income.
This minimum income prevents poverty better than state-imposed minimum wages.
Enforce viable competition on the financial market now
The crisis on the international financial markets is having a significant impact on the real economy.
The financial crisis becomes an economic crisis.
Instead of actionism, our country needs a regulatory compass that also takes into account the need for an effective supply of credit to our SME economy.
The goal of any regulation in the financial market must be functioning competition.
Market participants must be able to have confidence in the system.
This trust is currently lost.
We do not need more regulations for the financial market, but better ones.
Regulatory failure is government failure, not market failure.
That is why state banking supervision at national and international level must become more effective without delay.
The FDP advocates a consistent review and adjustment of regulations and sustainable improvements in state and group supervision.
The FDP is the only party that seriously and credibly wants to get out of the state economy again.
The massive state involvement, especially in the financial sector, can only be justified by the current crisis of confidence in the global economy.
As soon as economic conditions have improved again, the state's exit from business enterprises and financial institutions must begin.
Only with a well thought-out exit scenario can the state's withdrawal be completed in an orderly and speedy manner.
Therefore, the government should establish a re-privatization council.
The Re-privatization Council drafts a time schedule that should include flexibility buffers and can thus take into account the situation on the capital markets.
As long as the state is involved in companies in the financial sector, it must use tax funds with restraint, avoid distortions of competition and design its conditions in such a way that they do not cause irresponsible risk policies in the banks.
Regardless, flawed policies cannot excuse personal misconduct by individuals.
Those who have taken irresponsible risks as managers in the financial market must be held accountable and must bear the consequences both personally and financially.
We need a code of conduct for managers that is in line with our social values and norms and does justice to the role model function of management positions.
The FDP has rejected the fragmentation of banking supervision between the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) and the Bundesbank from the outset.
German banking supervision must be concentrated, strengthened and professionalized.
Concentrating supervision at the independent Bundesbank prevents frictional losses and streamlines workflows.
Monetary policy, economic and supervisory expertise is then pooled in one institution and can be coordinated more efficiently.
A rapid concentration and professionalization of banking supervision is also required at the European level.
The FDP wants to better network the more than 70 financial market supervisory authorities in the EU as quickly as possible.
The first objective is the immediate establishment of a European coordination body based on the model of the European Central Bank (ECB).
In the medium term, EU-wide banking supervision should be created, to be located at the ECB and safeguarded in the EU treaties.
The US rating agencies have contributed to the financial market crisis through their serious misjudgments.
The FDP calls for consideration of the establishment of an independent European rating institution.
Advice and rating from a single source create conflicts of interest and must be prevented.
Executive board compensation in stock corporations needs to be realigned.
At the Annual General Meeting, the rights of shareholders as owners of the company must be strengthened by the Annual General Meeting setting the principles of compensation and deciding on the transparency of compensation.
It must be the task of the entire Supervisory Board to ensure that the total compensation of the individual members of the Executive Board is commensurate with their duties and the situation of the Company.
Compensation must be more closely aligned with the long-term success of the company.
In this context, the members of the Board of Management are to share not only in the success but also in the failure of the Company.
The loan securitization options introduced under the German government in 1998 need to be put to the test.
Securitizations are recognized instruments for bank refinancing.
The risk behind the securities must become transparent, and there must be no more shifting of risk off the balance sheet.
In addition, issuers' deductibles must be examined.
The FDP calls for more responsibility through liability.
Managerial liability in German stock corporations is already governed by liability laws that are very strict by international standards.
Even in cases of slight negligence, the persons concerned are liable for damages to an unlimited extent with their entire private assets.
In the future, claims for damages must also be asserted by Supervisory Board members.
The FDP calls for tightening of substantive law if these claims are not asserted consistently in the future.
However, liability for losses incurred is also an inseparable part of the social market economy.
It cannot be that there are companies whose owners trust in a rescue by the state and can therefore take particularly high risks.
Therefore, the FDP wants the existing insolvency law to be applied with its possibilities, which explicitly include the continuation of a company.
In the case of major international banks, however, insolvency currently often triggers an uncontrollable chain reaction.
Therefore, we need rules in the future that limit these concomitant damages without relieving the owners.
The FDP will work on this in government.
The banks' internal control and monitoring functions must be modernized
and more efficient supervisory structures created within the companies.
These include the introduction of smaller supervisory boards with a maximum of twelve members, a minimum waiting period of three years for former chairmen of the executive board when moving to chair the supervisory board of the same listed company, and a limit of no more than five supervisory board mandates per person.
Overall, the work of the Supervisory Boards needs to be professionalized for more effective control of the Executive Board.
In line with the principles of corporate governance (Corporate Governance Code) for supervisory boards and management boards, a code of honor for works councils should be developed.
The FDP wants to give the works council the right to demand disclosure of the expenses paid to individual works council members.
In the interests of taxpayers, the stabilization of financial companies through government measures under the Special Fund for Financial Market Stabilization (SoFFin) requires comprehensive scrutiny by parliament.
The FDP wants to expand and clarify parliamentary rights in stabilization decisions.
Structures also need to be changed in the federal government.
If the state takes a temporary stake in banks, the Ministry of Finance must no longer be responsible for the regulatory framework of the financial industry.
The fact that the ministry that is now providing the budgetary funds for the so-called protective shields will control the banks afterwards is misguided in terms of regulatory policy.
What is needed here is a return to the four-eyes principle.
The Federal Ministry of Economics and Technology (BMWi) should therefore be responsible for setting and maintaining an effective and efficient fiscal policy framework in the future.
Strengthen the middle class
71 percent of jobs and 83 percent of apprenticeships in Germany are provided by small and medium-sized enterprises.
A policy that strengthens the middle class is the best economic policy.
The middle class is waiting for tax cuts and lower non-wage labor costs so that it can invest and create jobs.
The FDP wants to abolish the interest barrier and minimum taxation introduced with the corporate tax reform and permanently reintroduce declining balance depreciation.
Many medium-sized companies are not subject to corporate income tax at all like larger companies, but pay income tax as partnerships.
Therefore, income tax must also be reduced.
Bringing forward the due date for social security contributions has resulted in billions of euros in additional bureaucracy for companies.
The due date must again be chosen in such a way that this alone does not impose an additional burden on companies.
Jobs in the SME sector must be safeguarded.
The state-facilitated minimum wage in the postal industry is proof that the German government is not concerned with competition and jobs in small and medium-sized businesses, but with monopoly protection for large corporations.
The autonomy of collective bargaining must be protected from state wage dictates.
Instead of minimum wages, SMEs in particular need more flexible regulations.
Small and medium-sized enterprises need more self-determination by employees and entrepreneurs on site.
If employees and employers wish to deviate from the collective agreement, they must be able to reach a corresponding agreement at company level without requiring the consent of the trade unions and employers' associations.
Generally binding collective agreements, on the other hand, prevent company alliances.
Without generally binding collective agreements, the pressure on the collective bargaining parties to take greater account of the interests of SMEs in their agreements increases.
Where it is more favorable for employees, it must also be possible to deviate from the collective agreement.
A lower wage or longer working hours can also be more favorable in this sense if this safeguards the preservation of the job or enables the creation of new jobs and the works council or 75 percent of the voting employees have agreed to this.
The expansion of functionary co-determination has imposed millions of dollars in additional costs on the middle class.
Particularly in small owner-operated companies, the uncomplicated cooperation within the company is considerably disturbed by the legal tightening of co-determination.
The costs of co-determination at the workplace must be limited, and the statutory number of works council members must be significantly reduced.
A works council should only be formed in companies with 20 or more employees and should require an electoral quorum of 50 percent.
The release of works council members may only begin in companies with more than 500 employees.
The thresholds in labor law should be reduced in number and also calculated uniformly.
This leads to more legal clarity and thus to more legal certainty in application.
The law on protection against dismissal, which is particularly complicated for SMEs, must become more employment-friendly.
Protection against dismissal should only apply to companies with more than 20 employees and after a period of employment of two years.
Protection against arbitrary dismissal remains unrestricted for all employees.
In the event of termination by the employer for operational reasons, employees should be able to agree on severance pay or the right to further training to be financed by the employer instead of the statutory protection against dismissal when the contract is concluded.
The general prohibition of pre-employment for hiring without a fixed term must be abolished.
A ban on repeated fixed-term employment before the expiration of three months is sufficient to avoid unwanted chain employment contracts.
This creates flexibility for SMEs
and leads to more jobs in Germany.
A temporary hire is better than being unemployed.
The trade union privilege on the Supervisory Board no longer reflects operational reality, but is increasingly proving to be a disadvantage for Germany as a business location.
Today, almost all important Management Board decisions have to be made in consensus with the union representatives on the Supervisory Board.
One-third parity, as already exists in most corporations with fewer than 2,000 employees, must replace parity codetermination.
The state must withdraw from the economy by providing a comprehensible, flexible regulatory framework instead of an increasingly dense, bureaucratic regulatory network.
Instead of creating additional bureaucratic burdens, such as the "General Equal Treatment Act" (Anti-Discrimination Act), existing ones must be reduced.
The numerous statistical duplicate surveys must be abolished.
The state must compensate companies for additional bureaucratic burdens.
Like high non-wage labor costs, high bureaucratic costs lead to the growth of undeclared work.
In the interest of more effective bureaucracy reduction, the Normenkontrollrat must be expanded into a true bureaucracy MOT.
Germany needs a culture that favors the establishment and continuation of businesses,
encourages the move to self-employment, new ideas and innovations,
and recognizes the achievements of the liberal professions.
The requirements for starting a business are still too high in Germany.
Government support for company founders must become simpler and clearer.
With an annual procurement volume of around 300 billion euros, government institutions are among the major customers in the Federal Republic.
German SMEs depend on efficient, transparent and unbureaucratic public procurement law.
Non-award criteria should be abolished.
A nationwide electronic tender announcement above de minimis thresholds strengthens the information options of medium-sized companies.
The reform of public procurement law must also significantly improve payment practices in the public sector.
The promotion of research and development must be geared more strongly toward small and medium-sized enterprises.
Cooperation between science and medium-sized companies must become more intensive.
It is also intended to support the transfer of patents into market-ready products.
The patent system must be geared more closely to the needs of SMEs.
In 2005, only about 0.1 percent of all medium-sized companies applied for a domestic patent.
Only patent protection that is also effective beyond German borders guarantees that the disclosure of the innovation that accompanies a patent is not an unreasonable risk.
Illegal copying of patents should be punished as a criminal offense.
The costs of applying for and maintaining a patent, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, must be noticeably reduced.
The financing of German SMEs must be improved.
Only the interplay of adequate equity and sufficient supply of debt capital enables the financing of growth and innovation.
Low taxes leave room for SMEs to strengthen their equity base.
Financing via borrowed capital, which has become more expensive as a result of the corporate tax reform - keyword: interest barrier - must be made easier again.
The FDP is committed to funding neutrality.
In addition, SMEs must once again be able to acquire venture capital more easily via the financial markets.
This is particularly important for medium-sized companies operating in global markets.
Above all, this means that losses incurred by investors who acquire more than 25 percent of a company can be fully claimed again for tax purposes.
The state ERP subsidies for SMEs must be protected against speculative losses by KfW.
The subsidies therefore belong back in the Federal Ministry of Economics.
KfW has degenerated from a promotional institution for SMEs to a collection point for more or less risky transactions.
KfW was also involved in the securitization of loans, which is now the subject of such criticism.
Meanwhile, the core business is suffering as a result: the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises.
Despite the incorporation of the ERP Special Fund, it will not be possible to maintain SME promotion without budget subsidies.
KfW must be restored to a purely promotional institution.
Create model regions
In order to promote economically weak regions, the FDP advocates the creation of model regions.
In order to advance the reduction of bureaucracy, the state legislature is given the opportunity to make temporary regulations that result in deregulation and debureaucratization compared to federal law.
The FDP wants a new funding policy.
We need to move towards targeted allocation of funding - the "watering can principle" has had its day.
Funding needs to be more focused.
In the future, commercial investments and business-related research and development are to be the focus of funding.
The funds from the Solidarity Pact II must be used primarily for investments.
What Germany demands of its trading partners internationally, we must also implement consistently at home.
The FDP advocates clear rules in all industries:
Competition with clear rules is the guiding principle of liberal economic policy.
Competition ensures diversity of supply, quality and prices in line with the market.
Monopoly markets must be effectively broken up and prevented in the long term through efficient regulation.
An unbundling instrument must be integrated into the Act against Restraints of Competition (GWB).
As a last resort, it must be possible to restructure practically divided markets and thus ensure competition.
As an export-oriented economy, Germany depends on open, free and fair markets and competition.
The EU must work within the World Trade Organization (WTO) to preserve the multilateral world trading system.
The FDP demands an immediate resumption of the WTO negotiations.
In order to revive the negotiations, the FDP proposes to appoint the WTO Secretary-General as mediator.
To secure free and fair markets, the FDP wants an independent European Antitrust Authority
and international competition rules under the umbrella of the WTO.
In view of the global threat of recession, a relapse into economic nationalisms must be prevented.
Work has right of way
The FDP advocates citizen-friendly local employment services.
The local employment agencies and ARGEs are still not very citizen-friendly, static in their placement activities and hardly capable of reacting due to their central bureaucratic control from Nuremberg.
For years, the FDP has been in favor of transferring the tasks of the local employment agencies and ARGEs to the municipalities.
Municipal support for job seekers is more citizen-friendly, less bureaucratic and faster.
The FDP wants to dissolve the Federal Employment Agency in Nuremberg in order to reorganize its tasks in a three-pillar model:
in an insurance agency that pays unemployment benefits and grants freedom of choice in rates;
in a small labor market agency for supra-regional and international tasks that also ensures transparency in reported jobs and provides the necessary databases; in
many municipal job centers that, with their range of support services, can respond better than the Federal Employment Agency to the individual problems of the unemployed and those seeking help, but also to local employers.
The FDP wants to make the municipal job centers responsible for the placement, qualification and social support of the long-term unemployed as well as possible social-legal sanctions (citizens' allowance or ALG-II recipients).
Within the framework of existing budgets, they are given broad decision-making powers in the use of labor market policy instruments with regard to the use of budget funds and the development of suitable instruments for the integration of the unemployed.
This promotes innovation in labor market policy and competition among job centers.
The support of the long-term unemployed by some option municipalities already shows that the individual conditions of the long-term unemployed and the local circumstances can be better taken into account locally.
Municipal job centers are finding precisely tailored routes into the labor market, especially for the long-term unemployed.
Therefore, a Hartz IV organizational reform must at least make it possible for an unlimited number of municipalities to opt for a municipal solution at any time.
Municipal job centers and private providers are to compete for placement vouchers for the short-term unemployed, since competition leads to better placement results under suitable conditions.
Full privatization of the employment service is not envisaged.
A representative of the insurance agency should be available at the job centers as an on-site contact person.
In unemployment insurance, the insurance principle must be strengthened again.
The aim of unemployment insurance benefits must continue to be to protect employees from the economic consequences of unemployment for the first twelve months by means of an insurance benefit that is independent of need and takes the place of lost pay.
The labor market instruments of the Federal Employment Agency must be put to the test in terms of their efficiency.
and overall social tasks are once again financed from tax revenues.
The reorganization of employment service tasks will lead to the elimination of duplicate administrative structures and, in the medium term, to a further reduction in unemployment insurance contributions.
It thus makes an important contribution to more growth and employment.
The FDP rejects a graduation of the duration of unemployment benefit I according to the previous length of employment, as this contradicts the character of a risk insurance and leads to more unemployment among older workers.
Instead, the insured are given freedom of choice in terms of tariffs, which has a positive incentive effect.
The FDP is against the introduction of statutory minimum wages.
They lead to job displacement, especially in the low-skilled sector, and a migration to undeclared work.
The victims of statutory minimum wages are primarily the long-term unemployed, who have little prospect of finding new employment in the primary labor market.
If low wages are not sufficient to ensure subsistence, the citizen's income is used as a supportive measure and thus secures the necessary minimum income for everyone concerned.
In this way, everyone is given the chance to integrate into the labor market
and at the same time always achieve the necessary minimum income.
Securing the future of social security systems
Everyone has the right to a dignified life.
Everyone has the right to as much freedom as possible.
Both also need a material basis.
To achieve this, people need social security:
reliable provision for old age, effective protection in the event of illness, need for care and unemployment, and efficient assistance in emergencies are the basis for confidence in personal life planning.
Liberal social policy is committed to the principle of intergenerational justice.
In a shrinking and aging society, social security can only be guaranteed if everyone takes on more responsibility.
In order to ensure that old-age provision is generationally appropriate, the statutory pension must be better prepared for the financial effects of the aging of society.
The FDP wants to move pension provision more in the direction of private capital funding.
Private and occupational funded provision must be strengthened, as this is the only way to distribute the burden more equitably across generations.
Although people are living longer and longer, the ability to work varies greatly from person to person as they age.
Therefore, people should be able to flexibly and independently shape their transition from working life to retirement on the basis of their own decision and against the background of acquired vested rights and pensions.
The FDP is in favor of insured persons being able to freely choose the time of their retirement from the age of 60 with actuarially correct increases and reductions.
The prerequisite is that their combined entitlements from statutory, occupational and private pensions are above the basic security level.
To promote the employment of older people, all barriers to work in old age should be removed.
Therefore, the FDP calls for the abolition of all additional earnings limits in addition to pension payments.
The contribution to unemployment insurance does not apply to the additional income.
This increases the incentive for employers to hire older employees and for employees to continue to work in old age.
Insured persons can thus reduce their working hours from the age of 60 and compensate for the loss of earnings by drawing a partial pension.
Rising life expectancy and the associated longer pension drawdown period are taken into account more directly than before for each cohort when calculating the statutory pension.
In this respect, a generationally equitable distribution of the burden among the individual cohorts is achieved.
Pension law in the east and west must be standardized.
Under the current legal situation, different pension systems would continue to exist in the East and West for an unforeseeable period of time.
But that was never the goal and cannot be today.
This is because this division is now arbitrary, as there are now high-wage and low-wage areas in both the new and old federal states.
A fair reinsurance solution must be found for individual groups of insured persons who lost pension entitlements during the pension transition.
Private and company-funded pension provision must be strengthened, as the statutory pension will only provide basic benefits in the future.
In order to strengthen company pension plans and opportunities for employee participation, it should be possible to include employee profit-sharing in tax-free deferred compensation.
To reflect the realities of the labor market, the portability of occupational pension plans is to be improved.
The subsidized private pension scheme in the form of the "Riester pension" is to be opened up to all citizens, including the self-employed.
In the future, the FDP wants to take greater account of child-rearing periods in funded old-age provision.
In future, contracts for protection against reduced earning capacity should be fully covered by the Riester or basic pension subsidy.
To date, only a very limited proportion of disability protection policies are eligible for funding through these channels.
In order to make private and occupational pension plans worthwhile for low-income earners as well, only part of their own pension provision is to be counted toward basic old-age benefits.
After all, those who make provisions for old age must have more available in old age than those who do not.
Up to 100 euros of monthly income from private and occupational pension plans will therefore be exempt from deduction from the basic old-age pension; any income in excess of this will be deducted at 60 percent.
Solidarity and personal responsibility instead of state medicine
Health care has gotten more expensive, but not better.
The freedom of therapy is being abolished step by step.
The all-important relationship between therapist and patient is hampered by bureaucratic requirements.
With every day that passes without a shift to sustainable financing, the health care sector's financing problem worsens.
Neither the so-called citizen's insurance nor the health care premium are capable of getting a grip on the problems described.
Rather, the FDP wants a fundamental shift to a liberal system that reconciles solidarity and personal responsibility,
that puts an end to centrally controlled state medicine and
the social paternalism of patients, and that gives citizens the necessary leeway for their insurance and therapy decisions.
Competition in the healthcare sector must be strengthened.
This includes strong private health insurance.
Fair competition in the healthcare sector also includes allowing the statutory health insurance funds their autonomy in terms of contributions
and abolishing the bureaucratic and superfluous healthcare fund.
The FDP is against a state-run and centralized health care system, which only leads to shortage management, two-class medicine and longer waiting times.
For healthcare policy, the principle of "private comes before the state" means: as much freedom of design and personal responsibility for the individual as possible,
but at the same time sufficient guaranteed security to avoid falling into financial distress in the event of illness.
We want solidarity with those who are sick or disabled.
This is achieved by obliging insurers to provide the necessary basic care without risk surcharges.
Those who cannot afford health insurance receive financial assistance from the tax-transfer system.
In health insurance, the path must lead away from wage-based contributions and from the pay-as-you-go system toward a performance-based premium system that creates a secure basis for a generationally fair distribution of burdens through capital coverage
and at the same time ensures that every citizen can determine as far as possible what he or she wants to cover and how.
The FDP is in favor of mandatory insurance with an insurer of one's choice for risks that would overburden the individual in the event of illness.
Every citizen must have the opportunity to be insured to the extent of risks threatening their existence, regardless of their state of health, without the imposition of risk surcharges.
Those with a greater need for security can, of course, opt for more comprehensive insurance coverage.
Different tariff structures are also possible.
In principle, each generation should bear the health care costs it incurs over its entire lifetime.
This is only possible if reserves are built up during the time when few health services are used for the time when more medical care is needed.
Social equalization between high-income and low-income groups should no longer take place within the health insurance system, where it sometimes leads to inconsistencies or even injustices and overrides any individual awareness of costs.
Rather, it belongs in the tax and transfer system, where everyone is taxed according to their ability to pay.
The cost of health insurance for children is a task for society as a whole and must therefore be financed from tax revenues.
Competition at all levels - both on the part of insurers and on the part of those responsible for health care - must ensure that citizens do not have to pay more than necessary for their insurance coverage
and that they can shape it according to their own needs.
More people already work in the healthcare sector in Germany than in any other industry.
The healthcare industry continues to be a growth market, but one that is being held back by numerous regulations.
Bureaucratic, centralized solutions hinder efficiency- and innovation-enhancing competition, which must be flanked by a clear framework of competition and antitrust law.
Research and innovation are vital in the truest sense of the word.
This requires the right framework conditions, also in terms of social law.
If a patient chooses a non-reimbursable product or procedure after consulting with his or her physician, he or she must be reimbursed the amount that the health insurer would otherwise have had to cover (fixed allowance, additional cost regulation).
Doctors, hospitals and all other medical professionals and facilities that provide care for people in the event of illness on a daily basis have a right to be remunerated in line with their performance and according to transparent criteria, and not to be suffocated in a bureaucratic tangle.
Reviews and inspections must be reduced to what is necessary and must not result in the quality of care suffering.
Freelancing continues to be a guarantor of patient-oriented, needs-based health care close to home at a high level of quality.
For patients, moreover, the free choice of therapist and independent service providers are essential elements of an efficient healthcare system.
They must be able to work with the therapist of their choice to determine the medical treatment they need.
Binding centralized specifications do not do justice to this, because the norm patient does not exist.
To improve care, further work is needed on approaches that perceive the patient as a whole and provide seamless treatment across therapists and institutions.
We want to take advantage of the opportunities offered by public-private partnership projects (i.e., cooperation between the public sector and private companies) to improve the healthcare system and healthcare infrastructure.
The opportunities offered by telematics to establish qualified electronic contact with colleagues who are further away should also be exploited with a view to ensuring the provision of health care in rural areas.
At the same time, high data protection standards must protect the highly sensitive data.
This also applies in particular to the electronic health card, which must not be introduced until such standards are guaranteed.
The needs surrounding health and illness are almost infinite.
If these services are available free of charge, so to speak, after payment of the contribution, incentives are set incorrectly.
Therefore, it is important that the patient receives an invoice showing the cost of the services used (reimbursement principle).
Unbureaucratically designed deductibles are essential for cost- and health-conscious behavior.
The practice fee, on the other hand, is bureaucratic and has no lasting control function.
Instead, the FDP wants to set incentives in such a way that benefits are used responsibly.
In addition, comprehensibly prepared information must be available on the appropriate use of the health care system.
Prevention is becoming increasingly important.
Demographic developments and the increase in widespread diseases, which could largely be prevented by a healthy lifestyle, contribute to this in particular.
We need to make it clear that everyone has the opportunity to contribute to growing old as healthily as possible by eating a healthy diet, exercising and avoiding risks.
This requires target group-oriented, comprehensive education.
Targeted help must be given to those for whom the state has a very special responsibility and to those who cannot manage to live healthily on their own or only to a limited extent.
This particularly affects children
and the socially disadvantaged.
This task requires a clear division of tasks and financial responsibility between the federal, state and local authorities, as well as the health insurance funds and the healthcare providers, doctors, dentists and psychotherapists.
The provision of suffering-reducing palliative care
and the training of physicians and nurses in palliative medicine and care must be improved.
The newly introduced funding for specialized outpatient palliative care must finally be put into practice.
In addition, palliative care in hospitals must be secured through day-based funding.
Hospices and outpatient hospice services must be expanded and networked with palliative care.
Because most people wish to die at home.
The family as the smallest social network must also be strengthened in the care of the dying.
More people with organ failure can be saved if all options are exhausted to reduce the severe shortage of organs for transplantation under the existing consent solution.
This includes more consistent education and motivation of the population for organ donation cards.
It is equally important to improve structures in hospitals so that organs are actually transplanted when the necessary conditions are met.
In addition, living organ donation should be facilitated.
The subordination of living donation should be removed from the Transplantation Act and the permissible group of donors should be expanded.
Living donors should be comprehensively protected against possible risks and given priority on the waiting list in the event of their own subsequent need for organs.
Effectively combating the dangers of addiction
The liberal conception of man, based on free self-determination, demands freedom from addiction and dependence.
To achieve this, liberal drug and addiction policy relies on the three pillars of prevention, therapy and, where necessary, repression.
The use of addictive substances in Germany leads to a large number of premature deaths, considerable accumulations of illness, great personal suffering, social damage and high costs for society.
The legal addictive substances alcohol and tobacco continue to pose a major challenge, as does substance abuse.
Among illicit drugs, cannabis is the most prevalent.
Regular use of cannabis among adolescents and young adults was 2.3 percent last year.
Non-substance-related addictions also play a not insignificant role.
An increasing number of online gambling addicts must also be assumed.
The FDP is committed to an addiction and drug policy that enables people to lead self-determined, independent lives.
Due to the special need for protection of children and young people, compliance with existing youth protection regulations must be ensured.
The top priority for the FDP is the establishment of nationwide prevention programs.
Prevention must begin early, if possible in childhood, so that addictions do not develop in the first place.
At the same time, early cessation must be encouraged among those who have already begun to use.
High-risk consumption patterns of excessive drinking up to alcohol intoxication are already found among adolescents.
In recent years, the number of children and adolescents admitted to hospitals with alcohol intoxication has increased significantly.
This development must be stopped.
This must not lead to an expansion of the prohibition policy.
What is needed is a prevention strategy with adequate funding.
Science has shown that combining information and education with structural measures is successful.
Adults need to be informed about responsible use of addictive substances and sensitized to act as role models for children.
Addicts must be helped early and comprehensively.
Children from families with addiction problems in particular need to be reached with offers of help.
The therapy goal is independent living.
Substitution treatment with methadone has proven successful.
For severely addicted patients, substitution treatment with diamorphine is promising.
Following convincing model trials, the FDP is committed to ensuring that this substitution therapy is also included in standard care.
Liberals also advocate allowing cannabis in medical use for pain relief.
Making care humane
Being cared for with dignity is a human right.
It is in the interest of those in need of care and their relatives that caregivers once again have more time for human attention and for their actual task, the care and social support of those in need of care, instead of being occupied with fulfilling bureaucratic requirements.
To achieve this, service providers must be consistently relieved of bureaucratic obstacles.
This is only possible through a paradigm shift that replaces rigid regulation of structures and processes with a focus on care outcomes.
Service providers must have sufficient leeway to respond flexibly to the wishes of those in need of care.
Long-term care insurance is intended to provide basic financial resources, but not to determine down to the smallest detail how often a person in need of care is entitled, for example, to be combed or washed.
People in need of care should be able to shape their care according to their own ideas and needs.
This includes the selection and compilation of care services.
Those who can only do this to a limited extent or no longer at all should receive help in this regard.
Where possible, benefits in kind are to be replaced by cash benefits differentiated according to the severity of the need for care.
Service providers are thus incentivized to behave in a customer-oriented manner and to design flexible and user-oriented offerings.
People in need of care and their relatives need more transparency about existing service offerings, their price and, above all, their quality.
In this context, the quality of care cannot be improved by controls alone.
Inpatient care facilities in particular are to be benchmarked according to uniform national criteria, which are to be based as closely as possible on the quality of outcomes and thus on people's needs.
People in need of care can then better select a facility based on quality aspects.
This goal cannot be achieved by publishing the audit reports of the Medical Service of the Health Insurance Funds (MDK), which are still little oriented to the outcome quality of care.
Strengthening the self-determination and personal responsibility of those in need of care,
reducing bureaucracy
and improving transparency about the quality of care are changing the position of those in need of care and their relatives, who no longer have to see themselves as objects of a largely planned care system but can act as the focus and choosing customers in a humane care market.
Most people do not want to spend their last phase of life in a nursing home, but at home.
Other forms of care are therefore needed in the regions.
Residential communities for dementia patients are a good example of how people's needs can be better met.
The financing of long-term care insurance must be restructured in such a way that changes in the population structure no longer play a role.
Long-term care insurance must be freed from the demographic trap,
the threat of a permanent increase in contribution rates for decades to come under the current pay-as-you-go system,
good quality of care is permanently guaranteed
and a fair distribution of the burden between the generations can be achieved.
In the view of the FDP, this is only possible through a smooth transition to a funded and premium-financed system.
Provisions for times of higher care expenses are to be made by building up age-related provisions protected by property law.
A tax-financed social equalization scheme is to be used to prevent overcharging for non-income-related premiums.
A rapid start to reform is needed.
Due to demographic trends, every day without reform makes it more difficult and more expensive to change the course of long-term care insurance, which is urgently needed for the benefit of younger generations.
The necessary improvements, such as a dynamic increase in care benefits and special benefits for dementia patients, can only be financed in a generationally appropriate manner by means of a demographically stable financing system.
Short-sighted contribution increases in the old pay-as-you-go system to finance new benefits for those currently in need of care increase the burdens shifted to future generations.
Supplementary private provision for the event of long-term care is to be promoted by means of corresponding regulations in tax law.
Any reform of statutory long-term care insurance must not involve recourse to the old-age provisions of private mandatory long-term care insurance, which are protected under property law.
Financial equalization between private and statutory long-term care insurance is also out of the question.
Further develop accident insurance
The FDP advocates more competition and capital coverage in accident insurance.
Occupational accidents are therefore to be insured in future by the companies with a private insurance company of their own choosing.
Occupational diseases - with often long latency periods - continue to be insured by the employers' liability insurance associations.
Commuting accidents can, but no longer have to be insured by the employer.
The catalog of accident insurance benefits must be made fairer and more targeted.
In benefit law, health and disability damages are to be more clearly separated and more concretely calculated than today, in order to provide better compensation than today to those who are really seriously injured.
Unnecessary bureaucracy, such as that generated by the newly introduced accident insurance reporting procedure, is to be eliminated.
Shaping social services in a market economy
From a liberal perspective, social services can also best be provided in a competitive market.
This lowers costs and raises quality.
Today, however, the social market only appears to be a market.
On the part of the state, the demanders in the social market are seen more as recipients of services than as customers.
The principle of benefits in kind, which still prevails in many areas, results in a standardized range of services.
At the same time, existing incentive structures often prevent the customer from becoming the controller of quality.
Instead, the state steps in as a quality controller.
Providers suffer from extreme government regulation.
Legislative requirements not only regulate the financing of services, but also interfere with the entrepreneurial way in which they are provided.
The suspension of compulsory military service demanded by the FDP also means the end of civilian service.
According to the FDP, the level of social services provided by civilian servants should be maintained.
Therefore, it is necessary to adapt the structures of social services already today to the time without civilian service.
Both the duration of military and civilian service and the number of enlistments have declined steadily over the past decade.
This has already significantly reduced the number of available working hours for those performing civilian service, so there is already a need for action.
The FDP therefore wants to make better use of existing potential for voluntary commitment and, for example, create more places in youth voluntary services (FSJ).
There, demand for these places already far exceeds the available supply.
At the same time, more regular employment relationships need to be established at the current deployment sites of community service workers.
To this end, the FDP wants to grant subsidies from the federal budget for a limited period of time, i.e. the budget funds for civilian service are to be used for targeted employment promotion in the social sector.
and for the expansion of civic engagement.
Government funding for social services must be organized so that the client, not a government agency, decides which services are good for them.
Wherever possible, subsidy funding of facilities should be replaced by voucher funding or cash payments to those to be assisted.
Subject before object financing must be the guiding principle.
Where this is not possible, tender solutions should be considered.
Exploiting the opportunities of tourism
The framework conditions in the tourism sector must be improved.
It is one of the most important service and growth industries in Germany.
Small family businesses and medium-sized tourism enterprises must be relieved of the excessive bureaucracy.
For domestic restaurateurs and hoteliers, the distortions of competition caused by the VAT increase combined with the different application of reduced VAT rates in Europe have further increased.
To create fair competition, reduced VAT rates must also be introduced for the hotel and catering industry in Germany.
Also in the future, no taxes may be levied on tips.
Relief for the hotel industry in terms of broadcasting fees and cable retransmission is overdue.
The FDP is committed to improving the tourist offer for people with disabilities in order to ensure their social integration and to provide them with the opportunities that correspond to their particular situation, especially in the leisure and health sectors.
Taking into account the needs of people with disabilities in construction and transportation - as few thresholds and contrast optimization for the visually impaired as possible - not only helps people with disabilities,
but also makes it easier to push the stroller
and helps the elderly in particular.
In view of demographic change, accessibility is becoming increasingly important for the tourism sector.
Maritime economy as a national task
By exploiting the economic potential of coastal areas, Germany can increasingly become a winner in globalization.
Strengthening the maritime economy is therefore a national task.
This requires nationwide efforts to create optimal conditions for the maritime industry in Germany
and to achieve positive macroeconomic effects for the entire federal territory.
For entrepreneurial agriculture and forestry
The FDP wants to improve the framework conditions for agricultural businesses.
They must be able to generate the essential part of their income on the market.
Agricultural businesses are capital intensive.
They therefore need planning security and reliability.
The decoupling of direct payments from production followed the FDP's demand for a stronger orientation toward the principles of the social market economy and sustainability.
Today, the farmer receives compensation for the higher environmental and animal welfare standards that apply in the EU.
These payments from the EU must be stable until 2013.
The market-based reorientation of the EU's Common Agricultural Policy corresponds to the cultural landscape premium developed by the FDP and adopted back in 2001.
This gives entrepreneurial farmers the opportunity to break away more from state paternalism and generate a larger share of their income in the market.
Liberals advocate market-based and fair competitive conditions.
In the EU's internal market, national special paths lead to the expulsion of one's own agricultural production to neighboring countries.
For this reason, the FDP believes that EU regulations should be transposed 1:1 into national law.
and unequal tax burdens such as the taxation of agricultural diesel should be harmonized at EU level.
Bureaucratic burdens must be reduced.
Regulations for the employment of seasonal workers must be simplified in the interest of fruit, vegetable and wine growers.
When it comes to marketing their products, farmers are faced with the overwhelming power of food retail groups.
They need fair opportunities.
Dairies must be given the opportunity to market their products jointly so that they can negotiate prices on an equal footing with the corporations.
This is the only way to alleviate the difficult situation of dairy farmers.
In addition, the FDP wants to open up further export markets for agriculture through political agreements with other countries.
The FDP supports the decision to phase out the milk quota on May 31, 2015.
The quota has not stopped the dying of farms.
More intensive agricultural research is needed for sustainable and efficient agriculture.
By 2050, the world's population is expected to grow to nine billion people.
Only an innovative and efficient agriculture, forestry and food industry can feed them safely and with high quality.
Productivity and efficiency serve food security and at the same time environmental, climate and consumer protection.
A second green revolution in the field is needed to feed the world's growing population while producing renewable raw materials for feedstock and energy use.
The further development of plant breeding and the breeding of transgenic varieties is just as important for securing the world's food supply as
reducing the use of crop protection products.
Breeding of pest-, salt- and drought-resistant varieties and plants for feedstock utilization must also be promoted.
The legal framework must be adapted to these requirements, and
existing social reservations must be reduced through dialog.
Liberals want to use technological progress to increase productivity.
These include modern agricultural technology, water-saving irrigation systems and operating resources such as fertilizers and crop protection products.
In order for technical progress to develop as quickly as possible and be used in practice, the global strengthening of agricultural research is an important prerequisite.
Climate change is leading to the spread of previously unknown pests (bluetongue, corn rootworm).
Agricultural research must be prepared for this and develop control strategies in good time.
The FDP advocates efficient and sustainable "high-tech agriculture".
It ensures value creation in rural areas and more than four million jobs in the agricultural and food sector.
It provides impetus for technological developments in mechanical engineering and thus secures export markets and jobs.
Germany is a favorable agricultural location: Soils, climate and infrastructure are good and Germany's excellently trained farmers are world-class.
Germany is a densely forested country and has the largest timber reserves in Europe.
Promotion of hunting and forestry is therefore essential.
Wood is our most important renewable raw material.
Its use as construction timber and for the production of furniture and pulp, the generation of electricity and heat from residual and thinned wood is an important contribution to climate protection and
at the same time strengthens the regional economy.
Farmers' income from their forest holdings helps to secure the livelihood of farms.
They strengthen rural areas.
At the same time, forests are of great importance for local recreation and tourism.
In our forest land, sustainable management of forests is an important prerequisite for the preservation of biodiversity.
Liberals advocate better framework conditions, especially for private forest owners, to better exploit existing timber reserves in domestic forests.
The framework conditions for forestry cooperatives must be improved,
incentives to build with wood.
Thanks to a functioning hunting system in which the main responsibility for game management is placed in the hands of hunters and landowners, Germany is a country rich in game compared to other industrialized nations.
Federal and state hunting legislation ensures the protection of game and the proper practice of hunting.
Hunters are the guarantor of species-rich and vital populations of wild animals.
They ensure that wild animals and their products are managed, cared for and used sensibly and that damage caused by game is prevented in a way that is compatible with nature conservation interests.
and agriculture and forestry.
The FDP is against a subordination of hunting law to nature conservation law.
3. more civic freedom through more trust, cohesion and tolerance.
The FDP is the party of fundamental rights and the rule of law.
It defends citizens' rights to freedom against state paternalism and social restrictions.
Freedom needs commitment
and must be protected from a regulation-minded state.
Freedom needs trust.
Trust in legislation that does not treat citizens with general distrust and place everyone under general suspicion.
Freedom needs respect and tolerance.
Respect for the choice of how you live your life.
Tolerance between minorities and majorities.
Freedom needs privacy.
Privacy and protection of the private sphere are among the foundations of human coexistence.
A human society also needs doors that remain closed to the state.
Freedom does not exist only when individual freedom is granted up to the limit of the law.
The Constitution itself must create, educate, guard, defend and teach freedom.
The purpose of the Constitution is precisely to protect freedom.
The FDP takes the value decisions of the Basic Law seriously.
They are a central benchmark of liberal action.
In a liberal civil society, there must be no doubt about the enforcement of the law.
The Basic Law and the individual laws based on it are the expression of a social consensus.
The state therefore has an obligation to comply with the rules of the basic social consensus laid down in the constitution.
We stand for a social policy that is committed to freedom.
We stand for domestic and legal policies that are oriented toward fundamental rights.
We need a return to the values of freedom.
We need a return to a fundamental rights-oriented domestic and legal policy.
For a civil rights-oriented domestic policy
Without security, freedom is of little value.
Nevertheless, security must not come at the expense of freedom.
A society is not freer the more intensively its citizens are monitored, controlled and observed.
Freedom and security must be carefully balanced.
This can only be achieved through an intelligent domestic policy that pays attention to proportionality.
Over the past eleven years, governments have pushed through more and more restrictions on freedom against the opposition of the FDP.
More than 100 new laws were passed in the area of domestic and legal policy alone, with ever new powers of intervention.
Since 1998, a dramatic reduction in civil rights has taken place.
As the repair store for a legislature blind to fundamental rights, the Federal Constitutional Court has had to stop or even repeal numerous laws.
The FDP stands for a new domestic policy that regains trust.
A domestic policy oriented toward fundamental rights respects the value system of the Basic Law.
A fundamental rights-oriented domestic policy creates security without damaging freedom.
Privacy is the core of personal freedom.
The FDP is committed to modern, easy-to-understand, clear and effective data protection law.
It seeks to enshrine general data protection principles in just one law.
A new federal data protection code is to replace hundreds of special laws.
For the FDP, the principle of data economy must be implemented consistently in both the public and non-public sectors.
Every individual must also make a contribution to this by using his or her personal data sparingly and responsibly.
The state must support him in this by means of regulations that enable self-data protection.
Data protection belongs in the Basic Law.
The fundamental right to informational self-determination must be explicitly enshrined in the Basic Law, as must
the fundamental right to guarantee the confidentiality and integrity of information technology systems.
The FDP is committed to harnessing the potential of the market and technology for data protection.
Modern data protection must demand and promote data protection-compliant technology.
To provide guidance to consumers, the FDP calls for the establishment of a "data protection foundation."
It is intended to compare and evaluate products and services from a data protection perspective.
The Federal Data Protection Act is to be made more specific.
Entities that collect personal data must comply with the respective state of the art.
The FDP is committed to ending the fragmentation of the supervisory landscape under data protection law
and to strengthening the independence of the supervisory authorities.
At the federal level, the FDP is seeking to give the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information the status of a supreme federal authority.
State data protection supervisory authorities must be given the opportunity to order the deletion of data that has been processed or disclosed unlawfully.
Violations of data protection must not be allowed to pay off.
Sanction options must be exhausted and, if necessary, expanded.
In addition, measures are needed that start with the market participants themselves.
In addition, we strive for a liability system that encourages the avoidance of liability risks through efficient data privacy management, for example through data privacy quality labels or data privacy audits.
In order to strengthen the level of data protection in the business community and make operational processes data protection-friendly, the position of company data protection officers is to be institutionally strengthened.
A standardized job description for "company data protection officer" is being sought.
The FDP is committed to improving employee data protection.
Only data that is required for the employment relationship may be processed.
Data processing relating to off-duty conduct, such as statements on political matters, must be excluded as a matter of principle.
Health-related data may only be collected if they are relevant to the specific workplace in question.
The preparation and presentation of a genetic test may not be required.
The FDP wants to better protect citizens' registration data.
Information from the population register for advertising purposes should only be permitted if the persons concerned have given their prior consent.
The FDP will prohibit the disclosure of registration data to the fee collection center (GEZ) by the residents' registration offices.
The FDP calls for the restoration of banking secrecy through the abolition of data retention
and the abandonment of secret online searches of private computers.
In addition, the state is called upon to take more targeted action against computer crime.
It is also necessary to evaluate the surveillance laws passed since 1998 from the standpoint of effectiveness,
constitutionality
and the resources committed as a result.
The Liberals reject the collection and storage of passenger data.
The guiding principle of liberal security policy is the protection of the constitutional order
and fundamental rights.
Security also comes from trust in the security authorities.
Clear, transparent and efficient structures are not only a requirement of budgetary discipline,
but also a necessary condition for respecting fundamental rights.
It must be clear to everyone which safety authority is responsible for what.
The police authorities have a particularly prominent position within the security architecture of the Federal Republic of Germany due to their comprehensive scope of duties and their nationwide presence.
The FDP is committed to the federal principle.
Police is first and foremost a state matter.
We are also committed to this principle because of our historical experience.
In a federal security architecture, the exchange of information between authorities is essential.
The exchange of information must not lead to a softening of the separation structure.
The FDP calls for implementing cooperation between security authorities via index files instead of full-text files and for
ensuring parliamentary oversight.
The FDP rejects the reorganization of the Federal Criminal Police Office (BKA) into a German FBI.
For this reason, it did not approve the amendment to the Basic Law in the reform of federalism, under which the BKA was given its own powers in the area of danger prevention for the first time.
Hazard prevention must remain an original task of the federal states.
Fighting terrorism effectively
Terrorism must be fought with all the means of the rule of law.
However, security must always be in line with the fundamental rights of citizens.
Interrogation methods that violate human dignity, the use of torture, the targeted murder of potential terrorists or even the shooting down of innocent people in a hijacked airplane are not compatible with our constitution.
There must be no special right to fight terrorism.
The FDP strictly and resolutely rejects the introduction of "enemy criminal law", in which categories of martial law are applied internally and guarantees of the rule of law in criminal law no longer apply.
International terrorism poses major technical and personnel challenges for security authorities.
They must be managed within the existing federal system through appropriate training, employment of specialists, technical development, and coordination among state police forces.
In the area of aviation security, we want to examine the extent to which the screening of passengers as well as baggage and the monitoring of airport grounds can be transferred entirely to the federal states.
As part of a comprehensive security architecture, the FDP advocates the creation of a civilian national coast guard to effectively combat maritime threats as well.
This requires a bundling of powers and competencies at the federal level.
Also to avoid duplication of competencies and responsibilities, the FDP advocates a review of the extent to which the tasks of the Customs Investigation Service and the Customs Criminal Investigation Office can be taken over by other security authorities.
The Federal Republic of Germany depends on an effective intelligence structure and well-functioning intelligence services.
In the area of offices for the protection of the constitution, the FDP continues to believe that it makes sense to have not only a federal office, but also state offices that have detailed local knowledge.
Foreign intelligence is the responsibility of the Federal Intelligence Service.
That's where it should stay.
The FDP will ensure that the BND operates within the scope of its tasks, within the framework of fundamental rights and international agreements.
The FDP also advocates effective parliamentary oversight of all intelligence services.
Internal security also requires a functioning, effective civil defense and disaster control system.
This can only be guaranteed in the future if the existing dualism of civil protection and disaster control is overcome and responsibilities are clearly regulated.
The existing emergency care system is therefore in need of reorganization.
Internal and external security must continue to be clearly separated.
The FDP strictly rejects the deployment of the Bundeswehr at home beyond existing tasks.
Consistently confronting extremism and anti-Semitism
Freedom is endangered by political extremism.
Left-wing and right-wing extremism equally challenge fundamental rights and the rule of law.
Both claim to be in possession of the ultimate truth and reject the democratic struggle for the right answers.
The FDP fights political extremism of every kind.
Commitment to freedom and democracy is strengthened when democratic parties set a good example.
Political controversies must not be packaged in a populist way,
just as resentment against minorities must not be promoted from the middle of society.
At the same time, we advocate differentiated strategies.
The FDP calls for programs to combat violent tendencies, xenophobia and extremism, especially among young people, to be stepped up.
To this end, we are proposing a three-pillar initiative: an intensification of the programs for young people who are at risk of violence and who are ready to leave;
Offers for young people leaving the right-wing scene with regard to school and vocational qualifications;
Violence prevention programs at schools and in youth work.
In addition, in dealing with left-wing extremism, the causes and modes of action must be combated to a much greater extent than in the past.
Anti-Semitism must be combated consistently.
Year after year, crimes are committed in Germany that are directed against people of the Jewish faith.
Another cause for concern is the high level of latent anti-Semitism.
The FDP is committed to fighting anti-Semitism from the middle of society.
While Islam as a religion is very much compatible with the Basic Law,
Islamism as a politically motivated ideology rejects democracy, the market economy, pluralism and human rights.
Islamism is thus neither compatible with the Basic Law nor with the convictions of the FDP.
We liberals resolutely oppose religious fundamentalism
and thus also strengthen pro-democracy religious organizations and individuals.
A functioning civil service is an important pillar of our democratic constitutional state.
Modernizing the civil service is an ongoing task in the interests of citizens, society and the state.
Professional civil service is justified by advantages such as special duties of loyalty and a ban on strikes.
The traditional principles of the civil service leave room for comprehensive further development and renewal of civil service law.
This process did not end with the Federal Service Reform Act.
The FDP will advocate improvements in the transfer of acquired pension rights, greater flexibility in retirement, and a strengthening of the benefits concept.
In addition, the FDP strives for the equality of registered partners with spouses in the law on salaries, pensions and benefits.
The municipalities' right to self-government, guaranteed by the Basic Law, must be strengthened.
Transfer of tasks to the municipalities must be limited.
The principle of connexity ("he who orders, pays"), according to which the federal and state governments must share the costs of delegated tasks, must be incorporated into the Basic Law.
Furthermore, the finances of local authorities must be placed on a solid footing by replacing the cyclical trade tax with a higher proportion of VAT and by giving local authorities their own right to levy income and corporation tax.
Strengthen the rule of law
Protecting and preserving the freedom and dignity of citizens in a liberal state governed by the rule of law is the FDP's top priority in legal policy.
We need a realignment of legal policy.
Legal policy must not be limited to implementing European requirements
or sharpening domestic policy initiatives in terms of the rule of law.
Legal policy must shape and give a face to change in society.
Legal policy must provide decisive impetus for a modern and enlightened civil society.
The goal of legal policy must be to close the gap between applicable law and lived reality.
In particular, constitutionally guaranteed legal positions must also be enshrined in simple law and made tangible for citizens.
Patients' constitutionally guaranteed right to self-determination must be strengthened.
We need a legal regulation on the binding effect of living wills.
This is intended to make dispositions for the period of incapacity to consent binding on everyone at every stage of an illness.
The modernization of the judiciary is an important task in order to ensure the quality and efficiency of the rule of law and at the same time relieve the burden on the courts.
The judiciary must be equipped in terms of personnel, technology and equipment so that the courts can work efficiently and in close proximity to the citizens.
Voluntary jurisdiction is and remains an important guarantor for a functioning business location in Germany.
To enable the judiciary to concentrate on its core tasks, the outsourcing of tasks that do not necessarily have to be taken over by the state must be consistently promoted.
The reform of the bailiff system with the aim of introducing the loan-to-value system will lead to more effective enforcement without any loss of quality.
We need fewer but better laws.
Laws must be understandable, clear and predictable in their effects.
The legislator may not offer a statutory regulation for every individual case.
Where a systematic approach to legislation is no longer discernible, the necessary harmonization of legal provisions must be undertaken.
Instead of a constant stream of new repair laws, we need a sensible legislative process that allows for all parliamentary options within a reasonable timeframe and thus ensures a proper legislative process.
The state has the task of protecting citizens from violence and crime.
There must be no trivialization and decriminalization of crimes.
Every criminal act is a border violation that must have consequences for the perpetrator.
We reject plans to decriminalize so-called petty offenses.
The Bundeswehr has become a globally operating operational army.
German soldiers are subject to German criminal law when deployed abroad.
The ambiguities of legal jurisdiction over soldiers deployed abroad must be eliminated.
The FDP demands a clear allocation for the prosecution of crimes committed by and against soldiers of the German Armed Forces on missions abroad.
In the future, the court in whose district the Bundeswehr Operations Command responsible for the foreign deployment has its headquarters must have jurisdiction.
No undue surveillance of citizens
The state must be able to act in order to fulfill its legal mandate to maintain internal security and protect citizens from violations of the law.
It has appropriate instruments at its disposal, such as telephone surveillance for danger prevention and criminal prosecution.
The state may only interfere with citizens' civil liberties if the measure is suitable, necessary and appropriate in the individual case.
Therefore, the FDP rejects the indiscriminate threat prevention.
The FDP has rejected data retention without suspicion from the outset.
We therefore also reject the automatic collection of vehicle license plates on German roads without any specific reason and the storage and use of toll data for law enforcement purposes.
The Federal Constitutional Court has issued clear guidelines on the definiteness of standards, on the core area of private life and on the protection of professional secrets.
The Federal Constitutional Court has repeatedly put the legislature in its place (for example, the Aviation Security Act, the European Arrest Warrant, data retention, online searches).
The legislature must finally stop always orienting itself only to the limits of what is still constitutionally permissible.
Therefore, liberals reject any considerations regarding a "spy attack."
In its corresponding ruling, the Federal Constitutional Court rightly set high standards for the so-called "grand eavesdropping attack", i.e. the secret eavesdropping of conversations in a home, if it is to be constitutional.
The ruling shows how far-reaching this attack on civil rights is.
Instead of creating a regulation for theoretical exceptional situations, the Liberals advocate a consistent abolition of the "Great Eavesdropping Attack".
Current law contains loopholes to protect press freedom and journalistic research.
Time and again, investigative proceedings are initiated against journalists for alleged participation in the violation of an official secret, which ultimately do not lead to a conviction.
This poses risks to whistleblower protection.
Ensuring the constitutionally guaranteed freedom of the press and the unhindered procurement of information are not possible without confidential communication.
In the view of the FDP, seizures may therefore only be made in the future if there is urgent suspicion of a crime against the journalist.
In addition, it is mandatory that all orders of seizure be subject to the reservation of a judge.
The Criminal Code must ensure that journalists are no longer liable to prosecution for aiding and abetting the violation of official secrecy if they publish material that they have received in confidence.
In addition, uniform protection from government surveillance measures must be ensured for all professional secrecy holders.
In order to ensure the rule of law, it is essential to guarantee the protection of confidence between professionals who are entitled to refuse to testify and those who seek their assistance.
Arbitrary differentiation between certain professional groups undermines the relationship of trust protected by fundamental rights.
For lawyers, clergymen, members of parliament, journalists, doctors, tax advisors and auditors, a comprehensive ban on the collection and use of evidence must therefore be guaranteed in the case of state investigative measures, both under the Code of Criminal Procedure and in the case of danger prevention.
To this end, the Code of Criminal Procedure must be amended.
In the fight against juvenile delinquency, the FDP relies on a policy of reason and not populism.
The broad range of instruments available under juvenile criminal law must be applied consistently to this end.
The punishment must follow on its heels.
First and foremost, this requires better networking between the police, the judiciary, local youth welfare services, juvenile court services and schools on the ground, as can be achieved, for example, through so-called houses of juvenile justice in the municipalities.
The FDP is also in favor of expanding educational response options to youth misbehavior through warning shot detention.
Warning detention should be able to be ordered alongside a suspended juvenile sentence or a suspension of the imposition of a juvenile sentence, thus making it clear to the juvenile that his serious violation of the law will not remain without any immediate consequence.
The expansion of prevention is particularly important.
The FDP wants to fight and eliminate the causes of child and juvenile delinquency.
Here, too, better networking of all those involved on the part of the police, the judiciary, youth welfare and schools, but also the involvement of parents is necessary.
The observed brutalization of society, especially among young people, must be countered with greater vigor.
Preventing violent crime by addressing the root causes of rampant violence is our constant focus.
The protection and rights of the victim of violent crime must also be at the center of criminal proceedings in practice.
In criminal proceedings, the focus must be on dealing with victims of violence as gently as possible.
Gaps in the Victim Compensation Act, especially regarding counseling and psychological support for victims, must be closed.
In addition, victims of violent crime abroad must also be included.
Civil courage is a necessary prerequisite of civil society.
The state must more fully reward the commitment and dedication of citizens who stand in the way of criminals to help victims.
What is needed is a further increase in prison compensation for people who have been unjustly deprived of their liberty.
The structure and amount of the compensation must provide a reasonable equivalent for the damages to be compensated.
The Liberals reject a boundless expansion of the DNS file.
DNA patterns may only be stored in the case of criminal offenses that are of significant importance in each case.
In addition, molecular genetic testing must be ordered by a judge in every case.
In recent years, the legislature has continuously expanded the options for ordering preventive detention.
This has led to the measure losing its exceptional character.
The legal requirements for issuing orders must therefore be harmonized as a matter of urgency
and placed on a sound basis in accordance with the rule of law.
The FDP rejects the extension of subsequent preventive detention to offenders sentenced under juvenile criminal law.
The goal of ensuring that offenders lead a life free of crime in the future must be pursued with commitment even in the juvenile prison system.
Therefore, there must be no financial and personnel savings in the juvenile penal system that would jeopardize this correctional goal.
The expanded possibilities of supervision of conduct can also be a suitable alternative to preventive detention, especially for juvenile offenders.
For a modern civil and commercial law
The FDP advocates a modern German legal system without copying the American one and therefore rejects class action lawsuits.
The creation of a statute for a European Private Company (EPC), which is largely limited to Community law regulations and represents a uniform and conclusive statute of a company form throughout Europe, should be pushed forward in the interest of medium-sized companies.
The number of actions for annulment under stock corporation law against resolutions of the Annual General Meeting, some of which are abusive, has increased significantly in recent years.
The Liberals are calling above all for proceedings to be accelerated by giving the higher regional courts jurisdiction in the first instance and removing incentives to sue.
However, the protection of minority shareholders must not be forgotten here.
In principle, the FDP does not want legal models for contracts, statutes or similar.
It is the original task of the legal advisory professions to develop and offer manageable solutions for each individual case.
A model anchored in the law cannot and will not be flexible enough to adapt to current legal reality and case law as a solution adapted to the individual case.
Rental law must be adapted to the changed situation on the housing market.
The tenancy law reform in 2001 has significantly worsened the legal position of landlords.
Asymmetrical notice periods, excessive length of proceedings in payment and eviction actions, and grace periods for defaulting tenants must be abolished or amended.
In the interest of tenants and landlords, the FDP calls for a simplification of tenancy law and its final regulation in the Civil Code.
The issue of so-called "rental nomadism" must remain on the agenda.
We will correct the privileged treatment of social security funds vis-à-vis private creditors in insolvency law.
In consumer insolvency law, the FDP will work to streamline the procedure while maintaining the standards of the rule of law.
Corporate insolvency law faces international competition.
We therefore need further development of the tried-and-tested insolvency plan procedure
and a strengthening of the influence of creditors on the appointment of administrators,
as well as the creation of larger court units to handle insolvency cases.
The expropriations in the wake of the so-called land reform remain an injustice.
The question of old property has been decided in a legally binding manner in the new federal states.
However, this does not preclude political initiatives.
There is still so-called old property owned by the state.
The FDP will work to ensure that previous owners are given the opportunity to acquire it.
For this, the method chosen for masonry properties may provide a guide.
Families must be able to trust in the future
For liberals, a family is any long-term community in which responsibility is assumed for one another across generations.
The principles of liberal family policy are freedom of choice of lifestyle,
Freedom for personal life design,
Personal initiative
and personal responsibility.
Parents should have the freedom of choice to balance family life and employment.
Sufficiently flexible and good-quality childcare options in facilities and with childminders must be created for the gainful employment of mothers and fathers.
The FDP is committed to the gradual abolition of parental contributions for childcare at the federal, state and local levels in order to relieve the burden on families
and to emphasize the importance of preschool education.
Single parents need special support in balancing family and career so that they can secure their livelihood.
The FDP demands that parental allowance be linked to gross rather than net earned income, so that parents are not placed at a disadvantage due to the choice of an unfavorable tax bracket while this is still in place.
The granting of a minimum parental allowance to recipients of unemployment benefit II should be reviewed in light of its income replacement function.
The interests of the self-employed must be given greater consideration,
and it should be possible for parental leave to be granted unbureaucratically and flexibly, even on a weekly or daily basis, within the framework of a time budget in agreement with employers.
Parents who opt for a joint part-time arrangement must not be disadvantaged.
For us, the child is the center of attention.
Therefore, it makes more sense to introduce education and care vouchers for each individual child and thus strengthen subject promotion instead of supporting institutions (object promotion).
In addition, the FDP advocates a legal entitlement to a full-day childcare place from the time a child reaches the age of one from 2013.
The FDP rejects the introduction of a childcare allowance.
Special support must be given to young mothers and fathers in part-time training and retraining.
The FDP wants to make it possible for every parent who receives BAföG to receive an allowance for the duration of their BAföG receipt instead of a partial loan waiver after graduation.
Spouses and registered partners with different nationalities should be able to choose both the competent court of an EU Member State and the applicable law according to the nationality of one of the partners or the place of marriage, insofar as it is in Germany, by means of a marriage contract to be notarized.
This choice of law shall not be mandatory.
The FDP is committed to strengthening adoptions.
Bureaucratic hurdles must be reduced as far as possible.
In view of increasing life expectancy and the general shift in family formation, the German Civil Code also stipulates that, as a rule, an age difference of 50 years between a child and a parent does not cast doubt on the parenting ability.
In the case of stepchild adoptions, if the mother, father and step-parent willing to adopt so wish by mutual agreement, it should be made irrevocably possible by notarization that the relationship to both natural parents is maintained, as in the case of adult adoptions.
The best interests of the child must also be taken into account in the case of foreign adoptions without the involvement of German specialized agencies.
In cases where the required examination by the home country is not guaranteed, a summary examination of the eligibility for recognition shall be carried out, if possible, before a visa is issued for the child.
The final determination of parenting ability is made in Germany.
Today, joint custody is only possible for unmarried couples if the mother agrees.
However, in the opinion of the FDP, the father should have the option of a court decision to obtain joint custody in individual cases if this is in the best interests of the child.
There must be no discrimination against fathers in custody matters.
For liberals, all communities in which people take responsibility for one another are valuable.
Communities of responsibility must not be discriminated against.
Those who have equal duties deserve equal rights.
Civil partnerships must be put on an equal footing with marriage, especially in tax law, adoption, and civil service law.
It must be clarified by federal law that all reproductive medical services permitted in Germany (such as artificial insemination) are legally open to all people regardless of their marital status, i.e. in particular also to unmarried women who wish to have children.
The FDP is committed to strengthening children's rights:
The Basic Law primarily entitles and obligates mothers and fathers to care for children, but at the same time it imposes on the state to watch over the exercise of parental rights and parental duties.
Because children have a right to the best possible education, upbringing and care.
The FDP demands that the reservation be lifted from the already ratified UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.
Health is an essential prerequisite for children's development.
The FDP advocates measures that are suitable for achieving a higher participation rate in the statutory early detection examinations in an unbureaucratic manner and in compliance with data protection.
In the event of a risk to children's well-being, child and youth welfare professionals must be encouraged to form a comprehensive picture of children's everyday lives in the family context and to offer preventive help at an early stage.
This requires adequate staffing of the youth welfare offices.
Parenting skills in families should be strengthened through early prevention models.
This also applies to low-threshold services provided by family midwives and child nurses at the community level.
Children should acquire media skills at an early age in order to be able to use media offerings critically according to their age.
The FDP advocates the further development of binding and practicable standards and certifications for the protection of minors in the online sector.
Existing systems urgently need to be reviewed for practicality and effectiveness.
Uniform standards for child and youth welfare should be established within the framework of the Conference of Youth Ministers.
The quality of child and youth welfare services should be evaluated at regular intervals
and service and professional supervision strengthened.
It should be examined to what extent a separation of duties between the decision on measures and their implementation is possible in the area of youth welfare in order to ensure a decision that is independent of financial considerations of the municipality.
With the reform of the law on maintenance, child maintenance was given absolute priority over all other claims.
The FDP is committed to making it possible for the state to grant advance maintenance payments until a child reaches the age of majority.
In return, the period of eligibility should be reduced to 36 months to reflect the objective as temporary assistance in the enforcement of maintenance claims.
The procedure must also be made less bureaucratic.
The FDP advocates for the creation of a legal basis for anonymous birth, since the Personal Status Act subjects persons who know of the birth of a child or are involved in the delivery to the obligation to notify the registry office.
This is to prevent children from being abandoned or killed due to maternal distress.
The "baby hatch" can also be helpful here.
Politics for women
The FDP advocates a free and self-responsible way of life for women and men.
We create the framework conditions for this.
The principle of gender equality shall be fully implemented.
The compatibility of family and career is a prerequisite for a self-responsible way of life.
Women's life plans are still restricted by the often involuntary choice between family and career.
It is therefore still more likely to be mothers who take parental leave.
Fortunately, the desire for parental leave is also increasing among fathers.
But in many companies, this wish is met with a lack of understanding.
However, children need both parents equally.
The FDP calls for a demand-driven expansion of high-quality childcare options for children from the age of one and
the creation of flexible working time models.
This can ensure employability and rapid re-entry into the workforce for young parents.
Similar problems must be solved when caring for relatives.
Here, too, women usually bear the main burden.
In contrast to men, women still receive significantly lower wages for the same work.
The FDP is committed to ensuring that women and men are paid the same for the same work in the same place.
Part-time solutions should also be made possible for managers so that they are not automatically excluded from career advancement.
Women continue to be underrepresented in leadership positions in the private and public sectors.
In order to support women who are willing to perform and committed to their careers, successful instruments such as "mentoring" must be made available.
Promoting tolerance and respect through a diversity policy
The FDP wants more than anti-discrimination legislation.
We want a new culture of diversity in society.
We therefore welcome company "diversity strategies" that value differences between employees as promoting innovation and creativity.
However, valuing diversity does not mean simply treating everyone the same.
Egalitarianism in no way does justice to the different talents and needs of individuals, but rather prevents targeted needs-based support.
The FDP wants to launch a foundation that promotes homosexual civil and human rights work and interdisciplinary research on homosexuality and gender issues.
In addition, liberal foreign and human rights policies will be more forceful in addressing the situation of lesbians and gay men around the world.
The transsexual law, which is unconstitutional in large parts, urgently needs to be fundamentally reformed.
Germany is a country of immigration.
Liberals see the coexistence of different cultures as an opportunity and enrichment.
The FDP advocates a rational integration policy that does not conceal integration problems.
Germany has some catching up to do in integration policy.
The FDP wants individual integration, including catch-up integration.
Controlling immigration by introducing a points system is overdue.
The selection process is primarily aimed at highly qualified employees from a wide range of professions who can be expected to contribute to the economic development of our country.
But skilled workers from other categories should also have a chance to immigrate under additional conditions if the labor market specifically requires it.
The FDP stands for a humanitarian immigration policy based on international refugee law.
Cooperation on immigration and asylum at the EU level must not lead to a lowering of immigration to the lowest level.
Every immigrant is first and foremost required to take responsibility for himself and his family.
Indispensable prerequisites are, above all, mastery of the German language, knowledge of and respect for our constitution and its basic values, and a willingness to integrate on both sides.
However, integration can also be promoted through dual citizenship, as the many cases of well-integrated fellow citizens with dual citizenship show.
The best way to integrate is to stand on your own two feet economically.
Every person living legally or tolerated in Germany should have the right to earn their own living.
In order to improve the quality of linguistic integration in the long term, the integration courses must be differentiated more strongly according to target groups and prior knowledge and expanded.
Catch-up integration opportunities must be opened up for women in particular.
We need more intercultural competence in administration and in the health professions.
Rethinking senior citizens' policy - mastering demographic change
The FDP is the only party to present a coherent approach to managing demographic change.
Liberals are convinced that the best way to solve the many problems resulting from demographic change is to involve the older generation - through participation and collaboration.
Older people should be active as long as they want to be.
The vast majority of citizens remain physically and mentally fit into old age.
Their willingness to get involved and participate is something the FDP wants to encourage and take advantage of.
We can no longer afford to let the knowledge, competence and creativity of older people lie idle.
The FDP therefore calls for the abolition of all age limits for work, the
development of age management in companies (i.e. personal training and individual support for older employees),
the expansion of lifelong learning,
greater support for civic engagement
and more offers for social and political participation for the older generation.
Research funding for gerontology, geriatrics, and geriatric psychology must be increased so that it stands up to international comparison.
The FDP wants to enable independent living in old age.
This includes barrier-free design of one's own home as well as age-appropriate quality of stay in public spaces.
The FDP strongly supports new neighborhood-based housing concepts for intergenerational coexistence and self-help groups.
Enable people with disabilities to participate effectively
Liberal policies aim to enable people with disabilities to actually participate in social life.
We are calling for a personal budget that covers the whole country and all providers.
Thus, people in need of assistance can claim a cash benefit instead of a benefit in kind.
They are customers and decide which provider or person should provide the assistance.
This ensures the highest possible degree of independence and personal responsibility.
Liberal social policy emphasizes the principle of individual assistance.
Demographic change will continue to increase the proportion of people with disabilities in the overall population.
Our primary goal is therefore the timely and future-proof further development of integration assistance.
The burden must be shared between the federal, state and local governments.
The FDP advocates for the right of children and youth with disabilities to attend inclusive childcare facilities, schools, and recreational and educational facilities to improve the coexistence of people with and without disabilities.
Accessibility is a basic prerequisite for actual participation.
People with disabilities must be able to use all public buildings, means of transport and communication facilities largely independently of outside assistance.
The basis for the opportunity to work, in addition to vocational support measures, can be
only the consistent provision of rehabilitation infrastructures
and the expansion of special employment companies.
Insofar as people with disabilities are capable of working, they are to be integrated into the general labor market.
In this context, the FDP sees it as the duty of the integration services in particular to qualify their personnel structures so that they can make full use of their instruments for vocational integration.
State and Society: Daring More Freedom
Democracy thrives on the participation of citizens in what happens in society and the state.
The FDP wants to dare more freedom by allowing more people to participate in shaping the community.
This includes strengthening democratic decision-making processes through greater transparency and more citizen participation.
This requires a better allocation of political processes, who is responsible for which political decision at which level.
And more direct participation opportunities open up avenues for more democracy.
In the context of a Europe that has grown together, improved citizen participation must also be realized at the European level in the future.
We therefore advocate for local voting rights for all migrants who have been legally resident in the country for at least five years.
The FDP is committed to representative democracy.
However, it wants to enrich them with elements of direct democracy.
Citizens must be able to participate more in decision-making, especially in their immediate environment.
That's why we advocate for citizen referendums, citizen petitions and citizen surveys at the state and federal level.
All elections regularly held in a year - with the exception of local elections - should be bundled into one or at most two election dates to be set.
This bundling will end the permanent election campaign
and also lead to growing voter turnout again.
A reorganization of federal-state financial relations is necessary.
The focus is therefore on reforming the federal-state fiscal equalization system,
expanding the fiscal autonomy of the states
and stimulating competition between them.
For liberals, civic engagement is an expression of a vibrant civic culture.
Civic engagement needs the enabling, not the granting, state.
The FDP's goal is to create open space for civic organizations.
Hurdles, such as the strict liability of honorary board members, must be removed.
The FDP wants to promote new innovative approaches to civic engagement.
This includes an infrastructure that supports engagement, such as volunteer agencies and senior citizens' offices.
Citizens who regularly perform voluntary work should receive certificates, which should be taken into account when recruiting for the civil service and for promotions, as well as for school reports.
Culture from all
Art and culture are the foundations in society for understanding each other and the source of identity and creativity.
Art and culture reflect the state of a society and drive its development.
Without art and culture, our society would not be creative, our education technocratic and our economy innovative.
Art and culture play a key role in determining the adaptability of a society.
Liberal cultural policy is based on the guiding principle of "culture for all".
The citizen as a creator of culture, user of culture and promoter of culture is at the center of liberal cultural policy.
In addition, cultural policy must create incentives for greater private involvement.
At the same time, the FDP is committed to public cultural funding.
The FDP is promoting the anchoring of culture as a state objective in the Basic Law.
Cultural education enables social participation and personal development.
Their promotion with low-threshold access is therefore an obligation of the state and must be strengthened.
The main sponsors of culture are a large number of associations and initiatives, which are largely based on voluntary work.
The non-profit law must be redesigned in such a way that the principle is not the granting but the enabling state.
In tax and liability law, voluntary work must not be made more difficult.
For liberals, citizen volunteers are the foundation of a free civil society.
The cultural and creative industries are an important industry of the future.
The FDP advocates for credit and venture capital instruments that take into account the specific situation of the cultural and creative industries in the funding conditions.
Film is both an economic and cultural asset.
The FDP therefore advocates strengthening the film industry in Germany.
The instruments of film funding must be reviewed to determine their suitability for making German film internationally competitive.
The federal government's capital city cultural funding must be placed on a clear legal footing.
A strong federal commitment is essential.
However, this must be done according to transparent criteria and must not lead to a neglect of cultural funding in the other federal states.
The state and museums must strengthen provenance research.
The procedures for identifying and possibly returning Nazi looted art need to be professionalized according to international models.
We also want to press ahead with the return of cultural assets that were displaced as a result of the war.
The National Socialists' reign of terror from 1933 to 1945 is a catastrophe in German history that is unprecedented in every respect.
The remembrance of and information about the unimaginable atrocities of National Socialism must be preserved undiminished and with emphasis.
There is a great need to catch up on the reappraisal of German-German history.
For the future of our democratic state, it is important to use schools and cultural projects to teach the young generation in particular about the causes and consequences of unfreedom and mismanagement - in all German states.
Remembering the murdered opponents of the communist regime should be included in political education.
The authentic sites of SED injustice are to be made accessible and preserved.
Copyright: High level of protection and effective enforcement
Copyright has a key function in the digital world.
The FDP therefore calls for the consistent further development of copyright law to further improve copyright protection.
The FDP rejects the introduction of a "culture flat rate".
Combating copyright infringement remains a particular challenge, especially on the Internet, because "Internet piracy" is an existential threat to the cultural and creative industries.
The Internet must not be a copyright-free space.
The FDP therefore advocates solutions that ensure effective and consistent law enforcement while safeguarding data protection.
The FDP is committed to the collective management of copyrights and ancillary copyrights by collecting societies with efficient and transparent structures.
Especially with regard to online uses, cross-border licensing by collecting societies must be facilitated and fragmentation of repertoires prevented.
The FDP advocates the creation of a European right of administration as a basis for promoting competition among European collecting societies under uniform framework conditions.
New media - using opportunities for more freedom responsibly
The FDP is committed to modernizing telemedia law.
This must clearly define and assign responsibilities as well as indemnifications at the various levels of providers and users.
The Internet is a free medium.
It must be protected from too much government regulation and excessive surveillance.
Internet service providers must not be subject to excessive monitoring obligations.
The freedom of the press and freedom of opinion in a networked knowledge society must also be safeguarded on the Internet.
However, children and young people must be protected from content in the media that is unsuitable for them.
Adults, however, must not be denied access to content that does not violate criminal law.
Censorship must not take place on the Internet either.
These principles must be anchored in modern youth media protection law.
Many undesirable effects of the Internet cannot be counteracted on the Internet itself, but they can be counteracted at home on the PC.
The FDP favors filtering at home instead of blocking by the state.
With the FDP, there will be no actionist bans or state censorship on the Internet.
The FDP strictly rejects the so-called online search.
The FDP wants more competition in telecommunications infrastructures
and nationwide access to broadband Internet.
Government regulation must always serve to promote competition,
because competition is the basis for investment and innovation in infrastructure and services.
Access to regulated networks must be open and transparent for all market participants.
The FDP is also opposed to statutory universal service obligations for broadband.
Improved information about the wide range of access technologies and cooperation between companies and local authorities can help close the gaps in broadband coverage in Germany.
Digitization enables a greater variety of content and transmission paths.
The FDP advocates dealing flexibly with capacities that become available, for example in the area of broadcasting frequencies.
It should also be possible to use such transmission capacities, for example, to supply rural regions with Internet access.
The FDP is committed to investing in a high-performance IT infrastructure in Germany.
We promote new technologies and create competitive, future-proof structures.
The FDP creates the framework conditions to ensure that the labor demand for highly qualified IT specialists is met.
Germany must become the European pioneer in Internet literacy.
The realization of the Internet Republic of Germany remains a key challenge.
The FDP is committed to a fundamental reform of public broadcasting.
To this end, its mission in the digital media age must be specified in the Interstate Broadcasting Treaty.
The outdated device-based broadcasting fee should be replaced by a general and flat-rate media levy paid by every adult citizen with their own income.
The GEZ is abolished.
Advertising should be dispensed with in favor of the program quality of public broadcasting.
The FDP considers supervision by the broadcasting councils to be insufficient and calls for an end to fragmented media supervision.
Instead, it advocates the creation of a single independent federal-state institution to supervise and regulate (public and private) broadcasting, media and telecommunications.
The FDP is opposed to economic stakes held by parties in radio stations, newspaper publishers and other opinion-forming media companies.
At the very least, direct influence must be ruled out and transparent labeling of party involvement must be required.
Do not restrict freedom of faith and conscience
The freedom to personally live and publicly profess a religious faith or not to do so is one of the principles of liberals.
Tolerance and respect for the beliefs of others are among the most important prerequisites for prosperous and peaceful coexistence in the state and society.
Liberals are committed to the ideological neutrality of the state.
We adhere to the principle of cooperation, according to which the state and religious communities are each independent and at the same time related to each other for the common good.
The FDP is committed to the equal treatment of religious communities by the state.
The decisive factor is that the respective religious community's conception of man and society respects the values of the constitution.
The churches and religious communities make a positive contribution to shaping coexistence in society.
Prejudices that still exist must be overcome.
Ignorance often forms the breeding ground for prejudice.
It is the responsibility of the countries to provide curricula in their respective curricula that reduce prejudice against religions by providing comprehensive information about them.
With regard to the desired integration of non-church religions, legal regulations are to be sought in agreement with the religious communities concerned in the interests of equal treatment.
Strengthening the social importance of sport
Germany is a great sports nation.
Sport not only makes a major contribution to health, but also makes a significant contribution to integration into society.
Club, amateur and competitive sports, as well as youth work, require targeted support in order to convey to children and young people an understanding of healthy physical relationships and the values of fair play.
Senior sports should be upgraded in terms of their importance for actively shaping demographic change.
We need to strengthen the sporting honorary office.
Without the commitment of the volunteers, the work in the small associations in particular would not be possible, or only to a limited extent.
The FDP supports greater involvement of women at all levels of sport.
In order to underline the outstanding importance of sport for society and to promote it further, the FDP is calling for sport to be enshrined as a state objective in the Basic Law.
The FDP welcomes the positive developments in the field of popular and competitive sports for people with disabilities.
German athletes with disabilities successfully participate in the Paralympics and the Special Olympics.
The FDP is committed to providing greater support for sports for both physically and mentally disabled people.
Sponsorship measures are indispensable for major sporting events, but also for the work of clubs.
The FDP is committed to ensuring that sponsors are provided with appropriate framework conditions in Germany in order to promote sport and other public welfare interests.
This also includes a partial liberalization of the sports betting market in order to secure the financing of top-level and popular sports in the long term.
The FDP is also committed to modernizing or expanding sports facilities throughout Germany.
Doping shakes the credibility of sport.
The FDP is committed to providing targeted support for research:
Modern doping methods must be identified at an early stage and corresponding, up-to-date detection methods must be developed as early as possible.
This must not involve disproportionate interference with privacy.
Prevention work must also be expanded in a targeted manner - we must inform young people as early as possible about the dangers of doping and teach them the ethical principles of sport.
4. more opportunities through education, research and innovation
Fair educational opportunities for all are the key to freedom, social participation, personal happiness and prosperity.
Through education, all people can pave their own paths to success, regardless of their social, ethnic or religious background.
In the age of the global knowledge society, education has become the real social issue for people.
A liberal society does not ask what the parents are, but what the children are capable of.
The lack of support at home, the lack of stimulation for children and the inadequate educational environment often ensure that talents cannot develop.
The talents of children from educationally disadvantaged backgrounds or children with an immigrant background must be promoted more effectively than in the past.
Education is a civil right.
We need an equitable education system that gives everyone the best possible degree based on talent and performance, regardless of social background.
We need an intelligently organized education system that flexibly adapts to the rapid changes in our working world.
We need an efficient education system based on the principles of equal opportunity, competition, freedom and personal responsibility.
We need a flexible education system that is free from the shackles of government overregulation and bureaucratization.
We need an engaging education system that encourages initiative and individual engagement.
We need a better funded education system.
Measured against economic performance, public spending on education in Germany is too low.
We are therefore calling for a "Right of Way for Education" initiative.
The federal, state and local governments and the business community must significantly increase their efforts to achieve this.
The FDP wants to achieve the goal of investing more than ten percent of gross domestic product (GDP) in education by 2010 if possible.
and research.
At least seven percent of GDP should be spent on education
and three percent of GDP should be invested in research and technology.
The federal and state governments share responsibility for this.
The FDP is committed to competitive federalism.
Education is and remains a matter for the states.
The best solutions emerge locally and in competition with each other.
We need solutions that take into account the concerns of children and are not out of touch with reality.
Experience has shown that this is best achieved when the schools are strengthened as far as possible in their autonomy.
Anyone who is serious about equal opportunities in Germany must ensure nationwide educational standards and comparable school-leaving qualifications.
The Conference of Education Ministers has long since ceased to fulfill these tasks in the field of education
must therefore be abolished and replaced by an effective, streamlined education conference.
We represent a comprehensive concept of education that focuses on people in their diversity.
The goal and self-image of a liberal education policy is to impart not only knowledge but also values.
Knowing one's own abilities and being able to lead a self-reliant life on one's own initiative and to critically engage with one's environment are the basis of a liberal civil society as we envision it.
Education is an elementary contribution to personality development.
Education for sustainable development is an important and forward-looking task for all educational institutions.
In addition to being anchored in the school curriculum, its implementation in cooperation with non-school partners such as educational institutions, economic institutions and associations is of great importance.
Teaching basic skills and factual knowledge about the interdependencies between people, nature and technology are indispensable prerequisites for equipping young people with the skills to act and thus enable them to participate in society in shaping sustainable development.
Early childhood education - the basis of every biography
The education of children is first and foremost the responsibility of parents.
In an alliance of family and education policy, day care centers and day care are also part of the foundation of the education system.
They are designed to promote individuality, creativity, independence and physical development of children and to create the conditions for school attendance.
The FDP demands that every child receives an education and childcare voucher from the first completed year of life as a federal family policy benefit.
Parents can use the vouchers to take advantage of educational opportunities for their children, such as daycare centers, music schools or sports clubs.
In the fourth year of life, children must be mandatorily assessed for their level of language development.
Children with weaknesses should then receive intensive and - in anticipation of compulsory schooling - mandatory support, for example as part of the Start class.
From the age of five, we want mandatory school preparation in which talents are encouraged and weaknesses systematically remedied.
Nationally comparable quality standards in the area of preschool education help to further improve the work in preschool education facilities.
Kitas are to be given the opportunity to woo parents with a seal of approval awarded after external evaluation.
The use of developmental diagnostic tools such as tests and systematized observations is necessary to promote talent and address deficits in children's development.
Daycare centers and elementary schools must cooperate better to ensure a seamless transition.
Joint training courses, parents' evenings, mutual observation and handover discussions at enrollment all contribute to this.
The FDP demands that day care centers for children develop into "family centers" and, in cooperation with other institutions, create new offers such as language support for parents.
The FDP stands for a diversity of voluntary welfare organizations, churches, parent initiatives, municipalities and private commercial providers.
In order to ensure quality in early childhood education, a further training offensive for educators is indispensable.
More male educators need to be promoted.
In addition, a university education or a corresponding equivalent qualification should be a prerequisite in the future, at least for the management of the educational institution.
More freedom for local educational institutions
Kita and school must be able to decide on the composition of the staff and their profile to achieve the specified educational goals.
They must have an autonomous budget, regardless of whether it is a state-run or an independent institution.
The amount of the budget is based on the number of students and their support needs.
Local school offerings must be sufficiently differentiated, efficient, talent-oriented, and as close to home as possible.
For this the FDP demands the abolition of the school catchment areas.
It is not the place of residence that is decisive for the choice of daycare center or school, but only the parents' and students' wishes.
The FDP is committed to fair competition between state-municipal and independent schools.
Independent schools are not substitutes or mere adjuncts to the public school system.
They are guarantors of choice, diversity and competition for the best educational concepts.
Free schools are still hampered by a variety of obstacles.
The FDP advocates the abolition of this unequal treatment.
We want fair opportunities in funding for independent schools.
A level playing field must be ensured, particularly in the elementary school sector.
Our education system can only benefit from independent schools and the increasing demand from parents for these schools shows their quality.
We Liberals want to promote this further.
German schools abroad are an essential and integral part of German foreign cultural and educational policy and offer young people around the world an excellent start in life.
They serve to promote understanding between cultures and deserve our full support.
Educational standards, defined by independent experts, enable equal educational opportunities across national borders.
The respective results of the free and public educational institutions are presented to the public.
The external evaluation is carried out by certified institutions, which can be freely chosen by the schools.
Teachers play a central role in our society.
They have a great responsibility.
They should be able to devote their energies primarily to optimal teaching and education and not be burdened with superfluous administrative tasks.
The teaching profession finally needs the social recognition it enjoys in other countries.
Teacher work hours need to be redefined so that in the future they are not just based on class times.
For this, teachers need suitable working conditions at school.
More teacher presence allows for more flexibility and better communication between school, students and parents.
School principals need to be more skilled toward school administrative management.
Jobs for administrative staff must be created at schools to relieve the principal of administrative duties.
The FDP is against standard tenure for new teacher hires.
We demand the upgrading of the teaching profession through equally high education and training standards nationwide and the recognition of the teaching profession by the federal states.
The quality of teacher training must be significantly improved.
To this end, didactic concepts based on the findings of educational research that can be directly implemented in the classroom must be taught to a greater extent.
Schools must require regular in-service training for their teachers.
In return, they receive additional funds that they can use to buy training courses on the education market.
In addition to state teacher training, private training institutes are recognized;
state and private ones compete fairly.
In addition, at least every ten years, teachers are to be enabled to undergo six months of further training in the training centers of the universities as part of an advanced training semester.
In teacher training, it must be determined at an early stage whether student teachers have the necessary social skills for dealing with children and young people.
The introduction of performance-related salary components must also be pushed in the teaching profession.
Only a permeable education system ensures fair opportunities for advancement.
School recommendations must no longer cement an irreversible educational path.
Permeability must also be increased between the individual educational stations.
Transitions should be better coordinated.
Schools and daycare centers, but also the individual schools themselves, should cooperate with each other in a network.
This can be done under the autonomous direction of the local educational institutions.
In special education, the principle of "integration before special education" applies to the FDP.
It is the goal of liberal education policy to seek and promote more common ground in the living and learning of disabled and non-disabled students in all types of schools and to
present binding integrative concepts of individual support in general education schools.
Transitions should be possible at any time.
In addition, however, education in special schools must be retained as an option where this is necessary for the benefit of the children.
Special schools are to maintain close contacts with their environment and the regular schools in a network.
The FDP wants to push for the expansion of regular and special schools under one roof and the establishment of special school classes at the regular school, since the advantages of both types of support can best be realized here.
The FDP wants better framework conditions for the promotion of gifted students.
Special talents must already be recognized and specifically promoted within the framework of early childhood education.
Therefore, standards in the area of gifted education need to be developed and implemented.
There is still a lack of trained personnel in Germany to identify and support giftedness in children.
Diagnostic skills among teachers and educators need to be improved in training and through initial and in-service training.
The further education of vocationally qualified persons without a high school diploma at universities also needs to be strengthened, as currently only one percent of students enter universities via vocational further education.
Further qualification, for example of master craftsmen in bachelor courses, will become an important field of education in view of ever higher professional requirements.
However, the studies of those with vocational qualifications are not readily comparable to those of high school graduates.
People coming out of the workforce tend to be older, are often already in the family phase, and want to study while working.
Incentives must be created for universities to increase the proportion of vocationally qualified students.
Germany's future viability is also being called into question by the predicted shortage of skilled workers.
Experts assume that even compensatory measures, such as a controlled immigration policy, will not be able to satisfactorily meet future demand.
Vocational training - strengthening lifelong learning
Vocational education represents a key element of a state's innovative capacity.
Only if young people have a good quality education will they be able to survive in working life in the long term.
The dual training system has proven its worth in Germany for decades.
One of the most important strengths is the anchoring of vocational training in the companies.
Close cooperation between schools and companies is necessary here.
Continuing professional development as lifelong learning is a strong pillar of the education system.
Support services for school leavers in transition to vocational training must be closely coordinated with the vocational training system.
The aim of these support measures must be to lead to vocational training and not to a "career of measures".
Training courses need to be more flexible and modular.
In the process, competencies common to several professions are to be learned in so-called "basic modules".
In the "core modules", typical occupational skills and abilities are learned, which then also justify the differentiation of the occupations from one another.
Special modules with elective options are designed to cover business areas typical of the industry and enable specialization.
For those trainees who have intensive support needs, a longer training period must also be possible without red tape.
Vocational schools are an important cornerstone of vocational training.
As a rule, the training is to take place in the company.
In this context, inter-company training centers are one way of providing training content that cannot be covered by small, often specialized companies.
At the end of each training there must be a recognized final examination.
This examination is to continue to be carried out centrally at the responsible offices on a uniform national basis.
Young people with a lack of training maturity must have the opportunity to qualify retroactively by completing certified training modules.
Higher educational qualifications are still the best chance for a successful career and social advancement.
This advancement must become easier for those willing and able to perform.
Continuing education in the workplace should continue to be subsidized by the state.
The principle of the full profession should be maintained.
This is not opposed to modular training courses for qualifications below the full occupation.
The high-quality competence profiles of the skilled worker/journeyman and master craftsman are to be preserved.
Lifelong learning - the guiding principle of liberal education policy
We need an education system that is geared to the phases of a person's life and develops specific offerings for them.
We must make consistent use of the opportunities offered by early childhood development,
get serious about new forms of learning during school years,
and retain the potential of older people better than before through age-appropriate continuing education.
New forms of cooperation between universities, adult and continuing education institutions, and the business community are intended to improve permeability in our education system.
This also includes improving study and continuing education opportunities for working professionals at universities.
Improving the quality of all educational institutions through more individual support, more autonomy and competition, but above all through better equipment, must be a priority.
We want an educational pact of the generations in which citizens with professional experience, especially young people, volunteer to help children and young people.
Companies should also cooperate more with schools and other institutions in their region.
Quality and innovation through competition also at universities
Excellent research and development performance in all scientific fields is the basis for the innovative capacity of our society.
They strengthen the competitiveness of our economy
and allow us to take advantage of globalization.
This requires qualified specialists in all disciplines, which the university system is currently unable to provide to a sufficient extent.
The FDP's goal is to further expand and permanently secure a scientifically excellent, economically efficient and high-quality higher education landscape.
Expenditures in this area are necessary investments in the future.
In addition, ways and means must be found to attract more private capital to strengthen teaching and research.
Against the backdrop of demographic change and international competition for qualified workers, we need a greater number of university graduates.
In addition, the promotion of elites at universities is essential for the future prospects of our country. The FDP calls for an innovation offensive. Universities must be put in a position to realize high, competitive standards in the training of young scientists and to cover the shortage of skilled workers in all areas, to provide internationally recognized top performance and to strengthen the transfer of knowledge and technology between universities and companies.
In the "Higher Education Pact 2020," the additional capacity expansion must be adequately financed, with a 25 percent increase in the basic flat rate.
The Excellence Initiative should be continued on the basis of the experience gained with the procedures and results from the first round, with greater consideration being given to teaching in future.
In addition, comparable competition is sought for applied research and teaching at universities of applied sciences.
Furthermore, the excellence criterion must not be counteracted by federal funding programs geared to regional aspects.
The capacities of universities of applied sciences are to be significantly expanded in cooperation with the business community.
Our universities need maximum autonomy, freedom to shape and develop so that they can become faster, better and more competitive.
The FDP demands the abolition of the Higher Education Framework Act
and the anchoring of the autonomy of universities in the Basic Law.
The state must abandon technical supervision and withdraw from detailed control.
Instead, the universities are to undertake their own strategic and development planning on the basis of concrete target and performance agreements.
The FDP calls for a performance-based allocation of funds, combined with global budgets and budget autonomy.
The safeguarding of the so-called orchid subjects can be ensured via target and performance agreements as well as cross-state centers.
Universities need extensive staffing authority to attract the best staff.
This includes the abolition of the standard tenure system and the framework for awarding contracts, in order to develop remuneration models that are appropriate for science, with which they can pay their staff in line with their performance without extraneous caps and thus hold their own internationally.
This can be achieved by means of a separate collective agreement for science that meets the special requirements of research and teaching operations and is freed from borrowing from the collective agreement for the public service (TVöD) and civil service law.
Rigid age limits are unacceptable, especially in science.
The transition between science and industry must also be facilitated.
This can also strengthen the transfer of knowledge and technology between universities and companies as well as the systematic economic exploitation of research results.
In addition, universities must be given greater freedom of action when it comes to setting up and participating in companies.
Students should be able to choose their universities and universities should be able to choose their students.
The ZVS (Central Office for the Allocation of Study Places) is abolished.
The assurance of the quality of the courses offered is to be carried out by recognized accreditation agencies.
The accreditation process itself is to be simplified by the further development from program to system accreditation and relieved of excessive administrative work.
Germany cannot afford not to exploit the potential of young female talent.
The foundation must already be laid at school by increasing girls' interest in and attraction to the natural sciences in particular.
Women scientists and researchers should be specifically supported in their professional development and the barriers that hinder them in further career planning should be removed by concrete offers.
In view of the shortage of natural scientists and engineers, interest in studying these subjects must be aroused; this can be done by promoting cooperation between schools, universities and research institutions, such as student academies, university studies parallel to school, special programs in individual scientific fields.
However, the fundamental interest and curiosity in scientific contexts must be awakened in early childhood.
The FDP wants to achieve greater internationalization of teaching by intensifying the exchange of students and teachers, by
recognizing study achievements at foreign universities,
and by increasing the number of joint degree programs with foreign universities leading to a double degree.
Universities need financial planning security.
The FDP therefore calls for a three-pillar model consisting of basic state funding, tuition fees, and the accumulation of the university's own assets.
According to the principle "money follows student", in the area of teaching, universities are to be financed according to the number of students and graduates with the help of an education voucher system.
In turn, the uniform federal capacity regulation can be abolished and replaced by target and performance agreements with the universities.
In order to increase the quality of teaching, each university should decide for itself, in the competition for students, whether, in what amount and for which courses of study it charges tuition fees.
These funds must flow directly and unrestrictedly to the universities for the purpose of improving study conditions and teaching, without reducing state funding.
Third-party funding for research and teaching is an essential element of competition between universities and an important additional source of funding.
Universities should build up their own assets in the long term to fulfill their research and teaching tasks.
Foundation law, inheritance law and tax law must be changed in such a way that it becomes more attractive than before for private individuals and companies to support universities financially.
University sponsorship should not be hampered by bureaucratic obstacles.
Companies should be encouraged to award endowed professorships.
Third-party funds and donations may not be counted toward basic funding.
No one should be prevented from studying for financial reasons.
Therefore, every student must be enabled by law to pay the contributions "in arrears," meaning that the effective payment is made only after graduation and only if sufficient income is earned.
Every student should be given the opportunity to finance living expenses through loans, independent of their parents.
BAföG recipients receive the loans at reduced rates, as with the previous funding.
In this context, BAföG funding should be combined with the other loan programs for financing tuition fees and living costs (for example, programs of KfW and Landesbanken).
Such funding from a single source would make it easier for the many students who are currently not entitled to BAföG to study, reduce the pressure to take up work and thus help to shorten study times, and guarantee social security in individual cases.
The FDP calls for the establishment of a scholarship system on an international standard.
Currently, only about two percent of students are supported by a scholarship.
The goal is to increase this share to at least ten percent.
An incentive system jointly financed by the federal and state governments is intended to support the solicitation of private funds for the establishment of scholarships by universities at a ratio of 1:1.
The scholarships of 300 euros per month are to be awarded unbureaucratically, independently of the parents' earnings and solely according to the criterion of professional performance.
The link between the income limits and the BAföG income limits is eliminated.
In view of the multitude and lack of transparency in the various financing and support options available in higher education, we need early financial counseling for prospective students and students that, if possible, offers tailored financing plans involving the entire spectrum of public and private support services before they begin their studies and encourages them to take advantage of them, especially if this can benefit the course of their studies.
The FDP wants to strengthen - in addition to the existing possibilities of education financing (BAföG, loans, scholarships) - the development of private education capital.
Analogous to the promotion of building savings, education savings accounts are to be promoted, which may be used for training and continuing education, higher education or other forms of adult education.
Universities under independent sponsorship must be established as equal partners in the competition for the best minds.
We strive to make it easier for universities with independent sponsorship to enter the market through fair competitive conditions, so that they can develop into an important part of the German higher education system.
The FDP will create the possibility to convert state universities into private forms.
As part of the higher education pact, private universities are also to be appropriately rewarded for additionally created study places.
An education voucher system should also be opened to private universities.
Strengthen research and development
Efficient and free research is the prerequisite for an innovative society in which new, marketable products are created
and high-quality jobs are created.
In a globalized world, Germany is competing for the best minds, scarce financial resources and the most attractive framework conditions.
Innovations arise from the exploitation of research results in products, new technologies, processes and services.
Only through innovations can we secure our prosperity and social peace in the long term.
But the general conditions in Germany are not optimal.
Bureaucratic obstacles, financial bottlenecks, ideological barriers, and collective bargaining rigidities make it difficult for researchers to do their jobs and drive scientists to countries where they can work better and more freely.
Germany needs a research freedom initiative.
These included modern immigration and residence rights for foreign specialists and top researchers
and a relaxation of age limits for scientists.
In order to stop the exodus of researchers, the next generation of scientists, especially women, must be better supported.
Interdisciplinary cooperation in research training groups and collaborative research centers will gain in importance.
In addition, the promotion of international doctoral programs and junior professorships are important components in the qualification of junior staff.
The pact for research and innovation between the federal and state governments and the research communities must continue to apply beyond 2010, whereby the annual increase in public expenditure for non-university research institutions should not just be three percent, but five percent.
Research institutions must also compete more vigorously for funding.
The numerous small and niche programs for research funding must be bundled.
As the funding provider, the federal government should primarily specify a specific goal - but not which technology is to be used to achieve this goal.
The competition also includes regular internal and external evaluation.
Federal departmental research facilities that score poorly on an assessment must change their profile and be closed if necessary.
Best research needs effective intellectual property protection.
Patent law and copyright law must be made more research-friendly.
Patent scouts and innovation consulting vouchers are a useful addition to existing consulting opportunities.
Tax and budget law, regulatory and trade law, building law, public procurement law and applications for subsidies must become more transparent, simpler and more user-friendly.
Monitoring the results and evaluation are, of course, part of a serious research policy.
The FDP demands more freedom for state research institutions and advocates a Freedom of Science Act that gives state non-university research institutions such as the Max Planck Institutes, the Fraunhofer Institutes or the research centers of the Helmholtz or Leibniz Associations responsibility for their material, personnel and financial affairs.
State research institutions should also be able to decide on their own responsibility about cooperations with industry, so that they are given the opportunity to participate in spin-off companies in a way that makes economic sense for them.
They should be allowed to hire and pay staff on their own responsibility within the framework of a global budget.
Upper limits, such as the awarding framework, which put us in a bind in the competition for the best brains compared to other research institutions and universities, must be abolished.
Research in Germany must be better financed.
Germany's universities and research institutions continue to be underfunded.
That is why we want to achieve and exceed the target of spending at least three percent of GDP on research and development as quickly as possible, not only in quantitative terms, but above all with high-quality research.
The main problem for young researchers and company founders is the lack of venture capital.
Instruments such as the High-Tech-Gründerfonds do not yet have enough supporters from the business community.
We want to make things easier for venture capitalists (Private Equity Act)
and simplify foundation law.
We need an improvement in the inclusion of the informal capital investment market of business angels to close the financing gaps in the early stages of innovative companies.
We want to continue the move into full-cost financing that began in 2007.
The so-called overhead funding is to increase from 20 percent to 40 percent.
The FDP welcomes the research premium for universities and research institutes that cooperate with companies.
It must be made available to all stakeholders with a non-bureaucratic application process.
However, this instrument alone is not sufficient.
Disadvantages for Germany as a research location must finally be eliminated.
The anti-research barriers of the current corporate tax reform must fall.
Investments in research and development (R&D) may not be limited in their tax deductibility.
The current regulations in the event of a transfer of functions or a shell company acquisition hinder investment in research.
Other countries, 15 in Europe alone, are taking the path of tax incentives for research and development.
German industry also needs effective tax incentives for research and development (R&D funding).
In Germany, tax-based R&D funding would also be efficient, flexible and unbureaucratic, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
Strengthening the innovation and investment power of companies in Germany through an innovation-friendly tax system is the most sustainable form for an economic stimulus program.
Freedom for research - no to ideology and bureaucracy
Researchers want to research.
They don't want to waste time with excessive bureaucracy.
The FDP rejects thought blockades and ideological fixation on certain technologies.
Fusion research, nuclear safety research, stem cell research, green genetic engineering, biotechnology and nanotechnology and space projects must not be stigmatized, but must be promoted in competitive procedures under transparent and responsible framework conditions.
We want Germany to permanently occupy a leading position in the global research landscape.
5. more prosperity and quality of life through freedom and responsibility
In the interest of future generations, politics needs a perspective of decades, not election periods.
The FDP therefore advocates interdepartmental and indicator-based sustainability strategies at national as well as European level.
The sustainability strategy must be institutionally secured.
The Parliamentary Advisory Council for Sustainable Development is to be continued in the next legislative period, as are the German Council for Sustainable Development and the Committee of State Secretaries of the German government.
The FDP supports the anchoring of the interests of future generations in the Basic Law: in the financial constitution and in the state objective provisions.
In protecting the interests of future generations, the FDP wants an official generational balance sheet for Germany.
The generational balance sheet compares benefits for future generations - such as spending on education, infrastructure and social security - with their burdens in the form of government debt, pension burdens and obligations under intergenerational agreements.
In legislation, every law must be subjected to a sustainability assessment with regard to ecological, economic and social consequences for future generations.
Financial effects are to be based on generational accounting.
Keeping energy secure and affordable
Germany needs a consistent energy concept that makes our energy supply environmentally friendly,
safe
and affordable.
Mobility and heating must not be a luxury good.
Rising prices are inevitable in a market economy when shortages increase.
But: The state is the biggest price driver for energy costs.
We therefore call for tangible relief for all citizens from high energy costs.
The FDP is calling for a reduction in the sales tax rate on energy from 19 percent to seven percent or, alternatively, a reduction in the so-called eco-tax.
The FDP is in favor of reducing the electricity tax by means of the revenue that the state will generate in the future by auctioning CO2 emission rights.
The German energy markets must be more closely linked to the European energy markets.
To this end, it is necessary to increase the capacity for electricity imports from the EU in order to enable cross-border electricity competition for the benefit of consumers.
We want competition on the energy markets.
This will require breaking up the domination of energy production that is currently concentrated in just four companies.
New companies must be given the opportunity and reliable framework conditions to invest in Germany as an energy location.
By amending the Act against Restraints of Competition, the Federal Cartel Office must be enabled to break up and unbundle market-dominant monopolies or oligopolies as a last resort.
We therefore also want to see the promotion of a genuine single European market for gas.
This includes, for example, Germany pushing for market opening also in those EU member states that have so far largely avoided competition.
On the gas side, private companies must be enabled to conclude long-term gas supply contracts with exporting countries outside Russia
and to move forward with important infrastructure projects, such as the Nabucco pipeline or the expansion of liquefied natural gas terminals.
The FDP wants to provide political support for such projects, which are important throughout Europe.
The development of solidarity mechanisms in the context of gas stockpiling is also an essential task that can only be solved at the European level.
The FDP wants more competition on the gas market
and is committed to further reducing the number of gas market areas in Germany.
This promotes not only competition, which would directly benefit consumers, but also market liquidity.
The FDP wants to achieve lower network charges by means of strict control of network operators through increased efficiency and quality of supply in the operation of the networks.
The consistent approach to uncovering inefficiencies in the charging of grid fees will be pursued further
and further unbundling of the energy grids.
The share of network charges in the electricity price may only correspond to the actual costs.
The FDP is committed to Germany as an industrial and energy location.
Modern, environmentally friendly investments help secure employment in our country.
We advocate the urgently needed expansion of the energy infrastructure.
Otherwise, Germany is putting its security of supply at risk.
The backlog of approvals for power plants and pipeline expansion must therefore be cleared as quickly as possible so that the German energy industry invests in a modern and climate-friendly power plant fleet in Germany and not abroad.
The FDP wants to facilitate the modernization and upgrading of the power grids intended by the utilities in a targeted manner by shortening the planning approval process.
Energy networks must be equipped with intelligent technology in the future.
Digital meters not only give energy customers a better picture of their energy consumption.
With the customer's consent, new types of savings tariffs can be realized via remote control and remote readout, as well as energy management with many small decentralized electricity generators, up to and including virtual power plants.
The social acceptance problem for such projects can only be overcome by politics and the energy industry working together.
Hostility to technology must not be allowed to prevail.
It undermines Germany's technological leadership in the important field of climate protection.
The German energy markets must be more closely linked to the European energy markets.
To this end, it is necessary to increase the capacity for electricity imports from the EU in order to enable cross-border electricity competition for the benefit of consumers.
We want to continue to ensure security of supply in Germany in the future through an ideology-free mix of energy sources and generation technologies.
Sources of fossil raw materials should be broadly diversified in order to avoid one-sided dependence on individual supplier countries or energy sources.
What is needed is a strategically designed foreign energy policy.
For Germany, as a leading industrial nation heavily dependent on energy imports, a reliable supply of energy is of great importance.
Particularly within the framework of the EU, the member states must work on an energy strategy which, in addition to solidarity in the event of a crisis, also ensures a unified external presence.
Stability, technical standards and a market economy framework can be exported in the course of cooperation with supplier countries and in this way contribute to a more peaceful world.
Protecting the climate through global and European action
Climate protection and resource conservation are the outstanding environmental challenges of our century worldwide.
They are based on the responsibility towards future generations
and the provision for a long-term sustainable economic and ecological development.
The FDP welcomes the decisions of the European Council to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent by 2020 compared to 1990 as an important first step.
However, a reduction of 30 percent is required in the EU by 2020, and
Germany should also contribute its share as part of a fair burden sharing.
However, given the EU's 16 percent share of global carbon dioxide emissions, isolated solutions will not help if they lead solely to production relocations.
We need a development path for 2050 with a 60 to 80 percent reduction in industrialized countries.
The FDP advocates binding, ambitious and global climate protection targets within the framework of a post-Kyoto agreement - including the USA, China and India.
The primary goal is a global carbon market.
The guiding principle for all must be to save carbon dioxide (CO2) where it is cheapest.
The FDP places great emphasis on emissions trading when it comes to climate protection.
It ensures effective environmental protection at the lowest economic cost.
It can replace numerous regulations, subsidies, and environmental taxes.
In emissions trading, the government limits the amount of permissible greenhouse gases by issuing emissions allowances, which are then freely traded on the market.
The FDP wants to extend emissions trading beyond the existing areas of industry and energy as well as aviation to the entire transport and heating sector.
Additional burdens for consumers resulting from this are to be offset by tax cuts.
The starting point for these sectors should be the top trading level of fuels.
The FDP calls for swift negotiations to link EU emissions trading with existing and planned trading systems in North America and Australia, for example.
The FDP welcomes the fact that emissions trading has been further developed as a central element of cost-effective climate policy in the EU's climate and energy package.
It makes sense to increasingly distribute emission rights in a market-based manner through auctioning
, while at the same time taking into account the special situation of energy-intensive industries in international competition.
The FDP is committed to ensuring that the legal scope for using auction proceeds is fully exploited nationally.
The FDP wants to use the auction proceeds to reduce the electricity tax and, if necessary, other energy taxes, because these lose their ecological steering effect in the emissions trading system.
The FDP calls for more effective technology transfer to developing countries.
At the same time, intellectual property must be preserved.
We need more initiatives to implement climate protection projects in developing countries - through consistent use of the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), crediting of reforestation projects and measures to avoid deforestation.
At the same time, the CDM needs to be reformed so that project additionality is ensured.
In return, the cap on CDM projects in the EU Emissions Trading Directive can then be dropped.
For reasons of climate and resource protection and security of supply, the FDP supports the European Union's goal of increasing the share of renewable energies to 20 percent of primary energy consumption by 2020.
The FDP strongly supports the regulation in the Renewable Energies Directive, according to which the use of renewable electricity in electric cars is counted more heavily than the use of biofuels in transport.
The use of electromobility must be systematically promoted in Europe.
For domestic or imported biomass, the EU must put into practice internationally effective certification that ensures that neither the use of it for food and feed nor the production of fuel and electricity from it promotes deforestation of rainforests or other ecologically sensitive areas.
The FDP demands that the strategy of an electricity alliance with North Africa (DESERTEC) within the Mediterranean Union be pursued with vigor in order
to efficiently use solar and wind energy and their storage in larger quantities.
In addition to market opening through cross-border grid expansion,
funds for research and development must be increased, especially with regard to high-efficiency power transmission.
The ownership rights to the transcontinental lines must be structured in such a way as to ensure non-discriminatory access for system operators.
The FDP sees climate protection policy as a competitive driver.
A well-designed climate protection policy that rewards energy- and climate-efficient behavior by all actors at an early stage is a sound economic policy.
Key climate protection strategies include greater energy efficiency and energy conservation to curb energy demand.
The greatest potential for energy savings lies in the thermal insulation of existing buildings, in energy-optimized technical products and in energy-conscious behavior on the part of every individual.
The FDP does not want excessive regulations like the ban on light bulbs.
Instead, we want ecological consumer responsibility, i.e. a conscious decision by the individual based on transparent consumer information.
Electricity and gas bills must give every consumer an accurate and understandable picture of their energy consumption - even over the course of the year.
The share of the state burden in energy prices must be clearly visible.
Electricity grids with smart technology must enable energy customers to find out about current electricity consumption and the influence of individual household appliances, and to optimally manage their own electricity demand.
Climate protection, resource conservation and security of supply for our country - these goals call for alternatives to coal, oil and gas.
The future will be characterized by dwindling raw material reserves, rising prices for fossil fuels in the long term, and a concentration of economically viable reserves in politically unstable regions of the world.
In the long term, the FDP is striving for a CO2-neutral energy supply.
In the medium term, we need an energy mix that protects the climate,
Security of supply
and economic efficiency.
The significant expansion of renewable energies and the promotion of energy storage technologies contribute to climate protection
and to Germany's security of supply.
At the same time, it provides the basis for further technological development and the technological leadership of German companies in this sector.
All utilization paths of renewable energies (electricity, heat, mobility) must be included.
The targets for expanding renewable energies must be implemented as cost-effectively as possible.
In the electricity sector, the FDP wants to enable more competition between renewable energies.
A separate support instrument for renewable energies is also required in the emissions trading system, primarily for security of supply reasons.
Otherwise, the climate protection targets would be implemented primarily by switching fuel to gas.
In this context, the reliability and calculability of subsidies is of central importance for the market entry of new players and for the cost-effective expansion of renewable energies.
The German Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG) builds on the Electricity Feed Act, which was introduced with the significant participation of then-Vice Chancellor Hans-Dietrich Genscher.
The existing tariffs for electricity from renewable energies must be further reduced in line with technological progress and the resulting lower production costs.
The full cost reduction potential must be exploited in order to achieve competitiveness with conventionally generated electricity as quickly as possible.
To this end, the economically and ecologically sensible use of liquid manure, organic residues from agriculture and the food industry, and residual wood and timber from agroforestry systems must be promoted in particular.
Funding is to be reviewed at two-year intervals and only continued if there is demonstrable development progress in the respective technology.
Particular attention must be paid to the criteria of market penetration, price development, cost degression and exportability of the products.
In the event of over-subsidization, future subsidies shall be adjusted to the actual needs for further development while maintaining competitiveness.
The increase of scheduled degressions and the shortening of funding periods should then be considered.
Priority grid feed-in is maintained.
To make renewable energy, including from wind and solar sources, a secure source of energy available at all times, we need completely new forms of energy storage, for example compressed air storage or vehicles with electric drives.
Research into the storage of fluctuating renewable energies must be intensified with vigor.
We stand by the privileging of renewable energies in the Building Code.
However, we would like to give local communities more say in the choice of location.
All restrictions on direct injection of biogas are to be lifted.
The blending quota for biofuels is to be frozen at the current level for the time being and abolished in the medium term while maintaining the protection of legitimate expectations.
Instead of increasing the quota, pure biofuels would be promoted through a tax credit based on cents per liter.
The FDP wants to make coal-fired power generation more climate-friendly.
The technology of CO2 capture and storage must be promoted through pilot projects and the rapid creation of a secure legal framework.
New coal-fired power plants may only be connected to the grid if at least retrofitting with CO2 capture is possible.
The option for using CO2 as an alternative to storage must be further explored and kept legally open.
The construction of pipelines to transport CO2 from the power plant to the storage site is to be facilitated by analogous application of the Planning Acceleration Act.
Pipeline corridors from focal points of the power industry to possible storage sites must be secured at an early stage in the planning process against competing influences that make their use significantly more difficult or even impossible.
In general, coal-fired power generation is necessary for the foreseeable future for reasons of security of supply and low-cost baseload supply.
The FDP is therefore in favor of building new, highly efficient coal-fired power plants.
Since electricity production in emissions trading is subject to fixed CO2 caps, a new power plant does not increase CO2 emissions, but displaces old inefficient plants through its demand for emission rights.
Phasing out nuclear energy at this point in time is economically and ecologically wrong.
We need nuclear power as a transitional technology until renewables can generate sufficient base-load electricity or until CO2 capture and storage for coal-fired power plants is available on an industrial scale.
The operating lives of safe nuclear power plants must therefore be extended with this in mind.
In return, the nuclear power plant operators must agree to transfer part of the financial benefits to a "German Energy Research Foundation" to be established.
The foundation's income was to be used for research into innovative energy technologies.
Priority should be given to researching storage technologies for renewable energies.
The safety of German nuclear power plants must continue to be ensured and further developed at the highest level.
This also applies in particular to safety management and the safety culture at the plants.
Foreseeable personnel problems at the nuclear supervisory authority must be counteracted.
The European communication flow must be improved preventively and in case of special incidents.
Regardless of the continued operation of nuclear power plants, Germany urgently needs a safe solution for the fate of highly radioactive waste.
The moratorium on the exploration of the Gorleben salt dome must be lifted, and the exploration work must be continued quickly and with an open mind in order to be able to make a conclusive statement about the suitability of the Gorleben site as a possible final repository for high-level radioactive waste.
Overall, the FDP aims to bring the issue of final disposal of highly radioactive waste to final clarification by the end of the upcoming legislative period.
Strengthening responsible consumers
Consumer policy is economic policy for the consumer.
Liberal consumer policy focuses on empowering people in the market, not protecting them from the market.
Modern consumers do not want to be patronized by the state, but want better information, more knowledge about the markets and effective consumer rights.
Our guiding principle is to empower consumers to make responsible and self-determined decisions.
The FDP wants comprehensive consumer education as well as education and access to information.
The indispensable advisory and information activities of consumer centers and independent organizations such as Stiftung Warentest must be expanded and secured in the long term through solid funding.
Consumers must have easy, immediate and comprehensive access to the information that matters to them.
The current Consumer Information Act must therefore be reformed and extended to all products and services.
The ability of government agencies to charge deterrent fees for simple information must be eliminated.
All information rights should be consolidated into one law to facilitate the exercise of consumer rights.
Information on durable assets regarding energy and water consumption must be optimized.
In addition to legal initiatives for consumer protection, the FDP is also committed to
on personal responsibility, incentive systems and competition.
We want more transparent nutritional labeling of food.
Liberals, however, are against political control of consumption and paternalism of consumers.
We therefore reject advertising bans for supposedly unhealthy foods and a traffic light system for food labeling.
The FDP calls for legal protection of consumer sovereignty where this is imperative.
For example, loans should only be saleable with the debtor's consent in order to ensure optimum borrower protection, especially in the case of loan sales to financial investors.
The debtor's rights of defense against abusive foreclosures on his assets must also be strengthened.
Everyone should be able to determine the extent of telephone advertising within their own four walls themselves and without being harassed by unauthorized advertising calls.
An obligation to identify the caller or the company being advertised should be introduced.
A uniform prefix is to be introduced for all telephone advertisers, which will show everyone the advertising intention already on the display of their telephone.
What is needed is the fight against cartels and monopoly structures.
Without functioning competition, consumers pay higher prices and cannot use their consumer power as demanders.
Passenger rights must be strengthened.
In rail transport, every passenger should be compensated for delays of as little as 30 minutes, because passenger rights must be so effective that punctuality pays off for the railroads.
The air passenger rights defined by the EU must be enforced more effectively than before.
To this end, the Federal Office of Civil Aeronautics must be given the staffing it needs to investigate violations and impose sanctions consistently.
The FDP will work to introduce a compensation scheme for passengers in the event of very long delays, equivalent to that of a cancelled or overbooked flight.
We also want to establish by law that passengers have the right to disembark from an aircraft after a takeoff has been aborted or in the event of short-term repairs to the aircraft.
The financial crisis has shown: Consumer protection in financial services must be improved.
We need more product truth, product clarity and risk transparency as minimum requirements for financial products and advice.
Banks and financial intermediaries must take responsibility for the risk rating of their customers and their products.
It must be possible to assert claims for damages in the event of misadvice more quickly and effectively - arbitration courts and the facilitation of evidence are proven options.
The most important consumer protection rights should be standardized in Europe so that consumers and companies have legal certainty even when products and services from other countries in the internal market are used.
Protect nature, preserve habitats
Biodiversity is the basis for human life.
The disappearance of a species is a form of environmental destruction that humans cannot reverse.
The FDP wants to stop the decline of biodiversity
and reduce the immigration of alien, invasive species.
We need to conserve wild plants and animals across Europe and develop their natural habitats.
The protection of biodiversity is a cross-cutting task that must be taken into account in all policy areas.
One goal of any biodiversity strategy is to conserve the diversity of genetic information.
Various plant species are only found in a few specimens.
For these species, conservation in seed genebanks or in botanical and zoological gardens is mandatory.
Only such ex situ protection outside their occurrence in nature will ensure the preservation of the species in sufficient intraspecific diversity to avoid inbreeding.
The FDP wants ex situ protection of species threatened with extinction that cannot be preserved by protecting their habitats (in situ).
For this, we need a national seed gene bank to implement the Hague decision, following the example of Great Britain or Spain.
We will better promote research efforts on biodiversity as an independent research field.
What is needed is better networking of biodiversity research at the European and international level, for example among natural history museums.
One approach to this is the expansion of databases, which should be made available to a broad public.
In addition to seed/seed banks, this could create an "archive of nature" available throughout Europe and the world.
We will design a nature conservation with the people.
Nature users - including farmers, hunters, fishermen, hikers, sailors and other sportsmen - are partners, not adversaries, in nature conservation.
This must be developed much more than before with the owners and users, because they have a vested interest in sustainable use.
That is why we are relying more on voluntary measures and contractual nature conservation, and only secondarily on sovereign protected area ordinances and bans.
In this context, the FDP advocates that nature should develop in suitable areas even without human intervention.
We want to work with nature users to promote environmental education for people.
Because only those who know nature also know the importance of protecting it.
Increased land use for settlement and traffic areas seals soils and disrupts natural habitats.
Transport and settlement projects must therefore be critically examined before they are implemented.
As a rule, densification of existing settlements and land recycling of brownfield and conversion sites is preferable to the designation of new building areas.
In the case of traffic routes, it is particularly important to prevent the fragmentation - in the sense of biotope connectivity - of habitats and agricultural areas.
Unavoidable fragmentation must be compensated for, for example by means of wildlife bridges.
We will align policy goals on land use more closely with conservation goals.
The 30-acre reduction target of the National Sustainability Strategy is inappropriate because it does not provide for the actual sealed or used area as an indicator, but for the planned area.
The FDP wants the reduction target to be more closely oriented to the actual fragmentation or sealing of habitats and to the regional distribution of land use.
A non-bureaucratic, simple and uniform environmental code must no longer be sacrificed to party tactical games:
More efficient permits with the same environmental standards are important for entrepreneurs and the environment.
Overall, nature conservation law needs to be decluttered without sacrificing nature conservation.
This applies both to federal and state law and to the 2010 revision of the EU's Habitats Directive (Fauna-Flora-Habitat), which
currently leave too little room for consideration.
This is not about watering down nature conservation, but about making the assessment of projects more flexible and case-specific.
The German regulations for compensation of interventions in nature are in need of reform:
The right basic idea must not lead to unnecessary bureaucracy and substitute measures, even in minor cases.
The evaluation procedures for determining the need for compensation should be simplified.
In addition to the increased use of eco-accounts, the so-called replacement money is to be put on an equal footing with other instruments of compensation.
This involves earmarking money to compensate for an impact and investing it in significant nature conservation measures, rather than implementing a patchwork of small compensation measures with less impact.
Rivers and lakes are habitats for animals and plants.
At the same time, they serve the recreation of people.
In water policy, we want to further improve the biological and chemical quality of water bodies.
Therefore, the FDP welcomes the European Water Framework Directive as an important instrument of water policy and calls for better implementation on the ground.
Free-flowing rivers and sections of rivers have high ecological value.
It is not only for flood protection that more space must be given to water bodies.
The construction of barrages in the Elbe and Danube rivers should be rejected.
The passability of rivers for migrating fish, for example eels, must be restored as far as possible by fish migration aids.
An indispensable prerequisite for further deepening of the Lower Elbe is that dike safety remains guaranteed.
For the FDP, animal welfare has been of central importance for years.
One milestone is the anchoring of animal protection as a state objective in the Basic Law, which was achieved through several initiatives by the FDP.
Our future efforts will focus on reducing the number of animal tests by increasing the use of alternative methods.
Successful animal protection can only be realized on a European and international level and not through national special paths.
Finally, the FDP is committed to species-appropriate animal husbandry and nutrition.
Conserve and sustainably use global natural resources
The global protection of biodiversity aims to preserve the genetic reproductive potential for future generations.
International nature and species protection agreements are significant for the coordination of measures.
The interplay between existing international commitments under the Conference on Biological Diversity, the WTO, the Biopatent Directive, and the European Patent Convention, as well as the regime to be established to protect the knowledge of local communities from biopiracy (so-called "ABS"), must be improved.
We need more funding for an internationally coordinated process to take a scientifically sound inventory of biodiversity and define clear targets.
Marine conservation in particular depends on effective international cooperation.
In order to protect marine flora and fauna, the EU must also work towards the creation of a global system of marine protected areas.
The North Sea and the Baltic Sea, with their outstanding importance as resting places and habitats for a large number of birds and marine animals, require special protection.
We Liberals stand for the conservation, appropriate development and sustainable use of the marine environment, coasts and wetlands.
In the area of marine protection, the Liberals also want to reduce eutrophication of the oceans and better prevent shipping accidents.
For us Liberals, coastal protection is a task for the entire state.
Due to the climate-induced sea level rise and the associated new requirements for dike safety, the FDP will continue to ensure that coastal protection is provided with up-to-date funding.
We need sustainable fisheries that conserve stocks, are species-appropriate and ensure animal welfare.
This needs to be implemented more strongly in the design of EU fisheries agreements.
Private-sector certification of fisheries, such as by the MSC (Marine Stewardship Council), helps to safeguard fish stocks.
Illegal fishing must be effectively combated and strictly punished.
A ban on bottom trawling and industrial fishing aimed at producing fishmeal for feed is supported by liberals.
In any case, industrial fishing must be contained through the designation of priority and exclusion areas.
Since the staple food fish is endangered by overfishing of the oceans, framework conditions for sustainable aquaculture of marine and freshwater fish in Germany must also be improved.
In virgin forest conservation, illegal logging remains the biggest problem.
Only through consistent poverty reduction in the affected countries
This can be solved in conjunction with wood certification.
The FDP strongly supports models to reward avoided deforestation, with funds going to projects that provide economic alternatives for local communities.
The EU must work to ensure that the rights of indigenous peoples in developing countries are respected
and their knowledge used to protect forests.
In addition, measures must be taken against the trade in illegally logged tropical timber.
In addition to politicians, consumers are also called upon to ensure that our natural resources are protected through appropriate demand for certified wood products.
For an economy geared towards sustainability, the production of renewable raw materials for both material and energy use is of outstanding importance.
The use of vegetable oils as lubricants, erucic acid in surfactant production for detergents, hemp as an insulating material, starch in paper and adhesive production or dyes from algae show the range of material use of renewable raw materials.
At the same time, the use of renewable raw materials for energy is becoming increasingly attractive in view of rising crude oil prices.
Currently, 75 percent of renewable energy production in Germany is based on the use of biomass.
While the sustainability of biomass production at the EU level is ensured by the strict cross-compliance regulations, this does not apply to biomass imports, especially from Third World countries.
It must be ensured that biomass imports do not lead to the destruction of rainforests and other areas of high biodiversity and importance for climate protection.
Liberals will shape the conditions for the use of biomass for energy in such a way that they meet the requirements of sustainable resource management.
Additional ecological burdens and competition with food cultivation must be avoided.
Compared with corn and other crops, the cultivation of poplars, willows and black locust trees offers particular advantages in terms of low CO2 avoidance costs and high land efficiency.
Mobility for jobs, economic growth and a clean environment
Mobility is a basic human need and a prerequisite for individual quality of life and economic growth.
A good transport infrastructure is a key location factor for a competitive German economy and thus a prerequisite for jobs and prosperity.
The FDP rejects the ideological obstructions in the development of transport infrastructure
and the coercion of citizens in the choice of the means of transport.
Conversely, however, road users must not pass on the costs they have caused to the general public.
Everyone should bear the costs they incur for infrastructure and the environment and decide for themselves which mode of transport they choose.
This creates fair competitive conditions between the modes of transport, which are interlinked with their specific advantages to form an overall system.
The task of the state is to provide the transport infrastructure.
However, this does not mean that the state must carry out the planning, construction and operation itself.
In many cases, private companies can do this better and more efficiently.
The current underfunding of transport infrastructure must be brought to an end.
A prerequisite for sufficient investment is a financing system that is independent of the vagaries of the federal budget.
For the FDP, it is clear that any changeover must be revenue-neutral, calculated on a route-by-route basis and strictly earmarked for investment in transport routes.
Our infrastructure policy is not based on pipe dreams, but on the realities of the transport market.
Road transport remains the main mode of transport, accounting for around 90 percent of passenger traffic and over 70 percent of freight traffic.
At the same time, the rail network in many regions is reaching the limits of its capacity.
Both of these factors - in addition to environmental considerations - must also be taken into account when distributing investment funds.
In order to take advantage of the opportunities offered by globalization, the importance and interconnectedness of seaports must be safeguarded and strengthened through federal investment in infrastructure.
The German transport industry needs reliable and fair framework and competitive conditions.
The FDP rejects the planned EU road pricing directive (Eurovignette III).
The FDP supports the expansion of intelligent traffic guidance systems to avoid unnecessary traffic and congestion.
The FDP wants to simplify the approval law for infrastructure facilities in Germany (regional planning, planning approval).
Existing law primarily favors environmental and legal experts, but rarely helps applicants and affected parties obtain justice.
As a result, it is increasingly becoming a locational disadvantage for Germany
and is preventing, for example, the rapid relief of the population through the construction of urgently needed bypasses.
We want to achieve customer-oriented and cost-effective public transport through greater transparency in financing, fair competition among providers and freedom for entrepreneurial initiative.
The Passenger Transportation Act must be revised and brought into line with European law.
Long-distance bus services must finally be generally permitted in Germany.
The state must create the necessary regulatory framework for competition between transport providers.
However, the state does not need to act as a transport operator itself.
That is why we want the privatization of public transport companies.
In the case of rail, we are focusing on a competitive rail sector.
We want to continue the privatization of DB's transport divisions that has now been initiated with the aim of full privatization.
The rail network, on the other hand, we want to separate from the transport sectors and leave it in the ownership of the federal government as a joint-stock company.
As an immediate measure, the General Railway Act must be revised with the aim of strengthening competition supervision by the Federal Network Agency.
The attractiveness and performance of waterways, seaports and airports are more important than ever for Germany as a logistics location with its international economic links.
To achieve this, we need optimal links with other modes of transport
and secure legal foundations with appropriate consideration of environmental protection concerns.
This includes a Waterway Expansion Act with a concrete requirements plan for maintenance, new construction and expansion measures.
In shipping, air pollution from sulfur and nitrogen emissions and particulate matter must be reduced.
This requires, among other things, the gradual enforcement of shore-side power supply for ships in ports.
In the long term, affordable and climate-friendly mobility requires a move away from fossil fuels.
Second- and third-generation biofuels, which are also obtained from residual materials and algae, are trend-setting.
Other key technologies include hydrogen-powered fuel cells and electric drives.
Electric drives in particular can enable environmentally friendly mobility and at the same time make wind power storable in vehicles.
This will give a big boost to renewable energy.
Technological development and the market will ultimately determine the use of technical options.
Today, however, policymakers need to make a difference through research and development spending on storage technologies and drives.
and the development of infrastructure.
As a subsidy-free purchase incentive, the FDP also advocates traffic law simplifications and the introduction of interchangeable license plates for electric cars as second cars for inner-city traffic.
The FDP wants to include all transport in emissions trading.
This gives electromobility and biofuels additional opportunities.
And the climate impact of transport can be offset by global climate protection projects as part of certificate trading.
At today's prices, this would require less than a third of the eco-tax currently levied on a liter of fuel.
Consistent climate protection with the help of emissions trading creates additional scope for a drastic reduction in the eco-tax.
The reduction of traffic-related pollutants in the air is a major concern of the FDP, especially with regard to particulate matter.
However, European regulations restrict the room for maneuver of cities and municipalities too much.
In the view of the FDP, more important than daily limit values are strict limit values for average pollution over the year.
Moreover, the solution by no means lies with traffic alone.
The FDP is cautious about the establishment of environmental zones.
Municipalities are supported in introducing other measures to reduce particulate matter, such as traffic control measures and greening; especially since the problem will gradually decrease over the next few years due to technological progress.
The FDP demands that all relevant polluters be included in a concept to combat particulate matter.
Above all, an amendment to the Ordinance on Small Combustion Plants in this regard is overdue.
Less noise means a better quality of life.
The FDP wants to preserve mobility and combat noise at the source.
For new railroad lines, the same strict noise protection rules as for road construction are to apply by deleting the "rail bonus".
Noise-differentiated track access charges are to be introduced on a mandatory basis to create incentives to retrofit old freight trains in particular with technical equipment and make them quieter.
In the Aircraft Noise Act, the protection of residents living near military airports must be placed on an equal footing with the regulations at commercial airports.
Future-proof living, responsible planning
Housing policy and the development of urban and rural areas must provide answers to the following challenges: the aging of society, the decline in population, the coexistence of regions with population growth and decline, and the necessary contribution of the building sector to climate protection.
We will continue the programs for energy-efficient refurbishment of existing buildings.
In addition, energy-saving construction must also be secured by regulatory means.
The FDP is committed to lowering the hurdles in tenancy law for energy-efficient refurbishment to the mutual benefit of owners and tenants, thus increasing the incentive for climate-friendly renewal of the building stock.
We want to structure the Fee Structure for Architects and Engineers (HOA) in such a way that sustainable and cost-reducing designs are better remunerated than standard services.
Hartz IV recipients must also be given incentives to save energy.
To this end, the Social Code is to be amended to allow municipalities and benefit recipients to share savings on heating costs.
We want to promote inner-city or near-city living for all generations and stages of life.
This requires, among other things, the barrier-free design of buildings and living environments through increased support for corresponding measures as part of the building renovation programs of the Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW) in order to improve living conditions and the accessibility of public spaces for older people,
Families
and young people with disabilities.
The inner development of our cities is a priority for us.
The densification of existing settlements and land recycling of brownfield and conversion sites is therefore generally preferable to the designation of new building areas.
We want to promote the construction of existing buildings and the conversion of vacant buildings to a greater extent and facilitate this through legislative measures.
The designation of urban redevelopment areas and the associated instruments have proven effective, and we will continue and develop them further.
Building permits are to be simplified and accelerated by means of an application procedure:
A construction measure is considered approved if the responsible authority does not comment on it within a certain period of time.
The "Urban Redevelopment East" program, which has been very successful to date, must be adapted in line with the evaluation.
Projects such as demolition and upgrading must be checked for their demographic stability.
The programs for "Stadtumbau West" (Urban Redevelopment West)
and for urban monument protection must be provided with more funds.
The long-term goal is funding based on need, not cardinal points.
At the same time, the increasingly frayed funding landscape must be restructured.
We want few, but effective and adaptable programs that are easily accessible to municipalities and private applicants.
Furthermore, flexible offers must be created to maintain public services in very sparsely populated areas, such as decentralized systems and alternative technologies for energy, water supply and wastewater disposal.
When it comes to transport links, these spaces must not be left behind.
Shaping the waste management industry in a market economy
The waste management industry can make an important contribution to resource conservation and the supply of raw materials.
Many wastes are not just residual materials to be disposed of, but recyclable raw materials that have a market value.
The FDP therefore advocates an ecologically ambitious
and economically sensible waste policy.
This includes the development of waste prevention strategies.
When it comes to the question of "recycling" or "incineration", the FDP wants the most environmentally friendly solution in each individual case.
This can also be energy recovery.
In times of scarce and expensive raw materials, it makes no sense to throw packaging into the yellow bag but a product made of the same plastic into the residual waste.
In some regions of Germany, the contents of the yellow and gray garbage cans are almost identical.
With regard to the collection of easily recyclable secondary raw materials such as plastic or metal, the FDP therefore advocates flexible solutions tailored to the respective region.
Separate collection by hand and separation by machine must be able to compete with each other.
What counts is the result and not the way to get there.
The FDP opposes a waste policy that appeals to the "ecological conscience" of citizens, but in fact represents nothing but empty eco-symbolism.
Private providers of waste management services must have fair competitive opportunities.
The FDP rejects a remunicipalization of the waste management industry.
In addition, we are committed to ending the preferential tax treatment of public-sector companies in waste and wastewater disposal.
A taxation depending on the respective form of organization is ecologically unfounded and economically absurd.
Only fair competition forces all market participants to offer their services as cost-effectively as possible and thus also relieves the burden on citizens.
6. international policy for peace, freedom and prosperity in the world FDP foreign policy is policy for peace and freedom
Where peace and freedom are not guaranteed, every individual ends up exposed to the arbitrariness of others.
The best guarantors of peace and freedom are the rule of law,
Democracy
and the social market economy.
It is these principles that simultaneously guarantee human rights
and create the conditions for stability, prosperity and tolerance.
Germany will best serve its interests of preserving peace, freedom, and prosperity by seeking, cultivating, and expanding fellowship with the enlightened democracies in the community of nations under the rule of law.
At the same time, liberal foreign policy always requires the ability to resolve conflicts peacefully
and to engage in dialogue even with countries that do not share our values.
The period after the end of the Cold War has been insufficiently used to shape a new world order.
The international situation today is characterized by constructive cooperation on the one hand but also by a profound crisis of confidence on the other between the states and cultures of this world.
This crisis of confidence is the result of a policy that relies first on the supposed right of the strongest instead of the strength of the law.
The war in Iraq, Abu Ghuraib and Guantanamo Bay, the wars in Chechnya and the southern Caucasus, terrorism under the guise of fighting for freedom, and also the pursuit of nuclear weapons, as by North Korea and Iran, are examples of these efforts.
We must seize the opportunities now available to overcome this crisis of confidence.
Instead of the law of the strongest, we rely on the strength of the law as the guiding principle for action in the world of the 21st century.
In a world where multipolarity has long since become a reality, the need for cooperation is compelling.
The West must confront the question of how to deal with autocratic systems without betraying its own principles.
Exclusion and compartmentalization are the wrong way to go.
Our allies, participation in international organizations and European integration are the best recipe for success in asserting our values and interests in the world.
In the tradition of the liberal foreign ministers Walter Scheel, Hans-Dietrich Genscher and Klaus Kinkel, the FDP is committed to carrying the successful model of the European Union (EU) into the future.
Germany's firm integration into the EU is and remains a cornerstone of liberal foreign policy.
In the age of globalization, a value-driven and at the same time interest-oriented foreign policy must combine the safeguarding of our own social and economic future viability with the assumption of global responsibility.
In both the transatlantic and the European context, liberal security policy is therefore first and foremost peace policy.
Linking conflict prevention and conflict management through the use of diplomatic means, economic and cultural cooperation, and development cooperation measures are the first choice for averting the risks of our time.
The use of military means must only be a last resort.
A military supply policy is unthinkable for the FDP.
Disarmament now!
The hallmark of liberal foreign policy is the advocacy of a consistent policy of disarmament and arms control.
They were essential elements of that policy, which relied in equal parts on deterrence and confidence-building and thus made the end of the Cold War possible in the first place.
The legacy of this policy of détente is at stake today.
Important disarmament and arms control treaties have been terminated, others are eroding because they become the plaything of geopolitical interests or the victim of short-term calculations.
Among other things, the German government has not pushed hard enough for ratification of the CFE adaptation agreement and has not opposed the Indo-US nuclear deal with enough resolve.
The current federal government and its predecessor have criminally neglected the area of disarmament.
As a country that has renounced weapons of mass destruction in a legally binding manner, Germany should once again place itself at the forefront of those states that consistently advocate a credible policy of disarmament and arms control.
The FDP therefore advocates the revival of the Non-Proliferation Treaty including the goal of complete nuclear disarmament,
the swift ratification of the adapted CFE Treaty,
binding European regulations for arms exports
and the withdrawal of the remaining American nuclear weapons from Germany.
We reject the plan for a US missile defense system in the Czech Republic and Poland.
Re-establishing the Transatlantic Community of Values
The United States of America is our most important partner outside Europe.
Together with our American partners, we are well on the way to regaining the reputation in the world that has been lost as a result of misguided foreign and domestic policy decisions by the United States.
We want to work with the new U.S. administration to reestablish the West as a capable community of the world's enlightened democracies under the rule of law.
Critical dialogue and pragmatic cooperation with Russia
In its relations with Russia, the FDP relies in the long term on a strategic and pragmatic partnership within the framework of a common security order based on the principles of the OSCE.
Precisely because we have close historical and cultural ties with Russia, the FDP views with great concern the regression in its democratic and constitutional development.
Above all, the murders of journalists, the imprisonment of opposition figures, the resurgence of hegemonic aspirations and the possible deployment of missiles are placing a heavy burden on relations with Russia.
This makes it all the more important to use all opportunities for dialogue with the aim of creating contractual agreements that bind both sides with rights and obligations.
Political and economic dialog also always serves the goal of promoting freedom
and human rights throughout the world.
For a comprehensive approach to peace in the Middle East
For the FDP, Israel's right to exist as a Jewish state is an indispensable constant of liberal foreign policy.
More than 60 years after the founding of the State of Israel, it is time for peace and security for Israel and a dignified life for the Palestinians in their own independently viable state to become a reality.
For this reason, the FDP advocates a process that, analogous to the successful model of the CSCE, brings all parties to the conflict in the Middle East to the same table with the goal of achieving a comprehensive negotiation result.
However, Germany's and the EU's engagement can only be successful if it meets partners who are willing and able to make peace.
Financial aid should be linked to this will and ability to achieve peace.
Relying on diplomacy vis-à-vis Iran
We support the international community's goal that Iran not be allowed to acquire nuclear weapons.
In the dispute over Iran's nuclear program, we are counting on a negotiated solution.
Any attempt to avert the threat of Iran's nuclear weaponization by military means could lead the entire region into catastrophe and only intensify the global pursuit of weapons of mass destruction.
For this reason, the FDP welcomes the U.S. President's willingness to enter into direct negotiations with Iran.
In the process, a way must also be found to implement the vested right to the civilian use of nuclear energy in reality in such a way that the danger of military misuse can be ruled out.
For a stabilization of Afghanistan
Germany's civilian and military contribution to the international engagement in Afghanistan has helped to ensure that the country has not yet once again become a central retreat for internationally active terrorists.
Nevertheless, terrorists continue to operate in the country and have since regrouped in the border area of neighboring Pakistan, threatening the population and our troops.
Far too few Afghans - and this applies in particular to the female part of the population - still have a dignified, self-determined life.
Ensuring this must be our goal, but it requires independent commitment on the part of the Afghans.
In the early years of international engagement, there was a failure to build effective governmental, administrative and security apparatuses.
This failure, for which the federal government must also share responsibility through its failure to build up the police force, has prevented far-reaching successes and even led to a number of setbacks.
The FDP will work to ensure that Germany, together with Afghanistan and its allies, finally implements the strategy of networked security for the stabilization of Afghanistan, taking tribal structures into account - towards more civil reconstruction throughout Afghanistan and greater assumption of responsibility for security by Afghan army and police forces in order to limit the period of deployment of international troops.
We call for a regional approach that, despite difficulties, also includes countries such as Pakistan, Russia, China and Iran in problem solutions.
The policy must be geared toward the consistent development of Afghan administrative structures.
Particularly in combating the cultivation, processing and trafficking of drugs, rural people must be offered an economic alternative to poppy cultivation.
The networked security approach must be pursued and continues to necessitate the international troop presence for a transitional period.
Reforming the United Nations
The United Nations must be reformed and its structures must adequately reflect the political and economic realities at the beginning of the 21st century.
Only in this way can they once again become one of the decisive forums for solving international problems.
Many of the major challenges of our time, such as climate change, demographic development, migration, hunger and poverty, raw materials supply and armed conflicts, can only be solved on a global scale.
The United Nations Security Council must reflect the political and economic realities of the 21st century after a comprehensive reform.
The FDP advocates a European seat on the United Nations Security Council.
As long as a seat for the EU does not materialize, a separate German seat would be the second-best solution.
Engaging new centers of power more closely on global issues
The crisis in the financial markets has made it dramatically clear that global issues require coordinated responses from all key players.
This applies equally to other economic, environmental, developmental and security problems of global proportions.
Just as in the financial market crisis the G 20 is making a major contribution to stabilizing the markets and establishing new rules, all relevant players must also be involved in other problems.
Countries such as Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa must also be more involved in global responsibility mechanisms in view of their growing importance.
Germany has discovered the emerging Asian states in particular far too late as upcoming partners for economic and political cooperation.
Cultural and educational policy - bridge of a value-oriented foreign policy
The economic and political interconnectedness of the world is already well advanced.
Especially where this interconnectedness is slower to take place at the cultural level, tensions arise that need to be reduced.
A targeted foreign cultural and educational policy is therefore becoming increasingly important in the age of globalization.
German cultural institutions such as Goethe Institutes and schools abroad, as well as academic cooperation, are the bridges of our value-oriented foreign policy.
The FDP will work to ensure that foreign cultural and educational policy is significantly better funded.
We also see it as long-term economic development.
The promotion of the German language abroad must once again be given greater weight.
In the long term, we aim to develop cooperative European cultural institutes.
As a German broadcaster abroad, Deutsche Welle must receive funding that is commensurate with its growing tasks.
For a more efficient organization of German foreign policy
As an integral part of foreign policy and an instrument of German value and interest policy, the fields of activity of the Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development again belong to the portfolio of the Federal Foreign Office.
Strategic foreign trade promotion must be given renewed weight in close cooperation with German companies abroad.
Germany, which contributes significantly to the financing of international and European organizations, must finally be adequately represented in these organizations in terms of personnel.
Europe is our answer to globalization
In the global competition for values and influence, the EU is more important today than ever before.
Only it gives us the chance to succeed in globalization.
The burning questions of the 21st century world cannot be answered by the states of Europe on their own:
Human rights and democracy, securing the economy in the financial crisis, nuclear threats, disarmament and arms control, crises and wars, access to energy and raw materials, international trade, the fight against climate change and terrorism - citizens rightly expect active political action from the EU.
We Liberals want a strong and self-confident EU that speaks with one voice
and stands united to secure peace, freedom and prosperity in the world.
Consistent reforms for a more efficient European policy
The FDP wants the European Union to become more democratic, more understandable and more capable of acting.
We are therefore sticking to the goal of a fundamental reform of the EU ("Lisbon Treaty").
For us, decisive reform elements are a considerable strengthening of the European Parliament,
more transparency and citizen participation,
a strengthening of the subsidiarity principle,
more say for the Bundestag in EU matters, a
better coordinated EU foreign policy,
the democratization of European domestic and justice policy,
and effective enforcement of the European Fundamental Rights Catalog.
We want to promote determined progress toward EU-wide unity on fundamental issues by providing more information to citizens and improving the flow of information between national and EU bodies.
For the FDP, it is clear that the necessary reforms of the EU must always be achieved jointly by all member states if possible.
However, if groups of EU states lead the way with concrete projects, these prove their worth and other EU states have the opportunity to participate in them later, this is compatible with the European idea, as the introduction of the euro, for example, has proven.
For us Liberals, long-term goals remain a federal Europe and the adoption of a European constitution.
The EU treaties should enshrine the possibility for citizens to call for an EU-wide referendum on issues that are of fundamental importance for the further development of the Union.
This also applies in particular to the creation of a genuine EU constitution, which the FDP advocates.
The FDP wants an EU that is strong but lean and draws its strength from limiting itself to the essentials.
We want European solutions wherever an EU regulation is better than a national one.
All other areas must remain the responsibility of the member states.
Bold steps to further develop European foreign, security and defense policy
Europe and each individual member state are always weak internationally if the EU does not present a united front.
It is a hallmark of liberal European policy to ensure that Germany always includes the interests of small and medium-sized member states in its European policy considerations.
The elementary questions of security and disarmament in Europe must be discussed and decided jointly by all Europeans.
Europe must throw its political weight behind a new disarmament policy.
We have to join forces, distribute tasks, set priorities.
Only in this way can we respond properly to the new security threats.
For the FDP, the long-term goal remains the development of European armed forces under joint supreme command and full parliamentary control.
Germany's strengths unfold in the European single market
The basis of prosperity in Germany is undistorted competition in the European single market, because only with competitiveness and economic growth can the sustainable creation of new jobs succeed.
For us Liberals, the stability of the successful "euro" model is a guarantee for the economic success of Germany and Europe.
Without the euro, the financial crisis in Europe would have been much worse.
We therefore strongly advocate uniform EU-wide banking supervision, which should be based at the European Central Bank (ECB).
We will oppose any attack that questions the independence of the ECB.
The FDP calls for a fundamental rethink of EU finances.
The claim by other political parties that the EU needs more money is wrong.
Already today, the EU has enough resources.
However, they are not being used efficiently.
Still, the bulk of spending goes to agricultural and structural funds.
These funds are lacking for strategic areas of European policy, such as research, innovation, environmental protection, securing the EU's external borders, and foreign and security policy.
The FDP wants to change that.
We will work for a sustainable and responsible European budgetary policy.
We demand comprehensible financing of the budget that reflects the current economic strength of the members,
as well as strict control of the use of EU funds in the member states.
Each member state is to contribute a maximum of one percent of its gross national income (GNI).
We strictly reject an EU tax and further burdens for German citizens.
Instead of new taxes, austerity and reallocation of spending is called for.
The FDP advocates the retention of the EU debt ban.
For an enlargement policy with a sense of proportion and without discounts
For the FDP, an EU reform oriented toward the goals of the Lisbon Treaty is a prerequisite for the admission of further states.
Negotiations are already well advanced with Croatia, which has made the greatest efforts to prepare for EU accession.
Accession therefore also appears conceivable in the context of a partial reform.
This also applies to Norway, Iceland and Switzerland, should they apply for accession and meet the accession criteria.
The decision on Turkey's EU accession is not yet on the agenda for the next few years.
Turkey has made a number of important reform steps; however, in many areas there are still considerable deficits in achieving the EU standards (Copenhagen criteria) that must be met for accession.
Key to EU accession are the implementation of reforms in Turkey and the EU's absorption capacity.
The states of the Western Balkans have a medium- to long-term perspective of being able to join the EU, which the FDP supports.
In the long term, this also applies to Ukraine.
The FDP advocates restoring the credibility of the EU's enlargement policy.
For us, accession negotiations must be conducted with an open mind.
There must be no "discount" in the criteria or even an automatic accession, for example by naming an accession date before the conclusion of the negotiations.
For the FDP, the focus in the coming years will be on the integration of the old and new EU members in order to anchor the politically completed enlargement in civil society in the long term.
A better understanding of Germans and Poles for each other
is just as much a prerequisite for the success of the EU as the good understanding between Germans and French.
Free trade instead of protectionism
The FDP opposes any form of protectionism in international trade.
These include legal or political calls to buy national products,
subsidies that distort competition,
and all forms of market foreclosure.
A swift conclusion to the ongoing negotiations in the World Trade Organization (WTO) would be the best rejection of protectionism.
The Doha Round should therefore be resumed without delay.
Germany's security remains embedded in NATO and the EU
NATO is an expression of the community of values and responsibilities between Europe and North America and
, as a system of collective defense, is at the same time the security anchor for Europe.
On the one hand, NATO must be strengthened from a national and European perspective,
on the other hand, to increase Europe's weight within NATO.
The FDP seeks an equal security partnership in the Atlantic Alliance.
European security and defense policy must be expanded to achieve this
and strengthen the Bundeswehr.
NATO must be the central transatlantic body for discussion, decision-making and action.
In order to perform this function effectively, it must adapt its strategic orientation and structure to the changed world situation as soon as possible.
As a European pillar of the transatlantic security architecture, the EU must enable itself to prevent conflict situations and, if necessary, to respond quickly, jointly and flexibly.
The primary objective is to prevent armed conflict through political and other appropriate measures.
We clearly reject any tendency to renationalize security policy.
Creating security for Germany and Europe is first and foremost a political task.
We view with great concern all attempts to revise the agreements reached at the end of the Cold War on a future pan-European security architecture - whether on the basis of old great power thinking on this side or new strategic concepts on the other side of the Atlantic.
If we do not want core issues of European security to be decided over Europe's heads, then Europe must become more involved in geostrategic debates.
In crises, as in Georgia in 2008, dialogues must be intensified and not suspended, as happened with the NATO-Russia Council.
We firmly reject any attempts to weaken the OSCE as a central element of stability in Europe.
Military operations remain a last resort
The FDP believes that Germany should only act militarily, not only because of the requirements of the Federal Constitutional Court, but out of its own deepest conviction, if it is possible together with its partners in NATO or the European Union and on the basis of clear legitimation under international law.
The approval of the German Bundestag is always indispensable (parliamentary proviso).
The FDP rejects missions without a clear basis in international law,
as well as an automatism in alliance policy regarding the participation of the Bundeswehr in missions abroad.
The current military operations in Afghanistan and in the Near and Middle East show how absolutely necessary it remains to find solutions by political means, because the military alone cannot create a stable peace.
Counterterrorism is a cross-cutting task
International terrorism can only be contained effectively if its foundations, i.e. above all its support in disenchanted sections of society, are removed.
This requires a long-term approach that includes both foreign policy and development policy.
and in individual cases also includes police and military measures.
This requires closely coordinated and, above all, multilateral cooperation.
Military sanctions are also a last resort in the fight against terrorism.
Securing sea routes, combating piracy
As an export nation, Germany has an interest in secure sea routes like no other country.
The violation of the freedom of the seas affects German interests.
Germany is involved in an active fight against piracy.
In this regard, the Liberals rely on strong mandates that enable effective intervention.
Bundeswehr of the future
For almost 54 years, the Bundeswehr has been a reliable instrument of security policy, regardless of the prevailing overall political situation.
At present, it is perceived by the population primarily as an army in action.
However, it is more than that: it remains an army for national and alliance defense.
It must not only be able to perform tasks in the international framework together with allies and partners to manage crises and conflicts.
It must also have the capability to defend Germany and the alliance territory within the framework of the applicable constitution.
The structure, training, equipment and armament of the armed forces must fully meet both tasks.
As a liberal political force with a strong sense of responsibility towards the Bundeswehr at all times, the FDP is committed to sustainable improvements in the structure of the Bundeswehr.
The structure of the Bundeswehr must be consistently geared to likely missions in the context of international conflict prevention and crisis management, including the fight against international terrorism.
The governments of the past three legislative periods have not followed up the high demands placed on the armed forces with the necessary actions in terms of organization, personnel and materiel.
Tensions in the internal structure, but especially insufficient operational readiness, characterize today's situation and endanger current and future missions of the armed forces.
The personnel strength of the branches of the armed forces and organizational areas must be established in such a way that the Bundeswehr is able to deploy the required number of soldiers at any time.
The "top-heavy" nature of the Bundeswehr must be ended through significant reductions in the command areas in favor of increasing operational readiness.
Increasing the attractiveness of the service of soldiers by means of a separate salary law, further training opportunities and a better compatibility of service and family is a prerequisite for the successful recruitment of new recruits under changed demographic conditions.
The cover-up and glossing over of considerable material deficiencies, especially for the Bundeswehr in action, must come to an end.
Equipment planning must be based on mission requirements, and
existing budgets must be spent more intelligently than in the past.
Because alliance capability is an indispensable part of the FDP's security policy, the Bundeswehr must be enabled to operate within the alliance framework.
Although the transformation of the Bundeswehr goes far beyond the objectives of previous reforms, it still falls far short due to the completely different new challenges.
Germany needs highly motivated, very well trained armed forces equipped with state-of-the-art weaponry.
The civilian and military command structure of the Bundeswehr must be streamlined.
In particular, many offices and higher command authorities need to be reviewed for eligibility and reduced if necessary.
This reorganization must be accompanied by new workforce planning tools.
As an instrument of effective peace policy, they must be professional, flexible and quickly deployable.
To this end, it is not sufficient to simply continue with traditional structures while retaining general conscription.
Compulsory military service can no longer be justified.
In its design, it is profoundly unjust
and meanwhile even counterproductive for the operational readiness of the Bundeswehr.
It must be suspended as soon as possible.
Germany needs armed forces that are well trained, equipped with modern equipment, fully operational and quickly deployable.
Only a volunteer army can ensure that.
We reject the deployment of the Bundeswehr at home beyond the existing provisions of our constitution.
Realigning development cooperation - increasing effectiveness
The goal of liberal development cooperation is to fight the causes of poverty and to enable people to earn their own living in order to lead a life of dignity, freedom and self-determination.
In this context, financial assistance to build up their own livelihoods must be passed on in a targeted manner to the needy themselves.
In countries with poor governance, the work of non-state actors such as non-governmental organizations, foundations and churches, as well as civil society as a whole, must be supported.
The FDP advocates focusing development cooperation on the weakest and poorest countries, while cooperation with emerging economies must be placed on a fundamentally new footing.
Instead of classic development cooperation, the FDP wants to enter into a partnership with emerging countries in the areas of promoting the rule of law and democracy, environmental and climate policy, science and research, and win them over for the development of countries that are still in need.
China and India, just like Brazil and Mexico, are among those countries that no longer need German financial development cooperation.
Consistently demand good governance
A major cause of poverty and of the unsuccessfulness of political reforms is the resistance of national elites, who are often among the beneficiaries of undemocratic structures and economically inefficient systems.
Good governance through democracy and the rule of law, and
in particular the fight against corruption,
must therefore be the focus of all development efforts to a greater extent than in the past.
It is not the task of German development cooperation to be permanently active in places where sufficient financial resources are available but the elites of a country are not prepared to assume comprehensive responsibility for their own population.
Poverty reduction through help for self-help
The FDP is committed to the obligations that Germany has entered into as part of the UN Millennium Development Goals.
If we do not want to call into question government development cooperation and the efforts of governments to reduce poverty in the future, however, the question of the effectiveness of development cooperation must be at the center of international dialogue more than the question of its level.
The core task of development cooperation is to support self-sustaining economic development in the recipient countries.
It leads to an improvement in the food situation by promoting agricultural production, improving health care, increasing investment in basic education and promoting crafts and small businesses.
Trade barriers for developing countries, especially in the agricultural sector, should be dismantled swiftly.
One of the FDP's priorities is to combat HIV/AIDS, which has now become the leading cause of death in Africa and thus one of the greatest obstacles to development.
The FDP wants to increase all efforts in the field of prevention, but also in the field of treatment options, drug supply, training of health personnel and the formation of health care systems.
In addition, the FDP is committed to improving basic sanitation.
Contaminated drinking water and poor sanitation are common causes of disease and death in Africa and parts of Asia, especially among children.
For more transparency and a clear division of tasks between European and national development cooperation
European development cooperation should merely complement the development cooperation of the member states and coordinate where several countries are implementing joint projects or programs.
The European Development Fund (EDF) must be integrated into the EU budget to establish the parliamentary control that is currently lacking.
We reject any quota-based expansion of budget support as an instrument of development cooperation.
Only where strict conditions are met can budget support be provided.
Protecting human rights - promoting the rule of law
Germany's credibility is directly related to its consistent advocacy of human rights in its foreign policy.
Their observance is the foundation for the democratic, economic and cultural development of any country.
Physical and mental integrity, freedom of thought and expression, and freedom from discrimination are inalienable principles of our human rights policy.
The FDP views with great concern how minimum human rights standards have been increasingly violated, including in the so-called war on terror.
Torture, inhumane and cruel treatment, deportation and the operation of extraterritorial prisons must not be part of state action and must not be tolerated by the state.
Misguided developments in this area must be corrected.
The FDP advocates the worldwide abolition of the death penalty as well as against inhumane interrogation methods.
Human rights policy affects all policy areas
Discrimination and oppression of parts of the population still take place many times today - inside and outside Europe.
Children and women are particularly often the victims of serious violations of their rights and freedoms.
Human trafficking, child labor, the use of child soldiers, forced prostitution, forced marriage, organ trafficking and practices such as genital mutilation must be outlawed and banned internationally.
In our human rights policy, we oppose persecution and exclusion based on origin, ethnicity, religion or sexual orientation.
For this reason, the FDP is committed to equality and tolerance and aligns its political measures at home and abroad with human rights guidelines.
Globalization is raising awareness of human rights in other regions of the world as well.
This increases the chances of actively addressing human rights concerns in other countries.
In business, the FDP supports certification measures and initiatives of responsible corporate governance to enforce human rights standards.
Consistently strengthen international mechanisms for the protection of human rights
International human rights protection systems have grown in importance in recent years.
The Council of Europe with the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) and the International Criminal Court (ICC) are indispensable instruments of international rule of law.
Crimes, even in wartime, must be consistently brought to justice.
Germany must therefore step up its efforts to ensure that those countries that have so far refused to ratify the Rome Statute of the ICC also accede to it.
The members of the Security Council should set a good example here.
The work of the Council of Europe and, in particular, the ECHR also needs stronger support.
Many pending lawsuits, which can only be processed very late or not at all due to a lack of financial resources, hinder effective human rights protection.
The FDP therefore calls for greater financial support for the work of the ECHR and for increased promotion of this among the members of the Council of Europe.
Impunity for human rights crimes must be a thing of the past.
The FDP follows with concern the increasing politicization of the UN Human Rights Council and advocates an active German human rights policy within the UN framework.
7 Policy Change for Germany: Strengthening the Center.
After the founding of the Federal Republic of Germany in 1949, the FDP supported the introduction of the social market economy.
and played a key role in shaping the development of the modern constitutional state.
In 1969, the FDP shaped the departure towards a policy of social modernization, which was also expressed in the civil right to education.
The reorientation of foreign policy initiated at the same time contributed to the "Wende", the peaceful revolution of 1989, leading to reunification.
In the face of crisis-ridden economic developments, liberals are once again challenged.
We are meeting the new challenges with a market-based renewal and a self-confident liberal position in key policy areas.
Germany needs a change of policy - the FDP wants a change of policy.
The well-being of the people is the yardstick of our policy.
We want to strengthen the center of our society so that performance pays off again.
We want all citizens to be able to shape their own freedom with responsibility.
The FDP is staying the course.
We stand for the social market economy.
It is the most successful social and economic order that has ever existed.
We want a policy framework that promotes innovation and growth.
We stand for civil rights.
Freedom is our greatest asset - with regard to the individual as well as to society.
We want all people to be able to find their personal happiness in freedom, peace and prosperity.
Without liberation from hardship, freedom cannot be lived.
Without the chance to develop, freedom remains an empty promise.
Without rules of the game, there is no chance of freedom.
And without individual room for maneuver, the freedom of the individual is crushed.
This is just as true in society as it is in business.
We stand for education as a civil right.
Education is our country's most valuable raw material and opens up many opportunities in life.
We want the best possible education for everyone,
enable training and further education.
Sensible politics requires the courage to change.
That is what we Free Democrats stand for.
Germany can no longer afford to accumulate debt at the expense of future generations.
We have to work off the burden of debt so that more can be generated for the community again.
The state doesn't have a revenue problem, it has a spending problem.
The scope for relief as an impetus for more growth
and employment
and a comprehensive tax structure reform is there.
With your vote, you decide whether the necessary reforms will be tackled.
The rule is: more FDP - more center - more courage.
With our program, we show that we can do better.
We offer an independent path that relies on citizens and the power of freedom.
Our program shows that it can also be simple and fair instead of complicated and unfair.
We want Germany to keep up internationally and not get bogged down in its own regulations.
That is why we are focusing on more relief instead of more government.
We rely on a social market economy instead of a bureaucratic state economy.
We focus on freedom instead of surveillance.
We are committed to bold reforms.
We are betting on the center and a new start for Germany.
The clearest answers to the questions of our time are provided by our present program.
We have the courage to make the necessary changes - give us the strength to push them through.
Take your chance on September 27.
Vote for the FDP.
