Your vote for Schleswig-Holstein
SSW - Your voice for Schleswig-Holstein
Contents
SSW contests federal election for the first time in 60 years6
Better represent Schleswig-Holstein's interests in Berlin 8
The SSW provides regional responses to the corona pandemic and the permanent crisis mode of our time10
This is what we want to achieve in the Bundestag:12
The federal government must become more involved in minority policy12
Better German-Danish cooperation creates jobs in Schleswig-Holstein 18
Implement climate and environmental protection more quickly in Schleswig-Holstein 22
The Corona crisis shows that health should not be a commodity30
Overcoming Hartz IV:
We need a new welfare state model 36
Equality is a social principle 42
The federal government must invest more in expanding the transport infrastructure and in digitization in Schleswig-Holstein 46
Regional and sustainable: We need a different agricultural policy52 Economic and financial policy not on the backs of the weakest 56
Education policy that creates equal opportunities for all60
Cultural policy is an elementary component of our democratic community 62
Domestic and legal policy with citizens at the center66
Asylum Policy in a Humane Society72
The Federal Republic must play a positive and peaceful role in the EU and international politics 74
Your second vote:
For the minorities and the region78
The SSW runs in the Bundestag elections for the first time in 60 years
For the first time since 1961, the minority party SSW in Schleswig-Holstein is contesting the Bundestag elections with its own state list and its own candidates.
As in the state elections, the SSW is also exempt from the five-percent hurdle in federal elections in order to be able to politically represent the interests of the Danish minority and national Frisians.
Unlike in state elections in Schleswig-Holstein, the exception applies not only to the Danish minority, but to parties of all recognized national minorities (Section 6, Paragraph 3, Sentence 2 of the Federal Election Act).
From 1949 to 1953, the SSW was represented in the Bundestag by Hermann Clausen.
The SSW has not participated in a federal election since 1961, after the party repeatedly failed to achieve the required number of votes for a mandate.
Since the late 1990s, the SSW has achieved results in state elections that make the chance of a Bundestag mandate seem realistic.
The political framework for minority policy has changed dramatically in recent years.
While great progress has been made in minority policy at the state level, this is not true to the same extent at the European level or for federal policy.
For example, there has been little progress in the implementation of the European Language Charter and the Framework Convention for National Minorities, especially in the area of promoting minority languages in the media, for years in the Federal Republic.
In addition, the increasing diversity in the party landscape at the expense of once large national parties makes it difficult to negotiate minority policy at the federal level and to safeguard the legitimate interests of minorities.
Only a few members of the Bundestag today know why national minorities exist in Germany and why they are entitled to protection and support.
We notice this clearly in our efforts to anchor minority rights in the Basic Law.
Many members of the Bundestag are skeptical or even opposed to this idea.
This is disappointing, as the inclusion of such a formulation would underline the responsibility of the state as a whole for the protection of national minorities.
In times of separatism and ethnic conflicts in Europe, Germany could send a strong signal that minority rights can also contribute to conflict resolution.
With an SSW mandate, we can not only lend new weight to this concern, but also counteract the increasing minority-political obliviousness to history in the Bundestag.
The German-Danish border region is considered a model region in minority issues and is a prime example of good cross-border cooperation and positive coexistence of different cultures and languages.
In a world where the political spectrum is broadening, especially to the far right, it is important to show people positive alternatives to hate, fear and xenophobia.
The SSW can be this positive alternative.
The major challenges posed by the threat of climate catastrophe and the corona pandemic cannot be solved at the central level alone, but must be addressed regionally on the ground.
Therefore, the regional level must be able to get more involved in the federal parliament.
These are all good reasons for the SSW, as a minority and regional party, to extend its political influence to the federal level:
We want to raise our voice in Berlin as a humane, social, environmentally conscious and regional alternative for the minorities and the citizens of the state of Schleswig-Holstein.
Only the SSW can independently and confidently address the issues that move the people of Schleswig-Holstein - without having to bow to coalition constraints or the demands of other states.
The mere existence of an SSW member or members of parliament will make the other parties change their policies.
After all, we see this time and again in the state parliament, county councils and municipalities.
The SSW can move something with its political goals and ideas - also in Berlin!
In this election program you can read what we want to do in this sense in the Bundestag.
You can count on it!
Flemming Meyer
SSW State Chairman
Stefan Seidler
SSW top candidate
Better represent Schleswig-Holstein's interests in Berlin
According to a representative survey conducted at the end of 2020, just under 36 percent of people in Schleswig-Holstein believe that our state's interests are not adequately represented in the Bundestag.
The SSW also demands that Schleswig-Holstein's interests be better represented in Berlin.
The low influence of Schleswig-Holstein members of the Bundestag in their parliamentary groups shows that there is a need for an independent voice from the region that can stand up for Schleswig-Holstein's interests without any ifs or buts.
Where were the Schleswig-Holstein members of parliament when Germany and Denmark closed their borders during the corona pandemic without coordinating with each other?
Where are our Schleswig-Holstein members of the Bundestag when Berlin once again adopts a federal transport infrastructure plan that hardly takes Schleswig-Holstein into account, but takes Bavaria into account all the more?
And where are our Schleswig-Holstein members of the Bundestag when it comes to learning from the positive developments of the Scandinavian countries in the energy and environmental sectors or in the social and digital spheres, and to deepening and expanding relations with Scandinavia?
How long are we going to put up with people in Schleswig-Holstein earning 300 euros less per year than the national average?
That big companies are being wooed to the South, but we are supposed to store fracked gas for them?
That the federal government simply plans missile stations in the North Sea with private companies without involving us here in the north?
And how long are we going to put up with Members of Parliament from Schleswig-Holstein diligently nodding along with such injustices out of factional compulsion instead of standing up for our interests in Schleswig-Holstein?
Let's take a look at the voting behavior of the political competition:
Many people in Schleswig-Holstein depend on the meager basic security provided by the state.
However, an increase in the standard rate was rejected by all northern members of the CDU and SPD.
Is that in the spirit of Schleswig-Holstein?
Many municipalities and counties, even our state government, have agreed to take in more refugees from Moria than anticipated.
Nevertheless, all Schleswig-Holstein members of parliament from the SPD, CDU and FDP voted against an increase in the admission limit.
Who do these politicians actually represent?
Our Schleswig-Holstein is sold below value in Berlin.
It is time for us to change this together.
Stefan Seidler, top candidate
The SSW provides regional responses to the corona pandemic and the permanent crisis mode of our time
The spread of the coronavirus and the associated lockdowns have dramatic consequences for people and the economy in Germany, Europe and the whole world.
The pandemic brings many of humanity's undesirable developments to our attention: factory farming, the
exploitation of nature
and people,
environmental and climate pollution,
poor social conditions
and excessively cramped living space have provided additional fuel for the pandemic and remain key political challenges even after the pandemic.
At the heart of the corona pandemic is, of course, concern for the health of people, especially our elderly citizens.
But many citizens and businesses have also suffered painful financial losses and are worried about their future.
We have to take that seriously.
The financial consequences of the Corona crisis will be with us for many years to come.
And the political debate about who has to foot the bill will be a decisive factor in shaping the democratic debate.
The SSW demands: Those who have been prevented from exercising their professional activity by corona measures must also receive corresponding financial compensation.
This applies to small and medium-sized enterprises as well as to solo self-employed and voluntary structures.
We must leave no one behind.
We are in a state of emergency in the corona pandemic, which makes existing gender inequalities more visible than ever.
It is palpable to all that it is above all women who are holding our society together in this crisis.
At work and at home.
They must not be left behind when it comes to measures to mitigate the consequences of the crisis.
A broad societal discussion on the need for a lockdown and on the concrete implementation of rules to combat the corona pandemic is important and must not be left to extremists.
Justified criticism of the content of many measures is expected by many citizens and is part of the democratic debate that the SSW is engaged in.
The Fridays for Future movement shows that the issues of climate protection and sustainability continue to be of paramount importance to the citizens of Schleswig-Holstein.
But also other alarming developments lead to the fact that the world community is in permanent crisis mode, which also affects the citizens* in Schleswig-Holstein.
In addition to the environmental crisis, we speak of the poverty crisis, the hunger crisis, a distribution crisis, power crisis, financial and euro crisis, all of which have their origin in a wrong development of the economic system.
For many of the challenges, the course must be set differently at the federal level.
This is another reason why the SSW is running in the federal elections.
As a regional minority party with a social and environmentally conscious aspiration, the SSW has long sought, within its means, to provide answers to these crises and to develop its vision of a better world in which a good life is made possible for all.
People and the environment are at the center of our political considerations and actions.
The economy must serve them and not the other way around.
We are guided by the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
In addition, the concept of the common good economy offers us a value-oriented framework for action that contributes to achieving the sustainability goals
The SSW wants to use this as a basis to provide regional answers to the many challenges that we in SchleswigHolstein must master together in the coming years.
The federal government must become more involved in minority policy
The Südschleswigsche Wählerverband (SSW) was founded in 1948 as the party of the Danish minority and the national Frisians in Schleswig-Holstein.
As a minority party, the SSW is firmly anchored in the Schleswig region and the minorities living there.
The coexistence of Danish, Frisian and German culture, as well as the culture of the Sinti and Roma, is a wealth that should be used for the whole country.
Danes and Frisians as well as Sinti and Roma have lived here for centuries, are German citizens and have the same rights and duties as the majority population.
For us as the party of the Danish minority and the national Frisians, the equal treatment of minorities has a very high priority.
Nowhere else in Germany do three recognized minorities live.
And only in a few regions of Europe are four languages (German, Danish, Frisian and Romany) and two regional languages (Low German and Sønderjysk) spoken as they are here.
The SSW embodies this mutual enrichment of cultures and languages in our country.
This diversity not only gives Schleswig-Holstein a very special quality of life, it is also an economic factor that benefits all citizens.
The Federal Republic of Germany has signed the Framework Convention for National Minorities and the Language Charter as well as the Bonn-Copenhagen Agreement with Denmark to safeguard the minorities in the German-Danish borderland and therefore bears a high degree of responsibility for minority policy.
Too often, however, this responsibility is shifted to the federal states.
We want the federal government to be much more involved in minority policy than it has been.
The SSW demands cultural and financial equality for national minorities at all levels of government.
We want to put minority policy on the agenda in the federal government
as well and make it clear that cultural diversity as a right of minorities is an enrichment for the majority population.
That's what we want to achieve in the Bundestag:
The rights of minorities must be enshrined in the Basic Law
The federal states of Schleswig-Holstein, Saxony and Brandenburg have provisions in their constitutions in favor of the minorities and ethnic groups living there, documenting that they are an integral part of society and are therefore entitled to protection and support.
So far, there is no such provision in the German Basic Law.
Thus, the appreciation associated with such an article is omitted here, as is the acceptance that the Federal Republic of Germany also has a nationwide responsibility for the minorities and ethnic groups, in addition to the individual federal states.
Therefore, and also against the background of the special European significance, it is necessary that a provision in favor of minorities and ethnic groups also finds its way into the Basic Law.
We want a provision to be introduced in the Basic Law in favor of the national minorities of German citizenship recognized in Germany - the Danish minority, the Frisian ethnic group, the Sorbian people and the minority of German Sinti and Roma.
The federal government must provide better support for minorities
Financial support for organizations and educational institutions of the four recognized minorities is a basic requirement for their existence.
The principle of financial and cultural equality at all levels must also apply to cultural offerings and cultural institutions of minorities and ethnic groups.
In Schleswig-Holstein, equality has been achieved to a large extent.
This must also be implemented at the federal level.
However, minority policy is not only equality and financial support.
It is also about recognition and equality.
The federal government has a responsibility to shape minority policy in the Federal Republic and must become more involved.
The SSW wants to achieve a stronger financial participation of the federal government in the financing of minorities and a stronger commitment of the federal government in minority policy.
We want the schools of the Danish minority to be considered in federal funding and project funding for schools.
We want federal funding for the Frisian ethnic group to be greatly increased to provide even more support for Frisian language and cultural projects.
We want the federal government to continue to acknowledge its responsibility for Danish cultural institutions and provide them with adequate project funding.
We want the federal government to continue to acknowledge its responsibility for the newly established Foundation for the Frisian Ethnic Group in the State of Schleswig-Holstein (Frisian Foundation) and to make an adequate financial contribution.
We want the work of the Central Council of German Sinti and Roma to continue to receive sufficient financial support from the federal government.
We want the work of DOMOWINA - the Union of Lusatian Sorbs - and the Foundation for the Sorbian People for the Sorbian language and culture to continue to receive sufficient financial support from the federal government.
We want the subsidy for the Minority Secretariat, which supports the work of the Minority Council for the four recognized minorities in the Federal Republic, to be increased.
We want the work of the European minority organization FUEN to continue to receive sufficient financial support from the federal government.
We want the federal government to exert more influence on the states to implement the demands of the minorities in the implementation of the Framework Convention for National Minorities and the European Language Charter.
We want the federal government to introduce a right of association for national minorities and ethnic groups to sue.
This allows national minorities or ethnic groups to sue in court on behalf of the general public without having their own rights violated in order to protect collective public legal interests.
We want the federal government to develop a nationwide action plan to combat antiziganism.
and for the equal participation of Sinti and Roma.
We want the federal government to work to ensure that combating antiziganism becomes an integral part of all EU action strategies.
We want EU member states to enter into binding frameworks to protect Sinti and Roma.
We want to support the establishment of the office of a commissioner against antiziganism.
Strengthen minority and regional languages
A peaceful and fruitful coexistence of majority and minority populations requires that all can live in their homeland with their own language and culture.
Language is a basis of minority identity and the number one bearer of culture.
The use of one's own language is a human right.
True multilingualism, however, presupposes that the Danish population group and the Frisian ethnic group have a de facto claim to their languages being visible and usable in everyday life.
The SSW wants an active language policy that ensures that minority and regional languages are aggressively promoted in the public sphere, in the media and in education.
At the state level, much has been achieved there in recent years.
This must now be achieved in the federal government and federal agencies as well.
We want citizens and organizations to be able to submit relevant documents in Danish, Frisian and Sorbian to federal authorities such as the tax office, the Federal Employment Agency or social insurance agencies without having to pay for translation costs.
We want the recruitment criteria for federal authorities in the Schleswig region to make it clearer that proficiency in minority languages is a quality requirement to be given preference in public administration.
We want standard forms at federal authorities in the Schleswig region to be available in minority and regional languages as well.
We want minority languages to be able to be used orally or in writing in court in the future, without incurring costs or other disadvantages for the person concerned.
Corresponding regulations already exist for the Sorbian minority.
To this end, Section 184 of the Judiciary Act must be extended to include the minority languages Danish and Frisian.
We want more signs, signposts and information boards in the country to be bilingual - in German/Danish, German/Frisian or German/Low German, depending on the region.
This also applies to federal public authorities or in the case of signs on federal roads in the Schleswig district of the state.
We also want to advocate for Sorbian-German bilingual signage in Brandenburg and Saxony.
We want the federal government to comply with the requirements of the European Language Charter and to take appropriate measures to increase the presence of Danish and Frisian in the media.
Public broadcasters have a special responsibility in this regard.
We want the federal government to work to ensure the provision and transmission and unimpeded reception of audiovisual content in areas where minorities live.
Minorities must be enabled to listen to and view audiovisual content in their native language, even across national borders.
Good Minority Policy is Peace Policy: Using Experience for Europe
Due to its history and present, Schleswig-Holstein has a very special wealth of experience.
Since the referendum of 1920, the German-Danish border has been fixed.
After decades of antagonism, people in the north are now striving to shape the coexistence of majority and minority in a positive way.
The Federal Republic's minority policy therefore attracts attention in Europe and worldwide.
A good minority policy is peace policy.
The federal government must use the good experiences from the German-Danish borderland to strengthen European minority policy.
We want the special minority policy of the German-Danish borderland, of which we are rightly proud, to be used to raise the profile of a progressive minority policy in Europe.
We want the German government to push for an EU minority policy that ensures the recognition, protection and promotion of all minorities and ethnic groups in the long term.
Responsibility for minorities must be anchored at the decision-making levels in the EU Commission.
This should be based on the 1993 Copenhagen Criteria for the Protection of Minorities.
We want the federal government to aggressively support the Minority SafePack initiative of the European minority organizations for the implementation of minority rights in the EU states with the EU Commission.
We want Germany and Denmark, in the spirit of the Bonn-Copenhagen Declarations of 1955, to represent these values and convictions as common principles both in the Council of Europe, in the OSCE and in the institutions of the EU.
We want the federal government to continue to financially support Flensburg as a competence center for minority issues.
The Minority Union FUEN, the European Centre for Minority Issues (ECMI) and the organizations of the Danish minority form a bundle that is unique.
These include sufficient federal funding for the "Minority Competence Network Schleswig-Holstein/South Denmark" project.
We want the federal government to improve the communication of knowledge about Danes, Frisians, Sinti and Roma, among other things by the Federal Agency for Civic Education expanding and improving its offerings in this area.
We want the federal government to become much more involved in minority policy than it has been to date.
Better German-Danish cooperation creates jobs in Schleswig-Holstein
The corona pandemic, climate change, globalization, and digitalization pose major challenges for Schleswig-Holstein's economy.
This makes it all the more important to set the right course now for a positive economic future for our region.
Denmark is one of Schleswig-Holstein's most important trading partners - just as Schleswig-Holstein and the Federal Republic are among Denmark's largest export partners.
The Institute for the World Economy has pointed out in an analysis that Schleswig-Holstein can only close its economic gap in relation to southern Germany through more cooperation with Denmark.
Schleswig-Holstein must step up its efforts to develop cross-border economic structures together with southern Denmark.
For the SSW as a regional minority party, German-Danish cooperation is a decisive perspective for the future in order to achieve growth
and create new jobs in Schleswig-Holstein.
Our goal is to ensure that our children will still be able to live and work well in our region tomorrow and that qualified jobs will be available for all.
The SSW is actively and constructively involved in cross-border cooperation in the joint region of Sønderjylland-Schleswig and sees itself as a bridge builder between Germany and Denmark.
We know both countries and both languages and cultures very well and can thus contribute to advancing the region economically, culturally and socially.
The federal government and federal legislation play an important role in strengthening German-Danish cooperation and reducing border barriers.
The SSW sees itself as a bridge builder between Germany and Denmark.
This is what we want to achieve in the Bundestag:
Removing mobility barriers in the border region
In order to improve cooperation between Schleswig-Holstein and Denmark, the existing barriers to mobility and communication in tax and social legislation must be reduced.
The expertise of Regionskontor Sønderjylland-Schleswig plays a crucial role here.
The various border control regulations must also be dismantled in order to ensure the free movement of goods.
and border crossing of citizens.
The Corona pandemic has shown with frightening clarity that the exchange of information and mutual coordination of various border control measures between the German and Danish governments functions very poorly.
We want the consequences for commuters in the German border region to be examined and taken into account in new federal laws in the tax and social security areas.
We want a normalization of life for the inhabitants of the borderland.
This includes the abolition of border controls.
We want a joint German-Danish police task force, modeled on the Hamburg-Schleswig-Holstein cooperation, to jointly fight cross-border crime.
We want the introduction of a permanent German-Danish border commission with the participation of the German, Schleswig-Holstein and Danish governments to improve dialogue and communication.
We want the federal government to also contribute to the financing of the German-Danish commuter advisory service so that this important work can be continued in the future and expanded to the Fehmarn Belt region.
We want comparable professions to be recognized more quickly and easily in Germany and Denmark.
We want to see further cross-border German-Danish training and study programs introduced.
We want to make it possible for students from Schleswig-Holstein who complete an apprenticeship in Denmark to have access to vocational training funding.
Existing barriers must be removed.
We want the federal government to work for a continuation of the German-Danish Interreg funding at a high level.
The distribution of new EU structural aid for cross-border cooperation after 2021-2027 must focus on the poorest regions and on social disadvantages and promote border regions as a whole.
We are committed to ensuring that our northern border region is not shortchanged in the ongoing negotiations on the distribution of funds between the federal government and the states.
Co-financing in structurally weak border regions needs to be adjusted due to problems in raising own funds.
The SSW is also lobbying the federal government for the continuation of cross-border EU structural aid after 2027.
We want the federal government to go beyond existing approaches and work towards organizing a joint regional German-Danish labor market with a cross-border placement and information system.
We want concepts for local and regional economic development and sustainability in the German-Danish borderland to be more closely coordinated.
Cross-border hearing procedures are to be made possible.
This ensures strong and sustainable development in the borderland.
We want to think more strongly about cross-border university and science cooperation in conjunction with business.
Joint degree programs should be strengthened and expanded as measured by regional strength positions and regional demand for a skilled workforce.
We want to promote cluster policy in northern German and cross-border economic sectors through financial support measures and the dismantling of legal barriers and focus specifically on our strength positions: Renewable energies, hydrogen, food industry, tourism and experience economy, maritime economy, health industry, logistics.
Making better use of proximity to Scandinavia
Due to its special location, its geographical proximity to the Hamburg metropolitan region, but especially due to its proximity to Scandinavia, the business location Schleswig-Holstein offers excellent opportunities for economic development, which must be used much better.
The good neighborliness with the Nordic countries bordering the Baltic Sea must be deepened.
Especially in the areas that will play a role in climate protection in the future, such as renewable energy production, energy storage, energy efficiency, regional food production or eco-agriculture, there are many opportunities for economic cooperation.
In order to accelerate the expansion of renewable energies, it is particularly important to strengthen cooperation with the Scandinavian countries.
Climate protection projects in Denmark and Norway, for example, are exemplary in this respect.
The expansion of infrastructure in the Jutland Corridor is also a joint goal of Schleswig-Holstein and the Scandinavian countries.
Without the support of the federal level, which is responsible for the economic framework and infrastructure in Schleswig-Holstein, we will not be able to drive these developments forward.
We want to strengthen the "Jutland Corridor" from Hamburg to Skagen through political agreements and infrastructural investments in rail and road.
This includes the federal government and Denmark planning, expanding and maintaining joint infrastructure in line with demand.
We want the federal government to provide more resources for an implementation of the EU Baltic Sea Strategy.
This includes promoting cooperation in the fields of science, research and innovation,
as well as advancing further development in the areas of cultural and creative industries.
We want to preserve and sustainably use the North Sea in line with the Sustainable Development Goal SDG 14 "Life below water".
This requires implementation of the EU North Sea Marine Basin Strategy.
For us, a European Green Deal in close coordination with Denmark is the most effective way to achieve this.
The fact that Denmark wants to completely end oil and gas production in the North Sea by 2050 is exemplary.
We want the federal government to do everything possible to minimize environmental impacts and keep costs within reasonable limits during the construction of the Fehmarnbelt link, which was contractually agreed between Denmark and Germany.
Investments in the Fehmarnbelt link as a new transport axis must not result in the north of the country being left behind in federal transport funding.
We want the federal government to launch a joint digitization project with Denmark to draw inspiration from the digitization of public administration in Scandinavia and to accelerate the digitization of services offered by federal and state authorities in Schleswig-Holstein.
We want to make it possible for economic federal support programs to be used up to 20% across borders, i.e. beyond the federal territory.
We want to maintain the German-Danish double taxation agreement.
It must not be replaced by a European one.
Superfluous bureaucracy must be reduced.
Schleswig-Holstein must step up its efforts to develop cross-border economic structures together with Southern Denmark.
Implement climate and environmental protection more quickly in Schleswig-Holstein
Climate change is taking dramatic forms and is already being felt all over the world.
We welcome the Fridays for Future movement, because these committed young people have rightly recognized: Our actions over the next 10 years will play a decisive role in determining whether we still have a chance of limiting global warming.
The current research results, for example from the Arctic, force us to address the challenges now.
The unstable state of the atmosphere leaves us no choice: CO2 emissions must be massively reduced.
Schleswig-Holstein in particular will be strongly affected by climate change, because climate change will lead to a rise in sea level, which will have fatal consequences for Schleswig-Holstein's coasts in particular.
That is why we need a clear change of course now to secure the future of our children.
All industrialized countries must significantly reduce emissions of climate-damaging greenhouse gases in order to halt the catastrophic consequences of this climate change.
Germany, a wealthy industrial nation, has a special role model function here and also the opportunities to become a global pioneer through a climate-neutral transformation of the industrial and business location.
CO2 emissions must be curbed, particularly in the energy and transport sectors.
The time of procrastination and hesitation must finally be a thing of the past when it comes to the alarming progress of climate change.
The transformation to a climate-friendly world, which always includes the preservation of biodiversity, can only succeed if we take countermeasures now!
Success or failure is determined less by technical limits than by the social and political will to change.
But the increasing use of natural areas for residential, commercial and industrial purposes also threatens biodiversity and natural diversity as well as drinking water in Germany and Schleswig-Holstein.
Therefore, land sealing must be limited and environmental protection in Schleswig-Holstein must be improved.
Here, above all, the federal legislature is also called upon.
This is what we want to achieve in the Bundestag:
The federal government must finally implement the energy turnaround
Ultimately, we must completely avoid CO2 emissions from coal, oil and gas combustion in order to limit further global warming.
In Schleswig-Holstein, we are already a model region for a 100% renewable energy supply.
We are convinced that the energy turnaround is necessary and economically correct and offers the only way to still control climate change.
We want the federal government to implement the 2015 Paris climate change agreements more quickly.
The goal of being CO2 neutral must be achieved well before 2050, if possible as early as 2035.
Our benchmark is and remains: Global warming must be actively limited and must not increase by more than 1.5 degrees Celsius!
We want existing coal and gas-fired power plants to be decommissioned in step with the expansion of renewables.
The coal phase-out must be implemented in a socially responsible manner and faster than previously intended before 2038.
To achieve climate neutrality in building refurbishment, we want to push for a massive increase in the rate of energy-related refurbishment.
Instead of fossil heating systems, priority must be given to heat pumps and the use of green local and district heating.
We want the federal government to provide more financial and human resources for research into alternative forms of energy and energy storage options.
Consumers must have a price advantage when purchasing regional, sustainable electricity.
We want the federal government to provide more subsidies to advance the expansion of offshore wind energy in the North Sea and Baltic Sea.
In this context, the ecological load limits of the North Sea and the Baltic Sea must be taken into account.
We want the federal government to facilitate the legal framework for citizens' profit-sharing in alternative forms of energy such as citizens' wind farms.
We want the expansion of photovoltaics and wind energy to be promoted more strongly throughout Germany.
In order to ensure a climate-neutral energy system by 2035, the expansion of wind and solar energy in the order of at least 25 gigawatts per year is necessary.
For acceptance, there is a need for greater participation of local residents and communities in the operation of these plants in the sense of citizen energy.
We want domestic research into the production and use of hydrogen to be accelerated.
The use of hydrogen will be necessary to ensure security of supply for electricity and for climate-friendly industrial processes.
Schleswig-Holstein can only benefit from this.
We want the expansion of the electricity grids to be accelerated and the costs to be distributed nationwide.
Grid fees must be adjusted so that renewable energies do not become a burden.
In addition, regional self-sufficiency and the use of renewable electricity must be given special consideration.
We want feed-in priority in the grids for renewable electricity.
This must be implemented much more consistently than before.
We want to further expand sector coupling.
The technologies required for this are to be promoted.
Research and development must be advanced.
Energy conservation and efficiency must remain the focus.
We want the development of storage technologies to be stepped up.
Cooperation among universities and with the business community must be improved.
We want producers not to be penalized with financial burdens for using their own renewable electricity.
Active involvement of citizens in nature conservation.
Nature conservation policy is a task for society as a whole and not just for agriculture.
Citizens, companies, municipalities, associations and foundations are active themselves or would like to become active themselves, because they feel obliged to contribute to the preservation of nature.
Thus, it is a high value for them to preserve or renaturalize moor, forest and dry grassland biotopes, to establish flowering meadows and to take over sponsorships for these measures.
We want citizens to be actively involved in nature conservation.
CO2 tax must not lead to additional tax burdens
For the SSW, it is important that the necessary measures do not hit the middle class particularly hard.
Larger companies in particular can and should be persuaded to reduce emissions and switch to climate-friendly alternatives through a planned CO2 price.
However, there is a risk that any resulting additional costs will be passed on to the consumer.
Therefore, in parallel with CO2 pricing, there must be a reduction in the tax burden for consumers elsewhere.
In addition to the already planned reduction in the EEG surcharge, we want further effective measures to be taken so that the taxpayer does not face an additional burden when the CO2 tax is introduced.
The traffic turnaround must come
In order to reduce CO2 emissions in the transport sector, we need a consistent change in transport policy.
This can be achieved through modal shift and modal avoidance, increased efficiency in all modes of transport, and greater use of electromobility.
The aim must be to press ahead with the modernization of the railroads (including the rolling stock fleet).
There is a need for a reliable German frequency (positive example is Switzerland), so that traveling by train becomes more comfortable and attractive.
This also includes inexpensive tickets.
This is the only way to continuously increase passenger numbers.
We want the federal government to invest massively in the expansion of rail infrastructure over the next few years.
The goal must be to get at least 30% more freight traffic onto the railways by 2035.
A differentiated approach must be taken to reopen rail lines.
The goal is to find the most climate-friendly solution for the region.
We want the capacity of public transport to be doubled by 2035.
To achieve this, the federal government must make more regionalization funds available for local public transport, which will also benefit Schleswig-Holstein.
Public transport services must be made more passenger-friendly, more cost-efficient and more attractive through additional services such as car-sharing.
We want mobility needs to be shifted as far as possible to the environmental network of walking, cycling and public transport.
This requires traffic-avoiding urban and regional planning.
The Danish capital Copenhagen vividly demonstrates how this can work well.
We want technical barriers in the EU, such as different signaling systems, power voltages and track gauges, to be overcome in order to make international rail services more attractive as an alternative to air travel.
We want better integration of individual transport, public transport and cycling in order to allow inner cities to breathe a sigh of relief.
For example, we want a parking and transport infrastructure that enables people to switch to public transport and cycling in order to relieve inner cities of individual traffic.
To this end, bicycles must be allowed to travel everywhere on rail, long-distance and night services.
We want to drive decarbonization in mobility.
Renewable forms of energy must be the basis for e-motors, hydrogen or electricity-based fuels.
For this, we need the development of a hydrogen filling station network for heavy-duty transport as far away as Scandinavia.
We want a legal speed limit of 130 km/h for motor vehicles.
Introducing a speed limit on highways costs nothing, can be implemented immediately, and contributes to climate protection.
We want to reduce emissions in shipping to land-based limits by promoting alternative propulsion systems.
Here, the focus should be on hydrogen drives and synthetically or plant-based fuels.
Protect waters, oceans and soil: No fracking and no CCS
Water is a vital resource that must be protected.
Our water is affected by indirect or direct impacts to varying degrees.
Pharmaceutical residues, wastewater, pesticides, phosphate, nitrate, micro- and nanoplastics are found in all water bodies.
In many regions of the country, we are seeing increasing environmental damage, both to groundwater and to surface waters and seas.
The inputs have a wide variety of contributors that impact the water body.
Despite stricter environmental regulations, we are experiencing deterioration in water quality in many areas.
Water engineers have been pointing out for years that the production of drinking water will become problematic if contamination levels do not decline.
The example of the Schlei makes the grievances clear.
Increased nutrient inputs from surrounding land, unintentional inputs from wastewater, or soils contaminated by industry that pollute the water body.
The integrated model project of the Schlei shows ways to improve the situation.
We want the Schlei model project to be made permanent through federal measures.
We don't want plastic entering our waters.
For this, our wastewater treatment plants need appropriate filter systems and purification stages that prevent such inputs, right down to microplastics.
This needs to be supported with federal funding.
The same applies to prevent the discharge of pharmaceutical residues into water bodies.
To this end, there should be no more plastic in food waste recycling.
The federal government must ensure that fermentation residues and composts contain no plastic at all instead of the 0.5% currently permitted.
We want to protect our groundwater and are therefore calling for a nationwide ban on fracking.
No one can rule out the possibility that fracking will have an impact on groundwater.
We also reject the use of Carbon Dioxide Capture and Storage (CCS) because of the negative environmental consequences.
Mining law must be amended accordingly.
We want a consistent implementation of the Strategy for the Wadden Sea 2100.
We are concerned with the preservation of the unique natural area of the Schleswig-Holstein Wadden Sea and the islands and Halligen as essential structures in the Wadden Sea National Park.
The protection and the quality of life of the island and Hallig inhabitants must be secured.
We want comprehensive protection of the seas in accordance with the precautionary principle and therefore reject further dumping of Hamburg harbor silt in the North Sea.
The Marine Strategy Framework Directive (MSFD) actually already prohibits this.
It must also be applied consistently in the North Sea.
We do not want any expansion of the LNG infrastructure in Germany.
Liquefied natural gas is unsuitable as a bridging technology because considerable quantities of methane can escape throughout the entire process chain, which has a greater impact on the climate than previous energy sources.
In addition, it cannot be effectively ruled out that gas produced by fracking is also stored in the LNG terminals.
Liquefied petroleum gas is currently being increasingly used in maritime applications to reduce pollutant emissions.
We want to push the replacement of LNG in shipping with clean fuels and modern technologies.
We want to minimize fertilizer inputs into groundwater.
Years of blocking appropriate measures and sitting out the EU Nitrate Directive have done agriculture a disservice.
We want a modern fertilizer ordinance and testing methods as well as warning levels that are effective at an early stage.
We want to enable area-wide water protection by reducing inputs from nutrients and pesticides as far as possible.
We need federal riparian strip programs that effectively protect water bodies from discharges.
We want to significantly reduce the use of single-use plastic through federal legislation.
The reusable and deposit system must be strengthened and expanded.
Coffee to go should only be served in reusable cups.
We do not want any more minimum amounts of foreign matter in organic waste and compost.
The federal government must finally adapt and improve the recycling system.
We want an amendment to Section 13b of the Building Code with an increased focus on environmental assessment to curb land grabbing, because land is not infinite.
We want local nature conservation in biosphere reserves to become more important.
The federal government must provide more funding to make tourism compatible with conservation.
With 443,100 hectares, the Schleswig-Holstein Wadden Sea National Park Authority manages the largest UNESCO biosphere reserve in Germany.
At the federal level, we want to ensure that more personnel are deployed to raise awareness of nature conservation in tourism matters.
We want the federal government to finally spend the necessary funds and resources to quickly recover old war munitions from the waters; not only in the North and Baltic Seas, but also in inland waters, where serious accidents have already occurred during the collection of washed-up phosphorus deposits.
Nuclear waste repository search transparent and comprehensible
The radioactively contaminated legacies of nuclear energy have preoccupied us for decades and are further proof that we must put an end to this form of energy production as quickly as possible.
We have a responsibility to dispose of radioactive waste safely.
The decades-long wrangling over the Gorleben site as a final repository without the necessary citizen participation and transparency was a political failure and has led to nationwide resistance and great skepticism about the storage of radioactive waste.
A new procedure has now been started with the federal and state decision to search for a suitable site with the greatest possible safety in an open-ended manner.
Already in the 1970s, before the Greens even existed, the SSW had warned in vain against the use of nuclear energy and against enormous risks and problems.
However, we will of course constructively accompany the process of searching for a final repository in society as a whole, because only together can we solve the problem.
We want the search for a final repository to be based on scientific investigations and only sites that offer correspondingly suitable geological conditions to be considered.
In addition to geological conditions, we want other criteria to be taken into account that would make such a site safe for centuries (e.g. earthquakes, volcanoes and floods).
We want the procedures and investigations to be transparent and comprehensible.
We want an early and broad information and participation process in all regions that come into question.
We want the search to be undertaken across the entire country and no suitable site to be singled out in advance for political reasons.
We want retrieval of nuclear waste to remain guaranteed in the distant future.
We want research for partitioning and transmutation of nuclear waste to go forward.
This process could separate long-lived radioactive substances and convert them into less hazardous and shorter-lived substances.
Construction waste from nuclear power plants must be stored on site
Released waste from decommissioned nuclear power plants is to be stored where it was generated.
The siting municipalities have generated significant tax revenues from the piles.
It would be unacceptable if others were to inherit the low-level radioactive waste.
According to the Closed Substance Cycle Waste Management Act, the power plant operator is responsible for disposal anyway, and the waste management organization in the respective district is responsible for acceptance.
We want construction waste from dismantled nuclear power plants to be deposited locally or in the affected county.
Any unsuitable landfills or the power plant site itself must be upgraded for safe storage.
No spaceport in the North Sea
Not everything technically feasible is necessary.
We are skeptical about the construction of a mobile spaceport for rockets.
According to the Federation of German Industries (BDI), this is planned in the far west of Germany's Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) of the North Sea with financial support from the German government, where smaller launch vehicles carrying satellites will be launched into space from a mobile launch platform.
We don't want to give an offshore spaceport a clean bill of health for rocket launches.
We want potential impacts on nature and the environment in the EEZ to be considered and investigated in the same way as on land.
Planned conservation and offshore wind energy projects in this area of the economic zone must be considered as a priority.
We want other sites to be considered as well.
We want to protect our groundwater and demand a nationwide ban on fracking and CCS.
The Corona crisis shows that health must not be a commodity
Good care is a human right.
The corona pandemic brings home to us abruptly that our health care system was already in disarray before February 2020.
Instead of expanding or at least maintaining public health care, hospitals were subjected to the free market.
At the same time, staffing levels in municipal health offices were reduced.
Until 2003, the cost price principle still applied to our clinics.
Until then, the first task was not to generate the highest possible profits.
Since 2004, the diagnosis-related groups (DRGs) have been in effect, according to which the focus is no longer on the sick person, but on the revenue from his or her treatment.
The more severe the case and the number of diagnoses, the higher the payment; for example, a cesarean section is paid significantly better than a natural birth.
This creates financial disincentives that have no place in health care.
Market factors increased the pressure on hospitals to treat many cases but to use as few resources as possible.
Z. For example, one-third of maternity wards have been closed since 2004 because they are hardly lucrative to run outside cities with higher case volumes.
Another loss leader is emergency departments.
Each admitted patient can only be charged a flat rate of 30,- Euro, regardless of the medical measures necessary in the individual case.
In addition, there is the burden of many people driving themselves to the emergency rooms in the evening hours and on weekends.
In addition, the reduction in nursing staff positions (50,000 positions in 15 years) coupled with a simultaneous increase in patient numbers is pushing hospitals to their limits.
The introduction of nursing staffing targets and staffing floors by the Federal Ministry of Health only ensures minimum staffing levels and has nothing to do with needs-based staffing levels.
We need a process that determines necessary staffing based on individual patient care needs.
The nurse practitioner rule (PPR) would be one tool for this.
It was introduced in 1993, but abolished just four years later for cost reasons.
Then the frustration of the nursing staff took its course.
This is what we want to achieve in the Bundestag:
Abolish flat rate per case system
Services of general interest are not a product of the market.
The Corona crisis shows that market-oriented flat rates per case and the DRG system are not suitable for the healthcare sector.
This also applies to the management of pandemics.
The fee-per-case system does not grant sufficient funds to effectively combat a crisis - and even before Corona, 50% of hospitals were in danger of insolvency.
The progressive concentration on a few large hospitals in Schleswig-Holstein at the expense of smaller hospitals cannot be a sustainable solution, but increased cooperation between hospitals can.
The amount of the flat rates per case is not based on the costs of economic management according to the principle of appropriateness of services (§ 12 SGB V, effectiveness before economy).
In the DRG system, the spiral only turns downward: Thequality of care
and working conditions deteriorate because efficiency is only measured by an average value.
We want a healthcare policy that focuses on the common good, not profit.
We want the abolition of the current DRG system.
In addition to the hospital needs plans of the states, we want a nationwide, binding hospital needs plan that not only enables services, but also obligates them.
We want the federal government to make sufficient funds available to the states and municipalities so that 100% of the legally stipulated state funding for hospital investments can be met.
We want hospitals to return to municipal and public ownership in the long term.
Good care is a human right
Since the introduction of long-term care insurance as "partial coverage" in 1995 and the increasing opening of care for the elderly to the commercial market, the situation for those in need of care and employees alike has deteriorated.
Demographic trends are a significant contributor to the crisis in elder care.
In the future, more and more people will need professional care and fewer and fewer people will be available to the labor market.
In inpatient nursing care for the elderly, the personal contribution to nursing home costs has more than doubled in 20 years from 300 euros in 1999 to 655 euros in 2019, and the
total personal contribution has risen by almost 7% in just one and a half years to 1,891 euros (July 1, 2019).
More and more people in need of care are financially overburdened with their own contributions.
The danger of a further increase in old-age poverty is immanent.
Very little has been done for nurses in the last 20 years.
Ever-increasing workloads and poor pay have led to a shortage of 100,000 nurses in hospitals nationwide today.
A Corona bonus of "up to" 1,500 euros per nurse will not put an end to such conditions.
Even the collective bargaining results for nursing care from 2021 can only be a modest start to better pay and working conditions.
Since additional costs for fees and staffing are typically passed on to those in need of care via the co-payment, a fatal pattern emerges: those in need of care and caregivers are played off against each other, giving those providers with poorer working conditions a competitive advantage.
Outpatient care has developed into "minute care," which does not meet the actual needs of those in need of care.
We want the care of people in need of nursing care to be returned to the responsibility of the public sector and carried out by the public sector itself or by charities, churches or non-profit companies in order to end the competition between providers in terms of fees.
We want to change the system of long-term care insurance to a fair, solidarity-based and sustainable full citizens' insurance that covers all costs of long-term care without co-payments, so that every person who needs care can afford dignified and customized care.
We want those in need of care in inpatient and outpatient care for the elderly to receive individual, self-determined, customized and activating care.
We consider this to be a minimum standard.
We want an effective personnel assessment instrument to be enshrined in law that meets people's care needs and takes full account of occupational health and safety in care for the elderly, so that the quality of care is enhanced
and employees' working conditions improved.
We want a generally binding sectoral collective agreement for geriatric care that corresponds to the level of the public sector (TVöD) in order to pay employees in geriatric care appropriately and increase the attractiveness of the nursing profession.
We want a reduction in workloads in nursing.
This is the only way to consistently comply with hygiene regulations, for example.
We want working hours that show consideration for the needs of caregivers.
We want bed blocking for staff shortages to prevent treatment errors and "dangerous care."
We want nurses to be granted more qualification and further training.
We want to see a strengthening of the nursing workforce in the academic sector and improved training for nursing assistant professions.
Quality improvement in professional practice leads to improved patient care and care planning.
More academically trained nursing professionals lead to an upgrading of the nursing profession.
Instead of acting only on the doctor's instructions, tasks could be solved in a team-oriented and holistic manner.
Further specializations of nursing professionals should be encouraged.
Making politics for and with people with disabilities
People with disabilities are not disabled; they are disabled.
All people have the same rights.
However, we are still a long way from a society in which every person, with their individual strengths and weaknesses, is a natural member.
All levels of government must clearly commit to the goals of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and fulfill their obligations in all areas of life.
It is not the individual who must adapt in order to participate and shape, but our society as a whole must open up so that living together in diversity becomes a matter of course.
We are committed to a tolerant society in which every person is valuable with their respective abilities and prerequisites.
The central principle of the convention is "Nothing about us without us!".
Therefore, people with disabilities must also be involved in the implementation of the Convention itself.
We want the participation of all people in our society.
This requires consistent implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities at the federal, state and local levels.
Inclusion must be implemented and lived.
We want people with disabilities to decide freely and independently what support they want to participate in society.
To this end, the Supplementary Independent Participation Counseling (EUTB) must be further expanded.
The goal must be for all people with disabilities to have access to this counseling, regardless of where they live.
We want the federal government to lobby the states to ensure that current building codes on accessibility are not undermined under the pressure of increased demand for affordable housing.
People with disabilities have long had considerable problems finding suitable and affordable housing.
We want to see significantly more affordable housing created for people with disabilities overall.
The funds paid by the federal government to the states to compensate for the discontinuation of earlier financial assistance for social housing promotion must be increased, and the states must be obliged to use these funds earmarked for barrier-free and barrier-reducing conversion and new construction as well as new social bonds.
Representatives of people with disabilities must be involved in good time.
We want the federal government to finally demand and enforce the employment obligation consistently.
We therefore call for an increase in the compensatory levy for those companies that do not fulfill their employment obligation at all or do so to an insufficient extent.
We want the federal government to set a good example as an employer and not only hire more people with severe disabilities, but also offer them more flexible framework conditions.
These include various working time models (part-time, sabbatical, etc.), special protection against dismissal, especially for people with severe disabilities, and accompanying assistance in working life.
We want company integration management (BEM) to be strengthened and made more binding.
To this end, we demand that an individual legal entitlement for employees to the implementation of BEM be anchored in SGB IX.
We want to ensure that people with high support needs are not excluded from benefits for participation in working life because of the type and severity of their disability.
This right must not be limited to services provided by the workshop and must also apply to vocational training.
We want the free choice of doctor to be the rule for people with disabilities as well.
Unfortunately, barriers related to construction, communication, or attitudes still exist that affect health care for people with disabilities.
We demand that doctors' offices and other healthcare facilities be consistently designed to be barrier-free.
This must be done with government support, if necessary, as well as with sanction pressure in the event of continued operator refusal.
We want the topic of disability to be systematically integrated into the education, training and continuing education of all health care professions.
In addition, accessibility must become a licensing requirement for practices.
In addition, patients with disabilities must be fully informed about the treatment process and actively involved in the medical and therapeutic decision-making processes.
Better health promotion
Health is not a commodity and should not be subject to normal market mechanisms.
The goal of our health care policy is to provide accessible and best possible medical and nursing care for all people.
The health care market must not create incentives that contradict optimal, individualized medical care.
The SSW advocates solidarity-based financing of health insurance.
We want the federal government to prioritize health promotion more highly.
We want health care that is close to home and appropriate for people - even in rural areas.
We want the federal government to provide better financial support to municipal health departments.
We want to see a greater focus on preventive health and screening.
Better education and prevention of so-called "diseases of affluence" can prevent unnecessary healthcare costs.
We want the federal government to work with the EU to introduce mandatory food labeling on nutritional quality.
In order to provide consumers with faster guidance, we want the mandatory introduction of the Nutri-Score.
The five-digit color and letter scale makes it easier for consumers to buy foods for a balanced diet.
We want the growing number of elderly people to be able to live in dignity and be well cared for, even in nursing homes.
The federal government also shares responsibility for this and must provide financial support to the states and municipalities.
Social isolation of elderly nursing home residents as in the first months of the corona pandemic must no longer be allowed to occur.
We want to accelerate the expansion and support of inpatient hospices and outpatient hospice services in Germany.
Life-threatening patients, especially children and adolescents, have the right to self-determination and good palliative medical and nursing care.
We want gender-responsive health promotion and care.
Gender-specific characteristics must be specified and taken into account in the standard requirements and the service descriptions of the health insurance funds.
State liability fund to help midwives
Midwifery in Germany is threatened with extinction.
The disproportionately high premiums for professional liability insurance for midwives are to blame.
On the initiative of the SSW, Schleswig-Holstein had introduced a Bundesrat initiative calling on the federal government to put an end to this premium mania.
Unfortunately, the federal government rejected this at the time.
Because midwives continue to be paid per birth, premiums are no longer commensurate with revenue, particularly in low-birth-rate rural areas.
We want the federal government to establish a state liability fund based on the Danish model to significantly reduce professional liability insurance premiums for midwives.
We want a change in per diem billing rates for obstetrics.
Individualized and intensive care must be modeled according to performance and provide incentives for physiologic births.
In addition, incentives need to be created to attract more midwives to rural areas.
We want an Obstetrics Strengthening Act for better care.
A legal framework must ensure transparency in the care ratio, set quality standards and regulate emergency outpatient care.
Better care for people with mental illnesses
The number of people with mental illness has been increasing for years, and the corona pandemic will exacerbate this condition.
Mental illnesses are among the biggest health problems in Germany, yet there are not enough care and help options.
Those affected often have to wait months for a place in therapy.
We want to reduce the suffering of those affected by offering more psychotherapy places and prevention programs.
We want prevention programs in daycare centers, schools and companies to be expanded and promoted.
We want the increased demand for psychotherapeutic treatment to be taken into account in demand planning and more treatment places to be created.
Consistently implementing the national dementia strategy
The national dementia strategy "Team spirit for people with dementia" is an important step.
The further development and consistent implementation of the set goals is an absolute must for those affected and their relatives.
Dementia has been a taboo subject for far too long, and there has been insufficient attention to the ever-increasing number of people affected.
People with dementia must be enabled to live an independent life for as long as possible.
Care in old age requires competent and specialized professionals.
We want adequate funding for prevention and education about the disease.
We want to drive the development of local alliances.
We want people with dementia and their relatives to be taken into account in participation processes, e.g. in the development of neighborhood management.
We want to create digital structures that promote outreach counseling and provide information platforms.
We want to see more awareness programs developed with public service media.
We want to strengthen cultural offerings for dementia patients, e.g. in better networking with libraries.
Overcoming Hartz IV:
We need a new welfare state model
The SSW stands for a solidarity-based welfare state based on the Scandinavian model.
The strong shoulders should carry heavier loads, the strongest shoulders more than before.
All citizens should pay into social and health insurance through taxes.
High-performing groups may no longer be exempt.
It is the task of the state not to forget those who do not have a strong lobby and need special help.
Despite the comparatively good economic situation in Germany in recent years, many people are on the margins of society.
This particularly affects single parents.
The corona pandemic will reinforce this trend.
Single parents, children with many children, but also pensioners continue to have an increased risk of poverty.
The numbers of young people without apprenticeships and the long-term unemployed also remain high.
The social reform "Agenda 2010" was supposed to eliminate mass unemployment and give unbureaucratic benefits to those in need.
Yet studies show that unemployment has fallen not because of Hartz IV, but because of the good economy.
However, the proportion of precarious employees has increased.
There is therefore a great deal of criticism of Hartz IV - of extensive application forms, of dubious job offers, of subsidies.
And last but not least, the sanctions regulations, which the Federal Constitutional Court described as partly unconstitutional 15 years after their introduction.
We believe that the time has come to overcome Hartz IV and jointly develop a new welfare state model.
In the following, we will outline how we envision a new welfare state model with concrete demands for the Bundestag elections.
This is what we want to achieve in the Bundestag:
It is time to overcome Hartz IV and jointly develop a new welfare state model.
Curbing poverty
Over 50 percent of the unemployed and well over 40 percent of single parents in Schleswig-Holstein are at risk of poverty.
This affects women in particular.
More than 20,000 pensioners in Schleswig-Holstein are dependent on basic benefits.
Over 60,000 children in our state live in poverty or fear it.
On average, incomes are too low and social benefits are based on this low level.
We want the minimum wage to be enough to live on and to protect against poverty.
We therefore call for an increase in the minimum wage to 13 euros per hour.
In the Minimum Wage Act, protection against poverty must be defined as the goal of the minimum wage.
We want to ensure that the long-term unemployed, students and young people are not employed below the minimum wage.
They can do just as good a job as anyone else, so they should be paid the same.
We want temporary employment and contracts for work and services to be permitted only in exceptional cases.
We want a consistent legal solution that prevents abuse and effectively curbs these instruments.
In particular, we want the federal government to introduce minimum standards for wages and working conditions in meat production.
In addition, the accommodation provided for workers must meet standards that are humane and can guarantee protection against infection.
We want 450-euro jobs to be eliminated where they displace or prevent jobs subject to social insurance contributions and where working and wage conditions are unsustainable.
We want a socially just structure of the statutory pension insurance as the main pillar of old-age provision in order to prevent poverty in old age.
The introduction of the basic pension is a first step in the right direction.
Our long-term goal is a solidarity-based, pay-as-you-go insurance system in the form of an insurance scheme for employed persons, which includes all employed persons and types of income and is designed in a gender-equitable manner.
This way, the loads are not only distributed among all shoulders - the broadest shoulders also bear the larger share.
In addition to the introduction of a citizens' insurance, we want to tackle the future financing problem and the too low pension level.
To this end, it must be examined whether it would be possible to implement the Swedish pension model in Germany.
We want solidarity-based financing of all branches of social insurance through parity contributions to statutory unemployment, pension, health and long-term care insurance.
This means that employers and employees pay the same social security contributions.
We want access to family benefits to be de-bureaucratized and digitized to make it easier for families to access them.
Gender pay gap: Low wages are an expression of a lack of appreciation
In 2019, women earned an average of 19 percent less per hour than men.
In addition, many women are stuck in the mini-job or part-time trap.
Today's low-paid employees are tomorrow's poor pensioners.
We finally need well-paid jobs that are subject to social insurance contributions.
The SSW does not want to accept the wage gap between men and women any longer and demands equal pay.
We want the difference in earnings between women and men to level out.
We want there to be not only a right for women to be able to work part-time,
but also the right to convert reduced working hours back to full-time.
Active labor market policy for the unemployed instead of control
Policymakers need to do more to help people find jobs, rather than spending too many resources on controlling job seekers.
Also and especially for the long-term unemployed, this support must be tailored to individual needs.
To this end, the range of support options and the variety of instruments must be increased in order to be able to support the unemployed in a more tailored manner.
Work strengthens self-confidence and helps us to have a place in society.
It ensures participation and self-determination.
We want the federal government and the Federal Employment Agency to focus more strongly on active labor market policy.
People without work should not be merely administered, but individually advised and supported.
We want further training and retraining measures to be tailored precisely to the needs of low-skilled workers and to take local characteristics into account.
We want to create an inclusive world of work so that all people have a chance in the labor market.
We want local authorities to be even more involved in local job placement than they have been in the past, because they know the local economic and social conditions and can best help the unemployed.
Creating more affordable housing
There is a human right to housing.
This also requires equitable social space planning.
We do not want ghettos, but rather to enable diverse forms of housing such as multigenerational houses, inclusive, barrier-free housing and affordable housing construction based on the principle of the common good economy.
Prices for single-family houses and rents for apartments have also risen sharply in Schleswig-Holstein.
Especially in the country's metropolitan areas, there is often a lack of smaller affordable apartments.
The federal government must therefore help the municipalities in Schleswig-Holstein to create more public, social housing.
We want the federal government to make more investment available for public housing.
We want the federal government to support local authorities in creating affordable housing by providing subsidies to cover the financial risks posed by contaminated sites when they are developed for housing.
We want the federal government to make it easier to promote cooperative models, for example, through tax breaks.
We want the federal government to promote the establishment of municipal housing companies.
We want social housing projects to be promoted so that a self-selected living environment in the middle of society becomes the norm.
Following the EU Parliament's goal of eliminating homelessness by 2030, we want a national strategy to be established as soon as possible to determine an end to homelessness.
We want to establish protected places nationwide and prevent forced evictions.
We want to implement concepts such as "Housing First" from Finland in order to combat homelessness in a targeted manner.
We want the federal government to impose a speculation penalty on vacant commercial properties over an extended period of time.
We want development of housing along Scandinavian lines.
This means creating new federal funding programs that provide incentives for municipalities to plan housing renovations and new construction in a holistic, energy-efficient and generation-friendly manner.
We want housing subsidy reform that enables low-income people to maintain a contemporary standard of housing.
We want to increase the exemption amount for real estate transfer tax on the first purchase of a self-built home to up to 500,000 euros, among other things to support young families.
Pursue expansion and renovation of student residence halls
There is an urgent need to expand and renovate student housing.
Students must be enabled to obtain a place in a dormitory during their studies.
Many students do not live in the city where they study.
They must not be denied the opportunity to live near the university.
New dormitories must be built and existing dormitories renovated.
We want the federal government to support the renovation of already existing dormitories as well as the modernization of these.
We want new dormitories to be built.
We want to see the start of an offer of dormitories for trainees.
Labor market of the future
Performance fairness and social security in all sectors are elementary criteria for a good working world.
The integration of all citizens into a good working world is our central goal.
We must take into account plural forms of employment and promote a self-determined career path.
We must use technological change to advance a better design of work.
Innovative and democratic companies offer individual forms of employee participation in companies.
We want to anchor the lifelong learning approach in the world of work, so we need to invest in strengthening qualifications and improving opportunities for advancement.
We want a right to continuing education.
We want an interdepartmental innovation, research and transfer strategy.
We want to provide small and medium-sized enterprises with reliable digital structures.
Decentralized consulting services are important to secure start-ups and co-working models, especially in rural areas.
We want to expand funding and support opportunities for cultural and creative professionals.
We want to do more to promote the special potential of the software and gaming industry.
We want good structures for international networking
and Germany as a creative location.
Here, cross-border development in particular needs to be focused on.
We want to continuously develop the Upgrading Training Assistance Act (Aufstiegs-BAföG) to promote career advancement opportunities for employees in all professions.
We want to further develop and improve inclusion programs for the long-term unemployed and ex-prisoners.
We want to anchor the principle of gender equality in new job profiles as well as in the transformation of professions and in the IT industry.
Girls and women must be given special support so that all experience equal access to new professions.
We want new forms of working hours and work locations to be transferred into a legal regulatory framework.
This framework must protect against excessive demands and the dissolution of boundaries, but also leave sufficient freedom for the individual shaping of work.
We want to expand the opportunities for employee participation when new technologies and processes are introduced.
The options must be practice-oriented and evaluate impact assessments as well.
We want comprehensive collective bargaining coverage and more co-determination rights for employees.
To be able to maintain this strength in times of change, we need better framework conditions from the legislator.
Incentives are to be created for companies and employees to join associations and trade unions.
We want a federal tariff loyalty law so that tariff loyalty on the part of companies becomes a prerequisite for the awarding of public contracts and the granting of state subsidies.
We want new co-determination rights on topics such as environmental and climate protection, digitalization and AI, and internationalization to be included in the Works Constitution Act.
We want the procedure for declaring existing collective agreements generally binding to be simplified and regional generally binding collective agreements to be extended to posting companies.
We want union members to be able to claim their union dues as tax deductible in addition to the employee lump sum.
Better conditions for people in professions relevant to the provision of care
The corona pandemic has shown which professions are particularly important to society and relevant to care.
It also became clear that employees in these very sectors are often exposed to low wages and poor working conditions.
The people who keep our society running and thus bear great responsibility must be able to work under better working conditions and be adequately remunerated.
We want care-relevant occupational groups not only to be given more recognition, but also to receive appropriate financial compensation.
We want consistent, trackable, digital timekeeping for these professions.
We want to see a reform of the declaration of general applicability in order to halt the ongoing decline in collective bargaining coverage in Germany.
Fighting child poverty
One reason for child poverty is usually the unemployment of parents.
Single parents often do not have enough money to cope with everyday life.
Because there are hardly any childcare options, they have to work part-time and then quickly fall below the poverty line.
Daycare only until twelve, school ends at one o'clock - what would be unthinkable in Denmark is part of everyday life for many people here.
We want to create free childcare options so parents can better plan family life.
We want all benefits and support options to be simply summarized and the bureaucratic hurdles for families to be reduced.
For many families, government subsidies are too cumbersome and complicated to apply for.
We want to provide children with free access to swimming pools and theaters.
With appropriate federal funding, children from low-income families would also have access to sports, fun and culture instead of feeling socially excluded.
We want a "children's ombudsman" to be introduced like in Scandinavia and Holland.
Equality is a social principle
There is still a long way to go before true gender equality is achieved in society.
Lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans and intersex people are still discriminated against and legally disadvantaged.
As a minority party, the SSW is aware of the added value that a diverse society brings.
We want an open and inclusive society, free from discrimination and exclusion.
Therefore, equality of all genders is a principle of political action for the SSW.
Political, social and economic participation must not be dependent on gender or sexual orientation.
To guarantee this, gender justice must be an integral part of social policy.
Here we are taking our cue from the Scandinavian countries.
In order for the principle of equality to be enforced, it is important that firm and verifiable targets are adopted and met at the political level.
We are convinced that more sexual and gender diversity has a positive impact on democracy and society.
This is what we want to achieve in the Bundestag:
We want balanced gender quotas to be met.
We want to increase the proportion of women in management positions.
We want to push for the decriminalization of abortion to give those affected freedom of choice in a difficult personal situation.
The criminalization of abortion is a disadvantage that makes access to information and medical help more difficult and brings an additional psychological burden.
We want the abolition of § 219a StGB.
Here we are concerned with the right to sexual self-determination and family planning.
Access to information for pregnant women must be facilitated and legalized.
Doctors must be enabled to inform their patients in an objective and low-threshold manner about the various medical methods of abortion.
We want gender parity in parliaments and elected representatives to be a social goal.
The organization of the political establishment is also decisive for the existing disproportion; therefore, we call for a rethinking of everyday political life.
It is necessary to initiate a more family-friendly design and to reconsider the times at which committee meetings are held.
We want a fair distribution of parental leave for mothers and fathers.
Taking parental leave must not have a negative impact on career advancement.
We want the possibility of mandate splitting for young parents to be made possible.
Members of parliament should also be able to take a break from their job if they have a child.
For this period, a successor from the list takes over the mandate.
We want the federal government to implement the Istanbul Conventions in a consistent and targeted manner.
We want gender-balanced budgeting in the federal government.
Investments and subsidies must be allocated according to gender-equitable criteria.
In federal policy decision-making processes, differential impacts on gender must be considered.
We want to continue to support the work of the Helene Weber College and therefore call for an increase in federal funding for its important work.
Individual networking opportunities, programs, and development of studies empower women in politics.
We want to adapt naming legislation so that individual life histories and gender-specific characteristics of names are recognized.
Thus, female members of national minorities may use the feminine variations of their name common in Slavic languages.
We want a society in which the division of labor between partners, the self-realization of all and sexual self-determination are no longer linked to gender.
We want to abolish all discriminatory elements in the tax code that rely on the model of a person who works full time and, in the long run, lead to the financial dependence of the person who earns little or nothing.
We advocate for living wages for all adults.
In terms of tax law, it must play a greater role whether children live in the family or not.
That is why we are calling for family splitting.
For more self-determination, rights and acceptance
For the SSW, it is a matter of course that all people can live safely and independently, regardless of their sexual orientation and identity.
Diverse realities of life enrich our society.
The legal, social, health and political equality of LGBTI* persons of all ages must become an integral part of our society and be reflected in all areas of life.
We support the diversity of different family constellations and want to anchor them in law.
We are aware that hate crime still plays a major role in the lives of many LGBTI* people.
We want to address this social problem in order to improve the living situation of these people.
We want heterosexual and homosexual couples to be treated equally in matters of parenthood.
We want an independent commission of experts to be set up to present a situation report on LGBTI* hate crime to the Bundestag and to make recommendations for action.
We want a federal-state program against anti-LGBTI* violence.
This is to include prevention measures as well as concepts for the further training and education of the police and judiciary and the support of victim assistance institutions.
We want blood donation to no longer depend on a person's sexual orientation.
Instead, each person should be asked individually about their sexual risk behaviors.
We want gender and sexual diversity to become more visible in all areas of life in order to promote its acceptance.
We want the federal government to adopt and implement a nationwide action plan for sexual diversity and against homophobia and transphobia.
This should contain clear target agreements and voluntary commitments.
We want to add the characteristic "sexual identity" to Article 3 of the Basic Law.
We want the current guidelines for legally insured trans* persons to be revised in the sense of needs-oriented health care.
This includes covering the costs of gender reassignment surgery, appropriate medical care, and the right to counseling for transgender people.
We want to obtain a ban on gender reassignment surgeries for intersex children and adolescents.
Protect women from violence
Violence against women and girls is a gender-specific issue because it almost always comes from men.
Every third day, a woman is killed by her partner or ex-partner.
For us, these figures are not isolated cases.
They must be recognized as a structural problem and combated.
Patriarchal socialization leads to very concrete dangers - for all genders.
Men are the majority of perpetrators of violent crimes, but they are also victims.
In the case of intimate partner violence, on the other hand, 8 out of 10 victims are women.
We therefore need to talk about the power component in gender violence.
It is therefore society's responsibility to protect women from violence.
Many building blocks are needed to provide an adequate assistance system that is provided with uniform standards throughout Germany.
Violence against women is multi-faceted.
It ranges from domestic violence to forced prostitution and trafficking in women.
In order to combat violence against women in all its facets, the SSW calls not only for an improvement in the investigative authorities, but also for legislation that better protects women from violence.
The SSW rejects violence in all its forms.
Boys and men are also victims of violence
and need structures that offer them help and protection.
We want a nationwide legal entitlement for all persons affected by violence.
We want adequate funding for women's shelters and women's counseling centers.
The SSW advocates that the structures for this be maintained and further improved.
We want the investment program "Together against Violence against Women" to be continued after 2023 in order to promote the new construction, conversion and expansion of women's shelters.
We want better equipment for the specialist advice centers, which will enable technology advice and assistance to be given to those affected by digital violence.
We want to put more resources into setting up men's protection projects with the appropriate specialist advice and coaching services.
We want to see an expansion of the services offered by the Federal Specialist and Coordination Office for the Protection of Men against Violence.
The federal government must invest more in the expansion of transport infrastructure and digitization in Schleswig-Holstein
Even in times of climate change, a functioning transport infrastructure remains a prerequisite for people to get to work, get supplies and maintain social contacts.
It is essential when it comes to supplying companies and businesses with working materials and bringing their products to the markets.
It is also a lifeline for tourism in the country; public transport in particular plays a prominent role here.
Infrastructure is also the basis if we want to lead our country into the digital age.
The Internet offers the possibility to work from anywhere in the world.
However, a prerequisite for this is that a reasonable connection to the digital world is also available at this location.
In recent decades, Schleswig-Holstein has not been sufficiently taken into account in the allocation of funds in the Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan.
Too little priority has been given to public transport in particular.
This is what we want to achieve in the Bundestag:
More federal investment in public transport
Local public transport (ÖPNV) and local rail transport (SPNV) are part of the provision of public services.
Mobility is a basic need of people in the country, because it enables participation in cultural and social life, communication, education and working life.
For many people, mobility is a prerequisite for securing their livelihood.
Public transport must therefore remain affordable for all in the future,
and a dense network of public transport connections must be established.
We want the federal government to speed up the expansion of local and long-distance rail lines in Schleswig-Holstein.
Rail is the most environmentally friendly way of transporting people and goods.
The rehabilitation and expansion of rail lines in local transport must therefore continue to be driven forward.
We want to see the establishment of an international German-Danish border station at Flensburg-Padborg, partly to enable an EC stop in the region on the Hamburg-Copenhagen route.
We want the following rail connections in particular to be expanded or their connections and frequency to be improved:
Denmark-Flensburg-Hamburg Westerland-Niebüll-Hamburg S-Bahn line S4 Bad Oldesloe-Altona Kiel-Lübeck (fully double-tracked) Husum-Kiel (fully double-tracked) Flensburg-Eckernförde-Kiel (fully double-tracked) Neumünster-Bad Oldesloe (double-tracked and electrified)
We want the federal government to actively promote the expansion of night train services in Europe
and the reduction of track prices.
We want the retirement of the "Rendsburg Railway Bridge" museum piece
and push ahead with the federal government's plans for a new building as quickly as possible.
We want to work to ensure that commuters, students, all young people in training and people in special circumstances are given greater consideration in the future for tariff concessions.
We want to increase the attractiveness of local public transport and regional rail transport by improving quality.
These include improved punctuality, better passenger information, optimum synchronization of public and regional rail transport, greater comfort, and WLAN connections.
We want to expand ship-rail combinations.
This requires supporting the efficient development of cargo handling technologies with good rail connections to our ports.
We want rapid rehabilitation and modernization of the Kiel Canal.
This applies to the expansion, the locks, the ferries as well as their moorings.
The staff of the Waterways and Shipping Authority also needs to be increased.
Maintaining roads and expanding them in a targeted manner
The transport infrastructure is one of the prerequisites for functioning economic development in the country.
But we know that our transportation infrastructure needs major rehabilitation.
This must happen urgently in the coming years, because we must prepare for growing traffic flows.
North-south traffic will continue to grow.
We want the maintenance, rehabilitation and expansion of existing roads to be given general priority over the construction of new routes.
We want the A 20 motorway to continue to be built with a western crossing of the Elbe near Glückstadt.
We want more importance to be attached in the future to the west coast highway comprising the A 23 and B 5.
This route not only serves to open up the west coast economically, but also to relieve congestion on the A 7 in the medium and long term.
We want a time-dependent truck overtaking ban to be imposed on the A 7 between Rader Hochbrücke and the Danish border.
In the long term, the A7 must also be widened to three lanes as far as the border.
We want the replacement Rader Hochbrücke bridge to be expanded quickly, preferably with a combined tunnel for rail and road traffic.
We want to upgrade at least one of the two existing bridges over the Kiel Canal in the Kiel-Holtenau area so that it can be used by modern transport systems, including rail.
In this way, we want to ensure that the part of Kiel belonging to Southern Schleswig and the Danish Wold can be connected to modern transport systems in Kiel.
Planning acceleration
In order to be able to drive forward the transport turnaround and the expansion of road and rail routes, there is a need for leaner planning law that ensures shorter planning periods.
For the SSW, it is important that acceleration is not achieved at the expense of environmental protection.
and the individual rights of affected citizens.
Instead, it is important to make better use of digital tools and to establish better cooperation between the authorities involved.
It is also clear that the planning authorities in the states responsible on behalf of the federal government must have sufficient staff available.
We want the transfer of knowledge between the authorities involved in planning to be improved so that individual assessment steps are not carried out more than once.
This can be made possible by digitizing the planning process.
We want genuine citizen* participation for all planning procedures.
Citizens affected by the planning must already be involved in the requirements planning.
In this planning step, alternative routes are still being considered and concept alternatives (e.g., rail or road) are being discussed.
We want to see an expansion of measure legislation along the lines of the Danish model, in which the Bundestag decides on planning by law.
In this context, public participation must continue to be given.
More fairness in federal transport route planning
Another problem is the great inequity in federal transportation planning, in which low-population states too often get the short end of the stick.
We want to change that by having the federal government, as an independent body, plan in the future how high the need really is in the states, rather than each state having a fixed expansion quota that it sets for the federal transport infrastructure plan, regardless of whether other routes in the federal territory have a more urgent need.
We want independent federal transport route planning by the Federal Ministry of Transport.
Expanding high-speed Internet nationwide
As a result of the increasing digitization of the economy and society, there is a growing need to significantly expand the digital infrastructure.
Fast Internet is a decisive location factor for the future viability of communities.
In rural areas in particular, however, fast, nationwide Internet coverage is still a long way off.
We want the federal government to step up its efforts to continue expanding the high-speed Internet in the coming years
and to support the municipalities in developing local solutions.
The right to fast Internet must be regulated by law, as it is part of services of general interest.
We want to drive forward the expansion of fiber optics.
We want nationwide coverage by 2028.
Launch 5G networks
The SSW is in favor of the introduction of 5G networks.
Schleswig-Holstein in particular, as an extensive state, must not allow itself to be left behind when it comes to the provision of fast Internet and stable mobile communications networks.
Compliance with basic legal and protective rights
and minimization of radiation exposure for the population must be given the highest priority during expansion.
We want European suppliers and producers to be considered without exception for this purpose, in order to ensure the protection of personal and sensitive data and to make industrial espionage more difficult.
We want a federal or European research and development fund to support European companies in the development of independent, competitive and low-radiation 5G technologies.
Digital society must not increase inequality
Digitization is shaping life in the 21st century like no other development.
This creates new opportunities, but also new forms of social inequality.
In the view of the SSW, the principles of the democratic and social constitutional state must also be safeguarded and further developed in this context.
It is the task of policymakers to ensure that everyone has access to digital participation.
Public libraries, schools and adult education centers have a special role to play here.
They provide basic infrastructure and teach skills in using new media.
Network neutrality is a basic prerequisite for equal opportunities and innovation in our society.
The preferential treatment of selected data traffic by Internet providers leads to a disadvantage for groups of citizens and entrepreneurs and can lead to the formation of monopolies.
We want net neutrality to be enshrined in law.
We want to promote the use of open source software in government agencies in a controlled manner
and support industry in taking advantage of the opportunities offered by open source software.
We want to reduce the dependencies of government agencies on individual software vendors by using open source software more frequently, thereby reducing costly licensing fees and avoiding vendor-specific security vulnerabilities.
By promoting open source software, we want to offer small and medium-sized software producers an economically interesting environment for the development of specialist IT applications.
Open interfaces, open standards and open source software promote creativity in the software industry and enable innovative applications.
We want to release public administration data, provided it is not personal data, as "open data" for people and companies to use.
One example is geodata, which can be used for electronic maps and navigation systems.
Beyond the economic importance of Open Data, we believe that Open Data increases transparency and improves opportunities for participation.
Digital services of general interest are a public task
The SSW is in favor of extensive digitization of administrative processes at the federal, state and local levels, which can lead to better service for citizens and greater transparency.
Data protection must not be neglected in the process.
We want to ensure that the collection, processing and use of citizens' personal data within the scope of public tasks is not privatized.
Reliable data protection is also digital public service.
We want the state to consistently promote access to digital infrastructure as part of the provision of public services.
Fast Internet should not be a question of zip code.
The right to fast Internet must be regulated by law, as it is a public service.
Regional and sustainable: We need a different agricultural policy
Agriculture is an important economic factor in Schleswig-Holstein.
For decades, agriculture has been subject to radical structural change: Those who do not expand must give up farming.
This development must be stopped.
In addition to the economic burden in agriculture, social discontent is also growing.
Demands for animal welfare, environmental and climate protection are increasing the pressure on agriculture.
Many farmers feel pushed to the wall and not understood.
Here we need dialogue between agriculture, politics and society.
This requires a willingness on all sides to make a difference.
The SSW wants the preservation of rural agriculture
and no agricultural mass industry.
This is also in the interest of our farmers.
Climate change does not stop at agriculture.
Extreme weather conditions are increasing and affecting the harvest.
The animal welfare aspect must be strengthened in all areas.
Measures for more environmental and climate protection must continue to be provided by our farmers.
However, they must not only be imposed, but must also be affordable for the agricultural sector.
EU agricultural subsidies play a significant role here.
This requires real reform and a different agricultural policy.
Unfortunately, the federal government and the EU have not yet summoned the courage for such a fundamental change.
We must move away from direct payments and area payments;
environmental and climate protection, animal welfare and social aspects must become the focus of EU payments.
In doing so, the SSW, as a regional minority party, relies on an even better regional marketing strategy for our domestic products.
This serves both local jobs
and environmental and climate protection.
In short: buy regionally and sustainably.
This is what we want to achieve in the Bundestag:
A system change in the landscape
In the future, the production method of agriculture must be changed in such a way that the protection of the environment, soil, water and climate are adequately taken into account.
Unfortunately, that is not the case today.
We can only get clean soils and clean water through a different kind of agriculture than we have today.
We need a system change in agricultural policy.
We want the federal government to work to ensure that area and hectare premiums for agriculture are geared more than before to social and ecological standards.
We want the federal government to actively and financially help farmers to create additional sources of income to secure their livelihoods.
We want to strengthen the preservation of our cultural landscape with contract nature conservation and landscape management measures.
Nature conservation and environmental protection measures must be financially compensated in order to create an incentive for farmers to implement them.
We want bureaucratic requirements and obstacles for farmers to be reduced and legal regulations to be simplified without compromising the quality of agricultural products.
We want to better protect groundwater and surface water.
For this, we need clear rules on how the surpluses are to be reduced.
Limit nitrogen and phosphate delivery in vulnerable regions.
For application and incorporation, agriculture needs technical conditions.
Investments in these technologies must be affordable.
Management near water bodies must be extensive.
We want to restore grassland areas and peatlands to a condition in which they can better perform their function as CO2 reservoirs.
To preserve these areas, we need climate protection and land use programs.
We want better insect protection.
Programs for flowering areas need to be strengthened.
We want a different prioritization of biodiversity policy and to eliminate conflicting goals between land use, energy and economic policies.
We want more funding for a biodiversity policy
and a coordination body at federal level, which, among other things, knowledge
and participation structures.
We want to end the use of glyphosate as soon as possible.
More consideration needs to be given to mechanical and organic forms of management.
We want more ecological alternatives to monoculture to be promoted in order to relieve the burden on nature and not further damage biodiversity.
Farmers must be supported in converting from monocultures to organic alternatives.
We want the use of antibiotics, especially reserve antibiotics, in animal husbandry to be reduced in order to prevent the emergence of multi-resistant germs.
No social division on the plate and in the factories
Conventional and organic agriculture both have their justification.
Ideological trench warfare must finally be a thing of the past.
Anyone who wants to convert their business needs sufficient financial support.
All consumers should have access to high-quality food.
Food production workers must have proper social working conditions.
We want to further strengthen organic farming through targeted subsidies.
When farms convert to organic forms of farming, follow-up investments, e.g. in the adaptation of machinery, must be encouraged.
We want the expansion of regional finishing plants and sales markets.
Regional marketing strategies strengthen local value creation.
We want organic products and sustainably produced food to be affordable for low-income earners.
We don't want social division on a plate.
We want the federal government to strengthen consumer protection and its organizations financially and legally to ensure the quality of agricultural products.
We want the federal government to introduce minimum standards for wage and working conditions in meat production.
No unsocial employment relationships, especially temporary work, should be allowed in the future.
We want the German state to commit to fair trade and to implement the fair trade principle in all its subdivisions on a mandatory basis.
Supply chain law must come now
Global trade and production offer new opportunities and open up new markets.
At the same time, however, we also see that a large proportion of the profits made are at the expense of the environment
and human rights in the respective production countries.
Low environmental standards are now a location factor for companies to set up shop.
The exploitation of the workforce through low safety standards, low wages or lack of workers' rights further aggravates the situation.
Profit maximization alone is in the foreground of such companies, which operate on the world market in such a way in order to serve our markets.
The frightening examples of such conditions or devastating accidents are now well known.
Open-eyed and helpless, we face such abuses.
This must finally come to an end.
Companies from Germany bear a responsibility for the working conditions and livelihoods of people along our production and supply chains.
There is hardly any evidence of voluntary compliance with human rights and environmental standards on the part of companies.
Not even a quarter of the companies surveyed by the German government comply with their human rights due diligence obligations.
The SSW has always advocated a tariff and procurement law that also takes social and environmental standards into account.
We want human rights
and environmental standards to be respected and met in production.
We want a legal framework for companies that produce and supply our markets worldwide.
A supply chain law can provide such a framework.
We want product declarations to refer to social and environmental standards.
We want such criteria to apply to the EU market as well.
We want such voluntary commitments to be made in connection with public-sector orders or purchases.
Animal welfare takes precedence over economic interests
We want to further improve animal husbandry.
Animal welfare must be viewed holistically - from birth to slaughter.
Animal welfare takes precedence over economic interests.
We do not want piglet castration without anesthesia.
We want the shredding of male chicks to end.
We want live animal transports to be time-limited nationally and internationally.
Fisheries in SchleswigHolstein must be preserved
Fishing is a cultural heritage of our country and plays a special role especially in coastal cities.
The SSW is committed to maintaining sustainable fisheries that
take into account environmental and nature conservation concerns.
The rights of fishermen must be preserved so that this historically important industry does not disappear from our country.
We want the federal government to lobby the EU to secure appropriate and sustainable fishing quotas for Schleswig-Holstein's fishermen.
We want to achieve sustainable fishing in German waters.
The existing MSC (Marine Stewardship Council) label for certified sustainable fisheries should therefore be further developed.
A uniform seal with legally defined requirements for sustainably caught or produced fish, as well as government controls, would be the right measure to better protect overfished stocks and ecosystems
We do not want trawling or other heavy gear in ecologically sensitive areas.
We want fish stocks to be able to reproduce.
For this, we need catch quotas that are set on a scientific basis.
In doing so, want better monitoring to ensure compliance with fishing quotas.
We want to strengthen the regional marketing of fishery products.
Economic and financial policy not on the backs of the weakest
The corona pandemic will lead to profound changes in society.
This must not be mainly at the expense of the weakest in society.
Trainees and students in particular need special support.
Economic and fiscal policy must not continue to place a financial burden on the lower middle class.
The pension must be future-proof for all strata of the population.
We want fair pay and good working conditions for all.
The compatibility of family and career must be greatly improved.
This includes, among other things, the financing of childcare places
and tax relief for home offices.
This is what we want to achieve in the Bundestag:
No further financial burden on the working middle, but higher taxation of the wealthy
The financial burden of taxes and social security contributions on the German middle class is crushing.
Despite all the election promises, the working middle class was and is society's packhorse.
Although the solidarity surcharge will be abolished for 90 percent of taxpayers starting this year, there have also been substantial increases in value-added tax and energy taxes in recent years.
Lower incomes also suffer from social contributions, which take effect directly and reduce income with almost no allowances.
In addition, as a study by the DIW has shown, the gap between rich and poor has widened sharply since the turn of the millennium.
With 14 quadrillion in total assets, the Federal Republic is one of the richest countries in the world.
However, one third of the total wealth of Germans belongs to the richest one percent of the population.
In contrast to countries such as the USA, Canada and Great Britain, there is no significant wealth or inheritance taxation in the Federal Republic.
We want the lower incomes to be relieved of social contributions so that it is worthwhile to take up work.
In addition to relieving the burden of social contributions, we want to increase the basic tax-free allowance in order to relieve lower incomes of income tax as well.
We want government revenues to be increased by introducing a wealth tax to help mitigate the effects of the Corona crisis.
This serves the fair distribution of the tax burden and the income of the citizens*.
We want the inheritance tax to be increased for the inheritance of the particularly large estates.
The middle class
and small and medium-sized enterprises are to be generously exempted from inheritance tax by means of allowances.
We want to support private investors in their private retirement planning.
That is why we want to favor long-term investment in securities by providing tax relief.
For this purpose, we propose to set up a private retirement savings account.
Capital gains, distributions and interest income within this account remain tax-free as long as they are not withdrawn before retirement.
Withdrawal of the money is possible from the date of retirement.
In the future, we want international corporations to pay their taxes where their sales are generated.
Tax loopholes, for example by shifting profits to tax havens, must finally be closed.
We want the threat of inflation due to the Corona crisis to be countered by regional federal investment.
Revenues generated in Schleswig-Holstein should also be invested to a greater extent in Schleswig-Holstein.
We want a financial transaction tax to be levied in the EU on all transactions on the securities market.
If an EU-wide financial transaction tax is not possible, the introduction of this tax at national level is advocated.
For small savers, there must be a tax allowance of at least 3,000 euros in sales per year.
We want to reform the debt brake to enable necessary public investment by raising new debt.
Home office better taken into account for tax purposes
Working from a home office proved successful during the Corona crisis.
In this country, too, many thousands of employees have moved their workplace into their own homes for weeks at a time in order to stop chains of infection without losing their jobs.
Many prejudices were dispelled; in fact, this worked so well that many companies want to enable more working from home in the future.
Unfortunately, so much flexibility is alien to tax law.
The home office has been a bone of contention under tax law for many years.
Anyone who cannot afford the luxury of a study used almost exclusively for business purposes will be left out in the cold from a fiscal point of view.
This is no longer in keeping with the times.
People should not be stuck with extra expenses just because they occasionally do their work from home.
This would also improve the compatibility of family and career.
We want to further develop home offices, home workplaces and teleworking as part of the modern working world.
We want expenses for home offices to be taken into account for tax purposes in the future as income-related expenses even if the home office does not form the center of the professional activity.
Regional investment and structural aid for Schleswig-Holstein
Structural aid is not a handout, but an investment in the future that will benefit us.
Small and medium-sized enterprises in particular are feeling the effects of the Corona crisis.
This is particularly true in the state of Schleswig-Holstein, which is characterized by its small and medium-sized business structure.
Small and medium-sized enterprises are the foundation and backbone of the economy, especially in the regions.
As of this year, regional structural aid from the EU is finally secured until 2027 after tough Brexit negotiations.
Negotiations are currently underway in the federal government on how these funds should be distributed.
Even if this funding instrument is repeatedly contested politically at the European level, it is quite clear to the SSW that there will still be a need for regional structural policy in Germany's economically weaker regions after 2027.
Just as economic locomotives continue to be fired up, structural policy is to remain subsidiary.
We want regional structural aid to create better conditions, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises; to
give special consideration to innovative and sustainable Schleswig-Holstein economic clusters such as energy, food, maritime, health and tourism; to be
predominantly based on the principle of close interaction between companies, universities and the regional public funding agencies (triple helix principle); to be
characterized by sustainability - the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals are to become an unavoidable benchmark in funding.
We want the federal government to provide targeted further investment and structural assistance from its own federal funds for structurally underfunded or newly emerging innovative and sustainably prosperous areas.
The federal government must not rely solely on EU funds for regional structural assistance.
We want to lobby the federal government to ensure that the existing structural policy options remain in place even after the upcoming EU programs expire in 2027.
Better promotion of research and development
The Corona crisis has made it clear how indispensable the core areas of research and development are for our society.
The pandemic is an economic threat to many sectors of our society.
We will have to restructure many of these areas.
Since the crisis is similar all over the world, all societies are called upon to initiate a rethinking of current production processes right down to production planning.
The current situation thus also offers an opportunity to realign overall social structures.
The challenge is to seize this opportunity and forge new paths in line with the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals.
We want to promote research and development more strongly in all areas in order to think through, plan and implement necessary restructuring, e.g. to rethink globalization processes.
Support must be unbureaucratic and timely, and must be made permanent in the long term.
We want to further advance maritime research and the maritime cluster and establish it even more strongly as a brand for Schleswig-Holstein.
This includes an active shipyard policy so that shipbuilding and the construction of maritime facilities have a basis in Schleswig-Holstein
and jobs are preserved.
In this context, shipyards that want to produce low-emission ships ("eco-ferries") - such as FSG in Flensburg - are to receive federal support for research and development.
Education policy that creates equal opportunities for all
All educational institutions and offerings must be designed to be inclusive and modern - always with the approach of giving everyone the same opportunities.
Educational success must not be dependent on parents' wallets.
At the SSW, we believe in the principle of lifelong learning, which ensures individual work and life opportunities.
A modern education policy focuses on strong networking and takes into account that people learn in different ways.
Educational time must not be restricted by external factors.
Crisis moments make it clear that a basic digital service is a must for a fair and just society.
and modern educational landscape in Germany and our part of the country.
The special position of our minority schools in our part of the country must also be taken into consideration in educational policy matters at the federal level.
We want to orient approaches and recommendations for action to inclusive principles in education.
We are focusing our attention on our neighboring Nordic countries.
We stand behind the state agreement on the common structure of the school system.
The overall state responsibility for shaping the education system is important here.
Quality and transparency must be ensured.
This is what we want to achieve in the Bundestag:
We want the consistent implementation of measures of a National Action Plan "Education for Sustainable Development" in the sense of the UN Sustainable Development Goals in the entire educational landscape.
We want to strengthen democratically organized schools.
We want the investment program for the expansion of all-day education to be continued so that the framework conditions can be secured to fulfill the legal entitlement to all-day education and care for all.
We want to see the establishment of a federal center for digital education and media.
Schools and educational institutions must be equipped with basic digital services.
We want to establish multi-professional teams with media educators for educational programs.
An offensive must be launched to provide qualified media educators.
This must not happen on a watering-can basis.
We want to see the introduction of a parent-independent BAföG based on the Scandinavian model.
In addition, better conditions in education and training must make it possible for young women and men to start a family.
We want to see stronger and gender-equitable promotion of STEM fields (mathematics, computer science, natural sciences and technology) in all educational offerings.
The STEM Action Plan must be consistently expanded and continued.
We want the nationwide introduction of knowledge transfer on the four national minorities in all areas of education, from crèche to further education, according to the principle of lifelong learning.
We want to achieve that teaching materials and units are created that focus on the added value of national minorities for society and democracy and
ensure interdisciplinary teaching.
We want the introduction of a nationwide platform that has as its goal the dissemination of teaching materials and units, as well as cooperation with the institutions of national minorities, the Federal Agency for Civic Education and the state agencies for civic education.
The federal government must contribute more to the costs of expanding daycare centers
Since 2013, there has been a legal entitlement to a childcare place for children who have reached the age of one.
For a modern society and for the compatibility of work and family, this right and the corresponding expansion of daycare places in the Federal Republic are of crucial importance.
While the federal government has fulfilled its obligations with regard to investment costs, the subsidies for ongoing day-care services from the state are too low.
Many municipalities can no longer afford to expand childcare for under-threes.
We want the childcare rate for under-threes to be increased to over 90%, following the Scandinavian model.
We want the federal government to contribute more to the ongoing costs of daycare expansion
and to exempt parents from the costs of daycare for their children.
We want the principle of connexity to finally be implemented at the federal level as well.
If federal laws cause costs for states or municipalities, these must also be financed by the federal government.
Cultural policy is an elementary component of our democratic community
The importance of culture should not only be emphasized rhetorically.
Culture is action and always in motion, which is why we see culture as a core task of the democratic community, and for society as a whole.
We experience daily in our part of the country that the cultures of minorities and neighboring cultures play a major role.
Through the creation of culture, the diversity of culture and the participation in culture, our society is shaped according to democratic principles.
Cultural diversity is a state-specific characteristic of Schleswig-Holstein.
Danes, Frisians, Germans, Sinti and Roma, and migrants have made Schleswig-Holstein colorful for centuries.
The preservation of a colorful cultural landscape is the foundation of our society
and existential for openness and democracy.
This is what we want to achieve in the Bundestag:
We want cultural education to be seen as an independent area in educational institutions.
We want permanent funding for cultural education to strengthen, among other things, political education and the teaching of media skills.
The federal government must develop sustainable and lasting funding scenarios.
We want to strengthen the infrastructure of cultural education by securing separate funding, e.g. for performing arts.
We want to ensure cultural education for all generations, all ages and all people in Germany.
We want an increase in funding opportunities through the Federal Agency for Civic Education.
We want to promote the diversity of political youth education.
Equipment for hybrid event forms must be provided in the medium term.
Strengthening the culture of remembrance
The crimes of National Socialism had a significant impact on Germany and also on our federal state.
They signify a responsibility that does not expire by the statute of limitations and must be worked through again and again.
Schleswig-Holstein has an inglorious past as a stronghold of the National Socialists.
We acknowledge our historical responsibility.
The crimes of National Socialism must never be forgotten.
The culture of remembrance must be considered and dealt with in a national context, but at the same time it must be shaped according to regional points of view.
We want to expand our memorial sites as central places of remembrance.
Sufficient funding from the federal government must be guaranteed.
We want continued funding for the federal "Youth Reminded" program.
Trips to memorial sites by non-school organizations, also in cooperation, are to be promoted.
We want more cross-border exchange programs in research and education that can grow historical knowledge and expand memorial sites in design.
We want to strengthen the reappraisal of colonial history and continuously anchor the topics in the curricula and syllabi.
We want a funding program for the transnational reappraisal of colonial heritage.
We are committed to a German-Danish reappraisal of colonial history in the borderlands.
We want to advocate for the development of decentralized learning sites, monuments and memorials to commemorate the colonial heritage in the German-Danish borderland.
We want to promote partnerships and networking with the societies of origin.
European and international cultural policy
Cultural diversity in a Europe of the regions is a great treasure.
This diversity is not limited to national cultures and official languages - the cultural and linguistic dimension is far more diverse.
Every seventh person in Europe belongs to an autochthonous minority or ethnic group.
A close connection with the regions and identity in European spaces holds great opportunities for cultural exchange
and characterizes peaceful coexistence.
Our region reflects this with five regional and minority languages, three autochthonous minorities and a history of continuous cultural development.
The culture of Europe includes an inclusive migrant culture.
Cultural policy should connect and must not be exclusionary.
Culture is an overall European task;
that is why we want to work towards strengthening culture and cultural policy at the European level.
This requires a comprehensive European cultural initiative.
We want to work to secure freedom of art and expression in Europe.
The German government must repeatedly call for compliance with the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights where it is not being observed.
We want to advocate for a significant increase in EU cultural funding.
We want to promote artistic disciplines in order to envision guiding principles for a sustainable society.
More emphasis needs to be placed on cultural impact assessment.
We want to emphasize the peacemaking effect of culture.
The UNESCO Convention on Cultural Diversity must be applied as a guideline for cultural policy.
We want to strengthen the dialogue with civil society for better networking between European and national civil society.
The expertise of national civil society organizations must be integrated into the visibility of the structured dialogue.
We want cross-border cultural work to be supported by the federal government.
Cross-border cultural work in the regions is an engine for forward-looking development
and strengthens cohesion and peace.
Countering structural changes in the cultural sector
Culture and the arts are in a perpetual process of change, and structures must adapt more quickly and evolve over the long term in a modern world.
Cultural policy has the responsibility to create framework conditions and to find answers to the challenges of the future.
Social security
and adequate employment conditions must also take the cultural sector into account.
Lack of union representation,
minimum wages
, and gender equity are just a few of the challenges that cultural workers face.
We want compliance with the minimum wage in publicly funded productions and subsidies.
We want to advocate for gender equity in culture.
Public funding bodies must have equal representation.
This principle must be anchored in all areas from the federal level.
We want the SGB III to provide security for self-employed artists and cultural workers.
The regulations for voluntary contributions to unemployment insurance must be made more specific in order to meet the special requirements of self-employed activities in the cultural sector.
We want the federal subsidy for the artists' social insurance fund to be steadily adjusted.
Basic cultural services - considering culture as a location factor
Cultural promotion must be part of basic services and not just a voluntary service.
The federal level has a special responsibility with its approach to cooperative cultural federalism.
As part of basic services, the SSW sees cultural policy as structural policy.
Schleswig-Holstein's cultural diversity must be safeguarded, which is why adequate funding for cultural offerings must be ensured.
The perception of cultural and creative achievements, especially in rural areas, can be expanded; special attention must be paid to this in the funding scenarios.
We want to pay particular attention to rural areas when promoting culture.
"Kultur macht stark" must be increased with funds beyond 2022
and the federal government's program for rural areas.
We want to further promote socio-cultural centers.
A full-time staff for socio-cultural centers must be ensured.
The centers, with their principles of respect, acceptance, emancipation and empowerment, influence the local area of the citizens.
We want to support the professional associations of creative people in order to further establish the creative industries and co-working, especially in rural areas.
We want to support consulting opportunities in the cultural and creative sectors, prepared by cultural workers for cultural workers.
Certification hurdles must be removed in order to offer consulting services.
Designing spaces culturally for a "new" architecture
The SSW stands for architecture that is in the tradition of Scandinavian architecture and urban planning of the 20th century,
but also faces the environmental and socio-political challenges of the present and future.
Decent housing is an indispensable basic right.
We therefore demand a built environment that is lively and appealing for all population groups
and responses to worsening social and environmental crises
and changed interpersonal ways of life.
We want to develop and promote architectural cultural models.
These must have special consideration for the character and identity of our cities and towns.
The federal government must provide sufficient support to municipalities, e.g. by funding architect consultations, to ensure regional diversity, local recognizability and community values.
We want to advocate for public spaces for people that add value.
We call for targeted funding programs for the redevelopment of urban brownfields and open spaces that have a positive impact on quality of life.
We want to ensure the continuity of regional and identity elements and
at the same time create opportunities to develop new building structures that are also considered from the perspective of future generations.
We want to provide the Federal Foundation for Building Culture with sufficient funds to develop building culture education programs in building culture centers based on Scandinavian models.
Focus on domestic and legal policy with citizens in mind
The SSW stands for a domestic and legal policy that focuses on citizens and their rights.
Terrorism, burglary and other forms of criminal activity must be consistently prevented and effectively combated, prosecuted and punished.
But security has its limits when dubious tightening, monitoring and punishments have no effect or hit the wrong people.
In addition to fighting terrorism and crime, it is
also important to protect our democratic society from damage.
Populists and extremists who are fighting our parliamentary democracy are gaining ground, and dissatisfaction with our political system is also spreading among the general population.
We cannot ignore this development.
Rather, we must take concrete concerns seriously and fight for a society in which everyone feels heard.
This is what we want to achieve in the Bundestag:
A rule of law close to the population to strengthen the social community
As the party of the Danish minority and the Frisian ethnic group, we have the vision of shaping a society in which people meet as equals and in which everyone can experience trust, closeness and strong cohesion.
The state must therefore protect the life, dignity and personal freedom of every individual.
All citizens have the right to decide freely in political, religious, cultural, national and personal areas.
The SSW stands for a democratic and social constitutional state that is there for all citizens.
The rule of law is the prerequisite for democratic, peaceful and just coexistence.
It is our collective responsibility to ensure that it is not eroded.
We want the rule-of-law standards in our democratic state to be upheld.
We want a society in which all people are treated with mutual respect and understanding of their culture, linguistic characteristics and gender expression.
We want prejudice, xenophobia and violence to be outlawed and combated with all constitutional means.
Every person is equal
Everyone should be able to participate equally in all processes and help shape them - regardless of individual abilities, ethnic or social background, gender or age.
No one may be discriminated against on the basis of origin, social status, gender, religion, age or sexual identity.
This requires not only that discrimination be identified and punished, but above all that the state actively promote the participation of all at all levels.
We want an inclusive society with tolerance towards the diversity of people.
All groups should be seen as equal and worthy of protection, rather than favored or even disadvantaged.
We want to integrate people, not assimilate them.
Domestic and legal policy without symbolism
The SSW stands for a domestic and legal policy that dispenses with superficial symbolism and supposedly simple solutions.
Civil liberties and personal rights may only be restricted in favor of the scope for action by security authorities if these measures are absolutely necessary, there is no other suitable means to the same end and the measures are genuinely suitable for achieving their goal.
We do not want the threat of terrorism and extremism to lead to the restriction of citizens' rights in favor of supposedly necessary security requirements.
Freedom of expression and freedom of the press may only find their limits where other people's rights are impaired and harmed as a result.
Push for stronger confrontation with racist thinking and actions
We must, also out of a historical responsibility, continue to deal socially with how we can counter racist thinking and actions.
Yet we know that racism is not a phenomenon of the right-wing fringe, but also operates where we like to speak of the "center of society."
We need an actively anti-racist political action!
For us, this also includes better prevention work.
Developing educational materials to promote tolerance and human rights is unquestionably an important component, but we also need to reach out to people outside of educational systems.
We want no one to be discriminated against because of skin color, perceived origin, presumed religion or other attributions.
This applies to situations of everyday racism as well as indirect institutional discrimination.
We want action plans against racism to be supported at EU, federal and state level.
In addition to more research on racism,
we also call for the expansion of civil society counseling centers
and the strengthening of self-organizations of people who are themselves affected by racism.
Efficient and population-oriented justice system
In order to protect these rights and values, an efficient and citizen-oriented judiciary is needed.
A well-functioning judiciary is of high value to people, the economy and society as a whole.
The independence of the judiciary is a valuable asset that must not be undermined by political dictates and influence.
Only when well equipped can the judiciary successfully ensure the safeguarding or restoration of legal peace.
We want a differentiated system of sanctions that has the primary goal of preventing crime in all its forms
and reintegrate people who have committed crimes back into society.
We want the judiciary and police investigative authorities to be better equipped.
Specifically, solutions must be found to equalize the wage gap between public and private jobs.
Here, the federal government can bring about changes through amendments to the Federal Salaries Act and also motivate the states to make such changes.
We want to further strengthen out-of-court forms of dispute resolution - from mediation with a judge to victim-offender mediation - as important additions to our legal system.
We want to prevent lawyers from sending out targeted warning letters and thus restricting medium-sized companies or private individuals in their professional practice.
We want to evaluate and, if necessary, strengthen new legislation aimed at preventing warning letters as a business model.
Internal security as a guarantor of freedom
In order to be able to effectively counter the threats posed by terrorism or organized crime described above, we need an effective but also measured security policy that creates the conditions for fighting crime without unnecessarily restricting civil liberties.
To do this, the police need suitable technical equipment and good officers.
Instead of supposedly "simple" solutions such as restricting fundamental rights and expanding the powers of the security authorities (e.g., data retention),
we want to improve the personnel capabilities and equipment of the police.
Extremism in its various forms poses a threat to our free democratic basic order.
To protect our democratic society, we must effectively combat extremism.
We must disarm extremists and prevent extremists from acquiring weapons.
Counterterrorism is also an important and necessary component of internal security.
Here, too, we are focusing on information and education in order to eliminate the causes of terrorism and prevent the recruitment of new blood by terrorist organizations.
Furthermore, counterterrorism can only be effective if the police have well-trained and well-equipped personnel.
We must also put a sustained stop to the financing of terrorism.
We want to improve the fight against terrorism by providing the authorities responsible for this with the necessary personnel and technical equipment.
We want to make it more difficult to acquire firearms licenses and weapons and to control the possession of weapons better and more effectively.
For us, however, this also includes dropout programs and an intensification of political education.
We want to fight terrorism by expanding existing international cooperation and creating ways to cut off the flow of money to terrorist organizations.
Security on the net
We want to improve people's media skills.
Anyone who is confident in using a computer, tablet or smartphone and knows the mechanisms of online media is significantly less at risk of becoming a victim of cybercriminals.
We also want to improve infrastructure security and promote IT systems that are less vulnerable to cyberattacks and computer viruses.
The police need IT experts who have first-class training and specialized knowledge.
We can only imagine storing personal data with the reservation of a judge and only if there is a concrete reason to do so.
For us, it is the wrong way to restrict the freedom of the Internet because the investigators lack specialists and IT experts.
We want the police to have more IT experts.
In order to attract such experts to the police force, we need to pay them salaries commensurate with their training and offer them prospects for the future and promotion.
We do not want data retention.
The IP addresses of Internet users are already stored by Internet providers for up to seven days for billing purposes and for technical reasons.
Instead of more extensive data retention without any specific reasons, the effectiveness of which for law enforcement is already disputed,
we want to combat the spread of child pornography on the Internet and other cybercrime by providing the police with good IT equipment and increasing the deployment of IT experts.
We do not want any use of federal Trojans and similar surveillance measures without a concrete case-by-case reference and a judge's decision.
We do not want the use of automated upload filters to punish copyright infringements.
Instead, operators of Internet platforms must be required to conclude contractual agreements with collecting societies.
License fees for the use of copyrighted works should not be charged as a lump sum, but should be graduated according to turnover in order to enable a fair distribution of the burden.
Strengthening democratic participation in a social community
The SSW is expressly committed to representative democracy.
The people's representatives, elected by the citizens, pass laws and other norms for all people in the national territory.
That's why it's important that more parts of our society get the chance to participate democratically.
Young people want their interests to be represented politically and want to have a say in politics.
Young people over 16 are capable of making mature decisions, which is why they should also have the right to vote in federal and European elections.
The political decisions that are made ultimately affect their future.
We want the voting age to be lowered to 16 for all elections.
We want to create the conditions for third-country nationals to have the right to vote in federal, state and local elections.
Actively confronting threats to our democracy
Many social organizations make an important contribution to our democracy with their educational work and support for victims of right-wing extremist attacks.
The SSW believes that politics should not take this work for granted and must actively support it to a greater extent.
We want a Democracy Promotion Act through which social organizations are adequately supported in their work in the long term.
Democracy lives from participation
For our democratic society, it is important that everyone sees themselves as belonging to it
and is also willing to contribute to it.
Therefore, the SSW welcomes and promotes the voluntary commitment of citizens as an indispensable element of social coexistence.
The voluntary services of many young people are also indispensable.
These must be better supported financially in order to be able to continue in the future.
It is very important for us that these are voluntary services.
We want better recognition and appreciation of honorary office, e.g. through better opportunities for time off from work.
We do not want the reintroduction of compulsory service in the form of conscription or civilian service.
We want financial equality for all those who perform voluntary service to the community after school, training or study.
Voluntary military service, voluntary social year and other forms of service to the community must be paid equally.
Support of club sports as an elementary part of society
Much of the volunteer work is done in clubs.
Sports clubs, with around 24 million members nationwide, are particularly worthy of mention here.
These depend on the availability of sufficient functioning sports facilities throughout the country.
Due to the very high operating costs, more and more swimming pools have to close.
This must be countered urgently and as quickly as possible on the part of the federal government.
We want the federal government to counteract the death of swimming pools by providing funding.
Promote e-sports better
Sports are no longer played exclusively on sports fields, in gymnasiums or swimming pools, but also on computers and consoles.
E-sports have long since arrived in the present, as e-sports leagues, clubs and world championships prove.
The high mental demands on e-sports players and the physical fitness required to perform this sport at a high level are reason enough to recognize e-sports as a sport.
The expansion of professional structures and the promotion of e-sports talents are necessary to give e-sportsmen* the opportunity to fully exploit their talent.
In the meantime, the federal and state governments are making an important contribution here through funding programs that need to be made more permanent.
We want e-sports to be recognized as an official sport to clear the way for funding and the development of professional structures.
The definition of e-sports should follow competitive criteria and not the claim of a simulation of established sports; if chess is a sport, then so can a competitive strategy game on the computer.
We want the development of a transparent, professional and multi-level league and tournament structure to be promoted
We want Section 52 (2) of the German Fiscal Code to be amended and e-sports to be anchored in the regulations on non-profit status.
We need a modern drug policy
Today's drug policies are not serving their purpose.
Therefore, we demand a change of course that decriminalizes consumers and offers help instead of punishing them.
We continue to focus on drug and addiction prevention, which must be expanded, especially in schools.
In order to be able to better assess the consequences of nationwide legalization, we are in favour of model cannabis trials.
The Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical Devices (BfArM) must finally clear the way for regional model trials.
We want to see further expansion of counseling and drug prevention services, especially in schools.
We want to expand health care and support services for addicts.
We want to promote the expansion of support and care services for family members of consumers.
We want the decriminalization of consumers.
However, the organized distribution and sale of illegal and adulterated drugs must continue to be prosecuted and punished.
We want cannabis model trials to be made possible.
We want the acquisition and possession of cannabis for personal consumption to no longer be punishable.
We want to see an expansion of replacement services.
Due to the high mortality of opioid users, we want to see the widespread controlled distribution of naloxone, as is already the case in other European countries.
In addition, we call for a national development of a naloxone program.
Asylum policy in a humane society
We feel it is a matter of course and a moral duty to help the persecuted, uprooted and fled when they knock on our door.
We don't want to just tolerate these people.
Our mission is to make life, work and democratic participation possible for people in need.
The SSW stands for an asylum, refugee and immigration policy in which our country assumes its responsibility for people who have had to leave their homes due to war, climate catastrophes and famine, or who are persecuted or disadvantaged because of their gender, ancestry, language, origin, faith, religious or political views, disability, age or sexual identity.
The SSW stands for the further development of a humane welcoming culture for refugees so that they can participate in social life on an equal footing.
This is what we want to achieve in the Bundestag:
We want the nations of Europe to recognize their shared responsibility for the causes of flight and displacement and to create a solution based on solidarity that relieves the regions on Europe's external borders.
We want a legal basis to be created that ensures basic rights and integration measures for asylum seekers and tolerated persons from the very beginning.
We want cities and counties to be financially equipped by the federal government so that they can guarantee asylum seekers a dignified housing situation that promotes integration.
This also requires good socio-educational support for refugees and a time limit on accommodation in shared housing.
We want a higher permeability for asylum seekers who have worked out a professional and social perspective for staying until the asylum decision.
It cannot be that people who have settled in well and are making their contribution to society are simply deported at the end.
Those whose applications for asylum have been legally rejected must be returned and, if necessary, deported,
but only if a secure existence in their home country that is not threatened by violence is possible.
It is intolerable for us if the rights and dignity of the individual are violated in the process.
Priority must always be given to encouraging voluntary return.
In particular, there must be no detention pending deportation.
We want to change the worrying situation in refugee camps in southern Europe.
Housing, care and medical services must be improved as quickly as possible.
Children, young people and women have a special right to protection
Children and young people, as well as women refugees, have a special right to protection and assistance.
It is important to us that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is observed and, for example, that the rights to education and training, leisure, play and recreation, family and care are guaranteed.
We want unaccompanied minors to be able to join their family members.
We aim to strengthen opportunities for refugee women to integrate through specific counseling and psychological treatment options, as they often face unique culturally-based challenges.
Germany is a country of immigration
The SSW stands for an active, long-term immigration policy and for a modern immigration law.
Germany must see itself as a country of immigration.
Immigrants have been shown to help stabilize social security funds and increase tax revenues
, and with targeted integration and training measures, they can also help address future labor shortages.
For these reasons, a responsible policy on foreigners must be geared toward promoting the integration of foreign nationals who have immigrated in recent decades to a greater extent.
We want people who have immigrated to be given the opportunity to be integrated into the labor market as quickly as possible.
We want foreign citizens to be granted more rights to participate in shaping our community.
The Federal Republic must play a positive and peaceful role in the EU and international politics
As the party of the Danish minority and the national Frisians, the SSW sees itself as particularly committed to an international minority policy.
Against the background of our political, cultural and historical experiences from the German-Danish conflict and two world wars, we want to make a special, active contribution to ensuring that understanding between European states and peoples grows and flourishes - for the benefit of all people in Europe.
The Federal Republic of Germany must refer to the same values and principles externally as it does internally.
The preservation of peace, social justice, democracy and human rights must always be the cornerstones of foreign policy.
The cooperation of the European Union
and other international organizations such as the UN and OSCE.
In the age of globalization and international cooperation, it is essential that the EU is heard and respected as a common voice in the world.
The undeniable value of critical non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and their competencies must be recognized and utilized.
The SSW wants the Federal Republic to play a positive and peaceful role in the EU and in international politics.
At the same time, the EU must remain a union of independent nations.
The positive development of European regions and nations are a prerequisite for a democratic and economically strong European Union.
The many minorities in Europe must be respected and heard.
This is what we want to achieve in the Bundestag:
Europe continues to be a peace project
Europe is home to numerous ethnic groups and minorities.
Every seventh citizen belongs to an autochthonous minority or speaks a regional or minority language.
Cultural diversity is an enrichment for Europe.
It initiates international understanding and identity building and opens the way for cross-border cooperation.
Unfortunately, the fundamental rights of many ethnic groups and minorities are not respected in all European states.
National minorities and minorities without a state of reference are a natural part of the EU
and enrich cultural diversity.
The importance of national and stateless minorities in the EU must also be reflected in the European Commission.
We want the German government to actively promote the common basic humanistic values
and minority rights in all European states.
The European project is also a peace project, which for decades has allowed the peoples of the continent to live together in peace.
This must always remain a central goal for Europe.
We want the EU Commission to appoint an additional commissioner who is responsible for the interests of national and stateless minorities and who can mediate in conflict situations between state and minority.
We want the German government to work to ensure that violations of fundamental rights by EU states are punished immediately.
Baltic and North Sea cooperation can resolve conflicts
The SSW has been working for decades to ensure that Schleswig-Holstein sees itself as part of Nordic cooperation.
Schleswig-Holstein belongs to the same cultural circle as the Scandinavian countries.
Conflicts of earlier days have been settled and given way to a trusting relationship.
It is important to build on this: The SSW wants to intensify cooperation with its neighbors at all levels in order to create a strong growth region in northern Europe together.
Baltic Sea cooperation is an important part of European cooperation and takes place at various levels.
The good experiences from the Baltic Sea cooperation should also be used to deepen the North Sea cooperation.
We want the equal cooperation of regional and national parliaments of the Baltic Sea countries to be maintained.
The Baltic Sea region must be developed into a growth region, especially in the areas of culture, minorities, education, economy, research and environment.
We want the special cultural and historical relations as well as the personal contacts of the North Sea neighbors to be cultivated and expanded.
Particularly in light of the UK's exit from the EU, increased cultural cooperation and exchange in tourism marketing must be pursued in parallel with economic policy strategies.
We do not want regional cooperation with non-EU countries such as Norway or Iceland to be lost sight of.
We therefore also attach fundamental importance to cooperation with "Nordisk Råd", the association of all Scandinavian countries.
We want the federal government, together with the other Baltic Sea states, to initiate a large-scale removal of dumped World War II munitions from the Baltic Sea.
It is imperative that the World War II munitions stored in the Baltic Sea be defused, otherwise there is a threat of serious environmental impacts.
Worldwide commitment to disarmament and peace
In view of wars, crises and other dangerous developments in many regions of the world, it may be necessary for the German armed forces to contribute to security and peace together with international partners and allies.
Against the background of German history, this must be done very cautiously, sensitively
and in close coordination with the international community.
The Bundeswehr is a parliamentary army.
We take democratic control of the Bundeswehr very seriously as a parliamentary task.
Bundeswehr missions must be carried out in accordance with the self-image of the Federal Republic playing a positive and peaceful role in EU and international politics.
We want the Federal Republic, together with its international partners, to make a worldwide commitment to disarmament
and peacekeeping in crisis regions
, as well as to economic and cultural development aid where necessary.
We want the Bundeswehr to be provided with the resources it needs to carry out peacekeeping tasks.
An EU with prospects for young people
We see young people as an essential part of today's EU and want to create perspectives for them in order to jointly shape a strong EU of the future.
The EU has a great importance in the lives of young people.
Many know no life without European peace, open borders, freedom of expression and press, and the opportunity to study, work or train abroad.
The UK's withdrawal from the EU, among other things, shows that this is not guaranteed.
But young Europeans also have to contend with high youth unemployment.
We see young people as an essential part of today's EU and want to create prospects for them in order to shape a strong EU of the future together.
We want the European Youth Guarantee to continue to be implemented by the federal government and provided with the necessary resources.
We want EU exchange programs such as Erasmus+ to be expanded and de-bureaucratized.
We want youth unemployment in the EU to be actively combated.
We want the EU Youth Strategy to continue to be implemented at the federal level.
We want to see the introduction of a youth check at the European level that assesses the impact of new laws and decisions on young people.
Your second vote: For minorities and the region
The SSW is only a small cog in a huge gearbox, but with the support of the voters we can achieve a lot for Schleswig-Holstein.
We are the only party that can stand up unadulterated for the interests in the north of the republic.
As the voice of the North.
Without restrictions due to factionalism.
Without being softened by the sensitivities of other federal states.
Without the influence of large corporations and lobbyists.
We are only interested in their money and power insofar as they belong back in the hands of the citizens.
Our orientation is clear: We want a welfare state based on solidarity, in which the burdens are distributed fairly
and the weak are helped.
Above all, justice requires that all children have access to the best possible education and upbringing.
and the adults have good working conditions.
Justice is also when policy makers keep all regions in the country in mind and promote regional economic development.
In addition, the SSW as a party of the Danish minority and Frisian ethnic group naturally stands for a fruitful community and cooperation of Germans, Danes, Frisians and the Sinti and Roma in the country and of course also with all people who immigrate to our country for various reasons.
As a minority party based only in the north, climate protection is a matter close to our hearts.
Only if we limit global warming now can we preserve the foundations of life in our beautiful Schleswig-Holstein.
With its very own style, the SSW can help to ensure that the justified interests of the people of Schleswig-Holstein are better taken into account in the Bundestag.
We have the advantage that we are not dependent on what a federal party in Berlin wants or with whom it is currently forming a coalition.
The SSW can focus fully on what is best for the people of Schleswig-Holstein - and that is exactly what we are doing.
The SSW traditionally only nominates constituency candidates in the northern part of the state.
But with the second vote, all citizens in Schleswig-Holstein can vote for the state list of the SSW and contribute to the party of the minorities entering the Bundestag again for the first time since 1953.
The SSW needs about 40-50,000 second votes to win a mandate in the Bundestag, as the party is also exempt from the blocking clause at the federal level.
