A. INTRODUCTION
Dear citizens,September 24 is the federal election.
Before we tell you what we plan to do, we have a request for you: join the discussion, get involved, go vote.
Join us in standing up for the values that have made our country and Europe strong and worth living in, values that unite us far beyond party and national borders: human dignity,
justice and equality,
freedom and democracy.
These values seemed self-evident to us until just now.
Now we are witnessing how they are being massively questioned in this country, in Europe and in many parts of the world.
Radical nationalism returns.
The ecological crisis is coming to a head.
Europe is deeply divided in social and economic terms.
Many people are fleeing wars and crises.
This federal election is important, perhaps historic.
Together, we have it in our hands to create a better future now.
We can operate in such a way that the soil, air and water remain clean, that we preserve the foundations of our lives for future generations.
A society is possible in which all people share in the prosperity, in which everyone gets a chance and pursues his or her own goals in a self-determined manner.
We do not want to leave the consequences of demographic change to fate, but make the best of them: From generation-appropriate coexistence to the development of rural areas and structural change in large cities, innovations are needed, not fatalism.
We can do our part to fight the causes of flight and not the refugees.
Globalization and digitization are not forces of nature that turn against people.
They can make our lives better if we enforce fair rules internationally
and protect civil rights.
Here, too, the focus must be on people and basic democratic values.
We must decide now and take bold action: for a social and ecological modernization of our economy
that secures jobs and creates new ones,
and against further environmental destruction.
For a policy that invests in our infrastructure and in the future
and against unrestrained profit-seeking at the expense of cohesion.
For a peacemaking Europe that works together internally and acts together externally and against agitation and nationalism.
Some believe that much has already been achieved today if regressions are avoided.
We don't.
With the ecological crises and especially the climate crisis, humanity faces the question of existence, not less.
With the crisis of Europe and the relapse into nationalism, the question of peace and the conditions for a good life arises.
Global inequality raises the question of fair distribution of wealth, for example through fair trade.
They are big questions, but they are not far away.
They also affect our coexistence and our everyday life.
It would have been the task of the grand coalition to address these challenges.
She didn't.
The three parties involved, the CDU, CSU and SPD, have long since been pursuing only their own interests.
While the coalition is exhausted, the problems are growing.
Instead of stopping the overexploitation of the environment, it is blocking climate protection,
stalling the energy turnaround and
missing the opportunities for sustainable jobs.
It is resting on the currently good economic situation instead of using it for social cohesion
and more equal opportunities.
After a year of welcome culture, it is increasingly giving in to right-wing sentiments.
It reacts to new threats with ever stricter laws instead of using a cool head to solve specific problems.
With a one-sided austerity policy, it has deepened the rifts in the EU.
With its policy, it is putting a good future at risk.
The grand coalition is paralyzing our country and strengthening above all the right-wing fringe in the political spectrum of our society.
In the UK, such sentiment has blown the country out of the EU, and in the US, it has brought a dangerous narcissist to power.
To prevent the same thing from happening here, we need real political alternatives and a new, positive dynamic.
There is good reason for courage and confidence.
Millions of citizens have volunteered to help provide shelter and a new home for people fleeing their homes in recent years.
They deserve our express thanks!
Hundreds of thousands have risen up against neoliberal trade policies that put profits for big corporations above the well-being of people and the environment.
Entrepreneurs and researchers everywhere are working toward a better tomorrow.
Parents slave away to give their children a better future.
Artists and creative professionals enrich our vibrant society and cultural diversity with their ideas and exciting innovations.
Many are committed to fighting discrimination and fighting for equal rights and opportunities.
These people are our driving force.
For them and with them, we want to and can move many things for the better.
We want to make Germany the ecological leader.
We are the first generation to feel the effects of the climate crisis - and the last to be able to do something about it.
That is why a major socio-ecological modernization project is needed now.
We are fighting for climate protection with everything we have: renewable energies will become cheaper with us, fossil fuels more expensive.
For example, we are reviving the energy transition and phasing out climate-damaging coal as quickly as possible, and we are promoting emission-free cars and environmentally friendly transportation.
We are shaping an innovative economy that develops products and services for the future with "Eco - Made in Germany"
and creates plenty of new jobs - in Germany and Europe.
We want to put an end to industrial factory farming and agricultural monocultures; we want an agriculture that manages as far as possible without poisons.
With us there is good food without poison and genetic engineering.
We are fighting for a more just country.
We want every child to have the same opportunities - regardless of origin, gender or skin color.
For us, it doesn't matter where someone comes from, but where someone wants to go.
Every child should be able to develop his or her talents and strengths and realize his or her dream in our country.
Certainly not all will become chief physicians, but all should be able to.
We ensure that parents have more time for their children, that daycare centers and schools are intact and that educators are better paid.
We cannot accept the fact that in one of the richest countries in the world, one in five children lives in poverty.
We want a social safety net that is there for everyone in case of illness, unemployment and old age and protects against poverty.
Our social security should be so good that it also gives people the confidence to dare new things and does not exclude anyone.
Self-determination and a good life are possible for everyone in this country
- with good working conditions and
policies that counteract social division so that fewer people live in precarious conditions and everyone can participate in our community.
We are fighting to ensure that multinational companies pay their taxes here and no longer cheat society out of billions to pay their executives obscene salaries and severance packages.
This also contributes to fair competition in our country, which is characterized by small and medium-sized enterprises,
which particularly promotes opportunities for start-ups and small and medium-sized enterprises.
We want social wealth to be shared fairly so that we can finance our public places and institutions well: Kindergartens, schools and universities, hospitals and theaters, streetcars and buses as well as fast Internet everywhere in the country.
We fight for a society in which everyone can live freely and safely.
A society where everyone can believe what they want, love and marry who they want.
A gender-equal society in which women and girls live and participate independently and self-determinedly, for example because women are paid just as well as men for their work.
A society in which we protect ourselves from terrorism, far-right violence and crime without giving up our freedom.
We are fighting to ensure that Germany continues to offer protection and a home to people fleeing war and violence.
Because Germany is dependent on immigration, we want to regulate it transparently and sensibly.
The coexistence of people from different backgrounds, religions and cultures moves us forward, but it also demands something from everyone.
That is why we are strengthening the bond that unites and holds our society together.
The Basic Law and its values apply to everyone.
No tolerance of intolerance.
We can only achieve all this in a united Europe.
Europe is a place of peace and freedom.
This is not a matter of course.
Europe is our home and our future.
We will defend it with all our strength against nationalism.
Only by working together in a united Europe can we help resolve the conflicts in our neighborhood, fight terrorism, the causes of flight, tax fraud and corruption.
We want Germany and Europe to turn their attention to the world's problems and take on more responsibility instead of closing themselves off.
We stand up for peace instead of armament spirals,
for human rights
and a globally just development instead of oppression and exploitation.
Global responsibility starts at home.
That is why we are using Germany's power as the world's fourth-largest economy to achieve the United Nations' sustainable development goals.
The aim is to promote environmental and climate protection, peace and justice worldwide, and to transform the way we live and do business in a socially and ecologically responsible way.
Only with a Europe based on solidarity can we better protect people and the environment.
We need a united Europe so that we can hold banks and large corporations accountable to the common good and so that we can truly put ecological and social reins on global capitalism so that the economy can serve the people.
And with your vote in the Bundestag elections, you will also decide how Germany presents itself in Europe and what direction it stands for.
In many state governments and in several municipalities, the Greens are already working as ministers, district councillors, mayors or other elected officials to solve these urgent problems.
There, we are already working every day and successfully: for an animal-friendly and environmentally friendly agricultural policy and climate protection, for
courageous and innovative companies, for good
schools and daycare centers, for
good integration and
the humanitarian reception of refugees,
for real equality
and a well-equipped and trained police force.
Green works.
But for many changes, a government with us GREENS is also needed at the federal level.
We want to replace the grand coalition.
In the federal states, we provide the majority of environment ministers.
But just as a Green federal environment minister was needed to phase out nuclear power, the Greens are needed in the federal government for the agricultural turnaround and much more.
Our country more ecological,
world more open,
make the world a better place - that is our aspiration for Green government participation. That is what we stand for!
Politics is not powerless.
It shapes our life together.
Every day.
It makes a difference who governs.
That's why your vote is crucial in the election.
The direction our country takes is in the hands of all of us.
We will change some things, rethink others and take them forward.
Help us to preserve what is valuable and important in our country and to improve what needs to be improved.
It is not always easy to achieve your goals.
We have experienced this often enough.
Sometimes it takes detours and compromises.
Sometimes it takes resistance and controversy.
We also do not know the solution for everything already.
However, the goals are clear for us.
We describe them to you with this program.
Our goals point a way to an ecological,
peaceful
, diverse,
open-minded and
just future.
Into a good future for us, our children, our European neighbors and for people elsewhere in the world.
Let us walk this path together!
Vote for ALLIANCE 90/THE GREENS on September 24, 2017!
B. ENVIRONMENT IN MIND
The Paris climate agreement is a milestone in saving our planet.
We have the knowledge, the technology and the inventive spirit to avert the climate catastrophe.
We are therefore now faced with a decision that will shape our lives and the lives of our children.
Are we fighting to preserve our natural livelihoods or are we continuing to saw the branch we are sitting on?
Are we going for dirty coal like the Union and SPD or dirty oil like Trump and Putin?
Or are we embarking on a new, green age?
We want to get to work: Because floods, droughts and rising sea levels are no longer distant threats.
They take place.
Daily.
If we don't act now, the earth will be about another four degrees warmer by the end of the century.
We are destroying our habitats with the way we farm and consume - from the rainforests to our groundwater, our soils and the world's oceans.
And we are causing a new extinction of species, making our environment poorer and more fragile.
The consequences would be hunger, poverty and conflicts over increasingly scarce resources, such as water.
The wars and refugee movements of recent years would be a mere breeze compared to the storm that threatened future generations.
Our aim is to prevent blind faith in growth and the unrestrained pursuit of profit from destroying our unique planet.
In return, we want an economy that works with the environment instead of against it, one that enables sustainable prosperity for all.
Peace, security and a good life for all can be achieved in the future if we protect our natural resources instead of destroying them further.
If we act decisively now, it is also a great opportunity and the right path for our country into a future worth living in, creating prosperity and security for all.
Many people and companies have long since embarked on this journey.
And already achieved quite a bit.
Over the past decades, we have protected forests, reduced exhaust gases and pollution, and saved valuable species.
Citizens are joining forces to generate electricity from wind, sun and water, and engineers are working on ever better electric bicycles, e-cars and trucks with renewable drives.
Architects and construction workers build houses that generate more energy than they consume.
There are many who benefit from it: Hundreds of thousands who earn their money with renewable energies - from steel workers to plumbers.
The same goes for entire sectors of the economy that are in the black with green ideas and are already tapping into tomorrow's markets today.
We will now take the next steps in ecological modernization.
We are pursuing an economic policy with ambitious goals that places demands on companies, but that opens up new opportunities precisely through innovations, creates planning security and promotes new knowledge and new technologies.
We want fair competition that does not continue to burden the general public with the consequential costs of environmentally harmful activities.
This means: We support the companies that take the path to ecological renewal.
However, we will continue to engage in conflict with the lobbying associations and the companies that pursue their business interests without regard for the environment.
Voluntary commitments are of little help here.
We will do everything in our power to ensure that environmental law is implemented consistently and that citizens can participate in proceedings and file lawsuits without hurdles.
We will consistently transform our economy, our transport and our energy and food production to green economies and green technologies.
With a consistent expansion of renewable energies, the phase-out of coal and the switch to electromobility.
By phasing out industrial factory farming and promoting agriculture that is humane, environmentally friendly and animal-friendly.
Climate and environmental policy are also a question of justice.
Especially those who have little live in neighborhoods with high air pollution or high noise pollution.
Globally, it is the poorest, especially women and children, who are particularly affected by environmental degradation - even though they are the least likely to contribute or participate in decision-making.
The small farmers in Africa whose land is withering away, the orphan who rummages through highly toxic landfills in the electronic waste of the industrialized countries: We do something about this: We recycle our raw materials, end the harmful subsidies for the agricultural industry that lead to the cheap export of European food all over the world, and stop the overfishing off Africa's coasts.
We ensure that environmental and climate protection is fair.
Where jobs are being lost, for example in the coal industry, we are already working to provide good social security and new job prospects.
Where prices finally tell the ecological truth, we ensure with better wages and adequate social benefits that prices can also be paid by all.
To provide a livable future for our children, we will change the way we live and do business so that we respect the ecological limits of our planet.
For us, ecological policy means promoting the common good, education for sustainable development, participation and responsibility for future generations.
All of this is what we want to address with the socio-ecological transformation.
Protecting our livelihoods is our common challenge.
At the same time, ecological modernization creates unique opportunities: for clean water and air, for healthy food, for undestroyed natural landscapes, for more quality of life and less noise, for new jobs and innovations, for a good and peaceful life on our blue planet.
I. WE PRESERVE OUR NATURE
Humans depend on clean water, healthy soils and good air.
Only then can everyone live freely, carefree and healthy, can create and enjoy.
Protecting nature and the environment means protecting the foundations of our lives.
But we humans are increasingly putting the planetary boundaries at risk with our way of doing business and consuming.
Forgetting about the future when dealing with nature and its treasures ultimately falls back on ourselves.
The mercury that coal-fired power plants blow into the air, the plastic waste that we "dump" in rivers and oceans, the pesticides and pharmaceutical residues with which we pollute our soils and waters - none of this simply dissipates.
It gets into our drinking water, the air we breathe and the food we eat.
It is high time to put an end to this.
In some areas, we have long since exceeded the load limit of our planet.
That is why we GREENS place the environment and the preservation of our livelihood at the center of our policies.
Those who protect the environment fight for a livable and just world for all.
We GREENS want to preserve our natural heritage, the biological diversity of the earth.
We want to end the selling off of our environment.
We want clean rivers and lakes, without manure, drug residues and microplastics.
We want fields and meadows where insects and birds find a habitat.
Our goal is to preserve a world worth living in for our children and future generations.
That is what we are fighting for with passion.
1. no life without water
Development of degradable plastics.
It is also important to reduce the input of microplastics, especially into water.
For example, this has no place in cosmetics; at the same time, filter stages are needed in sewage treatment plants to remove plastic particles.
Marine life is also under massive pressure from dubious fishing practices, such as the use of bottom trawls, and excessive fishing quotas.
European trawlers continue to empty the seas off Africa's coasts, endangering not only the marine ecosystem but also the livelihood of local fishermen.
That is why we want to reduce the overcapacity of the European fishing fleet and make all fishing agreements ecologically and socially compatible.
Use-free marine protected areas are intended to ensure that the marine ecosystem can recover, including in the North Sea and Baltic Sea.
In the short term, conservation areas must be free of bottom trawls and set gillnets, which plow up the seafloor and suffocate and drown harbor porpoises and seabirds, respectively.
In the medium term, only alternative fishing methods may be used throughout the Baltic and North Seas in order to bring fishing into harmony with the marine environment.
On the coasts of Germany, drilling for oil is currently still taking place in the middle of the Wadden Sea National Park and UNESCO World Heritage Site, endangering biodiversity.
We want to put an end to that.
Thanks to the GREENS in Schleswig-Holstein, exploratory drilling in the Wadden Sea National Park has already been prevented.
2. clean air and healthy soil
Every year, tens of thousands of people die worldwide because nitrogen oxides and particulate matter pollute the air and lead to lung and cardiovascular diseases.
Even if the sky above our cities does not turn yellow as it does in many Asian cities, the battle for clean air is far from won here, too.
Annual measurements show that limit values for particulate matter and nitrogen oxides are exceeded in many places.
The main cause is the millions of diesel cars that, as a result of the tricks and maneuvering of the automotive industry, often exceed the limit values many times over in everyday operation.
We want the affected cars to be retrofitted as quickly as possible at the expense of the manufacturers so that the owners are not the ones who suffer from driving bans for which the German government is responsible with its inaction.
To protect people and reduce the level of pollutants in the air they breathe, we want to introduce a blue badge
, promote zero-emission mobility,
shift a large part of the transport service to public transport and bicycles,
promote the necessary retrofitting of construction machinery, diesel locomotives et cetera, and thus ensure compliance with strict air pollution standards.
This is the only way to succeed in getting the air in our cities clean.
With binding limits for indoor air, we will also reduce health hazards in homes and offices caused by emissions from laser printers or copiers, for example.
In order not to leave those affected alone with the health and financial consequences of polluted living and working spaces, we want to promote incident-related air pollutant measurements for indoor spaces and pollutant remediation in existing buildings.
Our soils are also in danger and urgently need protection.
More and more agricultural and natural areas in Germany are being concreted over.
The industrialization of agriculture overloads our soils with manure and pesticides, drains and compacts them.
Thus, they cannot fulfill their important function for a functioning natural balance and as carbon reservoirs.
We are striving for the zero hectare target: In the future, no more land should be taken up than is cleared elsewhere.
This is how we stop the land grabbing.
To this end, we are introducing a mix of instruments to gradually reduce land consumption and stop it in the long term.
Hectares and hectares of old industrial land lie fallow and can be put to use again.
In this way, we enable economic development without leveling green fields.
In coordination with the federal states, we are striving to clean up all contaminated sites by 2050 and want to support local authorities in particular in reactivating old, sealed industrial and brownfield sites.
3. we protect plants and animals
The extinction of animal and plant species, the threat to all biodiversity, has incalculable consequences for the ecological balance of the Earth.
Protecting biolo gical diversity is just as important here as in the tropical rainforests or in the Arctic.
Every third species is threatened with extinction in Germany.
The main reasons include industrial agriculture with its pesticides and monocultures.
Today, you can drive from Flensburg to Freiburg without having to keep cleaning your car's windshield of insects.
This is not good news.
After all, "crop protection" in industrial agriculture today primarily means insect destruction.
In recent years, the number of flying insects has decreased by 80 percent.
This cuts the food chain right at the beginning: if the swallow does not find a mosquito, its days are also numbered.
Thus, we erase the "hard disk" of our nature a bit more every day and leave biological wasteland instead of blooming landscapes.
Our nutrition also depends on functioning ecosystems: Without the pollination services of bees, our supermarket shelves would look pretty empty.
We Greens are committed to the consistent protection of nature and species.
In this way, we not only preserve the natural diversity and beauty of the landscape, intact nature also provides invaluable services, for example in water, soil and air protection, and provides important basic materials for countless products, for example in chemistry and medicine.
This applies in particular to forests, which cover one third of Germany's land area and play a special role in climate and species protection.
In order to protect biodiversity, we will ensure that existing legislation in the field of nature conservation is consistently implemented and, where necessary, adapted to the requirements of nature conservation.
Furthermore, we will implement international conventions such as the Convention on Biological Diversity.
More and more new industrial parks, roads and settlements are leveling nature and destroying the last wild habitats for many animals and plants.
We GREENS want to allow wilderness instead.
In addition to traditional species-rich cultivated landscapes such as heath or the colorful orchid meadows, which depend on extensive management, we protect forests so that they can once again develop into primeval forests, as well as moors and floodplains.
This is the case in Baden-Württemberg and Rhineland-Palatinate, where our state governments have fought for two new national parks.
Sufficient space can be found for our settlement and infrastructure needs through conversion and redensification.
We support the establishment of more national parks and an expansion of the Green Belt.
Nature has a value for us even if it cannot be expressed in euros and cents.
In the future, the practice of agriculture, fisheries and forestry should be aligned with the protection of biodiversity.
That is why we want to anchor nature conservation in the Forest Act and support near-natural forest management, among other things.
In the case of interventions in nature, we will design the compensation regulations in such a way that the greatest benefit for nature and nature conservation is always achieved.
4. conserving resources - from the waste mountain to the cycle
The flood of waste is constantly rising.
Many products such as plastic bags and disposable coffee cups are only used for a short time and then thrown away.
Some manufacturers design their products in such a way that they cannot be repaired.
In doing so, they harm the environment and consumers.
We want to promote longer product lifetimes and thus help conserve resources.
Ecologically advantageous deposit systems are being deliberately undermined by the beverage industry and trade with the support of the German government.
We GREENS want our resources to be protected, so among other things we will ensure that single-use plastic bottles are replaced by reusable ones.
With a resource levy on products, we provide an incentive for resource conservation and efficiency measures.
All those who use resources should pay for the environmental and social costs of extracting them and help finance the promotion of a true circular economy.
Even today, waste is not sufficiently returned to the cycle.
With a Recyclables Act that sets ambitious recycling rates, we are turning household and commercial waste into a source of new things.
We believe that the municipalities are responsible for waste collection.
We want a circular economy that opens up new markets with new products and creates new jobs,
while at the same time decisively reducing our consumption of raw materials.
Because a different resource policy is not only ecologically necessary.
It also helps to curb the race for increasingly scarce resources, which is accompanied by human rights violations and armed conflicts.
Those who vote GREEN vote for these three projects:
For clean water without toxins and plastic
Water is our most important food.
In order for our waters to achieve good ecological status, we align fertilizer laws with their protection.
We are campaigning for an international plastics convention to reduce plastic waste, promoting innovative waste prevention projects and showing the red card to the unnecessary use of microplastics in cosmetic products.
We want to hold manufacturers of problematic medicines, chemicals and environmentally harmful pesticides jointly responsible for repairing the damage.
Clean air in cities
To make the air in cities cleaner and avoid driving bans, we want all manipulated cars to be retrofitted at the expense of the auto industry so that they also comply with the limit values in real-world operation.
Manufacturers should take responsibility for secondary diseases, and the costs should not always be passed on to society.
The blue badge is intended to give municipalities the opportunity to control mobility in order to protect the health of their citizens.
In addition to public transport and cycling, we want to promote zero-emission mobility, especially for vehicles that travel a lot in city centers.
Protect biodiversity
The great species extinction is, next to the climate crisis, the second existential threat for our global ecosystems and thus also for us humans.
We want to protect our nature and our biodiversity.
To this end, we will anchor nature conservation in all policy areas and provide it with adequate financial and human resources.
In nature reserves, the goals of nature conservation should take precedence over all other uses.
We want to expand the biotope network nationwide and ambitiously implement and manage protected areas and take large-scale wilderness areas out of use.
One of the biggest killers of species is industrialized agriculture, especially the widespread massive use of manure and pesticides.
We will therefore take immediate action to curb the widespread poisoning and over-fertilization of our landscape, push for a reform of EU agricultural policy in harmony with nature, and demand our own nature conservation fund.
II. WE ENSURE HEALTHY FOOD AND END ANIMAL SUFFERING
Our goal is a diverse agriculture that produces healthy food for all without toxins, genetic engineering or animal suffering.
An agriculture in which the achievements of our farmers are appreciated and which provides them with a good living.
Which secures our supply of healthy and affordable food and focuses on good products for the weekly market instead of mass production for the world market.
Which benefits our climate instead of harming it.
Which works with nature and not against it.
An agriculture that respects the dignity of animals instead of adapting them to industrial husbandry through amputations, for example.
And an agricultural policy that ensures fair development opportunities so that small farmers worldwide do not have to compete with highly subsidized European agricultural factories and their waste.
Many farmers have already joined us on the road to sustainable agriculture.
They cultivate land rich in orchards, hedges, colorful meadows and pastures.
But unfortunately it often looks quite different: industrial factory farming, too much manure on the fields, glyphosate and poisons for bees and other insects.
For us, one thing is clear: industrial agriculture is a dead end.
Apart from the agro-industry, it only knows losers.
This type of agriculture destroys its own basis through large-scale monocultures in the fields and the restriction to a few high-performance animal breeds.
This type of agriculture also has fatal consequences for soil and flood protection.
Such agriculture is wrecking our natural areas and has thus become the greatest nature killer of our time.
In addition, many farmers have to give up their farms due to economic pressure.
It is neither good for consumers
nor for farmers.
Our farmers achieve a lot.
They work hard and reliably provide us with food.
That is why we want to create a secure future for farms.
However, contrary to what the agricultural industry would have us believe, this is better achieved without genetic engineering, agricultural poisons and torturous breeding.
All of this speaks in favor of implementing the agricultural turnaround as quickly as possible - and more and more farmers and consumers are on our side.
In the countries, we show that it works together.
As long as federal regulations do not take effect, Lower Saxony, for example, on the initiative of the Greens, is providing financial support to farmers who do not cut off the curly tails of their pigs.
And to ensure that dairy farmers can survive economically, our agriculture ministers in the federal states are fighting for a fair milk price.
Organic farming remains our guiding principle.
We Greens want to ensure that organic farming is supported with one billion euros over the next seven years.
But the same applies to conventional agriculture: agricultural production must become more environmentally compatible over the entire area.
We want to pave the way for farmers to also fulfill their climate commitments and switch from industrial agriculture to climate-neutral, organic farming by 2050.
We will support farms and start-ups that produce in harmony with nature and preserve our cultural landscapes - from the curtilages in Schleswig-Holstein to the alpine pastures in Bavaria.
1. get out of industrial factory farming
We GREENS want to change the way we produce our food.
Under the conditions of today's livestock farming, the animals suffer first and foremost.
For us, one thing is clear: the conditions in the agricultural industry are unworthy of a modern society.
That is why we demand radical changes in animal husbandry.
In our commitment to sustainable agriculture, we know that we are supported by many consumers who want to eat as well and as healthily as possible.
They do not understand why Germany, the world's leading exporter, is dependent on imports for its supply of organic food.
And why regional products are in short supply in retail.
The worst development has gone off the rails in industrial factory farming.
Growing meat exports are leading to sad record numbers in slaughterhouses, where precarious employment conditions often characterize everyday working life.
Together with the majority of citizens and many farmers, we do not want to accept that tortured animals have to vegetate and suffer pain without ever seeing the sun.
We want animals to have a better life: more space in the barns, access to fresh air and daylight, no chick shredding, no amputations and torture breeding, animal-friendly feeding and significantly less antibiotics.
Animal welfare also protects our health.
By curbing the use of antibiotics in agriculture, we also reduce the risk of multi-resistant bacteria.
Good working conditions and the welfare of the animals must be paramount - from rearing and husbandry to transport and slaughter.
We want to promote small regional slaughterhouses and mobile slaughter facilities that make animal transport unnecessary and shorten distances.
We want to end industrial factory farming in the next 20 years.
We are promoting this with a pact for fair animal husbandry, so that animal-friendly and environmentally sound husbandry also pays off economically.
The decline in the consumption of animal-based foods is also a good development for climate protection reasons.
In schools and education, the global consequences of our food production should be addressed and made clear.
Municipalities should have a say in whether livestock facilities are built on their municipal territory.
There are often no or inadequate laws on the keeping of our farm animals.
Therefore, our goal is to regulate the keeping of all farm animals in an appropriate ordinance.
In addition, information about animal husbandry must be made much more transparent and accessible.
This includes assessing the welfare of the animals in addition to freedom from disease and injury.
This is the only way consumers can really make a decision about what meat they want to eat.
2. for agriculture without poison
The massive use of environmentally harmful pesticides has devastating consequences for species richness and soil fertility conservation.
We GREENS want food production in which the farmers earn and not the chemical industry.
That is why we are ending the use of particularly harmful and hazardous substances such as glyphosate and neonicotinoids.
Here we are taking the large agricultural and chemical companies in particular to task.
We support farmers in their efforts to farm without pesticides.
To this end, we are establishing a program that curbs pesticide use, and includes a pesticide delivery.
In this way, we are strengthening research into the effects of pesticides on the environment and human health.
We want to restrict the approval of new chemical substances in the EU and get them out of the manufacturers' sphere of influence.
Only what is really harmless is allowed on the market.
However, such proof has not been provided for genetically modified organisms to date.
Genfood and bio-patents are not needed by anyone.
We stand by our position: Plants from the laboratories of the agro-industry have no place in our fields in Germany and Europe.
We will put in place a genetic engineering law that keeps our fields and our plates free of genetic engineering, even if it masquerades as "new."
And we are committed to ensuring that consumers are able to identify when their meat, milk or eggs have been produced with the help of feed from genetically modified plants, thanks to comprehensive labeling.
Digitization in agriculture can make an important contribution to making production more resource-efficient, efficient and animal welfare-friendly.
With this goal in mind, we also support research into "smart farming".
3. clear labeling
Consumers are our most important allies on the road to sustainable agriculture.
But the food industry makes it difficult for them to make conscious purchasing decisions.
We GREENS want food packaging to say what's inside.
That is why we will introduce clear labeling of meat that makes it clear how the animals were kept - just as with the labeling of eggs.
And we are also introducing labeling for processed products.
Then consumers can make a conscious choice when shopping for food produced in an animal-friendly and environmentally friendly way.
We want edible food to end up on the plate and not in the garbage can.
We want binding reduction targets for food waste.
In order to achieve these goals, everyone is called upon: from trade to industry and gastronomy to consumers.
That is why we want to oblige supermarkets above a certain size to make unsold but still good food available free of charge.
This offer should be open to all people.
The aim is to ensure that this is not misused for waste disposal.
People who save food from the trash should not be punished (--> Chapter: We make consumers strong, p. 157).
4. more money for green agriculture
We Greens know: The conversion to an animal-friendly and environmentally friendly agriculture first of all costs money.
At the same time, we are convinced that another form of agriculture is more beneficial for our society as a whole.
We want to work with the farmers who join us on the road.
We want them to be able to make a living from their work again, including by promoting already established, purely plant-based agriculture.
We will mobilize the necessary funds by reallocating European agricultural funds: The European Union spends over 60 billion euros to support its farmers, six billion of which go directly to Germany.
But so far, only the ownership of land is rewarded, regardless of how it is farmed.
Therefore, only 20 percent of the farms receive 80 percent of the funds.
The German government has great influence on the future of European agricultural policy.
We want to ensure that this influence is used to the benefit of farmers, consumers, animals and nature.
The non-transparent and large-scale appropriation of land by agro-industrial companies and non-agricultural investors is a sad reality in Germany.
Time and again, there are massive price explosions, while the federal government vehemently supports the interests of industrial agriculture.
We want to put an end to this.
We finally need effective and transparent regulation of the market for agricultural soils.
We want to implement the principle of "public money for public performance" for agricultural subsidies as quickly as possible.
Our goal is a European agricultural policy that promotes the transformation of food towards an agriculture and an agricultural market based on class instead of mass.
Which ensures that the animals in the stables are better off.
Which preserves biodiversity and protects climate, water and soil.
We want to support farm-based, ecological and regional economic practices - and not export-oriented, industrial agribusiness.
European agricultural policy must no longer be at the expense of others.
We want to secure the right to food and food sovereignty worldwide.
5. strengthen animal welfare
We also want to strengthen animal welfare outside agriculture.
Animals feel pain, suffering and fear.
That's why we GREENS fight to protect animals for their own sake.
The state goal of animal protection, which we have achieved after a long struggle, must finally be filled with life.
That is why we need a new animal protection law.
A majority of people in our country, like us, do not want to tolerate fur farms and want to end the suffering of wild animals in circuses and dolphins in captivity.
For us, animals are not objects that may be tortured for entertainment purposes.
When animals are kept as close to nature as possible, zoological gardens can play important roles, such as in species conservation programs or environmental education.
We Greens want to consistently reduce animal testing and make it superfluous as quickly as possible.
We want to put an end to torture breeding in pets as well.
For animal and species protection reasons, we want to draw up a legally compliant positive list of animal species that can be kept privately and formulate husbandry requirements such as certificates of competence for certain animal species.
We want to stop commercial exotics exchanges.
The trade in exotic animals must be more tightly regulated and more strictly controlled.
We want to consistently prevent illegal animal trade.
The important work of animal shelters should finally be funded accordingly.
In order to be able to enforce animal protection more effectively, we will create a nationwide right of action for animal protection organizations and appoint a federal commissioner for animal protection.
If you vote GREEN, you are voting for these three projects:
No poison in agriculture
We want toxin-free agriculture and healthy food on our plates.
An agriculture that works without glyphosate and poisons for bees.
The use of glyphosate has played a significant role in the dramatic extinction of species.
Neonicotinoids are causing mass bee deaths.
That is why we will ban them.
We want to change the approval procedures so that only substances that are harmless to humans are approved and the risks to nature are minimized.
Exit from factory farming
Animals need more space for exercise, retreat and to act out their own behaviors.
We end chick shredding, torturous breeding at the expense of animal health and the misuse of antibiotics.
The slaughter of animals must not be done on a piecework basis.
We fight for small regional slaughterhouses and mobile slaughter facilities.
We consistently limit live transports to four hours.
Together with the farmers, we want to create the structural change to an agriculture that treats animals better.
We want to reliably label all animal products - including processed ones - so that consumers can make informed choices when shopping.
Promote alternatives to animal testing
We finally want to consistently reduce animal testing and make it superfluous as quickly as possible.
Every year, millions of animals are literally consumed in animal testing.
Animal-free methods cause significantly less animal suffering, and findings from animal experiments can only be transferred to humans to a limited extent.
We need a paradigm shift here.
In order to achieve this, we want to strengthen animal protection legislation and make rapid progress on alternatives to animal testing, such as organ chips, which simulate the human organism on a very small scale.
We also want to strengthen animal-free methods at universities, transfer the knowledge into teaching and give students the opportunity to get through their studies without animal testing.
III. WE SAVE THE CLIMATE
The man-made climate crisis will become a climate catastrophe if we do not drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
The massive burning of fossil fuels such as coal and oil is turning the earth into a greenhouse.
Extreme weather events such as storms, heat and droughts are already on the rise worldwide.
Sea levels are rising, glaciers are melting, and in many places water shortages and drought are becoming more dramatic.
Sea ice in the Arctic and Antarctic is shrinking rapidly, and permafrost from Canada to Siberia is thawing ever faster.
If we do not stop this development, up to 250 million people could be forced to leave their homes by 2050, according to figures from the United Nations Refugee Agency.
Even in this country, we are already feeling changes such as frequent hail, heavy rain, storms, and changing wildlife and plants.
The Federal Environment Agency warns of extreme drought and heat, flooding of rivers and the coasts.
In addition, our health is also threatened - by heat, infectious agents, allergies.
Fortunately, almost all countries on earth have recognized the need for climate protection.
The 2015 Paris climate agreement was a great sign of hope.
The rapid entry into force of the climate agreement is encouraging.
Now it needs to be implemented.
If Trump pulls out of the climate agreement, Germany and Europe must now take a decisive approach to climate protection.
Because the climate crisis won't wait until the U.S. government might change its mind at some point.
If the U.S. withdraws from financial support to poor countries most affected by climate change, then the EU must ensure that this gap is closed.
In trade policy, CO2 reduction targets must be a prerequisite for new agreements.
To this end, we want to work even more closely with ambitious states and also US states such as California - as the green-governed state of Baden-Württemberg is already doing in its climate alliance.
Unfortunately, the CDU/CSU and SPD are ignoring the reality of the climate crisis and are negligently risking the future of our children and the future viability of our economy.
Germany's emissions have been stagnating for over seven years.
We are miles away from the German climate target of reducing our CO2 emissions by 40 percent by 2020 compared to 1990 levels.
Angela Merkel and Martin Schulz are sticking to climate-damaging coal.
Agriculture and transport are emitting more and more greenhouse gases, and the energy modernization of buildings is not making any progress.
We want to move toward a climate-neutral future and modernize our economy ecologically.
To this end, we will phase out coal, further expand renewable energies, provide additional funds for the energy-efficient refurbishment of buildings, promote energy efficiency and all types of emission-free mobility, and make agriculture environmentally and climate compatible.
In this way, we secure jobs and social prosperity through sustainable business practices.
1. implement the Paris climate agreement now
We GREENS want to breathe life into the Paris Agreement.
The central instrument for this is a nationwide climate protection law, such as we Greens have already introduced at the state level, first in NRW and then in numerous other states.
In this way, we describe the climate protection path to 2050 and set binding and plannable targets.
In addition to industry and the energy sector, transport, agriculture and the building sector must also make their contribution.
It is they who are bucking the trend and seeing rising emissions.
If the targets are not met, policymakers must take action.
This is the only way to stay on the modernization path.
We want to finally put a price on greenhouse gas emissions that tells the ecological truth.
At present, those who heat up the atmosphere are getting off far too lightly, because CO2 certificates are far too cheap.
EU emissions trading must be reformed so that climate gas emissions once again cost real money.
To achieve this, surplus CO2 certificates must be permanently cancelled and the free allocation of certificates must be ended.
By introducing a statutory minimum CO2 price and an honest CO2 price outside the emissions trading system, we will ensure that investments in climate protection pay off in business terms and become easier to plan.
We will use these revenues to abolish the electricity tax, reduce the EEG surcharge and finance further climate protection measures - for example, the switch to low-carbon industrial processes and additional funding for socially responsible, energy-efficient building modernization.
After all, the success story of renewable energies must also lead to cost relief for private households.
Electricity from renewable energies must not be further disadvantaged compared to the climate killers coal, oil and gas.
In addition to national climate targets, European targets must also be aligned with the Paris agreements to save the climate.
A CO2 reduction of at least 95 percent compared to 1990 levels must be mandatory for all 27 states of the EU by 2050.
2. initiate coal phase-out now!
Without a swift coal phase-out, all these efforts will be in vain.
At least 80 percent of all fossil fuels must remain in the ground if "climate protection" is to be more than just an empty phrase.
Over the next four years, we Greens want to devote our full energy to making the coal phase-out irreversible.
Because greenhouse gases accumulate in the earth's atmosphere, it is crucial for the climate that emissions of climate-damaging CO2 are reduced without delay; what is less crucial is when exactly the very last coal-fired power plant is taken off the grid.
If all coal-fired power plants continue to run at full power, Germany would already use up its emissions budget in the energy sector by 2025 with a view to the 1.5-degree limit.
In order to meet Germany's international climate target for 2020, we will immediately take the 20 dirtiest coal-fired power plants off the grid and cap the CO2 emissions of the remaining coal-fired power plants in line with the climate targets.
We will shape the coal phase-out in line with our goal of 100 percent renewables in the electricity sector by 2030.
To this end, we are using the instruments of our coal phase-out roadmap, with which we are making the end of the coal age in Germany reliable in planning and irreversible.
We will ensure that the phase-out takes place in a broad-based dialog,
we will make it socially acceptable
and we will create new jobs.
Financing structural change must be a joint task of the federal government, the states and the energy companies.
We will prevent the opening of new opencast lignite mines and their expansion, as well as the construction of new coal-fired power plants, and we will no longer permit any new resettlements.
A coal phase-out law and an amended mining law create the basis for this.
This creates clarity for the companies, the employees and the people in the affected regions.
To protect the climate internationally, we will also stop the Hermes guarantees for the export of German coal technology.
Coal has no future!
3. climate protection at all levels
We have to act on all levels, use all possibilities and show how it can be done.
If we really want to keep global warming to well below two degrees, we need to fundamentally change the way we produce, the way we move, the way we build, the way we feed ourselves.
Our society needs to rethink its lifestyles and consumption habits and make them more sustainable.
That is why, for example, the decline in consumption of animal-based foods, the increase in bicycle traffic in cities, or the trend toward local vacations are also good developments from a climate protection perspective.
Reducing the consumption of raw materials also protects the climate.
However, especially in the case of construction and basic materials such as steel, cement, we are still pretty much at the beginning of the transformation.
We are leading the way with a climate-neutral federal administration, for example in public procurement, building refurbishment, and the vehicle fleet.
Targeted offers should encourage the municipal level to follow us.
Because even where it is not so obvious, great successes in climate protection can be achieved with little effort.
Despite all the efforts, we must adapt to the inevitable and prepare for climate-related heavy rainfall, storms and extreme heat - for example, through urban greening and other urban planning measures that also create more quality of life.
Moorland protection is also climate protection.
We will therefore ensure that intact peatland soils are better protected and that measures are taken to rewet drained peatlands throughout the country.
We Greens also face up to Germany's international responsibility.
We are committed to a pan-European dialogue on phasing out coal and nuclear.
GREEN stands for a European coal consensus and for European support for the transformation processes in the regions.
In the countries of the global South, we want to support alternative and low-carbon development, climate protection investments and adaptation to the inevitable consequences of the climate crisis.
This is fair, because the climate changes and damages in these countries are the consequences of the fossil age, from which we in Europe have benefited economically among the most.
Mitigating the damage of our past actions helps create fair opportunities.
Helping people to adapt to the climate crisis opens up new prospects for life in the countries most affected.
These funds supplement general development funding.
If you vote GREEN, you are voting for these three projects:
Introduce climate protection law
In Paris, all the countries of the world pledged to limit global warming to well below two degrees.
With a climate protection law, we want to make the necessary national reduction targets legally binding and define targets for all relevant sectors: Power generation, transport, agriculture, industry and building energy.
We are underpinning this with ambi tional action plans in the individual sectors: from the switch to environmentally friendly mobility to the protection of organic soils and energy-efficient modernization of buildings.
In this way, we provide impetus for investments in climate protection.
Putting an honest price on climate pollution
Those who heat up the atmosphere get off far too easy, because CO2 certificates are far too cheap.
EU emissions trading must be reformed so that the costs of emitting climate gases are borne by those who cause them.
This also creates fair competition for climate-friendly products and services.
Surplus CO2 certificates must therefore be permanently cancelled and the free allocation of certificates terminated.
With a statutory minimum CO2 price, we will ensure that emissions trading does not continue to run dry and that climate protection investments are economically viable and can be planned.
We use this revenue to finance further climate protection measures, for example the switch to low-carbon industrial processes and socially responsible, energy-efficient building modernization.
Coal phase-out now
No other technology releases more CO2, mercury and nitrogen oxides into the environment than coal-fired power generation.
We want to leave coal in the ground and get out of coal power.
In order to be able to achieve the internationally agreed German climate target for 2020, we will immediately take the 20 dirtiest coal-fired power plants off the grid and cap the CO2 emissions of the remaining coal-fired power plants in line with the climate targets.
We will shape the coal phase-out in line with our goal of 100% renewable energies in the electricity sector by 2030.
To this end, we have presented a roadmap for the coal phase-out, with which we are paving the way to the end of the coal age.
To set the right course, we are not allowing any new opencast mines.
We want to shape the necessary structural change in the regions together with all those involved
- ecological
and socially acceptable.
To this end, we are setting up a fund that will also be used for the remediation of mining damage.
IV. WE GREEN OUR ECONOMY FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION, QUALITY OF LIFE AND NEW JOBS
The technological leaps of the past two centuries have greatly improved the prosperity and quality of life of many people.
But it has been clear for a long time that the industrial economy not only creates prosperity, but also systematically destroys our common livelihoods.
Material growth does not increase the quality of life in every case.
The socio-ecological transformation of the economy is the existential task of our time.
Because today, our way of doing business still wastes valuable resources, heats up our climate and threatens our drinking water, our air and our soils worldwide.
In our own human interest, we urgently need to change that.
And it is possible.
We can improve our lives without having to keep growing materially.
We GREENS have been advocating the ecological modernization of industrial society since our founding.
Many people walk this path with us.
Citizens' initiatives and non-governmental organizations fight for nature and environmental protection.
Companies are in the black with green ideas, and corporate initiatives are committed to climate protection.
Our country has come a long way since the 1970s.
Exhaust gases are now filtered, wastewater is no longer simply discharged into rivers, and construction and production are more ecological.
Innovative entrepreneurs and inventors develop products and services that help improve our quality of life and reduce resource consumption.
They are the pioneers of green change, of a new, sustainable prosperity.
The task now is to drive the greening of the economy and especially of industry across all sectors.
The green energy transition has shown that it can be done: Germany has set out to supply its highly developed industrial society with electricity without climate gases and nuclear waste.
Now, courageous green politics and committed citizens, engineers and entrepreneurs are needed to bring ecological modernization to its goal.
1. setting a green framework for ecological modernization
Green economic policy sets ambitious targets in the form of limit values, CO2 reduction targets and product standards that can be achieved in realistic timeframes.
Although this is a bit of a burden for some energy-intensive companies, it creates planning security and provides impetus for investment.
We are the party on the side of the companies that are leading the way in this transformation and, for example, are already basing their investment decisions on a CO2 price.
At the same time, we promote new technologies and knowledge in the process.
In this way, we can manage to implement ecological modernization in the various sectors.
It is also clear that the public sector must not lag behind in ecological modernization, which is why we want to consistently gear public procurement to the most resource-efficient products and services in each case.
We will ensure that prices tell the ecological truth, because those who cause environmental destruction must no longer pass on the costs to the general public.
In this way, we also provide the right incentives for other - more environmentally friendly - technologies to be developed and quickly become marketable.
A competition for the best ecological solution is getting underway.
Ecologically honest prices reward companies that use resources carefully and reduce emissions.
Consumers also benefit when durable appliances save on new purchases and climate-friendly heating systems reduce utility costs.
We do not want to continue subsidizing environmentally harmful behavior.
For example, heavy-duty company cars and air travel are now given preferential tax treatment, even though they are more environmentally harmful than their alternatives.
Subsidies like these amount to over 50 billion euros per year.
It makes no sense to subsidize environmentally harmful behavior.
Ecological financial reform must therefore address the elimination of these ecologically harmful subsidies.
The first step is to cut the subsidies that are most harmful to the environment or the easiest to cut, amounting to at least twelve billion euros.
We want to invest this money in climate protection and support poorer households in particular in investing in energy and resource conservation.
Through ecological tax reform, we want to favor more ecologically sustainable production processes, products and services rather than those that are harmful to the environment.
We will examine the feasibility of including environmental as well as social objectives in VAT, as recommended by the EU Parliament in 2011 and repeatedly by the Federal Environment Agency.
2. securing the industrial location and jobs with green industrial policy
Ecological modernization is the way to secure the future for all branches of industry in Germany.
All industries must make their contribution to climate and resource protection.
And the same applies to all industries: If we miss the boat, as is threatening to happen with the electric car, for example, jobs and prosperity will be lost.
In concrete terms, this means moving away from the combustion engine and toward electric drive or zero-emission propulsion.
In shipping, away from heavy oil toward alternative propulsion systems.
Away from oil and gas and toward renewable raw materials in the chemical industry.
The construction industry can save resources and emissions with timber construction or textile concrete.
This is how we safeguard Germany as an industrial location.
Because our prosperity will continue to depend on good and secure jobs in the future.
We do this in dialog with companies, trade unions and academia.
But if necessary, also in conflict with the lobbies of the old industries.
Of particular importance in Germany is the automotive sector.
We want to help it make the leap into the 21st century, in which mobility must function without pollutant emissions.
This is a central question in view of environmental degradation and the climate crisis.
But making this leap is also of great importance for social cohesion in our country.
Because we want to prevent Wolfsburg or Stuttgart from becoming the Detroit of tomorrow.
That is why clear framework conditions are now needed for this industry.
We are implementing this with a clear roadmap for the expansion of electromobility and with the phase-out of the fossil combustion engine (--> Chapter: We ensure clean, affordable and convenient mobility, p. 56)
Ecological modernization is a gigantic innovation and investment program.
And it is a job engine.
It creates new work, not only for engineers and programmers, but also for craftsmen and construction workers.
Every billion invested in building refurbishment creates 10,000 additional jobs in construction, the skilled trades and industry.
The global market for environmental technology and resource efficiency has been growing rapidly for ten years.
German companies are well positioned in green tech.
German and European companies can create many additional jobs in these areas.
That's what we want to work on.
For us, it is crucial that good working conditions, co-determination and protection under collective agreements apply to ecological modernization: This is another reason why we are calling for a nationwide alliance of skilled workers between the state and industry to strengthen the skilled trades.
However, jobs will also be lost in carbon-intensive companies and business sectors.
Here we take care of good social security, further training and new opportunities.
Our aim is also to withdraw as much capital as possible from fossil fuels and instead channel it into areas where it can generate sustainable prosperity.
and creates new jobs.
According to the motto: The Stone Age ended, although there were still countless stones - and the fossil age must end, although there is still plenty of coal, gas and oil in the ground.
The keyword here is "divestment" and means the withdrawal of investments from oil, coal and gas.
Many German corporations, as well as the federal government, states, municipalities, public banks and insurers have invested a lot of money in fossil fuels.
This means that public money is also being used to fuel the climate crisis.
We want the public sector to lead the way here and end its dirty investments, especially as these investments are becoming more and more of a financial risk.
This is because the implementation of the Paris Climate Agreement renders such investments worthless.
That is why we demand: divest now!
3. managing differently to decouple prosperity and resource consumption
Growth must be decoupled from environmental consumption worldwide - and prosperity and quality of life from growth.
We want an economy that does not have to blindly keep growing and in which long-term sustainability counts more than short-term return targets.
We Greens want to counteract the social compulsion to "more and more, faster and faster".
Technical innovations alone will not be enough to achieve this.
It also needs the support of sustainable consumption and a different way of doing business.
For example, it is not just about simply replacing the combustion engine with the electric motor, but also about switching to innovative forms of mobility such as car sharing, promoting public transport, walking and cycling and thus reducing the need for cars, as many people are already doing.
Others are involved in communal living, solidarity-based agriculture, energy cooperatives or exchange rings in the sense of a solidarity-based economy, which we want to promote.
The same applies to the construction industry, which takes up a predominant share of our planet's resources, which must be used responsibly.
This requires a sustainable building culture that takes into account all aspects of planning and building.
Good building culture enables acceptance, participation and sharing as well as the recycling of building materials; it is the basis for ecological modernization and for more quality of life in our cities and villages.
First and foremost, we want to change the way we measure wealth in the first place.
We propose a new form of economic reporting for this purpose.
The figures for gross domestic product (GDP), which has been the central metric to date, do not really reflect quality of life and prosperity very well.
Unpaid care work, which is mainly performed by women and forms an indispensable basis of our prosperity, is also currently not taken into account.
In addition to economic developments, our Annual Wellbeing Report also presents ecological and social developments based on measurable criteria.
The contribution to the common good should also be transparent in the case of public companies.
As a first step, we want to introduce public interest accounting for Deutsche Bahn.
And all larger private companies are to report on sustainability indicators such as CO2 emissions in their annual financial statements in the future.
We want to abolish existing exemptions for unlisted companies and for many banks and insurers.
Only with creativity and inventiveness will we succeed in doing business differently and better.
Science and research as idea generators, pioneers and critical companions therefore need freedom.
We want to support small and medium-sized enterprises in particular in their ecological modernization, among other things by providing tax incentives for their expenditure on research and development.
With sta rt-up financing, infrastructure and a new, suitable legal form, we are giving the pioneers of change a tailwind.
We want to provide financial support specifically for women starting up businesses through a funding program.
We consider both the establishment of cooperatives and the common good economy to be another central building block of a different way of doing business.
Cooperatives combine entrepreneurial action with a focus on the common good and are a crisis-proof engine of an economy oriented toward the common good.
In order to stimulate a wave of cooperatives being founded, we want to de-bureaucratize the legal form of the registered cooperative and free it from outdated procedural regulations.
4. taking advantage of the ecological opportunities offered by digitization
Through digitization, we can make many things in the economy much more ecological and contribute to an ecological mobility and energy turnaround.
To improve energy efficiency, we will support the business community and further promote green IT concepts.
Smart grids, i.e., intelligent, digitally controlled networks, help, for example, to balance out the fluctuating amounts of electricity from wind and sun.
We can digitally network modes of transport and thus manage traffic flows more intelligently.
Bits and bytes can not only reduce energy and materials, but in some cases replace them altogether.
Video conferencing replaces business trips, working from home reduces commuter flows.
Never before has it been so easy to share things via sharing platforms.
This reduces material consumption.
But this requires the highest data security and consumer protection standards.
In this way, we create future-proof jobs and new business models and protect our livelihoods.
On the other hand, a successful energy transition is also needed so that energy consumption becomes sustainable in the course of digitalization.
We have described in the chapter "We are shaping digitization" how we intend to shape digitization with fair competition and investments in the future in a crisis-proof economy.
If you vote GREEN, you are voting for these three projects:
Reduce environmentally harmful subsidies, invest in climate protection
An absurd over 50 billion euros of taxpayers' money is spent annually on climate and environmental killers.
Among other things, heavy company cars, air travel and diesel receive unfair tax privileges.
We Greens want to dismantle these environmentally harmful subsidies and save at least twelve billion euros as a first step.
By making prices increasingly tell the ecological truth, we are supporting the ecological transformation of our value chains and creating incentives for green innovations, climate protection, sustainable mobility and environmentally friendly agriculture.
At the same time, we are addressing one of the most harmful forms of tax waste.
Divestment: No coal for the coal!
Despite the Paris climate agreement, investors - from big insurers to small municipalities - continue to pour big money into climate killers.
That is why we demand: divest now!
- Withdraw the money from climate-damaging business models!
Companies are required to disclose the climate risks of goods or products in their annual reports.
In this way, we are increasing the pressure on major investors to divest CO2-intensive financial stocks.
Public-sector institutions and federal financial institutions should set a good example in this respect.
We want to help states, municipalities and pension funds to invest in a climate-friendly way.
We want to introduce transparent certification so that green investment opportunities are recognizable to all investors.
True prosperity is more than growth: for an annual prosperity report
Prosperity is more than the development of the gross domestic product.
We therefore want to introduce a new prosperity report.
It measures both economic and ecological factors,
social, equality policy and societal developments.
This is because criteria such as our ecological footprint, biodiversity
, income distribution or an education and health index provide a better and more comprehensive picture of our prosperity.
This new, more holistic form of the annual report makes undesirable developments and the need for political action more clearly visible.
V. WE ARE SWITCHING - COMPLETELY TO GREEN ENERGIES
Energy is the fuel of our lives.
We all depend on them.
In the past two centuries, people have obtained their energy by burning mainly coal, gas and oil.
This has enabled the economic development of industrial societies.
But this type of energy production has also led us into the climate crisis with enormous amounts of exhaust gases.
In the past 60 years, fossil energy has been joined by nuclear power.
It was and remains a highly risky and extremely expensive aberration.
Coal and nuclear power have had their day.
We GREENS have a plan for the energy world of the future.
It is possible and our goal to cover the energy supply and energy storage of electricity, heat and for all transport completely with sun, wind, water, sustainably produced bioenergy, ambient temperatures and geothermal energy.
We have been working for the realization of this energy turnaround since our foundation.
In this way, we can secure our prosperity in the long term without destroying our livelihoods in the process.
Climate protection and energy transition as well as environmental protection and nature conservation are crucial for our future and are shaped with the local citizens.
The energy transition has already created hundreds of thousands of jobs - far more than were lost with coal and nuclear.
This means that the energy transition is not only good for the climate.
It also strengthens our economy and creates secure jobs.
1. energy transition: Success through perseverance
We Greens initiated the energy transition in government in 2000 with the decisions to phase out nuclear power and promote green energies.
It was worth it.
Today, twelve nuclear power plants in Germany have already been shut down, and the rest will be taken off the grid in five years.
We say, "Nuclear power? No thanks!"
One third of our electricity is already generated from wind, sun, water and bioenergy.
In Schleswig-Holstein, which is co-governed by the Greens, the figure is already 100 percent.
We have green electricity coming out of the socket.
And it is now even cheaper than electricity from coal and nuclear power.
Green electricity is produced by many small producers.
The energy revolution is decentralized and in the hands of citizens.
Their commitment has broken the oligopoly of the four large electricity companies.
The energy transition is an industrial policy milestone on the road to a green economy.
But despite its success, the energy transition is not a foregone conclusion.
And it has opponents.
In 2010, the CDU/CSU, together with the FDP, tried to reverse the nuclear phase-out.
The permanent pressure of the anti-nuclear movement and ultimately the Fukushima disaster made them abandon these plans.
Black and yellow had to bow to realities.
But instead of focusing on 100 percent renewables, the federal government drove the solar industry out of the country
, destroying tens of thousands of jobs in an industry of the future.
The grand coalition is putting the brakes on and capping the expansion of renewable energy wherever it can.
It is destroying the momentum of the energy transition - this is not how Germany will achieve its climate protection goals.
We Greens think this is fundamentally wrong.
Germany must resolutely continue along the path of energy transition.
Just as the Greens are already doing in the state governments with ambitious expansion plans.
We want to convert the energy industry to renewables
and create many thousands of new jobs.
In Germany, we have the technology, the skills and the will of the citizens.
We Greens are the political force that, together with the people, is leading the energy transition to success and always readjusting where necessary.
For example, in Schleswig-Holstein with regard to the demand-controlled lighting of wind turbines to avoid unnecessary flashing at night, or the temporary shutdown when bats are active and birds are migrating strongly.
2. into the new electricity world - switch completely to renewables
The green EEG is also a success story because it has drastically reduced the cost of solar and wind power worldwide and thus contributed significantly to sustainable development.
100 percent green electricity by 2030, that's our goal.
To this end, we will initiate the coal phase-out and abolish the black-red expansion brake for renewables.
That's how we're putting the momentum back into the energy transition.
This requires further development of the Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG) and a new electricity market design, i.e., gearing the energy system to renewable energies and load management instead of fossil-fuel power plants.
We Greens want to substantially increase the annual expansion targets and bring them into line with the climate targets of the Paris Climate Agreement.
Millions of citizens who turn their roof or basement into a power plant or participate in energy cooperatives are and will remain our most important allies.
They are driving decentralized expansion.
That's why we want to exhaust all possibilities under EU law to exempt renewable energy projects from bureaucratic tendering requirements and unjustified levies.
We want to abolish the senseless levying of the "sun tax" and introduce a green electricity market model so that green electricity from German renewable plants can once again be marketed as green electricity.
Tenants should also benefit from the advantages of a climate-friendly and cost-effective energy supply by replacing the current bureaucratic monster with simple and manageable electricity models for tenants.
We are reducing the billion-euro electricity price rebates for industry to a minimum and instead are easing the burden on consumers, trades and small and medium-sized enterprises.
Only those companies that are actually in international competition and energy-intensive processes are to receive rebates, and these are also to be linked to the implementation of energy efficiency measures.
Municipalities in which renewable energies are being expanded are to benefit more from the expansion.
We ensure that the expansion of renewable energies and necessary networks is consistently thought through together with nature conservation and landscape protection and planned transparently.
We want to give citizens the opportunity to help shape the future at an early stage.
In grid expansion, we are giving priority to underground cables and want overhead lines - initially in nature reserves and bird migration corridors - to be retrofitted with bird protection markings.
To ensure solidarity in the financing of the energy turnaround, we want the costs of the power grid to be distributed fairly according to the source and also regionally.
By reforming the electricity market, we are creating new incentives to use or store energy flexibly and effectively when a lot of power from the sun and wind is available.
At these times, we want to replenish storage or convert electricity into heat or gas to heat homes or power vehicles.
We want to support highly efficient and increasingly renewable combined heat and power generation so that it can react ever more flexibly to the electricity market and thus supplement electricity from wind and solar power.
We make it possible to generate electricity and heat from renewable sources.
We will prevent harassing levies, charges and excessive bureaucracy.
At the same time, the generation and distribution of electricity in Europe must be better interconnected.
The sun is shining and the wind is not always blowing.
From a European perspective, however, there is a large offsetting effect.
If the weather and climate regions in Europe from the Atlantic to the Baltic, from the Mediterranean to Scandinavia, are better interlinked, the need for storage and reserve power plants will also decrease.
That's why we are driving forward the European Energy Union and want to expand it into a genuine climate union.
3. trigger efficiency revolution
As before, the best kilowatt hour is the one that is not consumed.
We want to usher in an efficiency revolution.
That is why we are presenting an energy-saving law that sets ambitious but realistic targets.
There is still a lot of potential for savings, especially in industry.
With our "Fair Heat" program and specific support measures for saving energy, we are also giving private households a helping hand.
We want to promote the use of renewable heat in existing buildings, encourage the energy-efficient modernization of houses and entire neighborhoods, and expand local heating networks and the use of waste heat.
We want to shape the specifications for energy-efficient buildings required by the EU in such a way that new buildings consume very little energy and are mainly heated by renewable sources.
One thing is clear: The switch to climate-friendly heating will only succeed if housing and heating remain affordable.
Abusive displacement of tenants during redevelopment must be prevented by changes to tenancy law.
Electricity savings checks and energy consulting are to become standard.
We Greens want to support households with small budgets in particular.
At European level, we will advocate ambitious targets for energy and resource efficiency.
To this end, we want, among other things, to anchor the "top runner" principle throughout Europe: for all equipment with the same range of applications, the most efficient device will be made the standard.
Power guzzlers that do not meet this standard within three years disappear from the market.
4. switch off nuclear power for good
On the way to the new electricity world, we want to leave the nuclear past behind us for good.
In 2022, the last reactor in Germany will be taken off the grid.
We also want to ensure that no more electricity is transferred to the Emsland and Brokdorf nuclear power plants, which are clogging the grids for green electricity with their nuclear power.
As long as nuclear power plants are still running, they must meet the highest safety standards.
That is why we want to shut down the Grundremmingen nuclear power plant immediately because of the safety deficiencies in earthquake resistance and in emergency and aftercooling, which are contrary to regulations.
The subsidization of nuclear power must end.
We want to achieve this by reintroducing the fuel element tax.
Since a new application of nuclear technologies is out of the question for us GREENS, we want to put an end to spending tax money on research into nuclear fusion, transmutation or fourth-generation reactors.
Germany must get out of the multi-billion euro ITER project.
However, with the end of nuclear power plant operation, the nuclear age is far from history.
We need a final repository for the highly dangerous nuclear waste.
The Final Repository Search Act initiated by Winfried Kretschmann and the result of the Final Repository Commission have created a good basis for this:
In the search that is now beginning, safety criteria have priority and the citizens in the affected regions will be involved on an equal footing in an open-ended search process.
We will find the best possible repository.
And that cannot and will not be Gorleben, because we have ensured sharp scientific criteria in the search for a final repository.
Until the best possible final disposal is achieved, nuclear waste needs the best possible interim storage.
We will initiate a process to decide how to handle the world's most dangerous waste until final disposal, with the involvement of the countries, the siting communities and civil society.
We are also committed to the safe dismantling of decommissioned nuclear power plants in Germany.
Our goal, however, is to put an end to the dangerous game with nuclear fire everywhere in Europe.
Scrap reactors like Tihange and Doel in Belgium or Fessenheim and Cattenom in France must be taken off the grid immediately.
We want to adapt the Euratom Treaty, which enshrines the privileges of nuclear power, to modern times.
If this is not achievable, we will campaign for Germany to withdraw from Euratom.
We will only end our fight against nuclear power when the nuclear phase-out has been achieved - in Germany, Europe and worldwide.
The nuclear phase-out is therefore also foreign policy.
That is why we also want to terminate the operation of the uranium enrichment plant in Gronau and the fuel element factory in Lingen, which still supply all of Europe with radioactive fuel, as quickly as possible, definitively and with legal certainty.
If you vote GREEN, you are voting for these three projects:
Fair heat - climate-friendly and affordable
The energy turnaround must make progress in the heating sector.
In buildings, we need to save energy and expand renewable energy.
The switch to climate-friendly heating will only succeed if housing and heating remain affordable.
To this end, we want to launch the "Fair Heat" subsidy program.
With at least two billion euros a year, we are supporting the energy modernization of entire residential districts.
We strengthen tenants through a robust rent brake.
We are minimizing the allocation of modernization costs and introducing a new climate housing allowance so that housing allowance recipients can also live in an energy-efficient manner.
We support cities and communities in sustainable heat supply with 400 million euros for 10,000 heat storage units.
With "tenant electricity" from the roof, tenants also benefit from the energy transition.
Sustainability in energy, building materials and costs must be standard in the future by considering the life cycle of our houses
and creates jobs for local craftsmen.
For green energy - switch completely to renewables
We still want to stop the man-made climate crisis.
This can only be achieved with 100 percent renewables.
By 2030, we want to cover our electricity requirements entirely from renewable energies.
To this end, we will abolish the caps on the expansion of renewables and amend the electricity market design and the complicated levy system on energy in favor of renewables and the use of storage.
By 2050, the energy supply for buildings, mobility and process heat in industry should also be exclusively from renewable energies.
That's why we are moving swiftly to link the electricity, heat and mobility sectors and exploit sensible electrification opportunities.
Cutting the nuclear supply chain
The nuclear phase-out in Germany is incomplete as long as we continue to supply Europe's nuclear reactors with fuel elements.
As Greens, we therefore want to close the uranium enrichment plant in Gronau and the fuel element factory in Lingen.
As long as nuclear power plants are still running, they must meet the highest safety standards.
The Gundremmingen boiling water reactor, however, poses a particular risk.
The same applies to the scrap reactors on our borders, such as Tihange and Doel in Belgium, Fessenheim and Cattenom in France, Beznau in Switzerland or Temelin in the Czech Republic.
We are campaigning for them to be taken off the grid immediately.
VI. WE PROVIDE CLEAN, AFFORDABLE AND CONVENIENT MOBILITY
We are on the road every day - to work or shopping, we visit distant relatives and go on vacation.
Being mobile is part of our lives.
We GREENS want to make it easy for everyone to reach their destination in the most environmentally friendly and sustainable way possible.
Transport 2017 means that more and more people are switching to buses, trains and bicycles - especially in cities.
Public transport reaches new passenger records.
Cycling and the sale of e-bikes are booming.
Car sharing reports ever increasing numbers of users.
People vote "with their feet" and defy the often still adverse conditions.
Missed connecting trains, overcrowded buses and streetcars are often a sad reality, as are desolate train stations and poor foot and bike paths.
Rural regions in particular lack attractive and comprehensive local transportation.
For many, transport in 2017 therefore still primarily means driving a car, also because there are too often no alternatives.
At the same time, parts of our society, such as women, older citizens and people with disabilities, but also young people, have their own cars much less frequently and are therefore inevitably dependent on good public transport.
That's why we will ensure that in the future people can reach their destinations in an environmentally friendly way by public transport, by rail, on safe cycle paths and footpaths, and with clean cars.
This will also make our cities more livable and greener.
Traffic 2017 unfortunately also still means: 70 percent of all climate-damaging emissions in our cities come from traffic, two thirds of all citizens feel annoyed by traffic noise.
Nitrogen oxides and particulate matter cause respiratory diseases.
At many intersections in large cities, pollution levels exceed the permissible limits.
Congestion adds up to a total of one million kilometers a year.
The Federal Minister of Transport is failing completely here: Instead of avoiding or shifting traffic, landscapes are being concreted over, noise and exhaust fumes are being generated and more and more resources are being consumed.
The Minister of Transport responds to each new supposed bottleneck by expanding and building new roads.
Overpriced prestige projects such as Stuttgart 21 are cutting off targeted investments in reliable everyday mobility.
Superfluous regional airports are artificially kept alive by subsidies worth millions.
We GREENS rethink mobility with quality of life, without noise, dirt and congestion.
And where we govern, we implement this together with green-affiliated movements.
For example, the network Volksentscheid Fahrrad in Berlin has ensured that something is happening with the urban traffic turnaround.
In Berlin, the green transport administration is working with cyclists to introduce a cycling law as part of a mobility law.
Baden-Württemberg is forging ahead with the expansion of the infrastructure for e-mobility.
We invite everyone to actively participate in the transport turnaround.
While the grand coalition is stuck in the 1960s and continues to focus its transport po litics solely on the car, we want to invest in a new, sustainable and diverse range of mobility options.
For us, this includes a dense and modernized rail network that guarantees punctuality and coordinated connections throughout Germany - and where possible also across borders throughout Europe.
This also includes safe and fast routes for all cyclists from young to old, quiet cars without exhaust and with driving fun as well as the electric charging station just around the corner.
We are committed to ensuring that pedestrian traffic, too, finally receives appropriate appreciation and financial support.
Our goal is sustainable and family-friendly mobility instead of more and more traffic.
That means cleaner cars and more car and bike sharing, better train and public transport services for everyone in the city and in the countryside.
Our public transport system must be usable by all - that's why we are fighting to make it barrier-free.
We want better sidewalks and more space to play and stroll in our cities, better air to breathe.
Everyone should be able to sleep peacefully again, even near airports, railroad lines and busy roads.
Together with the citizens, we want to initiate the traffic turnaround.
1. preservation before new construction, rail before road, more money for cycle paths and new mobility concepts
The conditions for transport in Germany are currently one-sidedly oriented toward the car.
We want to change that so that our mobility is fit for the future.
With a federal network plan instead of the road-heavy Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan, we GREENS are putting an end to the current chaos in transport planning.
We rely on: Preservation before new construction, rail before road, more money for bike paths.
We want to plant one million new trees along federal highways.
Transport infrastructure as a service of general interest must not be privatized, not even indirectly through PPPs or as in the case of the now planned federal trunk road company.
We reject the anti-European and bureaucratic toll on foreigners and want to abolish it as soon as possible.
We create fair competitive conditions for all modes of transport.
While every train has to pay track access charges on every kilometer of track, only just under one percent of the road network is subject to tolls.
We want to include all trucks over 3.5 tons and gradually the entire road network of federal and state roads in the truck toll.
This is fair to the polluter, because a single fully loaded 40-ton truck wears out roads and bridges as much as several tens of thousands of passenger cars.
We reject so-called gigaliners.
Emissions from air traffic contribute significantly to CO2 pollution.
That is why airlines must finally be taxed fairly: It is not understandable why airlines are exempt from kerosene tax.
We want to put an end to this.
The use of cheap heavy fuel oil for cargo and cruise ships must be drastically curbed.
We demand and promote the conversion to more environmentally friendly energy sources.
Noise makes you sick!
We therefore want to invest significantly more in noise abatement.
To this end, we keep an eye on all noise sources - from rail to air traffic.
We are committed to creating the legal basis for a ban on night flights that is oriented toward nighttime rest, and we call for binding noise abatement plans to reduce aircraft noise that is harmful to health.
We want noise limits to apply equally to military and civilian airports, and to old and new airports.
We want to end the proliferation of regional airports financed by subsidies.
We Greens are calling for sustainable demand planning for the airport network that ensures that overcapacities are reduced and that noise and climate protection are finally taken into account in a consistent manner.
To make it easy to get from A to B everywhere, our goal is to link the 130 transport associations in Germany.
Just get on and go, without getting lost in the fare jungle and studying long timetables.
With the green MobilPass, we are creating the possibility of booking and paying for one's own travel throughout Germany just like commuting to work with a single smartcard or app - from door to door.
At the same time, tickets sold anonymously and in analog form remain available.
Passengers will then be able to use and combine different means of transport in a network anywhere in Germany: Buses, trains, ferries, cabs, car sharing and rental bikes.
We want to design the MobilPass in such a way that other countries can participate.
We are committed to making it possible to book European train tickets across multiple countries easily and affordably online.
Green mobility is ecological
and social.
To make them affordable for everyone, we want low-cost fares for students, recipients of transfer payments, trainees and senior citizens.
We want standard rates to be structured in such a way that they cover the costs of social tickets.
All those who have little money should also be able to afford mobility without their own car via social tickets.
We want to support young parents in the crucial phase of starting a family with a parental leave ticket.
We want a green turnaround in transport that takes everyone with it.
Mobility ensures social participation.
That is why we are open to a pay-as-you-go public transport system.
We want to remove the legal hurdles for local authorities and support ten local authorities nationwide with model projects in the next legislative period that want to switch to pay-as-you-go and free public transport.
2. good railroad for all
Good railroads - for long-distance and short-distance traffic - are crucial for a change in transport policy.
We GREENS want to strengthen public transport and double passenger numbers.
We want to transport more goods by rail and waterway and thus relieve the roads.
To achieve this, we are creating a better competitive situation for climate-friendly modes of transport.
Billions of euros are currently being wasted on subsidies for diesel, company cars and air traffic, or on superfluous roads and airfields.
This is enormously harmful ecologically.
Instead, we want to expand rail networks and local transport in cities and rural areas
and make them barrier-free.
With the "Local Transport Program of the Future," we want to improve local services and quality with an annual investment of one billion euros.
We also want to invest more in noise protection.
For us GREENS, one thing is clear: No more noisy freight cars should be used from 2020.
With the Deutschland-Takt, a nationally linked timetable, we want to optimally coordinate long-distance and regional public transport and think about freight transport from the outset.
Then long waiting times for connections will be a thing of the past.
We also want to close the gaps in cross-border rail traffic.
Because rapid transit as well as regional rail lines are seldom developed across borders, people far too often choose to travel by air or car in Europe.
We want to change that.
Rail is to become an attractive alternative in European transport.
When train service is reliable and smooth, train travel is the first choice for many.
We want at least all major cities to be served by long-distance services again.
We want to tackle rail reform that puts passengers' interests at the center and creates a diverse and attractive rail service.
Rail travel and freight transport are to become cheaper, and in return we want to reduce track access charges.
The reform must cleanly separate the network from DB AG's transport companies and transfer it to neutral state responsibility.
This is how we create the conditions for more traffic on the railways.
On the rail network, electromobility has long been best practice.
However, only on about 60 percent of the network.
We want to rapidly increase this share with an electrification program and promote the use of alternative drive systems and more fuel-efficient vehicles in rail transport.
We want to transport more goods by rail and are committed to an intelligent combination of transport options.
3. the car of the future drives without exhaust fumes
Of course, tomorrow we will still be on the road with cars - our own, rented or shared.
In rural areas in particular, the alternatives of car sharing and public transport are not yet adequate.
But there will be fewer cars overall and they will be powered by electricity from the sun and wind or hydrogen instead of diesel and gasoline.
With zero-emission vehicles, we are making car traffic more climate and environmentally friendly.
The goal must be to initiate a successful technology shift.
Only with innovative powertrains will our automakers remain competitive and at the same time preserve valuable jobs in the automotive industry.
The most effective instrument is ambitious CO2 limits, i.e. consumption limits that are also complied with on the road.
For reasons of industrial and climate protection policy, the next German government must set a clear target: From 2030, only emission-free cars are to be newly registered.
The age of fossil combustion engines will then be over.
But electromobility as an opportunity for climate-friendly mobility is more than just replacing the combustion engine in cars with an electric motor.
To this end, we will specifically strengthen electromobility in road transport by providing support for all municipalities that convert their inner-city logistics traffic to e-vehicles and cargo bikes, as well as temporary financial subsidies for electric local buses, electric cars and electric cargo bikes.
We want to convert the diesel bus fleet to electric buses as quickly as possible.
We will also increase our support for research into the mobility technologies of the future.
To ensure fair financing, we want to reform the motor vehicle tax and introduce a bonus-malus system for new cars.
Those who cause a lot of CO2, NOx and particulate matter emissions will then pay more.
We Greens want to link the taxation of company cars to CO2 emissions in the future and give significantly better treatment to fuel-efficient cars.
Our cars should not only comply with the prescribed limits in the laboratory.
What counts is consumption on the road.
Unlike the grand coalition, which has covered up and covered up the fraud of the car companies against the environment and consumers, we Greens are not resigned to the fact that exhaust emission regulations for passenger cars are only complied with on the test bench.
We will put an end to this hoax and the deliberate violation of our health.
Exhaust and consumption tests must become realistic and their results comprehensible.
The auto industry must rework vehicles at its own expense, both those already in service and corresponding new vehicles, such as those in the Euro 6 standard, that do not meet their limits on the road.
We want independent institutions to create effective controls.
Municipalities need additional support to enforce limit values for better air.
We GREENS give them legal instruments to strengthen environmental zones, for example by introducing a blue sticker.
Cities and municipalities are to be given more options under traffic law to guide and limit inner-city traffic and make it safer.
To this end, they should, for example, be given the right to decide independently and unbureaucratically on the introduction of speed limits such as 30 km/h in built-up areas.
We demand that municipalities be given easier opportunities to implement structural traffic calming measures on interregional roads.
In addition, we want to make it legally possible for municipalities to apply new concepts, such as those in Stockholm or London, to strengthen public transport.
We want traffic safety for all users of public space.
That's why we're striving for Vision Zero - the goal of reducing traffic fatalities to zero.
Speeding is not a trivial offense, but a deadly hazard that we must do more to combat.
To this end, we are calling for a speed limit on highways of 120.
Our road traffic is reaching its limits.
Many cities are clogged with cars and suffer from air pollution and traffic noise.
We are taking cities like Paris, Oslo and Zurich as models and greening the inner cities.
Because quiet traffic flow, sufficient space for play and exercise as well as nature in the middle of the city speak for a high quality of life.
This also includes avoiding traffic through sensible settlement development and settlement policy.
We want to expand measures to push back parking violators.
There are good solutions for our everyday mobility - and people want them.
More than 80 percent of Germans are calling for transportation planning that focuses on more pedestrian and bicycle paths, expands car-sharing services and expands public transportation.
The national cycling plan must finally be implemented and financially backed.
Getting from A to B comfortably, affordably and without searching for a parking space in a city of short distances - these are the goals of a modern transportation policy.
Part of this is the construction of cycle lanes or the conversion of road space for temporary play streets, for example.
We must now set the course for a smart approach to autonomous vehicles.
On the one hand, there are dangers - such as additional traffic or displacement of rail traffic.
At the same time, we see many advantages in terms of traffic safety, strengthening public transport through autonomous buses, or reducing noise and land consumption.
Public transport companies in particular must actively address this development.
If you vote GREEN, you are voting for these three projects:
Germany-wide MobilPass - everywhere, everything inside
We want to advance green mobility: To this end, we are introducing the MobilPass.
With a smartcard or app, all public transport services as well as car and bike sharing will be accessible.
Vacation trips as well as the commute to work can be booked and paid for from a single source - without having to spend a lot of time studying tariff and usage conditions.
Seamless, foolproof and affordable.
For us, mobility for all means making particularly favorable offers to all people who have to get by on little money.
We pay attention to accessibility and broad accessibility for citizens of all ages.
The "Local Transport Program of the Future" investment program creates an improved public transport service - in rural and urban areas.
We link long-distance traffic optimally with regional and local traffic connections - with the Deutschland -Takt.
This interval timetable makes all destinations throughout Germany seamlessly and reliably accessible.
From 2030, only emission-free cars are to be registered.
We GREENS want future-proof vehicle technology to continue to be developed and produced in Germany.
For us GREENS, the decision is therefore clear: From 2030, only emission-free cars should be newly registered.
The tax, fiscal and infrastructural conditions for this must now be created.
In this way, Germany can meet its climate and environmental targets and the industry can reliably focus its development work on electromobility as a whole.
Those who cling to diesel and gasoline engines are inhibiting the vehicle industry from making itself fit for the 21st century.
Expanding bicycle traffic - more space for the bicycle
More and more people use the bike because it is fast, cheap and convenient.
We want to significantly improve the infrastructure for bicycles.
The federal government must assume more responsibility in this regard.
Together with the states and municipalities, we are building high-speed cycle paths and a nationwide network of high-quality long-distance cycle routes.
We want to enforce bicycle transport on all trains.
We will introduce purchase incentives for electrically assisted cargo bikes, because they have great potential in delivery traffic.
In the road traffic regulations, we are creating bicycle-friendly rules such as the "green arrow" for cyclists.
C. WORLD AT A GLANCE
In recent decades, the world has become ever closer together.
In Europe, thanks to the civilizing power of the European Union, we are experiencing a very long period of peaceful coexistence - longer than ever before.
Borders have also been opened worldwide, economic relations have been globalized, and cross-border contacts have become a matter of course.
Fewer and fewer people are living in extreme poverty.
A defining experience of recent years, both European and international, has been that the world has been made a better place in many places through collaboration.
At the climate conference in Paris, we saw what can be achieved when there is the will to work together.
The United Nations' commitment to meet global sustainability goals by 2030 was also a success of international cooperation.
Likewise, the fact that persistent diplomacy has succeeded in reaching an agreement with Iran that reduces the risk of nuclear armament gives us hope.
These experiences show: We can only achieve real global change and collective security together and cooperatively.
But at the same time, this world is facing dramatic challenges.
A multitude of wars, crises and conflicts threaten peace and also affect Europe.
This applies not least to the extremely brutal war in Syria and the global terror of the "IS" and other Islamist groups.
The warring parties have de facto suspended international humanitarian law; we are facing one of the worst humanitarian disasters of our time.
More people than ever before are forced to leave their homes.
On the African continent, people are fleeing violence, lack of economic prospects, gender-specific persecution and the current worsening famine disasters, especially in Somalia, South Sudan, Nigeria, but also in Yemen.
The social gap is widening.
At the same time, the climate crisis is exacerbating existing global inequalities.
Resource conflicts over water and raw materials are increasing tensions in many regions of the world.
Economic prosperity and new wealth are contrasted by inequality and ecological depletion.
Many states share responsibility for the emergence of current crises and conflicts.
Under President Putin, Russia has contributed to a significant increase in international tensions with its annexation of Crimea in violation of international law, its military action in eastern Ukraine, and its brutal military intervention on the side of Assad.
We are concerned to see that the willingness to disarm is declining, arms budgets and arms exports are rising and the logic of deterrence, long believed to have been overcome, is being reintroduced by all sides.
The unpredictable presidency of Donald Trump in the United States and his "America First" policy pose significant new challenges for German and European Union policy.
To ensure that the transatlantic community of values remains strong, we want to strengthen exchanges with American civil society and federal states.
Economic, military and cultural polarization is the opposite of a world order based on understanding and cooperation.
Plans for nationalist isolationism and trade wars, denial of the climate crisis, negation of the Geneva Convention with regard to the requirement to help refugees and on the prohibition of torture undermine the urgently needed joint action.
The challenges for global commitment to democratic values and a peace policy could therefore hardly be greater.
We Greens want to play our part in making life politically peaceful and safe in the coming decades of the 21st century,
ecologically sustainable,
solidarity and social justice.
We want to strengthen multilateral cooperation and, above all, the United Nations.
The global community must take responsibility for international peacekeeping,
global development opportunities
and the implementation and realization of human rights.
The EU should be a peace project, both internally and externally.
We can achieve this by developing Europe further, strengthening international institutions and understanding justice as a cross-border task.
It is about cooperation instead of nationalism.
We want Germany to assume more global responsibility for peace and justice in the world.
It starts at home.
We reject an increase in the arms budget to two percent of economic output.
We want to provide more funding for crisis prevention and also make the internationally promised 0.7 percent of our economic output available for global development on a permanent basis, without counting the costs of refugees at home.
We want to stop exporting weapons to crisis regions and dictatorships.
We GREENS want Germany to do more to resolve conflicts and crises, or better yet, to prevent them.
Our approach against the causes of flight can be an important building block in enabling people to have a perspective on life in their countries.
This means that we will fight the causes of flight and not the refugees.
We Greens do not want to turn back the clock on globalization, but to do so in the interests of ecological sustainability,
social justice
and human rights principles.
We finally need coherent action within the framework of the Global Sustainability Goals, which is why we must stop undercutting our own international cooperation with arms exports, unfair trade or tax avoidance.
We want to offer protection to those who flee to Germany from war, violence or persecution.
But also with regard to immigration, we want to finally adapt citizenship law to reality.
We Greens are convinced Europeans.
A strong, democratic and reformed European Union is exactly what we need in a world of uncertainty.
We want to make Germany's euro and European policy more solidary, so that Germany helps to unite and strengthen Europe.
We Greens are the European party and stand up for a better Europe for all citizens, especially in the face of nationalist and right-wing populist efforts.
The European Union is still the best example of how supranational partnership and cooperation can work for the benefit of all.
And it gives hope: a more peaceful world, a world of solidarity, a better world is possible.
I. WE FIGHT FOR EUROPE'S COHESION
European unification to date is a truly great historical achievement.
It means: cooperation instead of nationalism and never again war.
This achievement of several generations of Europeans must not be jeopardized.
Unfortunately, it is once again very controversial today, with right-wing nationalist movements and parties questioning it altogether.
It requires new commitment to secure and develop them.
This is what we Greens stand for.
We are the political force that defends Europe against right-wing nationalism and continues on the path of European integration.
Because the European Union is our home.
With European unification, a long and painful history of wars, hostilities and destruction was finally largely overcome.
Today, the European Union is a guarantor of peace and of our universal values.
Freedom, equality, democracy, rule of law, gender equality, religious freedom, respect for human dignity, human rights, tolerance, social market economy - these are the foundations of the European Union.
Today, we citizens of the Union can travel, study, work and live without borders within the EU, we can believe what we want and love whom we want.
We GREENS stand for this living together in unity and diversity and this European Way of Life.
We want to further expand these achievements and make them tangible for everyone.
To this day, the way people and states in the European Union work together and resolve conflicts is unique in the world.
For a good future, we need the European Union all the more.
The major cross-border problems of our time are too big for small states: the fight against the climate crisis, hunger, poverty, war and terrorism, corruption, the just shaping of globalization, as well as the commitment to a humane refugee policy and the participation of all in social prosperity and progress.
We can only manage all this with a functioning EU.
It must be the democratic response to globalization.
This is another reason why we Greens are and will remain convinced Europeans.
For us, "more Europe" means making the EU stronger and developing it further where joint action is necessary and makes sense in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
Precisely because we value and need the European Union, we want it to be more social, more solidary,
Ecological
and more democratic.
We want a Europe that opens up opportunities for everyone.
Social division, exclusion,
We do not accept compliance with strong lobbies and authoritarian tendencies.
We Greens will continue to develop the EU, because we still have a lot planned for it.
Right now.
1. for a strong Europe against division and authoritarian tendencies
The success of the GREENS in the Netherlands and the presidential elections in France and Austria, with the victory of the convinced Europeans Alexander Van der Bellen and Emmanuel Macron, have shown how you can convince people with a clear European course.
The new French government under President Emmanuel Macron is a powerful partner for reform in Europe.
We are united with him in our firm belief in open societies in Europe.
France and Germany must now meet each other at eye level and together realize a strong social-ecological Europe.
President Macron has rightly called for an end to austerity policies and a major European investment offensive.
We will support this course and, together with the EU institutions, vigorously drive forward necessary reforms in the eurozone and the EU as a whole.
We will not be discouraged by the outcome of the Brexit referendum and the successes of right-wing populists and will continue to stand up for our values.
The top priority in the Brexit negotiations with the United Kingdom must be a strong European Union.
The cohesion of the EU 27 and the interests of its member states have undoubted priority, which is why there must be no "exit à la carte".
As before, free access to the EU's internal market may only be possible if the uniformity of European law, the law-making and jurisdiction of the Community institutions and the validity of all four fundamental freedoms, in particular the free movement of persons, are preserved.
Keeping Europe together will be the task of the new German government in the negotiations.
This means that Germany, too, must be prepared to assume more financial responsibility in order to keep the EU capable of acting at all after Brexit.
For us, the citizens of Great Britain belong to Europe.
We are open and sympathetic to the wishes of the Scottish and Northern Irish people, as well as to the many people in the United Kingdom who want to remain in the EU.
We will therefore continue to advocate close cooperation between the EU and the United Kingdom in the future.
In addition, we make it clear: Our door remains open.
The European Union remains a project of peace and growing together.
We therefore extend our hand to all those who want to continue to shape the future together under the umbrella of the EU.
We want to make it easy for all British citizens who have been living in Germany for a long time to become German citizens and thus remain EU citizens.
We want to keep Europe together.
We know it won't be easy.
We welcome initiatives that continue to think about Europe in a constructive and visionary way in these times and take to the streets for the EU.
A Europe of a lively civil society based on solidarity, which gives new impetus to the European idea, is an important corrective to the Europe of the states and to the burgeoning national egoism.
Therefore, we support the diverse pro-European citizens' movements throughout Europe.
Because the differences within the EU are great.
We are working to ensure that all European member states support a solidarity-based refugee policy.
We want open borders in the Schengen area again.
We, too, are outraged by the way democracy and the rule of law are being eroded in the middle of Europe, for example in Hungary or Poland.
This is what we oppose.
We therefore want the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights to apply to all laws throughout the EU.
We Greens stand up for a Europe that holds together, protects minorities - such as Sinti and Roma - fends off anti-emancipatory tendencies - for example against the sexual self-determination of LGBTIQ* - and in which the individual states and inhabitants show mutual solidarity.
This also requires a rethink on the part of many national governments.
The same applies to the German federal government.
Europe will only move forward if everyone is willing to compromise.
That is why Germany must be prepared, for example in its euro policy and its export surpluses, in the fight against youth unemployment and projects such as Nord Stream 2, or in matters of internal and external security, to be more responsive to the needs of other European states.
In order to make Europe tangible and tangible for the young generation, we want to improve direct exchange - for example, with a free Interrail ticket for the 18th birthday.
The task of the EU is to preserve Europe's common cultural heritage and to promote open, shared culture.
That is why we want to introduce a European news and education channel.
The joint channel is intended to contribute to the creation of a common European public sphere.
To this end, a broadcast format in all major European languages, including Russian and Turkish in particular, is essential.
Our goal remains an EU in which everyone sticks together and which develops in a consensual manner.
We reject a core Europe or a division of the EU.
A multi-speed Europe must not be the default mode, but it must be possible.
This enhanced cooperation must always be open to all EU states and organized within the framework of the EU treaties.
The rights of the European Parliament and the EU Commission must be fully respected.
2. invest in an ecological and social Europe
The economic crisis in Europe is far from over.
Especially in Southern Europe, millions of young people are still without a job or career prospects.
The Grand Coalition is skimping on the EU budget, insisting on a one-sided austerity policy, supporting false privatisations, obstructing debt relief for Greece, Eurobonds and public investment, and thus deepening the division of Europe.
We need a paradigm shift and propose a social-ecological modernization project, away from austerity and toward more investment in the future.
The European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI) must be reformed and increased.
The necessary triad of investment, reform and fiscal solidity will only ring true if the priority for investment is not made impossible by austerity policies.
When we govern, that becomes one of our priorities.
As the first part of our Green New Deal for Europe, we GREENS propose a Sustainable Investment Pact.
In this way, we are investing in the social and ecological renewal of the European economy.
We are driving forward a strong Climate and Energy Union, supporting innovation and new production technologies in industry, using resources and energy efficiently, focusing on the circular economy and digitization that benefits everyone.
We want a functioning European emissions trading system, agricultural subsidies linked to ecological criteria, and strict minimum ecological and social standards for products and raw materials placed on the European market.
Our projects are citizen-centered and pan-European: nature conservation, cross-border rail, energy and data networks, research, cultural exchanges and youth programs.
The Green New Deal will also create apprenticeships and jobs for young people.
Germany should take on a model role here and involve the Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW) more closely in supporting European SMEs in particular, so that they train more young people and get them into work.
Young people all over Europe should feel again that Europe does not leave them alone.
We want to finance this through a new Future Fund in the EU budget, which is to be fed by funds from a newly created European fiscal pact.
The pact creates more tax fairness and reduces tax shortfalls.
Swiss tax CDs, Luxleaks or the Panama Papers are examples of how the super-rich and international corporations evade their contribution to the common good or, as in the case of the Cum-Ex tax tricks, even enrich themselves at the expense of society.
The proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base aims to simplify taxation for companies operating across the EU and to eliminate tax avoidance.
In order to effectively prevent harmful tax competition, the corporate tax base should be linked to a minimum tax rate for all companies based in the EU and regularly reviewed, for example by the European Parliament.
Tax avoidance and evasion must be more effectively prevented and punished.
We are missing out on many billions of euros every year through inaction to date.
We will also lead the way nationally in the fight against tax fraud.
We want to add a social progress clause to the Lisbon Treaty.
We also advocate minimum standards in the area of social security and the labor market.
We fight for the principle of "equal pay for equal work in the same workplace" for all workers.
It is important to us that the cross-border movement of workers is better socially secured so that they do not fall through a ras-ter of nationally fragmented social systems.
We want to strengthen economic governance via the European Semester.
As recommended by the EU Commission and demanded by the trade unions, we want to achieve a wage development that enables greater external economic balance in the long term.
We do not want unfair competition among European countries to push down wages.
As a goal in this area, we advocate the introduction of a European unemployment insurance scheme.
3. for more transparency, more participation and a strong EU Parliament
Europe's democracy thrives on participation, co-decision-making, involvement and interference.
The EU is democratically legitimized.
But like any democracy, it has weaknesses that we want to reduce.
Too often, European democracy is determined too unilaterally by the actions of national governments rather than by the European Parliament.
We want to achieve greater European publicity and legitimacy.
That is why we want to continue to have European top candidates for the office of Commission President.
Parties should also run for the EU Parliament with transnational lists.
For this purpose, we can use part of the seats of the British MEPs that will become vacant after Brexit.
We want the directly elected European Parliament to become the central place for all European decisions and to be given the right to introduce its own legislative proposals.
It is also to have an equal say in the area of economic and monetary union; to prepare for this, a committee for euro issues is to be set up with special information rights.
We want to transform the current euro rescue mechanisms into a European Monetary Fund controlled by the EP.
The EP must remain the sole parliamentary representation for all EU citizens.
We reject any forms of Euro-subsidiary parliaments.
In order to strengthen the link between the Eurogroup and the European Parliament, we propose to elect the EU Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs as the next President of the Eurogroup.
It must be possible to vote out the EU Commission and its president by means of a constructive vote of no confidence by a simple instead of the current two-thirds majority of MEPs.
To improve transparency, the Council of Ministers should always meet in public and everyone should be able to know which country votes how.
We also want to strengthen national parliaments through comprehensive information rights secured by treaty, so that the actions of their own government in Brussels can be influenced more strongly.
Today, there are unnecessarily high hurdles for European citizens' initiatives, which we want to dismantle.
Finally, all EU citizens should enjoy full civil, social and political rights in the states where they live.
EU citizens should be granted the right to vote in state elections in Germany.
In perspective, the citizenship of the European Union should be developed into a European citizenship.
We call for more transparency through a mandatory lobby register.
A "legislative footprint" is intended to make visible who is influencing policy, with what budget, on whose behalf, and on what topic.
Commissioners and top decision-makers are to be subject to stricter waiting periods before they can move to new positions.
4. the EU as a capable actor in foreign, development and security policy
European citizens rightly expect the EU to do more in foreign, development and security policy, to speak more often with one voice, to do more for our internal and external security.
We Greens are committed to greater Europeanization of foreign, development, peace and security policy.
No European country is capable of successfully meeting international challenges on its own.
This is all the more true at a time when Russia's aggressive great power policy under President Putin, the isolationist and nationalistic policies of US President Trump and the many trouble spots in the Middle East and North Africa are fundamentally changing the framework conditions for the EU's security.
For us, the civilian aspect is paramount.
Funding and personnel for civilian crisis prevention and EU civilian police and rule of law missions must be increased in line with demand and thus significantly.
We oppose a fatal paradigm shift of reallocating hitherto civilian funds from the EU budget for military or refugee defense, as well as misusing the Investment Bank and the Instrument for Stability and Peace for military purposes.
We want to further develop the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP), the Common Security and Defense Policy (CSDP) and the European External Action Service.
The EU should actively participate in a global peace order within the framework of the United Nations
and contribute to the creation of a pan-European system of cooperative security based on the OSCE.
We take the new security concerns of the Eastern European countries very seriously in this regard.
A solution to the conflict in Ukraine can only be a political and diplomatic one.
Therefore, we remain committed to the Minsk process.
We consider targeted sanctions by the EU against responsible individuals, public and private sector institutions to be an effective means of foreign policy and currently maintain sanctions against the Russian Federation.
We believe that concrete steps for increased cooperation and integration of the armed forces in the European Union make sense and are part of the response to international developments.
It does not make sense to increase military spending, and we also reject corresponding demands from NATO to increase military spending to two percent of gross domestic product.
We are concerned with pooling capabilities at the European level through closer joint planning, cooperation and coordination, rather than continuing the waste of public money.
This must be accompanied by a strengthening of the European Parliament's right to have a say.
and go hand in hand with a common restrictive arms export policy.
The EU must also become more active in shaping its neighborhood policy.
The EU's enlargement policy is a success story for us.
It stands for peace and stability in Europe.
However, the accession of each individual country must continue to be consistently made dependent on progress in the accession process and the fulfillment of the Copenhagen criteria.
We want to integrate all Western Balkan states into the EU without changing their borders and make the accession promise credible through deeper cooperation with as many Western Balkan societal actors as possible.
We GREENS continue to stand firmly by the side of those in Turkey who stand up for democracy, the rule of law and openness to the world.
We condemn Erdogan's policy of an authoritarian presidential system, the massive attacks on the opposition, civil society, freedom of expression and freedom of the press.
The Turkish military's war and the PKK's terror in southeastern Turkey are being fought on the backs of civil society.
Military interventions in Syria and northern Iraq also continue to escalate violence in the region.
There can only be a peaceful and political solution for the future of the Kurds.
A fundamental remeasurement of European-Turkish relations is now needed.
More than ever, Germany and Europe must take a clear stand for democracy.
and human rights.
That is why we will stop German arms exports to Turkey.
Politically persecuted persons should find refuge in the EU and the visa requirement should be abolished.
Negotiations on an expansion of the Customs Union can only take place if Turkey makes a U-turn back to democracy and the rule of law.
This also applies to the continuation of accession talks, which are already de facto on hold.
To completely abandon it now would send the wrong signal to the pro-European and democratic forces in Turkey.
For a democratic and open-minded Turkey, the doors to the EU must remain open.
Europe also has a special responsibility for Africa.
We want to support our partner countries in creating livable prospects for the people on the ground and thus also eliminate the causes of flight in the long term.
That is why we are proposing a pact for the future between the EU and Africa.
We also want to make it easier for trainees and students from African countries to enter the EU.
If you vote GREEN, you are voting for these three projects:
Future Fund for Ecological and Social Modernization
We Greens want to set up a future fund in the EU budget for Europe,
which uses public investment to promote ecological
and social modernization,
It also supports member states in emergency situations and combats economic crises.
All EU states are to be allowed to participate in this fund in return for stronger measures against aggressive tax avoidance and tax evasion.
With such a fiscal pact, we are launching an investment offensive for a modern and just Europe.
In this way, we want to reduce the social divide in Europe by introducing minimum standards, and we want to strengthen the European Youth Guarantee.
In the EU, every young person should have a training place or a job no later than four months after leaving school.
Strengthening democracy in the EU - creating a citizens' Europe
We want to develop Europe together with its citizens and make it more transparent, more democratic and more tangible.
We want to strengthen the directly elected European Parliament as the central place of European democracy, among other things by giving it the opportunity to introduce its own legislative proposals.
The Council of Ministers and its preparatory bodies should meet in public in the future.
We want a mandatory lobby register and a legislative footprint so that it can be seen who worked on a law and when.
We want to expand participation instruments such as the European Citizens' Ini tiatives and European Citizens' Forums.
We strengthen social exchange and open the European Peace Service to all.
Pact for the Future between the EU and Africa
Europe has a historical responsibility towards Africa and we are connected in many ways.
We want a Green Pact for the Future with the countries in Africa that is jointly developed and supports the agenda of the African Union.
The focus is on civil crisis prevention and the establishment of rule-of-law structures as well as functioning tax systems.
We want to promote sustainable economic development through the expansion of renewable energies and social-ecological investments.
In particular, we pursue a fair agricultural and trade policy with a fair cooperation with African producers and a sustainable development of the African smallholder landscape.
This is how we create prospects for people in Africa.
II. WE STAND FOR PEACE, GLOBAL JUSTICE AND HUMAN RIGHTS
In 2017, we are living in a time of dramatic upheaval in world politics.
Hopes for a global peace order are in danger of fading.
Wars and conflicts in the European Union's neighborhood have continued to intensify in recent years.
In such a situation, prudence, a multilateral orientation, the strengthening of international law, and civilian approaches are more urgent than ever.
Our orientation is the many positive developments worldwide.
We will work in partnership to help countries protect human rights, strengthen democratic structures and the rule of law, develop sustainably and enable people to live in freedom and dignity.
Human rights are the guiding principle of our foreign policy engagement.
Germany and the EU must assume more responsibility for shaping a peaceful, just and cooperative world order.
Germany itself must ratify and implement all human rights agreements without reservation.
The past years have shown that through global partnership, solidarity and cooperation, the world can become a better place in many places.
We Greens want to continue resolutely along this path.
Our foreign, security, peace and development policy focuses on strengthening international law, multilateral cooperation and civil crisis prevention, particularly within the framework of the United Nations, EU and OSCE.
The world will only become safer if we cooperate more closely, not less, internationally.
NATO is an important transatlantic link and plays an important role for common security in Europe.
We want to transform it in such a way that it can also make a greater contribution to cooperative security with third parties.
That is why we also rely on dialogue in the NATO-Russia Council.
This is especially true now.
The framework for our global responsibility policy is provided by the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
They also call on Germany and other industrialized countries to change their overall policies, because sustainable development
and a commitment to peace start at home.
We fight for globally sustainable development,
social justice
and democratic participation.
This includes curbing money laundering and corruption.
For us, the human being with his dignity, his inalienable rights and his freedom is at the center of international politics.
We are guided by the enforcement and protection of human rights,
especially the rights of women.
1. focus on human rights, crisis prevention and development
In today's globalized world, foreign and domestic policy can hardly be separated.
Resource conflicts, refugee movements and the common challenge of the climate crisis show that the world's problems can only be solved across borders.
Peace, freedom, a life in dignity and the protection of global public goods are equally due to all people.
We strongly criticize the fact that authoritarian regimes in many countries are trampling these values underfoot.
They must not be considered our "allies" and supported politically and militarily.
Democratic models of society are coming under increasing pressure.
Not only in Russia, China or Egypt, but also in Turkey, the massive restriction of freedom of expression and the rule of law is now a bitter reality.
Human rights defenders must be better protected worldwide and must be a topic of bilateral government negotiations.
We want human rights officers in all German embassies.
The work of non-governmental organizations and democratic movements is increasingly obstructed and criminalized by the state.
This also applies to political foundations and their promotion of local civil society structures.
We want to address the structural causes of inequality, of poverty and hunger, of climate and resource crises, and of violent conflict.
Important for this are policy reforms in Germany and other industrialized countries in line with the Sustainable Development Goals,
the creation of framework conditions conducive to development in partner countries, and an expansion of multilateral cooperation.
Our economic, financial, trade, agricultural and arms export policies must no longer pursue sustainability goals such as peace and security.
Human rights,
and global justice.
That is why we want to create a Council for Peace, Sustainability and Human Rights to review government action with a view to the Sustainable Development Goals and recommend adjustments.
We will increasingly promote civil society and also involve the private sector in accordance with binding human rights and social-ecological criteria.
We reject the privatization of public services.
Public-private partnerships must not lead to new debt crises and must serve the common good and sustainable development.
With our international cooperation, we want to strengthen rule-of-law structures,
expand social security and health systems,
establish food sovereignty, promote climate protection,
enforce equal rights and self-determination for girls and women,
and advance access to education.
To this end, we are reforming the instruments of our international cooperation for greater efficiency and effectiveness.
We base agreements with partner countries on mutual commitments - for example, on tax cooperation and smart capital controls.
We advocate for an orderly sovereign insolvency process at the United Nations and for a financial transaction tax, the proceeds of which would be used in large part for development and climate finance measures.
Linking development cooperation to readmission agreements is not a basis for a human rights-based development policy.
Gender equality and the enforcement of women's rights are important factors for a human rights-based foreign and development policy.
In doing so, we also stand up against discrimination and for the protection of the human rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans*, inter* and queer (LGBTIQ*) people.
In 2007, principles for the application of human rights in relation to sexual orientation and gender identity were adopted in Yogyakarta.
We want to continue to promote and implement these within the framework of German foreign and development policy.
We are finally delivering on the now almost 50-year-old and oft-repeated promise to allocate 0.7 percent of our economic output to global development, without charging costs for refugees in Germany.
We stand for reliable development financing and humanitarian aid for people in need as well as greater financial and personnel commitment within the UN, EU and OSCE.
Foreign cultural and educational policy plays an important role.
We therefore want to strengthen the work of the Goethe-Instituts, Deutsche Welle, the political foundations, the DAAD and other actors for the dialogue of cultures.
The humanitarian needs of the United Nations to prevent famine or the worst disasters are repeatedly not met by the international community, and when they are, it is often only after repeated appeals and special summits.
We advocate for a humanitarian pledge from the international community to prevent widespread famine and the worst disasters in time.
We defend international humanitarian law.
With us, the federal government will take a humanitarian leadership role and fund its share of current needs at the beginning of each year.
By creating an Institute for Humanitarian Affairs, we want to enable Germany to make humanitarian aid more effective.
Despite the acute crises in the Middle East, Germany and the EU must not lose sight of a peace solution in the Middle East conflict.
We GREENS continue to advocate for a two-state settlement to ensure the continued existence of the State of Israel as the national home of the Jewish people and for the benefit of all its inhabitants, and the creation of a sovereign, viable and democratic State of Palestine based on the 1967 borders.
There can only be a non-violent solution.
We turn against terror.
We reject illegal settlement construction.
We acknowledge Germany's special responsibility towards the State of Israel and its right to exist and its security within secure borders as cornerstones of German foreign policy.
At the same time, we support the right of Palestinians to live in self-determination, peace and security, free from occupation and with respect for their human rights, in their own democratic state.
We are in favor of the democratic strengthening of the Palestinian state, its recognition by Europe and its admission to the UN.
While we do not deny Palestinian civil society the right to decide for itself on non-violent strategies to end the occupation,
Alliance 90/The Greens reject a boycott of Israel as an instrument of German and European foreign policy.
We want to continue to work with all forces in Israel that oppose a continuation of the occupation and support a two-state solution.
2. stop arms exports to crisis regions, promote disarmament and arms control
The sale of arms and military equipment to regions with crises and conflicts exacerbates them instead of containing and resolving them.
Thus, arms exports to Saudi Arabia and other belligerents feed the wars in the Middle East, as well as the military dictatorship in Egypt and the so-called drug war in Mexico.
The use of small arms claims a particularly large number of victims.
The economic interest of individual companies trumps the interest in crisis prevention and conflict resolution in the German government's balancing decision.
This must finally come to an end.
We will therefore introduce a legally binding and restrictive new Arms Export Act to ensure that trade in all military equipment is subject to strict criteria and massively limited.
The final destination must be secured.
Exports to countries outside the EU, NATO and NATO-equivalent countries may only take place in a very limited number of justifiable cases and only within the framework of the UN Charter.
Arms sales to conflict areas and countries where serious human rights violations take place must finally be prohibited by law without exception.
Arms export control must be transferred from the Ministry of Economics to the Foreign Office and regulated by comprehensive parliamentary control.
In particularly sensitive cases, the Bundestag is to be informed in advance about pending approvals.
At EU level, we are fighting for a restrictive and parliamentary-controlled arms export policy.
We oppose the further erosion of existing arms control and disarmament agreements.
We want to revive confidence-building, disarmament and arms control and set our own example.
Global disarmament must become a cornerstone of German and European foreign policy - especially in troubled times.
We fight for a world without nuclear weapons and for outlawing them under international law through an international convention.
It is irresponsible that the black-red German government voted against a UN draft resolution to ban nuclear weapons in August 2016.
We will continue to fight for complete nuclear disarmament.
We GREENS demand the withdrawal of the last nuclear weapons from Büchel and the final abandonment of "nuclear sharing", which is against international law.
We are strictly against an independent nuclear armament of the EU.
We also advocate an international convention for the prohibition of autonomous weapons and combat robots and oppose the procurement or development of weaponized drones for the Bundeswehr.
We call for an international code of conduct on cybersecurity that includes a voluntary commitment not to make civilian (network) infrastructure the target or instrument of military attacks.
We do not want the USA to use its bases in Germany for attacks that violate international law.
The overflight rights and military bases of foreign armed forces in Germany may only be used in accordance with international law.
3. strength of the law instead of the law of the strongest
We GREENS rely on the strength of the law instead of the law of the strongest.
Recognition of the United Nations' monopoly on the use of force is a prerequisite for this.
But the UN is only as strong as its member states allow it to be.
That is why we are working to ensure that Germany makes a greater financial and personnel commitment within the UN, its sub-organizations and regional organizations such as the OSCE.
We are convinced that lasting peace can only be achieved politically, not militarily.
That is why civil crisis prevention and civil conflict transformation are central concerns of Green international policy.
Today, they are more important than ever and belong at the center of German foreign policy.
We also want to promote consistent peace education.
We are committed to strengthening civil crisis prevention financially and structurally.
To this end, we call for strategic and coherent action across all departments and policy areas, reviewed by a National Council for Peace, Sustainability and Human Rights.
We want to improve early warning, policy analysis, and mediation capabilities.
We want to strengthen the working capacity of civil society organizations and increase the capital of the German Foundation for Peace Research.
It is also necessary to expand the number of rapidly available police, rule of law and administrative experts as planned.
The action plan to implement UN Resolution 1325 on the protection of women and girls in armed conflict and on the equal involvement of women in crisis prevention, conflict management and peacebuilding must be given a financial basis and be geared to impact.
We want Germany to become a member of the European Peace Institute and to initiate a circle of friends for crisis prevention at the United Nations and in the EU.
Peace missions of the United Nations, the EU and the OSCE make an important contribution to conflict management and peacekeeping worldwide.
We want to increase German civilian and military contributions in these missions.
The use of military force is always an evil.
However, we recognize that there are situations in which military force may be justified as a means of last resort under narrowly defined circumstances.
The UN's concept of the responsibility to protect states that it is the responsibility of the international community to take action when national governments are unable or unwilling to protect people from serious human rights crimes.
The first priority must always be prevention, that is, preventing violent developments.
We GREENS stand for a culture of military restraint and for the primacy of the civilian.
We never take the decision on military missions lightly, but examine possible mandates critically and carefully.
For us, the UN Charter applies.
We will only agree to Bundeswehr missions with a mandate from the United Nations.
Operations must be in conformity with the Basic Law, i.e. they must not take place in unconstitutional coalitions of the willing, but within the framework of a system of collective security such as the United Nations, the European Union or NATO.
It requires a precise and comprehensive mandate from the Bundestag and careful consideration of the dangers, opportunities, and risks.
A military deployment of the Bundeswehr must be embedded in a comprehensive civilian overall strategy and in clear concepts for the future of the state concerned.
In order to avoid strategic or political mistakes, as in the Afghanistan mission, complex international peace operations must be permanently reviewed and adapted in terms of their objectives, effectiveness and means.
We therefore call for clear review criteria for foreign deployments and independent evaluation.
Injustice must be addressed, which is why we support reconciliation efforts and the work of the International Criminal Court.
The capacities of German authorities to consistently prosecute war crimes in accordance with the principle of international law should be strengthened.
Blocking the UN Security Council from taking key decisions threatens to weaken international law and the UN and must be overcome.
The United Nations must become more capable of action again.
In the event of a persistent deadlock in the UN Security Council, the UN General Assembly should claim the right, by qualified majority, to declare the Security Council deadlocked and adopt peace enforcement measures in its place under Chapter VII of the UN Charter.
At the same time, the Security Council should be reformed in such a way that the balance between the member states is improved.
We also want to strengthen and support the United Nations politically and materially in this context.
Supporting the goals and missions of the United Nations is an important task of the Bundeswehr.
The Bundeswehr must become more UN-capable and fit for Europe.
The Bundeswehr must be well equipped to meet these challenges.
But this does not require an increase in the defense budget, but clear security policy priorities, more European cooperation and an end to the inefficient procurement policy of recent years.
We must finally put an end to the burning of taxpayers' money with prestige armament projects motivated by industrial policy and the electoral wishes of individual members of parliament.
It has proven its worth that the Bundeswehr is a parliamentary army.
We reject all plans to restrict parliamentary prerogatives and want to expand the control and participation rights of the Bundestag.
We want to strengthen internal leadership and the willingness to investigate grievances in the Bundeswehr and focus on more civic and political education.
It is important to us that the soldiers have good framework conditions: appropriate remuneration, leadership culture and personnel management, compatibility of family and service, as well as care and aftercare that meet the difficult requirements of the missions.
We reject the recruitment of underage recruits.
We remain committed to the vision of placing our own standing forces under the UN's authority, subject to parliamentary participation.
If you vote GREEN, you are voting for these three projects:
0.7 percent for global development instead of two percent for rearmament
We clearly reject an increase in military spending to two percent of economic output.
Instead, we want Germany to finally deliver on its promise of greater global justice.
That is why we will achieve the goal of spending 0.7 percent of economic output on global development by 2021 by increasing spending on development cooperation and international climate protection by two billion euros a year and continuing to grow climate funds thereafter.
We will not count expenses for refugees in Germany.
We align these funds strictly with the sustainable development goals of the United Nations.
This is also a contribution to civil crisis prevention and, in the long term, to combating the causes of flight.
The fight for sustainable development and effective climate protection must go hand in hand.
For an arms export law - no weapons in crisis regions
We want to stop arms exports to crisis regions and states with a problematic human rights situation with a restrictive and binding Arms Export Act and tighten up the current legal situation.
We want to transfer the lead responsibility for arms export licenses to the Federal Foreign Office.
In the future, the entire federal government is to decide on export licenses by consensus.
In previously clearly defined, particularly sensitive cases, the Bundestag is to be informed in advance about pending approvals.
We want to grant non-governmental organizations the right to take legal action to have the legality of approved arms exports reviewed.
At the European level, we are fighting to make EU-wide joint arms export controls much more restrictive.
For a strong United Nations - meeting the international responsibility to protect
We are committed to a policy based on human rights and international law.
The central actor at the global level is the United Nations.
In their existing structures and their current equipment, they can no longer meet the growing global challenges.
That is why we want to make Germany and the EU pioneers in civil crisis prevention - conceptually, financially and structurally.
The United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) must do a better job of saving lives in the face of rapidly growing refugee numbers around the world.
And the international community must take action when national governments are unable or unwilling to protect their citizens from genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes, or ethnic cleansing.
We therefore want to strengthen the United Nations so that it can actually exercise its responsibility to protect.
We want to initiate reforms in the structures of the United Nations and equip it better, both in terms of personnel and material.
World in view
III. WE MAKE WORLD TRADE FAIR
Globalization is characterized by drastic contradictions.
It makes relations and exchanges between countries closer.
It has never been so easy to travel to distant lands.
Science and culture also cross-fertilize through international exchange.
From the moment we get up until we go to bed, we are surrounded by products that would not exist without global trade.
Germany benefits from open markets.
Globalization has also led to an increase in prosperity in the countries of the global South and hundreds of millions of people out of extreme poverty.
But globalization also has an anarchic, unjust and brutal side.
In many countries, poorer and richer alike, people are exploited or played off against each other in a global value chain.
Wealth gains are very unevenly and unfairly distributed - between states and within states.
The destruction of our natural livelihoods has accelerated due to globalization.
And the unleashed international financial markets and large corporations have gained too strong an influence on political action.
That is why our goal is to make globalization fairer also by strengthening global institutions; for example, by better regulating international financial flows (--> Chapter: We share prosperity more fairly, p. 190) and also by reshaping international trade.
Hundreds of thousands of people in Germany and other European countries have demonstrated in recent years against TTIP, TiSA and CETA, against a continuation of neoliberal globalization from above.
We are fighting alongside them to stop these agreements and renegotiate them on the basis of social, environmental and human rights criteria.
In the case of CETA, we want to do everything we can to ensure that the agreement is not ratified in this form.
Both the nationalist way of countering the dark sides of globalization with isolationism and the neoliberal way of forcing globalization without regulation lead to the abyss.
We stand for a different way - the way of peaceful and open cooperation and global solidarity.
Fair global trade can ensure that the benefits of globalization reach more people.
As an export-oriented, large economy, Germany has a special responsibility.
Germany must therefore help to ensure that the European Union, as the largest single market, confidently takes a leading role in regulating world trade and shows how fair trade is possible.
We need it for a social-ecological transformation.
1. just rules for the world
To make trade fair, rules must be negotiated jointly by all countries, i.e. multilaterally.
This must be done within the framework of the World Trade Organization (WTO).
Because otherwise the powerful countries make the rules of the game and the poor are left behind.
In this way, we want to strengthen access to affordable generic drugs for low- and middle-income countries.
In particular, the EU should support countries of the Global South to use the safeguards and exceptions of the WTO patent protection system (TRIPS).
At the same time, these countries must not be pressured by means of free trade agreements to introduce an extension of monopoly protection and a restriction of access to medicines via TRIPS-plus.
There is also a need for a global research fund to provide incentives to better treat neglected and infectious diseases.
For this to succeed, the WTO must be fundamentally reformed and revitalized under the umbrella of the United Nations.
With the adoption of the United Nations' global sustainability goals and the conclusion of the Paris Agreement on climate change, the international community has set key targets for combating hunger and poverty, reducing global inequality and reducing poverty.
and for the preservation of our ecological foundations of life.
The industrialized countries can and must lead the way in terms of fair burden sharing.
These targets must also apply to the shaping of world trade and a reform of the WTO.
For example, all participants in world trade should comply with the core labor standards of the International Labor Organization (ILO).
From raw material to finished product, work must be decent and global competition for the lowest wages must stop.
Our aim is to develop a new generation of fair trade agreements with both developed and developing countries in the future.
and sustainable trade agreements.
By racing to the top of ever higher global standards, we will guarantee good work and maintain local value.
In addition to traditional trade issues, we also set social, environmental and human rights standards in fair trade agreements - including rules to prevent tax evasion, fight corruption, promote biodiversity, ensure food sovereignty, implement international social, climate, environmental and human rights standards, and ensure the free formation of trade unions.
All are equally enforceable and sanctionable.
We do not want a new trade agreement between the EU and the US or other countries without the Paris Climate Agreement being signed by all future contracting parties and the trade agreement guaranteeing compliance with the Paris targets.
The "Group of 20 most important industrialized and emerging countries" (G20) must also stand up for fair globalization.
Although it should be tied back to the United Nations in the long term, it can be helpful if the economically strong countries come together to discuss international rules.
But the G20's impetus to drain tax swamps and control international financial markets must be followed by action.
To this end, we want to enforce an effective set of rules to combat tax and capital flight so that uncontrolled outflows, especially from poor countries, are stopped.
The next German government must not only continue to push for ambitious goals within the G20, but also establish binding implementation mechanisms through the multilateral organizations.
Around 800 million people around the world are still going hungry.
Two billion people are malnourished.
Particularly for mothers and children, malnutrition threatens to cause serious permanent damage to health.
There would be enough food available.
The right to food must finally be implemented consistently.
This requires a fair European trade and agricultural policy.
We will also promote farming structures more intensively here and worldwide with the aim of strengthening food sovereignty.
More consistent regulation of the financial markets - against excessive speculation in food - also plays an important role in the fight against hunger.
In addition, the interests of agricultural corporations such as Bayer and Monsanto, with their enormous market power, threaten the traditional trade in farmers' seeds.
We fight against the patenting of seeds and land grabbing, because they threaten biodiversity and food sovereignty by depriving women in particular of their local livelihoods.
We are vehemently committed to ensuring that Germany uses national laws and international agreements to help ensure that investors and state institutions comply with the voluntary guidelines of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations on land rights, fishing grounds and forests.
2. new start for fair agreements
TTIP, CETA, TiSA, JEFTA and other such agreements are so controversial because citizens' rights have become a bargaining chip.
We GREENS reject these agreements.
A few large, transnational corporations benefit, while small and medium-sized companies lose out.
That is why small farmers in Burkina Faso are demonstrating against it, just like the family farmer in Baden-Württemberg.
Fair trade agreements should not weaken environmental, consumer and data protection as well as labor standards and human rights, but rather secure and expand them internationally.
Many municipalities fear that public services are not adequately protected in trade agreements.
Here we are talking about hospitals, the water supply or cultural diversity.
If exemptions for public services are not clearly defined, they do not guarantee sufficient protection.
Above all, these services are not exempt from investment protection - lawsuits against municipal services of general interest before a court of arbitration would thus become possible.
We GREENS demand that the precautionary principle be anchored in all trade agreements.
This principle ensures that products are not allowed on our market until it is clear that they are safe.
It ensures, for example, that 1,300 substances are not approved for use in cosmetics in the EU.
Genetically modified food, asbestos or hormone-treated meat are prohibited.
Rulemaking in these sensitive areas must not be undermined, even through regulatory cooperation.
So-called investor-state arbitration or an investment court system (ICS) provide for litigation privileges for corporations.
We do not want democratically passed laws such as the nuclear phase-out or rules for imprints on cigarette packs to be undermined as a result.
There is no justification for such procedures.
We firmly reject special rights of action for investors and large corporations.
Instead, we advocate for a permanent trade court under the umbrella of the United Nations, before which those affected can bring actions against violations of human rights, social and environmental obligations by transnational corporations.
The EU Commission's proposal for a multilateral investment court (MIC) does not meet these requirements.
We want to renegotiate existing investment protection agreements with the aim of removing the agreements on arbitration tribunals from the treaties.
We support the United Nations process for a binding agreement on the obligations of international corporations.
3. fair trade brings opportunities for poorer countries
Fair trade can set sustainable development in motion.
If we leave room for developing countries to protect their markets through tariffs and quotas, they can build their domestic economies.
At the moment, however, we are pushing away from the global South the ladder on which we ourselves have climbed to our current level of development.
Subsidized imports from Europe can destroy entire industries in developing countries.
The Economic Partnership Agreements with Africa threaten to prevent independent and sustainable development in the partner countries.
We therefore want to stop them and demand new negotiations in accordance with human rights, social and environmental standards without pressure and deadlines.
We want to enable developing countries to have trade protection measures so that they can develop their young industries.
The EU should reduce or eliminate tariffs on processed products for developing countries so they can broaden their economies and keep more profits in the country.
Companies are also responsible for the social consequences of their actions.
We want to oblige them to demonstrate compliance with human rights, environmental and social standards throughout their supply chain.
If these duties of care are breached, companies face sanctions, because self-commitments such as those in the Grand Coalition's "Textile Alliance" are far from sufficient.
Victims should receive civil compensation claims.
Fair trade products need to get out of the niche.
Better labeling must enable consumers to vote on the manufacturing process of products with their purchase at the counter.
If you vote GREEN, you are voting for these three projects:
New start for fair trade agreements
Trade agreements that, unlike TTIP, CETA and TiSA, have been negotiated transparently and are based on social, environmental and human rights criteria can promote equitable globalization.
You should environment,
Consumer and data protection
and labor standards
and human rights internationally.
We call for the precautionary principle to be enshrined in all trade agreements, with the exception of services of general interest, public and social services, and culture.
Instead of legal privileges for corporations, we call for a permanent trade court under the umbrella of the United Nations, before which affected parties can also file lawsuits against investors.
He should pay attention to obligations under international law as well as the ILO core labor standards.
We want to strengthen multilateral negotiations again within the framework of the World Trade Organization (WTO).
Disclose supply chains for more transparency
Companies are also responsible for the social consequences of their actions.
We want to anchor human rights due diligence obligations in German law in a legally binding manner, which must be complied with along the supply chain.
In addition, there is a need for more transparency, effective sanctions in the event of human rights violations, and opportunities for those affected to file civil lawsuits.
These measures create legal certainty.
This benefits those affected and companies alike.
Fighting hunger - preventing food speculation and safeguarding seeds
Around 800 million people are still going hungry worldwide.
For the poorest of the poor, the price of food quickly becomes a matter of survival.
But speculation with food leads to hunger and suffering.
We want to curb that.
To do this, we limit the amount that individual actors are allowed to buy of a product on the market.
But market monopolies in food are not the only problem: the interests of agricultural corporations threaten the traditional trade in farmers' seeds and thus the right to food.
This creates risky dependencies and destroys biodiversity.
That is why we want to promote the rights of smallholder farmers to freely exchange and resow seeds free of charge, as well as local seed banks.
To effectively address world hunger, we continue to advocate for land rights and decentralized agriculture that prioritizes agroecological principles.
It ensures the economic independence of farmers,
protects biodiversity
and supports regional economic cycles.
IV. WE PROTECT REFUGEES AND FIGHT THE CAUSES OF FLIGHT
The number of people on the run is growing.
More than 65 million people worldwide are seeking protection for themselves and their families.
Many Germans know flight from their family history from their parents and grandparents, some have themselves experienced flight and expulsion as a result of the Second World War.
Many fled the GDR for the democratic West.
People are fleeing war, political displacement and persecution, and increasingly also the consequences of the climate crisis and environmental degradation.
We are experiencing the great challenge of the movement of refugees at the borders of Europe just as we are here at home.
But most people are fleeing to regions close to home, almost two thirds within the borders of their own country, in the hope of being able to return.
Our country has offered refuge to many people at a time when other states have ducked away.
Where a few thousands have agitated against refugees, millions of people have helped and thereby shown how strong civil society is in Germany.
Employees in administrations and institutions have also outgrown themselves.
The German government first responded with humanitarianism.
She had our support for that.
But unfortunately, she quickly turned away from this policy.
It has massively tightened up asylum law and, together with other European governments, is pursuing the sealing off of the EU.
Meanwhile, while Trump plans to build a wall, Europe is hiding behind fences and barbed wire.
This compartmentalization is inhumane and exacerbates problems in the long run.
We want Germany to be better prepared for humanitarian challenges than it was in 2015.
The staff of the municipalities, other authorities, organizations and many volunteers were at the limits of their capacity, thousands of refugees did not know whether they could find protection, some refugees were registered five times and others not at all.
We want to know who is coming to Europe, we want regulated procedures and control of the European external border.
Not everyone who comes to us can stay, but everyone is entitled to a procedure based on the rule of law and the protection of their human rights even after a rejection.
Every deportation is associated with great human hardship.
Therefore, we would like to strengthen voluntary return for all those who are not entitled to asylum.
Not every rejected asylum application leads to deportation.
In many cases, a residence permit is issued for legally guaranteed humanitarian reasons, rather than deportation.
We think this is right, we stand by this policy and oppose the deportation populism of the Grand Coalition, which is based on numbers.
In 1949, the Federal Republic of Germany enshrined one of the most liberal asylum laws in the Basic Law - also as a lesson from German history.
We fight resolutely for the individual fundamental right to asylum.
Full access to a fair asylum procedure must be guaranteed.
We reject the inhumane tightening of asylum laws in recent years.
They hinder integration much professionally.
Unfair and flawed asylum procedures lead to record numbers of complaints in administrative courts.
We want to change that.
The Mediterranean must not continue to become a mass grave.
We will not allow the EU to get rid of its problems by leaving refugees to languish in the camps of North Africa.
Because for us one thing is clear: refugees are not streams, avalanches or waves, they are people.
People like us, with hopes and worries, with children and families, but a fate that meant less well for them than for us.
We want to pursue an active refugee policy that significantly shortens the duration of asylum procedures so
that long waiting times for asylum seekers come to an end and they are well integrated and enabled to participate on an equal footing.
People have always migrated.
People on the run need safety and our help.
For people who want to live and work in Germany of their own free will, rules such as an immigration law are needed (--> Chapter: We are shaping our immigration country, p. 111).
1. our plan for an active refugee policy
For us, a refugee policy consists of four steps.
First, we are serious about tackling the causes of flight.
The best refugee policy is one that makes flight unnecessary.
Second, through legal channels, we ensure that refugees no longer have to risk their lives on dangerous escape routes.
We will set up contingents, such as a generous resettlement program, which will open up a safe path for people and become an integral part of refugee policy in Germany under the direction of the UNHCR.
Germany's fair share will be based on the needs calculated by the UNHCR.
That is our lower limit for a humanitarian policy.
Humanitarian visas, which allow those in need of protection to safely come to Europe and apply for asylum here, can also provide legal means of escape.
Resettlement is a complement to the existing refugee protection of the Geneva Convention.
This does not affect the individual right to asylum.
The third point is fast, fair and constitutionally sound procedures.
It must be quickly clarified whether an asylum application leads to recognition.
Initial care and accommodation up to distribution as well as identification, registration and further distribution of the protection seekers to the member states should be organized in the countries of entry within the EU, if possible.
But this must not lead to inhumane refugee camps like the current hotspots.
Initial reception must ensure humane accommodation that takes particular account of the needs of women, children, the sick and particularly vulnerable groups.
After identification and registration, rapid distribution to other Member States must take place.
We GREENS reject the de facto isolation in large initial reception facilities over a period of months.
Fast procedures lead to fast clarity for those affected.
This includes the voluntary return, as quickly as possible, of those who are not granted the right to stay in Germany after the conclusion of legal proceedings.
In addition to our full support for people who are recognized as being in need of protection, we will also deal responsibly with those who are not granted the right to stay in Germany and have to be repatriated.
Care must also be taken to ensure that refugees are not pressured by the state to return voluntarily.
Collective deportations are unacceptable to us.
With us in the federal government, there will be no deportations to crisis regions that are as unsafe as Afghanistan is at the moment, for example.
For us, the focus is on the fate of the individual.
Fourth, we will welcome those who stay well and actively support them in learning our language, finding a place to live and a job, so that they can eventually find a new home here.
2. fight the causes of flight
The best refugee policy is and remains the one that prevents people from having to leave their homes.
A policy that works to address the structural causes of livelihood destruction over the long term.
In the globalized world, it is of little help if everyone points the finger at the others.
For us Greens, fighting the causes of flight therefore means first of all asking about our own responsibility.
We in Europe export armaments to crisis regions, overfish the world's oceans and accept that our agricultural exports destroy the livelihoods of farmers elsewhere.
The causes of flight and displacement cannot be solved with higher fences, patrol boats, or pacts with autocrats.
We Greens therefore advocate a coherent international policy and call for structural reforms in areas such as trade, agriculture, energy, fisheries, foreign policy and climate protection, as set out in the Sustainable Development Goals.
We will resolutely support the poorest countries in adapting to climate change.
And we need a fair trade policy.
We will stop arms exports to crisis regions and states with highly problematic human rights situations.
The EU must contribute more to the management of crises and wars, primarily within the framework of the United Nations.
Civil crisis prevention will therefore remain a central field of Green international policy.
In order to help people who have already set out on their journey, German humanitarian aid must be stabilized at well over one billion euros at a time of crisis such as this,
and UN aid organizations such as the World Food Programme also need stable funding in line with demand.
Countries like Jordan, Turkey, Pakistan, Lebanon, Ethiopia or Kenya receive the most refugees worldwide.
The international community must not abandon these countries for humanitarian reasons.
3. for a European refugee policy based on human rights and solidarity
All European states must live up to their responsibilities in Europe and the EU.
A human rights-based refugee policy must focus on eliminating the causes of flight, creating safe and legal escape routes to Europe, and rescuing people at sea.
We fight for an EU refugee policy that complies with human rights and the rule of law, is characterized by fair access to the asylum procedure and implements the guarantees of the Geneva Refugee Convention.
EU member states must share responsibility for people seeking protection fairly and in solidarity, so that states at the EU's external borders such as Italy and Greece are relieved.
Within the framework of a European distribution mechanism, the family ties of refugees, language skills, professional qualifications and opportunities on the labor market must be taken into account.
We believe that this is the right way to achieve rapid integration and will fight for it with our EU partners, even in the knowledge that there is still a long way to go.
This includes implementing uniform asylum procedures with a high standard of protection throughout Europe.
We oppose the threatening erosion of human rights standards in the reform of the Common European Asylum System.
The Dublin system has not worked properly from the beginning.
We want a new, solidarity-based system based on a fair division of responsibility among the member states.
According to our understanding of European values and solidarity, it is the responsibility of all 27 Member States to provide protection to refugees.
So far, a major problem of refugee policy is that some EU states refuse to show this solidarity.
There is no patent remedy for this dilemma.
A temporary solution can therefore also mean that only individual states within the EU coordinate in terms of an open refugee policy - but this is not a permanent solution.
The current isolationist policy of the EU and many national governments towards refugees is devastating in human rights terms,
damages the European community of values, reinforces national egoisms and in no way offers solutions to the causes of flight.
EU countries that refuse active reception and standards of care and procedures for refugees must share the financial expenses of other member states.
The Turkey deal shields Europe not only from responsibility but also President Erdogan from criticism.
The EU has thus made itself susceptible to blackmail from Turkey, and is thus approvingly accepting the dramatic situation of refugees in Turkey.
The EU-Turkey deal also distracts from the fact that states like Greece and Italy still need support in receiving and caring for asylum seekers.
We want to end this Turkey deal.
It is a pan-European task to ensure control at the external borders and thus ensure that we know who is in the country.
In doing so, we rely on European border control that is based on the common protection of human rights and strengthens trust in the Schengen system.
Instead of closing borders or outsourcing, we rely on legal and secure access routes, for example through EU quotas for the admission of refugees.
We will press for the speedy redistribution within Europe that has already been decided.
Here, political action must focus above all on the many families separated during the flight.
We will also expand humanitarian assistance and financial support for refugees in Turkey.
In doing so, we will ensure that these funds actually benefit refugee-solidarity NGOs and civil society actors.
Moreover, refugee admission programs in Europe must not undermine the fundamental right to asylum and the guarantees of the Geneva Refugee Convention.
Reception must not be limited to refugees from certain parts of the world.
The misguided policy of the EU-Turkey deal must not be a blueprint for new agreements with states in Africa and the Middle East.
Currently, European governments are working to conclude a number of other such agreements, closing borders well ahead of Europe in Africa and the Middle East.
We reject the de facto outsourcing of Europe's external borders through migration partnerships with states where human and refugee rights are not respected, as well as the redirection of development policy funds for border protection projects that are problematic from a human rights perspective.
We will withdraw readmission agreements that violate human rights, because they are incompatible with a humanitarian and modern asylum policy.
We Greens believe that fair economic relations, effective development cooperation, exchange programs or civil society engagement are a better model to enter into dialogue partnerships with North African states.
We will also find joint solutions to the return policy for rejected asylum seekers.
4. responsible refugee policy for Germany
Germany must continue to face up to its responsibility in refugee policy.
The German government ignored the development of high refugee numbers, especially from Syria, for far too long and was overwhelmed in many places, especially in 2015.
Without the strong commitment of citizens, municipalities and associations, the reception of the many refugees would not have been possible.
In the last two years, the government has massively tightened the asylum law.
In addition to the curtailment of social rights, this also includes, for example, that sick people can now be deported more easily and deportations are possible without notice.
This leads to young people being picked up even from school for^deportation.
We reject these tightening of the asylum law and want to correct them in the sense of a humane and human rights refugee policy.
Government policy is based on the mistaken belief that an unattractive asylum law prevents flight.
We GREENS consider the pursued expansion of the alleged "safe countries of origin" to be wrong.
The designation of "safe countries of origin" is accompanied by significant restrictions on procedural, social and economic rights for those affected.
We therefore reject the concept of "safe countries of origin" and will stand by our position in the federal government against further expansion.
We also oppose the expansion and application of the safe third country concept.
Unsafe states cannot be declared "safe" by law.
Especially for minorities like Roma, LGBTIQ*, but also women, opposition members, journalists or human rights defenders, many countries are often not safe.
We GREENS stand for the unrestricted preservation of the individual basic and human right to asylum, which corresponds to our responsibility in a globalized world and is for us an imperative of international law and humanity.
With us, there will therefore be no upper limit.
5. fair and speedy procedures
The rapid, high-quality processing of asylum applications by the BAMF is and remains of central importance.
All those seeking protection need to know as quickly as possible whether they can stay in Germany, bring their families to join them and build a life for themselves.
In the future, we want to carry out asylum procedures more quickly within a few weeks so that long waiting times for asylum seekers come to an end.
For this purpose, we have proposed a Fast & Fair procedure.
In order to further develop the quality of the procedures, we rely on the mandatory provision of independent legal advice from the very beginning.
Asylum seekers whose applications have been in the process at the Federal Office for Migration and Refugees for more than a year, so-called old cases, are to receive a residence permit in the future.
We also advocate that the best interests of the child be given priority in asylum and residence procedures and that child-related reasons for flight be more strongly recognized.
We want to prevent family separations in the context of deportations.
For it is precisely the children's living situation that often causes families to turn their backs on their homeland.
Gender-specific reasons for flight, such as genital mutilation, gender identity or sexual orientation, must also be given greater consideration in the asylum procedure.
Central for us is also the safe accommodation for women, children and LGBTIQ*, whose unconditional protection against any form of violence must be ensured.
6. the integration of refugees needs good structures
For the people who find refuge here, we want an integration law worthy of the name.
We want integration to take place and be made possible as a participatory process based on the values of our Basic Law.
At present, the residence status or the so-called residence perspective decides on integration.
This excludes many refugees and valuable time is lost.
We want to open integration services to all those seeking protection right from the start.
This requires an entitlement to participate in well-equipped integration courses, adequately paid course instructors, accommodation that is as decentralized as possible, and access to social participation, education and training, and labor market policy measures.
The Foreigners' Registration Office, the Job Center, the Federal Employment Agency and the Social Welfare Office are to provide advice to new arrivals from a single source.
Welcoming people - especially those who have experienced war and violence - is a challenge for newcomers and locals alike.
Every day, many full-time and volunteer workers do great things in our communities.
This commitment must be flanked by more professional help in the area of psychosocial care for refugees.
We want to make it easier for people to arrive and give them the right to an integration course, regardless of their nationality and presumed prospects of staying.
Another important condition for successful integration is to enable recognized refugees and beneficiaries of subsidiary protection to join their families without red tape.
Family reunification with beneficiaries of subsidiary protection must be made possible again immediately, and visa procedures must be accelerated and made less bureaucratic.
Because only those who know their family is safe and close to them can commit themselves to their new home with all their strength.
We advocate facilitating the reunification of underage siblings of unaccompanied refugee minors, as they are also part of the nuclear family.
The special protection guaranteed by the Basic Law does not only apply to German families.
Refugees are often marginalized by their housing situation alone.
That is why we need a quick change from mass accommodations to apartments and sufficient affordable housing for this purpose.
This benefits everyone, as does an education offensive for more good daycare centers and schools.
People bring not only their need, but also their skills and motivation when they seek refuge with us.
That is why we want to recognize their educational and professional qualifications more quickly and reduce the bureaucratic hurdles to recognition.
We want to guarantee legal residence during and after training and abolish the priority check, according to which German applicants must be given preference in tenders.
We also want to suspend the restrictions that apply to refugees in temporary employment.
Refugee women have so far been unable to participate sufficiently in labor market integration offers.
To this end, we want to create low-threshold offerings - both in the area of language and integration courses and at the employment agencies.
At the same time, sufficient childcare must be provided.
We also advocate for a realistic right to stay regulation and a secure future perspective for tolerated people.
Many tolerated people have now been living here for more than five, some even more than ten years, and many have started a family.
We will finally create a secure perspective for these people.
To achieve this, we need new regulations on the right to stay that allow people who have been living in Germany for many years, for example those who have been tolerated, to obtain an unlimited residence and work permit without restrictions.
Existing regulations on the right to stay must be designed and applied in a realistic manner.
The grounds for exclusion must be more narrowly defined.
The current behavior must count.
Years of discrimination in integration measures and issued work bans must not have a negative impact.
We want to shorten the pre-stay periods for a right to stay and also raise the age limit for well-integrated young people and adolescents to 27.
People without residential status should have access to health and education.
The residence requirement and the residence obligation for refugees must be dropped again.
We want to abolish the Asylum Seekers' Benefits Act, which is hostile to integration, introduce a health card for all refugees, and ensure interpreter services for health treatments.
The standards of child and youth welfare must also apply to unaccompanied refugee minors without compromise.
To this end, the federal government must make sufficient funds available to the states and municipalities.
In the states governed by the Green Party, we have not left the local authorities to fend for themselves, but have provided them with massive support.
Women and men who want to escape forced marriage must be given an independent and permanent right to return to Germany.
If you vote GREEN, you are voting for these three projects:
Save lives, create safe and legal escape routes
There must be safe and legal routes for people fleeing persecution, war and hardship.
People should no longer have to risk their lives on unsafe boats or endure poorly equipped camps at the borders of Europe.
That is why we are advocating a sea rescue program at the European level and will meanwhile strengthen the civilian, non-profit rescue organizations.
In addition, we want to create large-scale reception programs that enable those in need of protection to enter the country legally, not only from the countries bordering Syria, but also other refugees who find themselves in long-lasting precarious situations.
Baden-Württemberg has taken the lead here with a contingent for women and children persecuted by IS.
The individual fundamental right to asylum must not be touched.
We oppose its erosion.
We reject deportations to war and crisis zones.
Our goal is a nationwide halt to deportations to Afghanistan.
Bring families together
Worry and fear for loved ones, as well as years of separation from family members, are often the biggest obstacles to arriving in a new home.
We therefore want to reverse the cruel suspension of family reunification for beneficiaries of subsidiary protection, which is an obstacle to integration.
We will also deploy more staff at German embassies to reduce waiting times for family member visas.
Tackling the integration of refugees, better equipping local authorities
Many of the people who seek protection from war and displacement in our country will not be able to return to their homeland in the foreseeable future.
It is our common task to open up perspectives for them.
The basis for this is the fastest possible access to integration and language courses without restrictions due to residence status, the recognition of degrees and acquired knowledge, and a good counseling structure for access to the labor market and the search for housing.
In order to avoid the mistakes of the past, we want to make sufficient resources available to the federal states and local authorities so that they can cope well with these challenges.
Integration can only succeed if it is supported equally by all levels.
We want to live up to this responsibility.
V. WE ARE SHAPING OUR COUNTRY OF IMMIGRATION
Immigration and emigration have always shaped and changed Germany, posed challenges and brought us forward as a society.
In a Europe of open borders and in a world brought even closer together by trade and digitalization, migration is part of our reality.
We want to regulate this immigration sensibly and promote integration in order to ensure the peaceful coexistence of people with different origins and religions.
We perceive it as richness when we encounter different cultures in ourselves, our families, neighborhoods and our children's circles of friends.
For us, it doesn't count where a person comes from, it counts where he or she wants to go.
We know the advantages of diverse societies: They develop more dynamically and creatively than those in isolation.
Germany is competing for the influx of skilled workers.
Our right of residence is not set up to at least mitigate the consequences of demographic change through labor immigration.
Our immigration laws are complicated, confusing, and outdated.
1. a modern immigration law for a modern immigrationúand
We Greens have submitted a proposal to liberalize and de-bureaucratize immigration law without jeopardizing sustainable development in other countries.
Skilled workers, whose ideas and motivation our country urgently needs, should be able to look for a job in Germany more easily than before.
We will make Germany attractive for foreign students and people who want to complete vocational training in Germany or obtain additional professional qualifications here.
Green migration policy is emancipatory.
We see migration as an opportunity if it is shaped properly.
That is why we must create the framework conditions that enable migrants to use the skills they have acquired here in their countries of origin, so that there is no brain drain.
Migrants living here should be able to stay abroad for longer periods of time, for example for professional reasons or in order to get involved in their country of origin, without losing their German residence title.
Asylum seekers and tolerated persons should be able to change their status under residence law if they meet the relevant requirements (change of status).
It makes no sense to require them - as is the case today - to first obtain a visa in their country of origin.
This is a timely immigration policy.
We want an immigration law to be flanked by the establishment of an independent Ministry of Immigration and Integration, in which all migration, refugee, integration and citizenship law departments are brought together.
This has proven successful in green co-governed states.
2. dare more integration
Integration places demands on those who come to us as well as on all those who have lived here for some time.
Integration is a two-way process that requires everyone involved to be willing to live together in our society.
The values of the Basic Law are the basis for living together in our country, not a diffuse "Leitkultur".
For those who come to us, integration means acquiring the German language, access to good education, the job market, the housing market, political life and, in the long term, acquiring German citizenship and participating in the democratic community of values.
This can only succeed if we break down structural barriers and discrimination and promote acceptance.
We Greens are committed to ensuring that all people who come to Germany are entitled to participate in integration programs, and we also want to provide better support for civil society initiatives to this end.
We want to offer immigrants attractive framework conditions, because only then will they and their families choose a future in Germany.
Only those who have a secure residence status will find the necessary security to settle in our country and become involved in political and social life.
We will ensure high-quality language support with the goal of prompt integration into the labor market.
In order to enable women in particular to secure their own existence, we want to take their requirements into account, for example by providing secure care for their children.
We want to introduce unbureaucratic opportunities for family members to join or join them, and abolish the requirement for proof of German language skills prior to entry.
We will make the education system so permeable that we can also keep the promise of social advancement to migrants through good education.
We will recognize educational and vocational qualifications more quickly and generously and create a reliable right to stay during and after training.
We want to give people who are in Germany without papers access to social rights.
We want to decriminalize violations of residence regulations, as criminal law is not suitable for sanctioning administrative misconduct.
The coexistence of people from different backgrounds, religions and cultures demands adaptations from everyone.
The bond that unites and holds together a society of diversity is our Basic Law and the acceptance of fundamental and human rights.
In our common country, this applies to everyone, whether they come from Dresden or Damascus.
3. more democracy for the immigration society
We want foreigners to become nationals with equal rights and obligations as soon as possible.
We advocate a liberal citizenship law that allows not only fast naturalizations but also the so-called birthright as well as multiple citizenship.
A person born in Germany is German for us if one parent has a legal residence title.
We want to completely abolish the arbitrary rule of having to choose between two passports and remove the ban on multiple nationality from the Nationality Act.
Immigrants should be able to participate as quickly and as equally as possible in economic, cultural, social and political life.
We therefore believe it makes sense that nationals of a country outside the European Union (third country) who are permanent residents of Germany should also be able to vote in municipal elections.
In addition, we advocate further democratic participation opportunities for people who are permanent residents of Germany.
If you vote GREEN, you are voting for these three projects:
A country of immigration needs an immigration law
Germany is a country of immigration.
That is why we will present an immigration bill.
We allow skilled workers a right of residence to seek work and create an immigration quota with a points system for this purpose.
A possible lane change between asylum and immigration law also helps attract skilled workers.
For example, asylum seekers with the appropriate qualifications can obtain a work permit.
We want to better recognize existing professional qualifications and make it easier to take up employment in Germany.
Born here, at home here - for a modern citizenship law
Contemporary citizenship law must do justice to the realities of a globalized world.
Therefore, we want to implement the acquisition of citizenship according to the birthplace principle.
A person born in Germany is German if one parent resides here legally.
All those who also have another nationality no longer have to choose between one or the other.
We want to make naturalizations easier.
All people who have a permanent right of residence and sufficient knowledge of German should be entitled to German citizenship more quickly.
Giving immigrants a voice
Democracy and participation must be organized along the diversity of people in a country of immigration.
For us, more democracy also means that more people are allowed to participate.
We want to regulate the right to vote in local elections according to the principle of residence and not according to citizenship.
Then even those who do not have a German or EU passport, but who have their permanent residence here, will be able to vote in municipal elections.
People who live here should also have a say in how we live together.
D. FREEDOM IN THE HEART
In recent decades, our society has become more open and diverse.
It did her good.
Diversity is a richness that makes our country alive and growing.
It is precisely from civil society that important progress has been fought for.
Nevertheless, there is still a lot to do on the way to a modern and open society that enables all people to live a self-determined life.
To this end, freedom is an essential prerequisite for a society that is both livable and secure.
Because people can trust in a constitutional state that defends their fundamental rights and offers protection, they can actually also feel free and safe in what they say or do every day.
Unfortunately, it is precisely the achievements made so far that are being called into question.
Islamists and right-wing extremists attack them with terrorist attacks.
Right-wing nationalists divide people into a völkisch "them" and "us."
They want to go back to the social day before yesterday.
Waves of hate and agitation are rolling through social media.
Against this we GREENS set: no tolerance towards intolerance!
We fight for diversity, openness and peaceful coexistence.
We are committed to democracy
and the rule of law.
Because only a strong, democratic constitutional state guarantees security and protects freedom.
Germany 2017 is founded on diversity and equality.
With us, there will be no reversion to a society in which female judges or car mechanics were not provided for and single parents were looked at askance.
No going back to a time when men loving men and women loving women became a public scandal.
We want all members of our society, regardless of gender, to be able to exercise their rights of freedom and citizenship.
We defend our democracy and the open society against its enemies.
Group-based misanthropy reaches right into the middle of society.
We will continue to fight against it.
We do not tolerate hate, LGBTIQ* hostility, sexism, racism, anti-Semitism, anti-Muslim racism, or antiziganism.
We continue to fight discrimination
and will continue to expand freedoms
and advance equality.
Because today, some people are still denied the right to belong on an equal footing.
Freedom, self-determination and equal rights for all people are the basis of a just society.
Every individual should be able to develop according to his or her own wishes and abilities and participate in society - this claim is anchored in our primordial green DNA.
Germany is a safe country.
We want it to stay that way.
Where threat situations change, we respond with a security policy that effectively fends off new threats by efficiently applying existing law - rather than with symbolic politics.
We are better equipping the courts, police and security authorities - with more staff, good training and further education, and up-to-date technology.
We will identify and eliminate sources of error and disproportionate restrictions on citizens' rights; we
will change laws where they are incomplete, not on suspicion.
Our goal is to create a public space where everyone can move freely and without fear.
We are convinced that a strong, democratic state governed by the rule of law can simultaneously effectively ward off threats, protect fundamental rights, and preserve our freedom.
We want to strengthen humanity and cohesion in the knowledge that compromise is just as much a part of a democracy as respect for one another.
Our guiding principles are the Basic Law, the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights and the United Nations Charter.
Respecting human dignity and the personal freedom of others
, equal rights for all, regardless of gender, and freedom of religion, including criticism of religion, are foundations of our democracy.
The rights of our Basic Law apply equally to all, without restriction or relativization.
Protecting them is our obligation and a lesson from the darkest chapters of German history.
Democracy thrives on trust.
Trust in those who represent citizens in parliament and trust in democratic institutions.
We want to strengthen and regain trust in the political culture in Germany, Europe and the world.
We stand for fair debates, respectful competition for the best ways forward and a successful search for compromises.
I. WE FIGHT FOR ACCEPTANCE AND RESPECT, FOR DIVERSITY AND SELF-DETERMINATION
Our society is in a constant state of change.
In our villages and cities, at work, at school and in sports clubs, people with and without faith, different genders, social origins and skin colors, sexual orientations, with and without immigration histories meet.
This diversity enriches our country.
We GREENS also look when real or perceived differences lead to tensions and problems.
Peaceful coexistence in diversity only works with rights and obligations that apply equally to everyone and a clear position against any form of discrimination and misanthropy.
This is a common task that requires something from all of us and from which we all benefit.
Misanthropic ideologies prevent integration and endanger social peace - whether they are called racism, sexism, Islamism, right-wing extremism, anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, antiziganism or LGBTIQ* hostility.
We Greens oppose such attacks with all determination.
Social diversity is a fact; denying it is ideology.
Knowing about the crimes of the Nazi era, we GREENS stand for a society in which everyone can live safely and self-determined and individual freedom and personal identity are protected, online and offline.
They only experience a limit where the individual freedom of others is restricted.
Our goal is an inclusive society that holds together in its diversity
and protects people from discrimination.
In which all people have the same rights and duties, in which all can participate equally in social and democratic life.
In an open society, conflicts must be resolved peacefully and democratically.
That is why we want to strengthen knowledge about democracy in our educational institutions.
We promote social diversity in sports clubs, museums, theaters and public authorities.
In everyday life, discrimination against individual groups and persons still often occurs.
We therefore want to reform the General Equal Treatment Act (AGG) and introduce a right of action for associations.
In addition, Germany must finally abandon its blocking stance on the EU's 5th anti-discrimination directive.
For centuries, Roma and Sinti have been particularly exposed to racist hostility and exclusion in many European countries - including here in Germany.
It is time that we as a society deal with the situation of Sinti and Roma honestly and institutionally.
We will end discrimination against Roma in German asylum procedure practice.
Antiziganism in the countries of origin is not adequately addressed in the procedures.
At both German and European level, we are committed to improving the situation of the Roma in the long term.
We want to ensure the participation of Sinti and Roma in policy-making in Germany.
Green-governed Baden-Württemberg has shown how this can work with the Council for Sinti and Roma Affairs.
To overcome the educational disadvantages that have persisted for decades, we want targeted educational support.
This includes a new museum of the history and cultures of the Sinti and Roma in Germany.
1. a clear framework for the peaceful coexistence of people with different world views and religions.
A diverse, open society builds on the fundamental rights of the Basic Law.
They hold our society together in its diversity and ensure peaceful coexistence.
This includes that people, regardless of their origin, culture, religion and ideology, live self-determined and respect each other.
This applies both to those who are newcomers and to those who have lived here for a long time.
All people must have the freedom to live their faith or to discard it, to have no faith or to cultivate a faith together - be they Jewish or Christian, Muslim or Alevi, humanists, atheists or free from religious-ideological confession.
We do not tolerate discrimination against people of other faiths any more than we tolerate discrimination against supposedly more liberal followers of our own religion.
We want to promote dialogue between religions and also those who are non-religious, and thus advance mutual understanding of one another.
Religious teachings, practices, and traditions may be criticized, including in art.
The number of people without organized religious ties has increased.
We want to do justice not only to them, but also to the growing diversity of confessions in Germany, for example in welfare care or in the public culture of commemoration and mourning.
We want to finally replace the historic state payments to the two large Christian churches.
Church finances are to become more transparent and we want to reform the current church tax collection system to ensure equal treatment and data protection.
Religious and ideological communities can be an important pillar of a living democracy.
Many people engage with us out of their faith or conviction for refugees, a clean environment, global justice or against poverty in their neighborhood.
In this way, they make an important contribution to social cohesion.
Plurality and democracy include facing up to criticism and public discourse, not making their own views absolute and therefore not acting in a fundamentalist manner.
Public peace" is not threatened by critical art, but by religious and political fanatics who lack the ability to criticize or respect others.
That is why we want to delete Section 166 of the Criminal Code (insulting confessions, religious societies and ideological associations).
No matter how important it is to the individual and what religious confession is at stake: No holy book stands above the Basic Law and human rights.
This means that citizens can, of course, derive their value convictions from their own sources.
Religious attitudes can also be the basis of democratic consciousness and political action.
For us, it is important that the Basic Law applies without restriction.
We firmly oppose anti-democratic attitudes and fanaticism.
For us Greens, Islam also belongs to Germany, like all other religions and worldviews.
We defend the religious freedom of Muslims, and we do not treat Islamic political organizations lightly.
We want Islamic communities that live their faith as part of the open society, with imams and Islamic religious teachers who have been trained at German universities while respecting the freedom of science, as with other theologies, and who can also preach in German.
Islamic communities can and should be recognized as religious communities within the meaning of the Basic Law if they meet the legal requirements for this.
They can then also obtain corporate status and become equal to the churches.
The four large Muslim associations DİTİB, Islamrat, Zentralrat der Muslime, VIKZ currently do not fulfill the requirements demanded by the Basic Law from the Green point of view.
They are religious associations.
Their identity and differentiation from one another is not due to differences in religious confession, but to political and linguistic identities from their countries of origin and migration history.
If Muslims were to reorganize themselves in the form of a confession, this would not turn their organizations into churches, but into Islamic religious communities in Germany, with a claim to legal equality.
Then Islam would also have arrived in Germany.
However, it is unacceptable that associations are controlled from abroad and used for political purposes, including informer activities.
Against this background, it is particularly important that cooperation between associations, Muslim communities and the state provide for regular exchange - with the aim of the associations developing independent, domestic structures that can support themselves in the long term.
The secular state must be neutral toward religious and ideological communities and may not adopt any religion or ideology as its own.
Everyone must be able to rely on this neutrality.
2. finally equal rights for lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans*, inter* and queer people (LGBTIQ*).
The registered civil partnership has significantly strengthened the acceptance of lesbians and gays, but has not made them equal in law.
Germany is behind the times here.
We GREENS want to finally open marriage to all and allow same-sex couples to adopt.
With us, there will be no coalition agreement without marriage for all.
For us, a modern and innovative family policy also includes supporting people who live together in solidarity beyond marriage and registered civil partnerships.
We want to treat and support children from all family forms equally.
We want to add the characteristics of sexual and gender identity to the protection against discrimination in Article 3 of the Basic Law.
We want to replace the transsexual law with a law on the recognition of self-determined gender identity with simple procedures for changing the first name and correcting the gender entry.
We want to fundamentally prohibit operations for so-called "gender matching and assignment" on intersex infants and children.
BÜNDNIS 90/DIE GRÜNEN plead for a third option in personal status law.
Trans* people must not be pathologized.
That is why we are working nationally and internationally to ensure that they are no longer classified as mentally ill.
Rather, their health care needs to be better secured.
With a nationwide action plan for diversity and against homophobia, biophobia and transphobia, we want to strengthen research, education and training for police, judiciary and other state actors - especially with regard to trans* children and youth, prevention and sensitive victim support.
Education and youth policy should promote human rights
and take greater account of the diversity of sexual identities.
We also want to create offers for bisexual young people that strengthen their social situation and personal development.
In the state governments, we have set clear priorities here, even in the face of resistance, for example with the education and action plans in many states.
In many countries, life is made hell for LGBTIQ*: persecution, oppression, violence and censorship.
Germany must take a clear position here, actively strengthen human rights defenders and use its membership in international organizations to strengthen the rights of sexual minorities worldwide.
We are committed to a contemporary approach to HIV.
For us, this means comprehensive education and tailored prevention as well as early diagnosis, therapy and support instead of stigmatization and exclusion.
This includes harnessing the potential of drug prophylaxis against HIV, commonly called PrEP (pre-exposure prophylaxis).
Studies on, among other things, the consequences of long-term use, the development of resistance, and other health effects are needed.
We want to examine target-group-specific deployment and appropriate funding.
We will press ahead with coming to terms with the persecution and discrimination of LGBTIQ* in German legal and social history.
Beyond criminal law, lesbian women, transsexuals and transgender people were also persecuted and discriminated against under national socialism.
Beyond the current decided re habilitation and compensation, we demand an adequate and sufficient collective compensation, which is provided annually for projects for example in the field of LGBTIQ* seniors.
We also want to achieve compensation and the restoration of dignity for all victims before the passage of time makes a personal apology impossible.
To this end, we want to set up a hardship fund.
3. self-determination for all: living barrier-free and with equal rights
We GREENS fight for an inclusive society in which all people can live and participate freely and self-determined.
We want a colorful, diverse society in which it is normal to be different, in which no one is excluded and everyone has the feeling: I belong.
Each person should receive the support that is needed.
We are concerned with self-development and the possibility of individual life plans as well as with the social prerequisites for individual freedom.
Our goal is an inclusive society, free from barriers and free from prejudice and discrimination.
An inclusive society takes precautions and creates framework conditions so that everyone can participate.
This includes a barrier-free infrastructure as well as universal security systems that effectively protect against poverty.
For people with disabilities, inclusion is a human right.
The Grand Coalition's Federal Participation Act does not yet meet this requirement.
In addition, the German government must finally end its blockade of the horizontal EU Equal Treatment Directive.
People with disabilities experience disadvantages again and again: At the train station, when elevators are missing, when the costs for sign language interpretation are not covered or when choosing a place of residence.
We want to enforce the right of choice and further improve the conditions for the expansion of self-determined living with assistance.
Integration companies are to be expanded as genuine alternatives to workshops.
Those who want to work in the general labor market must receive the support they need to do so.
We advocate for accessible public spaces where buildings, media, products, services and events are more accessible and usable.
To this end, it is essential to formulate binding accessibility requirements for the private sector as well.
The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified by the Bundesrat and the Bundestag, must finally be fully implemented in Germany.
This also includes abolishing the restrictions on voting rights that currently still exist.
4. for a drug policy based on prevention, protection of minors and self-determination
The war on drugs has failed.
Criminalization and repression are not successful means of combating drug abuse.
Many people are suffering the consequences of this policy.
We want a paradigm shift in drug policy, focusing on prevention, assistance, harm reduction, decriminalization, and research.
The aim is to respect people's right to self-determination and to minimize health risks.
In the long term, we call for the regulation of drugs to be based on the actual health risks.
In addition, the dangers of tobacco and alcohol are to be highlighted more intensively.
We reject advertising for nicotine.
The criminalization of drug users must be stopped.
People who are addicted need help, not prosecution.
We want to strengthen target group-specific and low-threshold services in drug and addiction support.
We want to counter threats through risk-minimizing measures such as syringe exchange programs, drug consumption rooms and substance analysis (drug checking).
This also includes the humane treatment of severely addicted persons on the basis of scientific findings.
The ideology-led prohibition tradition of cannabis use causes more problems than it combats.
Instead of senseless criminal prosecution, which also costs many millions of euros, we are focusing on prevention for children and young people, strengthening addiction support for addicts, and strict regulation of cannabis for adults.
Our Can nabis Control Act shows the way to balance individual freedom for adults with strict protection for minors.
We want protection for minors with strict controls, more prevention and the avoidance of health risks for adult consumers through regulation and control of quality.
If you vote GREEN, you are voting for these three projects:
Equal rights for equal love - open marriage for all now!
Without full equality for same-sex couples, any talk of acceptance remains hot air.
For us Greens, it was a great success to introduce registered civil partnerships, but we have not yet reached our goal.
Discrimination still exists.
We want to end this unequal treatment of same-sex partnerships and - long overdue - open marriage to all and also allow same-sex couples to adopt jointly.
Equal love deserves equal respect and rights.
Enabling people with disabilities to live a self-determined life
We want to strengthen the self-determination of people with disabilities.
To this end, we will consistently implement the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
We want people with disabilities to be able to participate fully in society.
People with disabilities should be free to decide where and how they live.
Also about what assistance, care or educational support they want.
We resolutely support people with disabilities in education, training and work.
Instead of expanding workshops for people with disabilities, we will promote their opening up to the general labor market via the Budget for Work, Supported Employment and integration companies.
Create clear rules instead of criminalizing - introduce cannabis control law
We want to create a clearly regulated and controlled system for the cultivation, trade and distribution of cannabis.
In contrast to today, consumer and youth protection as well as addiction prevention are taking effect.
Ingredients are to be monitored and age restrictions observed in the future.
The sale of cannabis is to be carried out by licensed and trained private sellers in strict compliance with the protection of minors.
This is how we dry up the black market.
This relieves law enforcement agencies of time-consuming, costly and ineffective mass proceedings.
We want to expand therapy, prevention and support services in line with demand.
We also want to use revenues from the cannabis tax for this purpose.
II. WE STAND UP FOR SELF-DETERMINATION AND EQUALITY
Half of the power to the women, that has been our claim since our foundation.
Our party history is marked by feminism and women asserting their rights - with men when possible, against them when necessary.
We brought issues to the Bundestag that were initially ridiculed and then implemented decades later.
Today, marital rape is punishable by law.
Discrimination is prohibited.
We do feminist politics always and everywhere.
We consistently understand feminist politics as an independent policy field with a cross-sectional task that permeates all other areas of society.
Today, women are often very well educated and confidently and naturally claim their place in many areas of our coexistence.
On average, they have the same or higher educational qualifications and skills.
We have laws that break down barriers and promote equality.
And yet we believe that a new feminist awakening is needed today.
The wave of right-wing nationalism that is rolling over the USA and Europe is also directed against the freedom, self-determination and equal rights of women: The USA is ruled by a president who makes no secret of his contempt for women.
In Poland, a further tightening of the already strict law against abortions was only narrowly avoided.
In Germany, right-wing populists are mobilizing against equality and gender mainstreaming and would like to see women and men back in traditional roles.
We do not want to give an inch to these old and new misogynists.
We don't want to go back to a society where single mothers were looked at askance and others thought they had a say in women's lives.
Instead, we want to eliminate the injustices that still exist.
We want more.
And our company can do more.
We want to finally share opportunities, power, money and time fairly between women and men.
Nurses and educators are poorly paid, especially worse than comparable "male professions".
The service precariat is predominantly female.
We will change that, even if it takes time.
We need to start now.
We want women to finally be paid the same as men.
We want to give girls and boys the same opportunities - beyond clichés and rigid gender roles.
We want no one to tell women how to live, what to become, how to dress - no religious ideologues, no state, no patriarchs.
We oppose violence against women.
Sexist remarks, lewd comments, physical harassment have been experienced by almost every woman.
We no longer want to accept that.
We fight for the self-determination of all women.
We know that there are multiple discriminations.
A Mrs. Özlem has greater problems on the labor market than Mrs. Müller.
We want to expand the anonymous application procedure to avoid such discrimination.
We want it to be possible for every woman to live the way she wants to.
We oppose all attempts to abuse women's rights in order to stir up fear of immigrants or to instrumentalize them for racist arguments.
1. for fair and just wages
For us GREENS, it is about women and men being able to live the way they want to.
One of the prerequisites is that women participate equally in society's prosperity, income and wealth.
It is about their economic independence in all phases of life.
There is still work to be done in Germany.
More women than ever are working.
But far too often they work in mini-jobs or precarious employment.
They are paid less than men.
Social professions in which women predominantly work are not adequately paid.
They deserve more appreciation and better working conditions, especially through a collective agreement "Social Services", which should then apply to all.
The pensions of many women are already low and this will tend to worsen in the future.
This is unfair.
And it hurts us all.
Green women's policy supports women in being economically independent and fulfilling themselves in their jobs.
Because if you earn your own money, you can shape your own life.
We want an effective equal pay law that also applies to small businesses.
In this way, collective bargaining agreements and agreements can be reviewed for discrimination.
Our goal is to transform mini-jobs into employment subject to social insurance contributions and to ensure that contributions through taxes and duties as well as social benefits are coordinated in such a way that gainful employment always pays off.
At the same time, the burden of taxes and levies must not be allowed to increase by leaps and bounds.
And we are fighting to upgrade and better pay professions that are still mostly held by women, for example in education, nursing or the healthcare system.
A major hurdle to women's employment is spousal splitting.
We want to continue to recognize that couples, whether in marriage, in a civil partnership, or simply as a couple, take responsibility for one another in a variety of ways.
But marital splitting is outdated and does not reflect the many forms of cohabitation.
It is also the spousal splitting that sets financial incentives for no or only marginal employment, for small part-time jobs with only a few working hours; it entails considerable poverty risks.
For these reasons, we will move to individual taxation and replace spousal splitting with targeted support for families with children.
At the same time, the new law is to apply only to couples who marry or partner after the reform.
Nothing changes for couples who are already married or partnered.
They can opt for individual taxation if they want to benefit from the green family budget.
We will link the reform of the marital tax credit to improvements in family benefits so that marriages with children are not worse off.
Women and men wish to share tasks at work and at home as partners.
Realizing this desire becomes much more difficult in everyday life for many couples when children arrive.
This is especially true for women.
This is because they still do most of the work in the household and in caring for children and those in need of care.
Green time policies help people balance caring for others with the demands of the job and distribute that work fairly between men and women.
It should be possible to reduce working hours for childcare, nursing care and further education with financial security.
Flexible full-time" allows employees to reduce and increase their working hours by up to ten hours per week.
After the family phase, support is needed when returning to work: We therefore want to finally introduce the right to return to full-time work.
But we are also continuing the fight to finally create equality in the management bodies.
In Germany, these are largely men's groups.
The current quota law does little to change this: it applies to a whole 101 companies.
We want to change that, with a 50 percent women's quota for the 3,500 listed and co-determined companies.
This country cannot continue to afford to miss out on the potential and qualifications of women.
That's why we want measures for management positions at all company levels where women are underrepresented.
This is the only way to ensure gender equality in management.
2. live free of violence
Violence against women is still a major problem in our society.
Threats, sexual assault and violence against women are disgusting acts.
They must be consistently prosecuted and punished.
Women are often affected by violence in their own homes.
Most assaults happen in the partnership, by relatives and friends.
Many women and their children have no choice but to go to a women's shelter, despite the help provided by the Violence Protection Act.
But neither the number of places in women's shelters nor the assistance and counseling services are currently sufficient.
We want to change that.
We want to ensure secure funding for women's shelters with the participation of the federal government and thus ensure that no woman in need has to be turned away.
We do not accept anywhere when a climate of threat is created for women.
The impartiality and freedom from fear in public spaces, the safe stroll through the city at night - that is freedom in action, which we GREENS defend with all constitutional means.
Public space belongs to everyone; everyone must be able to spend time there in a self-determined manner and without fear.
Even small urban planning measures, such as better lighting, can reduce areas of anxiety.
More police on the ground can increase safety.
The protection of sexual self-determination must apply without ifs and buts.
"No means no" is finally the law.
Victims of sexualized violence need support from the police, doctors and the judiciary, not myths that blame them, their clothes or their appearance.
That is why the police and judiciary must be comprehensively trained and sensitized in dealing with victims of sexualized violence.
We want to ensure that victims of rape receive qualified emergency care, including anonymous evidence collection and the morning-after pill, and that funding is guaranteed, as well as therapeutic support from counseling centers and doctors.
Women and men who want to escape forced marriage must be given an independent and permanent right of return.
We want to enforce and strengthen the rights and protection of women and men who work in prostitution.
To this end, we want to strengthen and financially support voluntary advisory services.
We will evaluate the effects of the Prostitute Protection Act.
Trafficking in human beings, for example for the purpose of sexual exploitation, is a heinous crime and must be combated by all means.
This means with the help of criminal law, through information and counseling, and through protection and assistance for victims.
Victims of human trafficking must not simply be deported.
A permanent right to stay would significantly increase their willingness to report and testify.
3. determine about the body itself
To decide about the body itself is not easy when everyone has an opinion about it.
We advocate for the right of women and girls to self-determination over their bodies.
In case of unwanted pregnancy, women need support and help close to home, not paternalism and punishment.
A fortiori, they do not need a step backward in rights they have already fought for or restrictions on freedoms they have already achieved.
We want to strengthen the right of self-determined family planning.
To ensure free and easy access to contraceptives for people with low incomes.
Beauty ideals and body norms, such as those conveyed in advertising, have an impact on our lives.
Boys and girls, women and men should be able to live as freely as possible from such specifications and not experience discrimination on the basis of their appearance.
We want to promote respect for physical diversity.
It is not the advertising industry alone that should define what is sexist and what is not, but an independent commission that makes recommendations for the advertising industry based on concrete criteria.
Self-determination also includes ensuring that women have the choice of how and where they give birth, that the quality of care is assured everywhere
, and that midwives do not have to give up their profession because of unreasonable insurance costs, poor pay, or poor working conditions.
If you vote GREEN, you are voting for these three projects:
For a real equal pay law - women deserve equal pay for equal and equivalent work
We want to finally establish pay equity between men and women.
We want to raise the social and financial status of professions with a high proportion of women - whether in nursing, daycare or social projects.
We want an equal pay law that reaches as many working women as possible, not just a few.
A wage check is to reveal whether women are paid unequally.
Collective bargaining partners and employers should be obliged to check collectively agreed and non collectively agreed wage structures for discrimination.
Above all, however, this law must also contain an effective right of action for associations.
Then women are not dependent on the difficult individual legal action, because associations can sue in the case of structural disadvantages.
For good obstetrics - safeguarding midwifery work
Only with midwives is there good obstetrics.
Only with them can the right of women to freely choose the place of birth and a self-determined birth be realized.
We therefore want to ensure that midwives do not have to leave their profession because of unreasonable insurance costs, poor pay and bad working conditions.
Hospitals with maternity wards should be easily accessible in all regions.
We want new incentives to be put in place so that midwives and obstetricians* are also active in underserved regions.
We strive to provide 1:1 midwifery care during essential stages of childbirth.
We need binding quality specifications for births in and outside hospitals.
Consistently against violence against women
We want to combat violence against women everywhere, because physical and psychological integrity is a key asset.
Whether at home, in public spaces, or in cases of cyber violence.
In order to provide protection, women's shelters need enough places.
We want to ensure funding for women's shelters and counseling centers and hold the federal government accountable in this regard.
For more security and protection in public spaces, we rely on effective security concepts and good cooperation between security authorities and specialist advisory services.
We call for approaches such as security points of contact for women at major events.
We want prevention concepts against sexualized violence and cyberbullying to be developed and the contact points for those affected to be expanded.
III. WE SECURE FREEDOM
Germany is a safe country and it should remain safe.
The basis for this is our free society and a liberal constitutional state - we want to strengthen both.
Only democratically controlled institutions that are committed to human and civil rights enjoy the trust of citizens.
Only a liberal and thus strong constitutional state guarantees the necessary protection and freedom for the self-determination
and diverse lifestyles of each and every individual in our society.
An immoderate policy of ever more far-reaching encroachments on fundamental rights, on the other hand, weakens our freedom and does not ensure greater security.
Instead, what is needed is an internal security policy that focuses on effective prevention and law enforcement to protect people from crime, violence and discrimination.
The task of the security institutions is to stand up for the rights of citizens and to effectively combat both new and old threats to freedom and security.
Our free society and its values are under very different attacks today.
Violence can never be a means of enforcing convictions.
The inhuman terror of jihadism wants to destabilize our democracy, just as right-wing extremists and Reich citizens are trying to do.
We are resolute in confronting these dangers.
We do this with constitutional means and targeted measures.
Blanket suspicions and the collection of data without any reason are only counterproductive here.
It is much more effective to use proportionate means to monitor a few hundred people who have provided sufficient reason to do so than to record 80 million citizens without any reason using data retention, nationwide video surveillance or automated facial recognition.
We reject each of these.
Rather, the security authorities need the powers necessary to be able to avert threats in a targeted manner.
Police action needs a good foundation in the rule of law - precisely formulated and controlled.
The terrorist attacks of the recent past, such as those at Breitscheidplatz in Berlin, the countless attacks on people seeking protection here, but also the findings of the NSU investigation committees reveal the need to better prepare the security authorities for the current threats.
In addition, trust in the state has been damaged in view of unlawful mass surveillance by German and international intelligence services and the independent activities of the Office for the Protection of the Constitution.
With the distorted threat of a state helpless against terror and crime, the current government is only trying to distract attention from the actual undesirable developments in security policy.
Instead of correcting mistakes, the federal government is pushing for tighter legislation in a rush, without assessing the consequences.
At best, they are security policy placebos; at worst, they are far-reaching violations of fundamental rights.
We are not opposed to any change in the law, but we are not prepared to accept ineffective tightening at the expense of our fundamental rights - first, the existing laws must be applied effectively.
Many of the current measures provide less security, less freedom and a less livable society.
They should be put to the test according to scientific criteria and corrected in case of doubt.
Instead, there is a need for effective application of existing laws and effective protection of fundamental rights.
We are committed to the concept of a citizen-oriented police force, which, like the judicial authorities, must have sufficient and well-trained personnel with modern technology,
and to cooperation between European security authorities based on clear rules of law.
1. security in a strong, because liberal, constitutional state
Our security policy based on the rule of law needs a police force that is recognized in society.
A police force that is well-equipped, knowledgeable, and citizen-centric.
The earlier cuts were a serious mistake.
In addition to modern technology, motivated police work requires above all more personnel with good qualifications and career opportunities as well as family-friendly working conditions.
We Greens also advocate this in the state governments.
The federal and state governments must continuously train, hire, and provide relief for administrative tasks.
We need authorities who stand alongside people to provide security and stand up for our rule of law.
That's why we support a diverse and citizen-centric police force.
More and more women and people with a so-called migrant background in the police service are helping with citizen contact and fighting crime.
A diverse police force that offers no room for disproportionate use of force or sexist and racist discrimination is in the interest of all of us and especially of the officers themselves.
We therefore advocate the further development of the error culture, intercultural competence and further training, promote anonymous identification and independent police officers - as contact persons for citizens and police officers.
We also need well-equipped courts and public prosecutors' offices, as well as a self-governing bar as an independent body for the administration of justice.
Access to justice must be guaranteed equally for all people.
Criminal law must always be a last resort.
Video surveillance can be a supportive measure at danger hotspots - if it is occasion-related, proportionate, accompanied by sufficient personnel and must be regularly evaluated and re-approved.
Because camera technology can complement good police work, but not replace it.
Comprehensive camera surveillance, on the other hand, is a disproportionate encroachment on fundamental rights that does not create more security and does not prevent crimes or only displaces them - unlike preventive concepts such as construction measures.
In addition, the locations of cameras in public must be transparent for citizens*.
Crime fields are changing.
While crime is falling overall, other phenomena such as the high number of burglaries are unsettling for many people, as they affect the reality of their lives.
We therefore want to promote protective measures and facilitate security installations in tenancy law - because we rely on effective measures to prevent burglary instead of symbolic tougher penalties.
Organized crime is diverse and, as in the gang and rocker sectors, internationally intertwined and highly compartmentalized.
This requires special control concepts.
A focus should be placed on the skimming of illegal profits and on cross-border police cooperation.
This makes it possible to respond to future threats in a more targeted and flexible manner than through legislative changes.
The problems are as varied as the causes: We need to sharpen our focus on the security situation - instead of reducing it to mere crime statistics.
In terms of periodic security reports, criminological and practical findings must be thought of together.
This is the only way to find effective answers to these phenomena.
Because we see internal security as a cross-cutting task: in many policy areas, from the local to the federal and state level to Europe.
This requires efforts from social to educational policy, from urban planning to economic policy.
Cybercrime is particularly challenging for law enforcement agencies.
The relevant powers in the Code of Criminal Procedure must be developed effectively and in accordance with the rule of law.
And it needs qualified personnel with the necessary technology.
In order to be able to concentrate on these real challenges, we want to relieve the judiciary and the police of extraneous administrative tasks and the prosecution of petty crimes.
For example, it makes no sense for people to be in jail just because they can't pay their fine for fare evasion.
More well-equipped personnel and optimized international police cooperation that do not put in two million hours of overtime may not be as cheap as tightening the law, but they directly improve the security situation.
The targeted and cross-border surveillance of terror suspects must be at the center of police work - where necessary, also with the necessary means around the clock to detain them even briefly in the event of concrete danger.
Averting danger is the task of the police.
In addition, the system of cooperation between the Federal Criminal Police Office and the state security services of the federal states must be analyzed and improved.
Clear responsibilities and accountabilities must be created here.
We clearly reject the regular calls for the Bundeswehr to be deployed within Germany.
Because terror and international crime know no borders, we need security agencies that cooperate in the European Union and internationally according to clear rule-of-law criteria, common fundamental rights standards and under parliamentary control.
We advocate high standards for the rights of suspects and defendants across the EU.
We also supported appropriate information sharing among European security agencies and joint Europol investigative teams - as an effective approach to cross-border crime and terrorism.
With the Schengen Agreement, Europe has a joint responsibility for its external borders - this must be strengthened by an overall concept
that is based on the protection of human rights and guarantees legal certainty.
An important contribution to our security architecture is made by the many volunteer members of the fire department, the technical relief organization and the rescue and medical services.
Within the framework of civil protection, we want to sustainably strengthen volunteer commitment and ensure modern and reliable equipment.
2. nazis, no thanks!
Right-wing extremist fanatics, Reich citizens, Nazis and so-called identitarians are forming.
There is an increasingly loud right-wing and right-wing populist scene in Germany, which makes itself heard with its agitation on the Internet or at Pegida demonstrations.
The number of right-wing crimes has reached a record level.
We resolutely oppose the shift to the right and the increasing violence.
The police and judiciary must consistently prosecute and punish racist and right-wing extremist crimes.
We want to improve protection for victims of right-wing violence.
For example, victims of right-wing violence must be able to testify and be better supported - in such justified cases, people must not simply be deported.
Group-based misanthropy such as racism, anti-Semitism, antiziganism, anti-Muslim racism, homophobia and transphobia, sexism and the devaluation of the homeless, the long-term unemployed and people with disabilities must be combated wherever it occurs - in right-wing extremist structures and right-wing populist movements as well as in everyday life, among migrants and refugees as well as among the long-established population.
It is the task of politics to ensure that all people - regardless of their origin, gender, sexual identity, ideology, religion or social status - can move and develop freely and safely - whether in Berlin, Saxony or Baden-Württemberg, for example.
Wherever citizens get involved against Nazis, we assure them of our full support and solidarity: whether in associations, initiatives, religious communities or in the anti-fascist Unicorn Action - whether through educational and advisory work or through demos and peaceful blockades of Nazi marches.
We want to better recognize this and ensure their financial resources.
For us, civil society engagement against the right also includes demonstrations.
We reject symbolic tightening of penalties at the expense of freedom of demonstration.
They do not make any gathering more peaceful.
A de-escalating deployment strategy and well-trained and rested emergency forces make much more sense here for all sides.
3. caesura in constitutional protection
The state must combat right-wing extremism and everyday and institutionalized racism with all the means available under the rule of law.
Security authorities must sharpen their focus on the outside right and, to this end, better appreciate the broad knowledge of civil society initiatives and include it as expert knowledge in their analyses.
The failure to deal with the right-wing terrorist NSU has made it clear that the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution is permanently blind to the right and unable to recognize developments that are dangerous for democracy.
The dubious role of the Office for the Protection of the Constitution in the Amri case and in the attack on Breitscheidplatz in Berlin also points to misjudgments.
We therefore want to fundamentally reform the constitutional protection authorities.
The Office for the Protection of the Constitution needs a fresh start and a very thorough rethinking of the V-Leute system.
We do not want the milieus under observation to be cross-financed and serious crimes to be covered up from these scenes.
Instead of the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution in its ineffective current form, we want to establish a completely new federal office for threat detection and counterintelligence in terms of personnel and structure, which would work with intelligence resources clearly separated from police tasks.
General monitoring of anti-democratic and anti-human aspirations is to be carried out by an independent institute for the protection of the constitution, using only public sources.
After all, academia and committed civil society are always similarly well informed, if not sometimes better informed, than the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution.
4. expand prevention - for a culture of looking
We want to expand prevention and participation.
We must do everything we can to prevent young people from slipping into inhuman and violence-glorifying ideologies in the first place, regardless of their political or fundamentalist motivation.
This is achieved through a culture of looking.
We want to prevent radicalization from the very beginning: That is why we must draw attention more clearly and earlier than before to the elementary importance and positive effects of parliamentary democracy, the rule of law and the separation of powers.
To this end, we are calling for an education offensive in daycare centers and schools,
Human rights education
and the promotion of democracy and media skills among young people
and a strengthening of advice centers, youth associations and outreach youth work.
This also includes correctional facilities, as they have also been stations of radicalization in the past.
A liberal penal system can break this cycle with targeted prevention work, better prison conditions and the prospect of resocialization.
Prevention is a cross-sectional task.
In social hotspots in particular, we must also provide prospects through urban development and economic measures to counteract violence and no-go areas from the outset.
We want to massively expand prevention programs against both right-wing extremism and violent Islamism and Salafism, and strengthen civil society approaches.
Here, it is important to support prevention work in and with the mosque communities.
In this context, broad networking, such as with the police, schools and local youth welfare services, is particularly important.
We want to prevent crimes.
For this reason, the federal government, the states, local authorities and civil society institutions should work together in a nationwide prevention center.
We want to strengthen programs for deradicalization and for people leaving the far-right and Islamist scene.
In order to prevent acts of terrorism and amok, access to weapons must be made more difficult.
It is still far too easy to obtain illegal firearms and converted decorative weapons.
All dangerous weapons must be fully registered and the suitability and reliability of the owners must be regularly checked.
We want to introduce uniform marking and common standards for the deactivation of firearms throughout Europe.
If you vote GREEN, you are voting for these three projects:
Strengthen the fight against the right
We declare war on right-wing and right-wing populist forces in our society.
Many initiatives, associations or churches are campaigning against Nazis and for a cosmopolitan democracy.
These civil society institutions deserve governmental and political support and recognition.
To enable such structures to operate independently of political majorities and without additional bureaucratic expense, we Greens want to strengthen them permanently with a Democracy Promotion Act that reliably guarantees them the necessary financial basis.
We reject any kind of general state suspicion and pressure against civil society actors, such as surveillance by the Office for the Protection of the Constitution.
In addition, state education and counseling services against right-wing violence must also be expanded.
We must do everything we can to prevent young people from slipping into inhuman, violence-propagating ideologies.
To this end, we want to apply a comprehensive and effective prevention strategy against violent Islamism.
A nationwide prevention center is to coordinate the tasks and network all relevant state and civil society actors.
These include: various departments of the German federal government, the security authorities, states and municipalities, as well as youth welfare, youth associations, democracy initiatives, Islamic organizations, academia and the media.
We also want to promote regional networks for concrete local prevention work.
New start at the Office for the Protection of the Constitution, learning from mistakes
We want to make life in Germany safer for everyone.
This is only possible if it is guided by the principle of a consistent rule of law, with strong protection for our human, fundamental and civil rights.
This requires fundamental reforms and the will to learn from the mistakes of the past.
The Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution has proven several times in recent years that it is not part of the solution, but part of the problem in the security architecture in Germany.
A structural reboot is needed at the Office for the Protection of the Constitution.
We want to separate the tasks.
A new federal office for threat detection and counterintelligence is to use intelligence resources, clearly separated from the police, to detect terror and espionage.
It should help everyone in this country, from punks to bankers, from Saxons to Syrians, feel safe.
This requires strong parliamentary control.
At the same time, an independent institute is to monitor anti-democratic and anti-human aspirations with scientific methods using only public sources, so that civil society is able to respond to them.
In addition, the V-Leute system needs to be very thoroughly reconsidered.
We do not want the milieus under observation to be cross-financed and serious crimes from these scenes to be covered up.
IV. WE STRENGTHEN DEMOCRACY AND DEFEND THE FREE CONSTITUTIONAL STATE
Democracy is neither self-evident nor immutable.
It has to be explained and fought for again and again in order to convince people and win them back as voters.
It needs citizens who get involved, whether they were born here or immigrated - who stand up for their values, for their rights and for those of others.
It needs democratic institutions that are open to participation.
It needs a strong parliament, an independent judiciary and a free and independent media.
And vibrant organizations that are involved in a variety of ways, from political parties to trade unions, religious communities to NGOs, foundations, associations and initiatives.
We rely on a strong, democratic constitutional state that safeguards our freedom.
Democracy needs a reasonable debate based on facts, mutual respect and the exchange of arguments - instead of hate, agitation and dull slogans.
The success of authoritarian and anti-democratic forces in Europe and the USA makes it clear that we are at a historical crossroads: As a society, we must stand up for the fundamental rights and freedoms fought for in the course of European history, including again recently in the peaceful revolution in Eastern Europe and the GDR, as well as for democracy and the principles of an open society.
These achievements are what define us and make us strong.
We will therefore resolutely prevent the clock from being turned back again.
Nationalism, racism and enmity between religions and population groups do not stand a chance with us.
1. strengthen democracy through more transparency and participation
Democracy depends on the trust of citizens in their representatives, institutions and decision-making processes.
We Greens are very concerned to see that this confidence is diminishing in Germany and Europe.
We therefore want to strengthen democracy - also by ensuring greater transparency and better participation.
For us, as the central representative of Germany's citizens, parliament is the heart of our democracy.
But we have seen: In times of a crushing majority of a grand coalition, the possibilities of parliamentary control and participation are severely limited.
That's why we want to expand it.
The work of the Bundestag must become more transparent, and the committees must generally meet in public.
In order to disclose the influence of lobbyists and interest groups, we want to establish a mandatory public lobby register.
In order to make lobbying influences in the process of drafting legislation transparent, members of parliament should receive discussion, speaker and cabinet drafts at least at the same time as the associations and the associations' submissions at the same time as the ministries or the federal government.
Second, we want to introduce a "legislative footprint" for this purpose.
If lobby ist*innen contribute to legislative texts, this must be identified as a source reference.
We need more transparency when it comes to donations to political parties, so that citizens can see whether political decisions are being influenced.
In order to make visible who donates to parties or supports them with sponsorship, we want to lower the publication limits for party donations and introduce corresponding rules for party sponsorship as well.
We want to limit donations to political parties to natural persons with an annual cap per person.
ALLIANCE 90/THE GREENS shall apply the current law until such time as it is amended accordingly.
The amount and origin of additional income of members of the German Bundestag should be disclosed.
We want to promote open government, an administration that communicates transparently and at eye level with citizens.
Information relevant to the public is then published on the Internet according to the criteria of Open Data.
We want to expand the use of open and non-discriminatory standards in government agencies and in government communications.
We want to develop the existing Freedom of Information Act into a comprehensive transparency law.
We are expanding citizen participation at the local, state, federal and European levels.
In the federal states, for example, we demonstrate this with our initiatives for transparency laws: We stand for a policy of being heard and citizen participation.
We involve citizens earlier and better in planning and construction projects.
To this end, we want to further develop laws and regulations, especially for major projects.
We want to expand the right of petition into an effective means of citizen participation.
For us, however, strengthening democracy does not stop at parliaments, but also encompasses the democratization of various areas of life, such as school, university, training or the workplace.
Democracy also thrives on trust in the voters, which is why we Greens want to strengthen elements of direct democracy in federal politics as well.
We want to introduce popular initiatives, referendums and plebiscites into the constitution.
A vibrant civil society plays a central role in an open society.
We therefore advocate for more legal certainty in the non-profit sector, especially to ensure equal tax treatment of different civil society actors.
To this end, the catalog of charitable purposes is also to be adapted and expanded to include the promotion of peace, human rights and democracy, as well as contributions such as the establishment and maintenance of free radio.
The promotion of non-profit organizations should be accompanied by improved, clearer and uniform publication and transparency requirements.
The rights of minorities as well as fundamental rights and essential constitutional principles must not be put up for grabs by referenda.
Majority decision-making is as much a part of the core of democracy as is the protection of minorities.
Until now, people who are under permanent legal care have been excluded from the right to vote.
This is not compatible with the Basic Law and the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
We advocate that this exclusion of voting rights be lifted.
The right to demonstrate must not depend on one's wallet and be undermined by illegitimate warning practices.
We prevent excessive fees for injunctions by specifying a statutory amount in dispute.
To enable as many people as possible to participate in the democratic process, we want to open up local elections to people who live here with a right of residence but without a German or EU passport.
Participation in elections is an essential step for successful integration.
For this reason, and to ensure that as many people as possible participate, we want to make it easier for people who live permanently in Germany to take part in votes and elections.
To enable young people in particular to get involved at an early age, we want to lower the voting age to 16 for all elections.
To ensure that young people really do have a say in decision-making, we want to promote the institutionalization of political youth bodies and their funding.
Currently, women are massively underrepresented in parliaments.
We will therefore examine concrete steps to see whether, for example, a parity law can help to remedy this unspeakable state of affairs.
To ensure that voter turnout and, consequently, representation in parliaments do not remain dependent on social milieu, political parties must approach voters more directly and use more comprehensible language.
2. promote social engagement, protect whistleblowers
Millions of people get involved and get involved.
They contribute in small ways to the big picture, to the cohesion of our society.
Their commitment is diverse and colorful: It ranges from the fire department to refugees and neighborhood assistance, from the choir to the sports club to involvement in church, synagogue and mosque.
It ranges from advocacy for the environment, human rights to the fight for global justice.
Commitment needs support, for example through the assumption of insurance, qualification and certified further training opportunities.
At the same time, we want to make more money available in the federal budget for further training and supervision - so that commitment does not lead to excessive demands!
We want to use targeted information and communication to ensure that volunteering opportunities are open to all social groups.
Voluntary services open up new horizons for young people.
We want to increase the number of voluntary service positions to 200,000 in order to open up this opportunity to more young people.
We want to offer personal coaching to the volunteers with offers for finding a profession, training and planning studies.
Competencies acquired in the service should be able to be recognized as training or study credits.
We would like to say thank you to those who volunteer a great deal for our society alongside their school work or who dedicate a year of their lives to voluntary service after leaving school, and give them 1,500 euros to help them on their way into life.
Sometimes engagement is uncomfortable and asks critical questions, but it is evidence of a vibrant and responsible civil society.
Those who are involved and committed contribute to the cohesion of our society.
We Greens want to promote this and ensure greater social recognition of this commitment, including state support, for example through the possibility of deducting donations.
Civil society organizations need a suitable and secure legal framework.
Citizens who - often at great risk - make information about abuses available to the public must also be supported and protected by a whistleblower protection law.
They expose injustice and unfairness and make an important contribution to society.
It is absurd to prosecute them in such justified cases or not to protect them from consequences under service and labor law, such as dismissal.
We want to give Edward Snowden political asylum, as the European Parliament has been demanding for two years.
3. strengthen free media
Free and independent media and universal access to diverse information are a "staple" of democracy.
But they are under enormous pressure today; the media world has changed drastically in recent years.
We Greens want to defend a diverse and independent media landscape, also against the attacks of populists and hatemongers, who in turn replace objective information with propaganda through false reports and opinion roboters.
Journalists must not be monitored and criminalized under the pretext of fighting terrorism.
Whistleblower protection must also be ensured.
Our goal is a media landscape that is diverse and innovative and also takes the small players seriously.
Non-commercial civic media should be able to have their work recognized as non-profit.
One prerequisite for quality journalism is fair working conditions for journalists that allow independent and sophisticated research and reporting.
This must also be worthwhile: Journalists and publishers must receive an appropriate share of the long-term value creation of their works, especially in the digital age.
There are wiser solutions than the counterproductive ancillary copyright for press publishers, which benefits a few and harms many - we therefore want to abolish it as soon as possible.
Instead, we need meaningful promotion of the diversity of media.
Public broadcasting has an important role to play in independent and high-quality reporting.
However, the broadcasting councils and the state media authorities often do not reflect Germany's social, religious, cultural and ideological plurality.
We want to change that.
We need credible and independent public broadcasting.
To this end, we want to strengthen its mission and protect it from influence from politics and lobbying associations.
Therefore, it must be able to operate without government or commercial interference.
This is only possible if public broadcasting continues to be financed by contributions from the general public and remains free of economic interests.
That's why we Greens are working to ensure that in the future it will be as free of advertising as possible.
In return, our citizens can also expect to be able to permanently access the content they have financed online and that creators are appropriately remunerated.
And we are committed to standardizing youth media protection across media and actively strengthening media literacy for all age groups.
Millions of people in our country play computer games, alone or together, spontaneously or in an increasingly organized way.
We want to further strengthen computer game culture in its diversity and as an e-sport and examine the extent to which it can be recognized as a sport.
4. promote culture in its diversity
Art and culture in their diversity are indispensable for a living democracy.
Culture is much more than what the creators of culture produce.
In an open society, culture is in constant motion and change.
We Greens therefore oppose all attempts to impose a national "Leitkultur".
In culture, there must be no boundaries that determine who belongs and who does not in the name of an alleged "cultural identity."
A democratic society thrives on the lively exchange of cultures - and it opens up and protects artistic freedom.
Art is often provocative, holds up a mirror to society and creates new ideas and visions.
We GREENS will create, preserve and promote cultural places.
The independence of culture from state and commercial paternalism is a matter of course for us.
For art has neither a moral nor a commercial mission to fulfill.
Culture is a common good.
In order to preserve and enrich it, the activities of public institutions are needed just as much as private commitment.
This means that we want to promote the creation of culture, support the creators of culture and protect the rights to created cultural works.
For us, participatory and transparent public funding of culture is a crucial vehicle for cultural development opportunities.
It opens up the free spaces beyond a pure economization of cultural production and marketing.
For example, we want to use new financing structures to provide greater support for German film outside of television participation - as well as for innovative projects from film studios to municipal theaters to the independent scene.
Artists and cultural workers need stable social security and improved earning opportunities through minimum wages and lower fee limits, which must be anchored in public funding programs, among other things.
We want to ensure that creators and exploiters work together for mutual benefit and that publicly funded art and research are not commercialized first and foremost by private companies.
We advocate strengthening cultural participation and education.
Culture must be accessible to all people.
That's why people should be given the opportunity to critically examine media and culture from a young age.
We want to strengthen cultural education in schools and other institutions.
In this context, we must also improve working conditions for independent cultural workers in particular.
Our cultural heritage should also become more accessible.
For this we must preserve it.
This safeguarding, as through digitization and preservation in the case of film, is a central task of our cultural policy and must be supported financially and institutionally.
Our confrontation with history, especially the Shoa and National Socialism, also shapes our common present and future.
A critical perspective on the history of effects and the way we deal with this past provides us with the basis for our commitment today against right-wing ideas.
Current right-wing authoritarian tendencies illustrate this need.
By supporting cultural projects and providing sufficient funding for memorial sites to expand multi-perspective educational offerings, we want to promote a culture of remembrance in the immigration society as well.
We need new forms of remembrance culture in order to enter into a dialog about what divides us and to come to an understanding about common values.
Germany's cultural wealth has always developed through exchange and openness.
Compartmentalization stunts any cultural development.
The Nazi reappraisal is not yet complete in the field of looted art either.
We want to ensure, through comprehensive reappraisal and research measures, that all looted art objects can be returned and that the many affected Nazi survivors and their relatives at least receive a measure of justice in this matter - albeit belatedly.
The social and scientific reappraisal of the SED dictatorship as well as assistance for its victims and disadvantaged persons continue to be a major concern for us.
Lifelong participation is the foundation of a shared culture.
This also requires active and barrier-free offerings.
In addition, funding decisions in cultural policy must be comprehensible.
We therefore want to communicate criteria in advance and provide transparent reasons for funding decisions.
It is important to develop and try out new ways of funding together with those involved in the cultural sector, in order to provide targeted support for smaller projects in particular.
Federal cultural policy here must not be limited to showcase and large-scale projects.
Culture cannot be tied to metropolises; we support and promote culture in rural areas in particular.
In politically tense times, cultural cooperation is particularly suited to strengthening cohesion in Europe and the world.
There are tried and tested models to enable German cultural players to participate in EU funding programs, such as seed money to support international project development and co-financing funds (matching funds).
We Greens will continue to promote gender equality in the cultural and media sectors, which is still not a matter of course.
Culture must be accessible to and experienced by everyone - regardless of where they live, their wallet, origin, age, physical conditions or identity.
5. we shape sustainable sports development
Sport is good for you.
Our health and our society.
Sport enables integration and inclusion.
That's why we want everyone to be able to do sports according to their wishes and needs.
Sports take place everywhere: in clubs, gyms or privately in the park.
For this, we need exercise-friendly cities, intact sports facilities, and sufficient volunteers.
Popular and elite sports must be thought of together, because both benefit from each other.
We must not allow undesirable developments in top-level sport, such as doping, corruption and gigantomaniacal major sporting events.
Doping is harmful to health, unfair and jeopardizes the integrity of sport.
At national and international level, we need effective prevention, functioning control mechanisms and clear consequences for doping violations.
Top-class sports promotion must not only be oriented towards medals, but above all towards athletes.
The doping past in the East and West must be fully clarified.
We must provide adequate support for doping victims.
Corruption scandals at the highest level of sports func tio naries and increasing commercialization threaten sport.
We keep up the pressure and demand transparency and good governance in sports as well.
The population must be involved in major sporting events.
Here, human and civil rights as well as social and ecological standards must be observed.
There is no place for violence and discrimination in sports.
We are focusing in particular on prevention and want to provide greater support for social pedagogical fan projects.
We want to bundle programs against right-wing extremism in sports and promote an open and diverse fan culture.
At the same time, we protect the civil rights of soccer fans and protect them from excessive data collection and collective punishment.
If you vote GREEN, you are voting for these three projects:
Free admission to the museum, improve access,promote culture
We want both to enable participation in culture, regardless of income, age and education, and to
promote the emergence of culture in all sectors.
In our museums lies the cultural heritage in all its diversity.
For us, granting everyone free access to the permanent exhibitions of the federal museums is part of the provision of cultural services of general interest.
We strengthen participatory cultural education projects and also open many paths to small and large cultural venues.
We want to implement model projects to open up new access to art and culture and enable greater participation.
With the federal government's cultural funding programs, we promote a broadly diversified cultural landscape, especially beyond the economized mainstream.
Protect whistleblowers by law - strengthen transparency
We want Edward Snowden to be able to live freely and safely in a democratic country, we want to offer him asylum in Germany.
We have a lot to thank him for.
Only through his courage to go public with information, the scandalous spying and mass surveillance of citizens by the NSA became known.
We also owe the disclosure of mass and organized tax evasion through the Panama Papers, Luxleaks and Cum-Ex transactions to whistleblowers.
Citizens who work to make information available to the public that serves the public interest and general welfare must be supported and protected in doing so.
Therefore, we Greens want both a European and a national law for the protection of whistleblowers, which protects these people from prosecution and dismissal.
We also want to achieve greater transparency by introducing a public lobby register.
More participation for a vibrant democracy
Direct democracy is a central concern for us Greens.
That is why we want to anchor referendums in the Basic Law and strengthen direct democratic participation at all levels.
This also applies to young people.
To enable them to have a say, we advocate lowering the voting age to 16.
This is because the right to early co-determination and the corresponding democratic education motivates young people to become involved in society.
Those who learn to vote early continue to do so later and motivate others to vote as well.
V. WE MAKE CONSUMERS STRONG
Deception, trickery and fraud - many people are still being ripped off too often in 2017.
While US-American VW customers receive adequate compensation for manipulated cars, German customers are left empty-handed.
Data giants and powerful Internet corporations collect and exploit our data almost uncontrollably.
Behind colorful packaging and fake seals, the food industry hides unhealthy food of sometimes inferior quality.
Until now, building materials have been allowed to contain untested and undeclared substances that are harmful to health.
Consumer protection affects everyone - in almost all areas of life.
From opening an account for the first time to everyday shopping and retirement planning.
As GREENS, we protect consumers from deception, contract - trickery and misuse of data.
We are fighting for more transparency, more legal protection and fair rights of action: this is what green consumer protection looks like.
1. enable sustainable consumption decisions
Whether it's a T-shirt, a steak or a smartphone, where a product comes from, what it contains and how it was produced is far too often left in the dark.
Who wants to be responsible for child labor and other human rights violations, polluted rivers or animal suffering with their purchase?
Consumers also have a right to transparency about the origin of products and the working and production conditions under which they were made.
We therefore want to achieve transparent supply chains with minimum social and environmental standards through appropriate disclosure and due diligence requirements.
It must be clear what is inside a package.
Sustainable consumption only has a chance if it says what's in it.
For meat and milk, we want to introduce simple labeling that clearly shows how the animal was kept - as has long been established for eggs.
This must also apply to processed products.
Then consumers can show animal suffering and environmental destruction the red card.
For more dietary diversity, communal catering in schools, daycare centers and canteens is an important key: Good vegetarian and vegan food should be part of the everyday offer.
People who want to eat a plant-based diet must also have the opportunity to do so - away from the dry roll or one-sided side dishes.
Good food is more than food intake.
Malnutrition and obesity cause massive health problems in children.
Our goal is for every child to have a healthy lunch.
We want to expand school catering and improve it through binding quality standards.
We want to put a stop to aggressive marketing for unhealthy children's foods by establishing clear rules for advertising.
Daycare centers and schools should be free of PR campaigns.
Customers are disenfranchised when incomprehensible nutritional information conceals fattening foods or vegetarian and vegan foods are unclearly labeled.
We want food packaging to tell the truth, for example through a nutrition traffic light.
Transparency must also apply to food hygiene.
We want to introduce a hygiene barometer for restaurants.
This allows consumers to see how a business has fared in food inspection.
Whether it's food, clothing, furniture or building materials, there is currently an opaque jungle of seals.
It is difficult to distinguish between meaningless industrial advertising and a controlled quality seal.
You partly have to play Miss Marple or Sherlock Holmes to find out where and how something was produced and what is included.
The credibility of entire industries suffers as a result.
We want to clear up the seal jungle.
That is why we GREENS are committed to minimum requirements for the most important industries and clear criteria for "fair" or "regional," for example.
In this way, we create the conditions for real orientation.
Health risks from pollutants or residues in products and food must be excluded.
This applies, for example, to hormonal pollutants such as phthalates, which can be found in countless everyday products such as packaging, toys or cosmetics, or to mineral oil residues in food packaging.
Many consumers want to leave the throwaway society behind and consume in a resource-conserving way.
To this end, we want to encourage companies to return to sustainable lifespans for the benefit of consumers.
In addition, products must be built in such a way that they can be repaired in the event of a defect instead of being thrown away.
However, this is made impossible when batteries are welded tight, updates are no longer provided, cables no longer fit or the repair is more expensive than buying a new one.
In this way, technological progress becomes an ecological and consumer policy regression and mountains of electronic waste are created.
In the future, products must be built to last longer, be easy to repair, and allow batteries and accumulators to be replaced.
We want to achieve this through specifications for ecologically sound design and a significant extension of the statutory minimum warranty periods.
It is absurd how much these deviate from the technically possible lifetimes of the devices.
In addition, consumers will only have to provide evidence after two years instead of the previous six months.
We are calling for products to indicate their expected service life in the future, and we are campaigning for the reduced VAT rate on repair services to be applied in line with the Swedish model.
2. consumer rights apply on the net as they do on the street
So far, unlike in the U.S., there has been no financial compensation for those affected by the diesel scandal in Germany and Europe.
It is often far too difficult for individuals to enforce the applicable law.
For example, airlines refuse to honor compensation claims.
We finally want to enable class actions that spread the litigation risk across many shoulders.
The diesel scandal has shown that consumer and health protection are at best secondary to the diesel lobby for the German government.
We need a turnaround.
State supervisory authorities must finally also make consumer protection their goal.
They must work to ensure that consumers are fully compensated when they have been ripped off.
Unlawful profits, for example from antitrust violations, are to be returned to consumers by using these funds to strengthen independent consumer advice.
We want to strengthen and protect consumers online as well.
We do not accept that Google, Facebook, WhatsApp and Co hoard our most personal information and create exact personality profiles of us.
Anyone who is on the Internet has the right to know to whom his or her data is being passed on and must be able to object to this.
Health data must also be protected digitally.
Even in the age of big data, the principles of data protection - legal reservation, necessity and purpose limitation - must be consistently enforced.
Person-related information is highly sensitive and is particularly protected by the Basic Law.
The debate about "data ownership" is misleading.
Instead of playing off the use of data and the protection of citizens' fundamental rights against each other, we advocate effective privacy protection and the enabling of innovative offerings.
People must be able to rely on their right to access, correct and delete their data free of charge.
Companies may not evade these obligations by having their headquarters outside Europe.
To this end, we are calling for contact persons for these companies in Germany who can be approached.
Today, algorithms determine who pays how much, what ads are displayed, and what credit terms we get.
Depending on where you live or the end device, some products vary in price.
Clear rules are needed to combat spying and discrimination - for transparency and consumer protection in the digital world.
This also includes freedom of choice on the network.
What is taken for granted today with telephone, SMS and mail must also be possible with messenger services or social networks: being able to switch and communicate easily between providers and platforms.
To this end, we want to support inter operability and demand its implementation from major providers.
3. better protection against rip-offs by banks and insurers
Five euros for withdrawing money from ATMs, excessive fees for basic accounts, disproportionate overdraft interest rates and inadequate advice on investments and insurance.
Financial consumer protection is urgently needed, protects against rip-offs and stands for better advice: from the first account to investment advice to retirement planning.
The financial losses incurred by German consumers as a result of incorrect investment advice are estimated at around 50 billion euros a year.
This is not only economic madness, but also robs savers and insured persons and, in the worst case, destroys livelihoods.
But despite all the promises of the grand coalition, the focus is still not on the needs and wishes of the customers, but on sales targets and commission promises for the "consultants".
That is why we will cap commissions and fees and make them transparent.
We intend to achieve our goal of providing truly independent financial advice on a fee basis to all after an appropriate transition period.
But even where life's big financial issues are not at stake, consumers are often at the mercy of institutions without protection.
Overdraft interest rates of twelve percent and more are no exception.
We GREENS want to ensure that no bank customer falls into the overdraft trap.
That is why we will cap the overdraft interest rate and limit it by law to well below the current level and subject to a key interest rate.
Access to a low-cost basic account must also be ensured, because social participation today also depends on having one's own debit card.
In old-age provision, we want to create a transparent alternative to the jungle of old-age provision products with a basic state product.
If you vote GREEN, you are voting for these three projects:
Knowing what's in it - labeling animal products
No egg with the 3!
This is the slogan of probably the most successful animal welfare initiative of all time.
Since the type of husbandry of laying hens must be labeled, there is an end to cage rearing.
The shoppers voted "with the shopping bag".
We are sure: This will also work for other products.
That is why we demand clear and simple labeling of the type of animal husbandry on all animal products - as with eggs.
Even with processed products, the package should say what's inside.
In the future, it must therefore be clearly visible on the package where and how the animals were kept.
Extend data protection - preserve privacy
Data-hungry companies store the individual behavior of their customers and use this data to create profiles.
The existing protection mechanisms, such as the principle of consent, come to nothing in this case.
All consumers have the right to know who stores what, when and where about them.
Only they themselves - no employer, no Internet provider, no health insurance company and not even the state - may determine who has access to their data and what is to be done with it.
We will press for the high EU standards for clear limits on the collection and use of personal data and information not to be weakened when German data protection laws are adapted to the EU data protection reform.
Enable class action lawsuits for consumers
The VW case has once again made it clear: It is too difficult for consumers to effectively assert their rights.
Many people think twice about going to the trouble of taking legal action to enforce their rights against a large corporation.
We want to make that easier.
Consumers should be able to join together to form class actions and collectively resolve their claims through class actions.
VI. WE MAKE THE INTERNET FREE AND SAFE
Smartphone apps, social networks or networked services in our homes: the digital transformation is changing our society immensely.
Innovations can improve our quality of life, be it easier access to information and online-based citizen participation, be it intelligently controlled energy consumption or new forms of sharing and mobility.
At the same time, more and more people are concerned about the protection and security of their individual rights and data on the Internet, in view of the power of individual corporations, state surveillance, constant accessibility or increasing hatred and agitation on the Net.
We want to shape the digital transformation politically.
We align our policies with the interests of the people, not the corporations.
Our guiding values are: freedom,
Justice,
Sustainability
and democracy.
We stand up for these on the web - and against incitement, hatred and violence.
Digital self-determination drives us and
that is why we are committed to modern consumer and data protection, the
highest standards of IT security,
fair competition
and innovation.
Self-determination in the digital age also means that users have control over their devices.
If necessary, they must be able to change the software independently of the manufacturer, so that manufacturers do not turn devices into electronic waste by failing to update them.
We want to harness the potential of the digital transformation for education and research, equal participation, social progress and a sustainable economy.
Regulation is needed for innovation in the digital age, better (digital) infrastructure and more IT security for all people and companies.
Together with a committed civil society, we are fighting for a fast, neutral Internet
and strong consumer rights,
more e-government and open data, free and open software,
and trust through security in the digital world, and against mass surveillance and the rampant arming of intelligence services.
1. fast and open internet for all
Fast Internet is part of public services
and a prerequisite for participation in the digital society.
A future-proof and sustainable broadband supply is to be ensured everywhere in Germany by means of optical fiber to every front door (FTTB).
We want to use a public network company to drive forward the nationwide roll-out of fiber optics; to this end, the federal government will contribute at least the proceeds from the sale of its Deutsche Telekom shares (around ten billion euros).
In this way, we are establishing public broadband companies for fiber-optic expansion in rural areas to ensure the provision of high-speed Internet throughout the country.
Together with local authorities and other partners, companies can be set up locally for fiber-optic roll-out.
We will actively support the rapid and comprehensive roll-out of the future 5G mobile network and also advocate a nationwide free and open WLAN network.
We advocate true net neutrality for all, including in mobile communications, and fight against a "two-tier Internet."
True net neutrality is the prerequisite for fair digital competition
and open, barrier-free access for all people.
With the final abolition of "Stoererhaftung" (Breach of Duty of Care), we are creating open and legally secure WLAN access.
We want to better promote the freifunk movement.
In the case of mobile communications, we are committed to consistently minimizing radiation exposure.
We want a copyright law that takes into account the reality of use and exploitation in the digital world.
It must conform to civil rights and fairly balance the interests of consumers, users and authors.
We need to reform copyright contract law to strengthen the appropriate remuneration of creators.
They must be better able to assert their claims nationally and internationally.
Users of digital content should not be treated worse than analogue goods when it comes to lending and reselling.
Scientific knowledge means social participation.
That is why we support open access as well as free and non-commercialized access to teaching and learning materials and advocate for an educational and scientific barrier.
At the same time, authors must be remunerated appropriately and fairly.
Content should be usable and portable on different devices.
In the digitization of cultural heritage, we want to preserve the public domain.
2. together against hate on the net
We are concerned about the spread of hate and incitement on the Internet.
Law enforcement, on the other hand, lags far behind these excesses.
We GREENS want to ensure that people who make inciting statements or threaten others with murder and rape fantasies are consistently held accountable.
Large providers of social networks should be held accountable here, but must not be forced into the role of judge.
You must immediately delete content that obviously violates criminal law.
Courts and law enforcement agencies must assist them in documenting and prosecuting such cases.
For this purpose, a domestic contact point must be available around the clock for inquiries from law enforcement authorities and corresponding response times must be observed, otherwise fines may be imposed.
We clearly oppose any undermining of the anonymous and pseudonymous use of online services and thus of freedom of expression and diversity.
We refuse to provide information about users' inventory data to private third parties at the providers' discretion.
Law enforcement agencies and courts must be equipped with the technical and personnel resources they need to process legal violations on the Net in a reasonable amount of time.
Hate postings and false reports are often also a case for media law supervision, which we want to equip accordingly.
In the network, it must be recognizable whether humans or machines are communicating.
We therefore call for mandatory labeling of computer programs (social bots) that feign a human identity and can be used for purposes of manipulation and disinformation.
Not everything that is expressed in an inflammatory manner on the Internet is illegal.
Freedom of expression also applies to offside positions that are often difficult to bear.
We call on Internet companies to work intensively with organizations that support victims of hate and incitement, racism and discrimination on the Internet, and also to provide them with more direct reporting channels.
A democratic network needs users who oppose hate and agitation with a clear, ethically based stance, who critically question content in order to give false reports no chance, and who actively engage in discussions with counter-speech in order to support those affected by racism and bullying.
A free, open and inclusive network thrives on the involvement and commitment of civil society.
Today, digital competence is a basic prerequisite for an equal and self-determined life.
We therefore want more programs for digital education and media literacy - age-appropriate for young and old.
The police and public prosecutor's offices also need to expand their capabilities in this area.
We need more counseling and drop-in centers for victims of cyberbullying and online violence, as well as well-trained law enforcement personnel, especially to support women and girls, who are particularly often affected.
3. secure trust in the network
Those who are constantly monitored are not free.
Even those who believe they have "nothing to hide" are vulnerable.
Effective protection of fundamental rights is the foundation of a free society.
This also applies in the digital age.
People need to know who knows what about them and when.
But data protection is more than just informational self-determination.
The protection of fundamental rights in the digital world must not be shifted to the individual under any circumstances.
Instead, the state remains obligated to effectively protect private communications, personal data, employee data and digital infrastructures.
The more highly sensitive information is stored on our digital devices, the more important it becomes that fundamental rights protection for the core area of our personal lives is consistently observed and expanded - especially in law enforcement.
In the digital realm, too, prevention offers the most effective protection against attacks.
We will significantly strengthen the existing supervisory structures in terms of personnel and law in order to consistently guarantee consumer and data protection.
We will provide the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI) with independent support.
Whether private communications, public bodies, the economy or digital infrastructures - as GREENS, we are committed to everyone's digital security.
Here, the state must finally fulfill its duty of protection with effective and constitutional measures.
Therefore, we reject that state or private actors keep IT security vulnerabilities secret for their own benefit and to the detriment of the general public.
Rather, they need to report these gaps so they can be closed quickly.
The Bundeswehr must adapt to new threat situations and the federal government must better protect its IT infrastructures.
However, we clearly reject offensive operations into other systems.
Any use of digital operational capacities must be subject to parliamentary control.
As our everyday lives become increasingly interconnected, such as with the "Internet of Things," the demands on business for reliable IT security are growing.
We rely on clear legal requirements, but also want to create incentives for companies to invest in good and secure IT solutions.
We demand that the period of time in which products are provided with timely security updates is uniformly and visibly marked for consumers and must be guaranteed for a type-dependent minimum period.
We want to encourage companies to take IT security even more into account as early as the product and software development process.
Free, open source software and free formats and standards are for us one of the cornerstones for secure and sustainable IT systems.
We therefore want to give them preference in public IT procurement, especially if citizens are to use them.
In this way, we reduce dependence on individual manufacturers, increase transparency and ensure subsequent use.
We want to expand public funding for the development of free standard software with a view to IT security.
We also want to strengthen the rights of users to use free and open software and firmware on their devices in the interest of sustainable IT use.
4. for modern data protection
Data protection is an essential condition for a free democracy.
It enables free individual and social development and protects against state and corporate intervention.
Established file nprotection goals must be embedded in the development and as default settings of technology.
Personal data is inalienable and therefore not a commodity.
We want to prevent automated discrimination, whether in individual price profiling, credit scoring or internal security.
And we must ensure that all companies comply with legal requirements such as the new EU data protection law.
We see strong data protection as an international competitive advantage that we want to defend and expand.
We want to actively support SMEs in the area of data privacy and IT security and provide incentives for data privacy-friendly solutions.
The state must finally accept its responsibility for sustainable regulation.
We want to introduce a reporting obligation on the part of Internet access providers for inventory data retrieval of IP addresses and raise the hurdle for the query.
If you vote GREEN, you are voting for these three projects:
Fast Internet for all - expand fiber optics
We want fast Internet via fiber optics to be available from the banking city to every farm directly to the front door.
A public network company is to support the nationwide roll-out of fiber optics, the federal government is to contribute at least the proceeds from the sale of its Telekom shares, and local authorities and other partners are also to be able to participate.
We will actively support the rapid roll-out of the future 5G mobile network.
Wherever 5G is rolled out, WLAN must also be offered so that we have open, free and widespread access to WLAN.
Secure infrastructures
Digital attacks on IT infrastructures ranging from home computers and federal parliament servers to energy and industrial plants are commonplace.
We GREENS want to protect these systems effectively, but also oppose digital upgrading in this area.
The best protection against attacks are secure and verifiable systems.
Government agencies must be required to strengthen IT security.
Deliberately leaving security gaps open is not justifiable in terms of the rule of law and the duty to protect citizens; it harbors uncontrollable risks and should therefore be prohibited.
To protect government and other critical infrastructure, we will drive and promote the development of comprehensive security concepts.
We will make end-to-end encryption the standard.
Modern administration with e-government
With more courage for open data, barrier-free e-government services and open government, we will make a decisive contribution to modernizing our administration, reducing bureaucracy and revitalizing our democracy.
We advocate for Open Data rules that require public authorities to make existing data readily discoverable on their own initiative, machine-readable, and available to the public free of charge and under a free license.
E. JUSTICE IN MIND
Germany is a prosperous country.
We owe this prosperity to many committed employees, innovative companies and a long tradition of social security systems.
But by no means everyone can share in this jointly generated prosperity.
Even in our rich country, there is poverty and a lack of prospects, which, moreover, is perpetuated over generations.
That is why we have been working for more social justice in our country since our founding.
While many regions have had almost full employment with well-paid jobs for years, there are also areas where many young and older people are unemployed and see no opportunities.
Others have jobs with a future, but wear themselves out trying to balance family, their own interests and work.
Too many work under poor conditions and shimmy from one temporary job to the next.
While many benefit from globalization and digitization, others fear losing their jobs to robots or to foreign countries.
In particular, employees who provide simple services live with stagnating wages and sometimes poor working conditions.
Nurses, educators and police officers have to make ends meet with comparatively low incomes despite their enormously important social work.
The high concentration of wealth among a few also harms the economy and society, according to the OECD, while many with low incomes have debt, can barely invest in their children's future, let alone put anything aside.
You don't solve these problems by just talking about the successes.
One of the most important tasks of politics is to create conditions so that all people can contribute their abilities and lead a good, self-determined life.
That is why we are fighting for an inclusive society in which all people can participate.
We want to create new opportunities and better working conditions.
We want a society in which everyone can share in the prosperity we have created together and which offers everyone equal opportunities and possibilities.
The rungs of the social ladder must not be so far apart that advancement is hardly possible.
At the same time, poverty must have no place in our society, because it excludes.
But poverty also harms us all: not only the people who are deprived of their future opportunities and the prospect of a self-determined life, but also society, which depends on the talents and abilities of all.
We do not accept that 2.5 million children live in poverty in our country.
We want everyone to be able to lead a good life and to realize their right to self-determination and participation with their own efforts and the solidary support of society.
Education plays a crucial role for us in this.
Our education system has become better, fairer and more permeable through the reforms of many Green co-governed countries.
But it does not yet ensure real justice.
Social background still too often determines educational and career opportunities.
This is due in particular to the fact that in many schools, support is provided on a sorted basis instead of on an individual basis.
We want schools that respond to the individual needs of students and encourage them, not block and slow them down.
To achieve this, we consistently advocate the expansion of shared learning for as long as possible.
We want to lift the ban on cooperation.
To create equity, federal, state, and local governments must be able to work together without barriers.
Open and inclusive universities are also key to this.
We will launch a major reform package to combat child poverty, provide financial relief for families and significantly improve support for single parents.
We will drain tax swamps and ensure that even the super-rich finally make their fair contribution to the common good.
We want to use this money to invest in the development of livable neighborhoods, in daycare centers, schools, public libraries, youth centers and in affordable housing - all of which are places that people with little money are particularly dependent on, but whose good facilities benefit society as a whole.
We will abolish two-tier medicine and instead provide good health care for all with a citizens' insurance.
We are fighting for adequate pensions and good care in old age.
We want to prevent people from having to shimmy from one insecure job to the next.
We want to give people more sovereignty over their own time again so that they can better combine work, family and commitment.
A solidarity-based security system
and a strong economy are mutually dependent.
We are committed to an economy that is fair and stable, innovative and full of entrepreneurial spirit.
We want to seize the opportunities presented by digitization and shape this upheaval in such a way that it benefits everyone.
In this way, we strengthen social cohesion and the acceptance of our democracy, which are endangered by injustice and fear of relegation.
We want everyone to believe in the opportunities in our country - and to actually be able to use them.
I. WE INVEST IN DAYCARE CENTERS, SCHOOLS AND UNIVERSITIES
All those who live here should be able to realize their potential and live a self-determined life.
If the child from a working-class family later becomes an entrepreneur and creates good jobs, if the single nurse can afford to study nursing management, if the warehouse clerk who has been unemployed for a long time finds a new job after further training, if the boy who is hard of hearing learns together with the neighborhood children in the school around the corner and can fulfill his dream of training as a geriatric nurse, and if the woman who fled to Germany from Syria studies medicine, then we have achieved a lot.
Then we will have come a good deal closer to our goal of giving all people in Germany a chance at a good life.
In some places, this is already working, and people have long since set out on their own paths: for example, at the Rütli School in Berlin-Neukölln.
Once called "Germany's worst school," students from different backgrounds now learn together in this community school, and everyone benefits.
Many of them are the first in their family to graduate from high school.
Or at the University of Duisburg-Essen, which specifically accompanies young people from families without academic experience through to a bachelor's degree.
We need more of that.
Too often, one's origins still determine one's future rather than talent or hard work.
It is a scandal that it is so difficult for children from working-class families to move up in our country.
We Greens want to change that.
Everyone should have the chance to live a good life.
Our society needs the ideas, full participation and strength of all people.
We cannot and will not afford to leave people behind without prospects and in a state of isolation.
It is important to us that in this society not only those who have completed their studies are promoted or valued, but everyone.
Our goal is a society in which people's future is not determined by their social background, gender, ethnic roots or physical requirements, but by their aspirations and talents.
We oppose the division between inside and outside, want to keep society together and distribute opportunities more fairly.
That is why we want to return tax surpluses to the citizens, especially in the form of better education.
We don't want tax cuts that mainly benefit high-income earners, but instead support more investment in daycare centers, schools and universities.
1. opening doors with good, inclusive education
Daycare centers, schools, job centers, public libraries, youth centers and adult education centers - all of these are places that are fundamental to an equal opportunity society.
That's where opportunities are distributed - or not.
That's why local public infrastructure is so important.
But this is precisely where Germany urgently needs to catch up.
Investments have fallen victim to the red pen for decades.
Public jobs will be eliminated.
Schools are falling into disrepair, youth centers are being closed and municipal libraries are being merged.
We will put an end to this false emphasis.
We will once again prioritize general education and research and development.
It must remain our goal to invest at least seven percent (instead of the current approx. 4.2 percent) of economic output in general education and at least 3.5 percent (instead of the current approx. 2.9 percent) in research and development.
We Greens want to support states and municipalities in better building and equipping daycare centers, schools, vocational schools and universities.
These investments in the future are paying off.
Because they create the opportunity for everyone to make a living from their own work and give something back to society.
In many countries, therefore, more money than ever before has been invested in education with the participation of the Green Party.
To further expand the range of services and improve quality, the federal government is to assume greater responsibility for early childhood development with at least three billion euros per year.
In concrete terms, this means that all children are entitled to a full-day place in a good daycare center, which is more than just a childcare facility and in which children are supported holistically and interculturally from zero to school enrollment, in which educators have time to support each individual child.
As the country where the internationally successful concept of the kindergarten was invented, we want to put the holistic idea in the foreground and ensure quality.
Min dest standards for quality are to ensure this nationwide.
For holistic education, upbringing and care, the cooperation with parents in day care centers should be supported.
The well-trained staff must therefore have time to design daycare centers as places for the whole family and, above all, for early childhood education.
We also want to redesign educator training and make it more attractive.
In principle, our goal is non-contributory education from the very beginning - including in daycare centers.
First of all, investments must be made in expansion and in greatly improving quality.
It is clear that no child should be excluded from a daycare center because parents cannot afford it.
We are also fighting for a legal right to all-day care in elementary school until the end of the fourth grade for all elementary school children.
In recent years, schools have been given numerous new tasks that many teachers, educators and other educators are already taking on with great commitment, sometimes under difficult conditions: These include inclusive education for children with and without disabilities, longer learning together, digital and cultural education, welcome classes, and school social work.
Education should offer a variety of opportunities.
This also includes participating in democratic processes.
We are therefore committed to strengthening democratically organized schools.
Schools, where young people learn for life and prepare for a good future, must themselves be places of the future.
In order to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations, it is necessary to create the conditions for this along the education chain from kindergarten to adult education.
This requires the implementation of the measures of a National Action Plan Education for Sustainable Development.
The federal government should use its new opportunities to support financially weak municipalities in the education sector,
Now is the time to quickly take advantage of this opportunity and launch a funding program for the renovation of dilapidated schools, which also lays the structural foundations for the construction and expansion of all-day schools and is linked to comprehensive participation and a concept for modern, contemporary educational architecture.
Also in order to be able to implement an expansion of longer joint learning.
This is because our schools too rarely succeed in equalizing unequal starting opportunities.
To this end, we will provide ten billion euros over the next five years, making 10,000 schools fit for the future.
So that schools open up opportunities for children growing up in difficult conditions and also challenge those who can achieve a lot.
This narrow opening of the Constitution was a first step.
We Greens continue to fight for the complete lifting of the ban on cooperation.
The federal and state governments must also be able to assume their joint responsibility together.
We also want to achieve comparable school-leaving qualifications throughout Germany.
To achieve this, the education federalism must be decrusted.
We propose a joint education offensive to the states.
Because quality in daycare centers and schools is crucial.
Good inclusive education requires not only an intact educational infrastructure, but also well-trained teachers, educators, social workers, artists or craftsmen in schools.
That's why we want to use a federal program to provide schools in disadvantaged urban neighborhoods or regions with more educational staff and more funding.
It would then also be possible to provide financial support for the urgently needed expansion of all-day care.
The federal government could help ensure that there is a place at an all-day school or in after-school care for everyone who wants it.
For us GREENS, it is about enabling all people to shape their lives in a self-determined way.
At the moment, however, society is increasingly dividing into winners and losers.
Employed persons with vocational training earn a quarter of a million euros more over the course of their working lives than those without training.
That is why we Greens are calling for a training guarantee to replace the confusing jumble of support measures.
All young people should be able to start a recognized vocational training program directly after leaving school, instead of being shunted aimlessly from measure to measure.
The training of young people is a task for society as a whole, in which the economy in particular must have an overriding interest.
In order to permanently increase participation in vocational training and thus secure good prospects for companies and young people, we advocate industry- and region-specific levies for the solidarity-based financing of vocational training.
We want to enable all trainees to live independently.
That is why we are calling for the autonomy of collective bargaining to be strengthened and for a minimum training allowance to supplement the individual collective agreements.
At the same time, we are working to make it easier to claim the vocational training allowance and to ensure that the amount is realistically based on the cost of living.
In order to guarantee mobility during training, we advocate a low-cost trainee ticket.
This will finally create better conditions for the next generation of skilled workers and enhance the value of socially important sectors such as the skilled trades, social work and nursing.
Together with the business community, we also want to focus more strongly on the issue of illiteracy and lack of basic education and provide suitable services throughout the country.
Universities must be open to all - whether they are children of workers or academics, men or women, young or old, native-born, immigrants or refugees.
It is not due to ability that today only a quarter of the children of non-academics study, while at the same time three quarters of the children from academic families do.
Therefore, student financing must be fundamentally changed: BAföG must once again be sufficient to live on and must be opened up to students of all ages and on a part-time basis.
We want a BAföG that creates security and does not build up pressure through a rigid time limit.
In the medium term, student financing should consist of a student grant for all and a needs grant for students from poorer homes.
Student health insurance age and semester limits need to be adjusted.
We reject tuition fees.
We also want to further strengthen the FernUniversität in Hagen.
But access to study alone is not enough.
The compatibility of family and studies, for example through the possibility of part-time studies, and better study conditions are also important, i.e. good teaching, sufficient counseling services and more teachers to support students.
To this end, we want to finally develop and consolidate the federal programs and federal-state pacts into a coherent overall package.
In doing so, we also want to anchor standards such as equality in order to promote women at all levels of our science system.
We will strengthen democratic and participatory structures at universities.
We are committed to more cooperation between the federal and state governments and between universities, because we want good study and research to be possible not only at individual lighthouse locations, but everywhere.
We want to launch a federal-state "Student Housing" action plan.
Access to science as a profession must be equitable.
We will revise the Wissenschaftszeitvertragsgesetz (German Act on Temporary Scientific Contracts) and push for a departure for additional positions in order to improve the situation for scientists*.
Scientists need fair employment contracts, less dependency and fewer fixed-term contracts, so that they can do good and free research without existential fear.
2. education for a digitalized and networked world
Our lives are increasingly shaped by software, algorithms and digital end devices.
Self-determination and social participation in all areas of life are thus becoming increasingly dependent on whether we are digitally literate and what digital skills we have.
This presents an enormous challenge to our entire education system.
The cultural techniques of digitization - from programming to the critical use of digital devices and processes - should be taught to all students.
Didactic concepts and model experiences are already available; we want to work towards finally transferring these into regular operation.
To this end, basic competencies in the areas of information technology, media application, and critical media studies are to be made mandatory as a further building block of science education in a joint effort with all the German states.
We also want to ensure that digital skills become part of general education, regardless of age, gender and background.
3. create access to work
Equal opportunity is not just an issue for young people.
It must also be about people who are in the middle of life or whose life path is not straightforward being able to take their future into their own hands.
The basic idea of lifelong learning must be strengthened.
For us, this means that it must also be possible to learn something new later in life, to continue your education or to change your career.
Good education costs time and money.
Both are in short supply for many people.
With a mix of grant and loan, the green BildungsZeit Plus ensures that it is precisely those people who today still far too seldom take part in further training or catching up on school or vocational qualifications who can afford the time and expense.
To provide diverse and high-quality educational opportunities, we continue to need good working conditions and fair pay for adult education teachers.
However, people with disabilities, young people without training, the low-skilled, the long-term unemployed and older employees also need tailored integration strategies and training opportunities.
Unemployment insurance must become employment insurance that supports all people - even before they become unemployed.
Successful integration is based on opportunities and prospects.
New arrivals in Germany should be able to master their everyday lives independently as quickly as possible.
All asylum seekers should be able to begin learning German immediately upon arrival and be entitled to participate in integration courses.
That is why we want the path to employment to be open to refugees as quickly as possible.
There, they learn about everyday life in Germany, local customs and local professions.
We emphasize early educational opportunities and appropriate language support.
In order to improve the conditions for successful integration and to ensure that training no longer fails because of an uncertain residence perspective, we want asylum seekers and tolerated persons to receive legally secure residence titles for training and subsequent employment.
We reject a differentiation according to the prospects of a right to stay.
We also want educational and vocational qualifications, just like professional skills, to be recognized more quickly and generously.
If you vote GREEN, you are voting for these three projects:
Ensuring quality in daycare centers - more educators for our youngest children
The future begins in the daycare center.
Daycare centers offer space to play, learn and talk - and children the chance to succeed in education.
The time a professional has for direct pedagogical work with the children is often too limited.
That is why we want to establish nationwide quality standards in a law and finally create the prerequisite that children with disabilities are not denied their right - to go to a daycare center like any other child.
In the future, one educator should care for a maximum of three children under the age of three and a maximum of ten older children.
We want to invest in the training and continuing education of educators and create the conditions for them to be better paid.
The federal government is to contribute at least three billion euros per year to the additional costs.
In addition, parental contributions to daycare should be socially graduated.
Making 10,000 schools fit for the future
We want to ensure that school success is finally no longer predetermined by social background.
Individual support needs time and space.
In inclusive all-day schools, all students can develop their talents and interests in arts, culture and sports.
Longer learning together helps all students.
We are therefore specifically promoting the establishment and expansion of comprehensive and community schools.
We are continuing to work on lifting the ban on cooperation so that the federal government can participate financially in initiating the establishment of more all-day school places throughout the state.
The federal government is to contribute four billion euros.
We want to provide targeted relief for financially weak municipalities and clear the enormous backlog of renovation work.
We will make ten billion euros available over the next five years to refurbish schools and thus make 10,000 schools fit for the future.
We also want to make schools fit for the digital future.
Schools are to receive financial support if they present coherent pedagogical concepts for digital learning.
We support communities in creating space for the many new students.
Education federalism must not be used as a pretext to prevent important investments in the future.
Financing studies better
For us, educational equity means opening up study opportunities to all.
Everyone must be able to study regardless of their parents' purse and background.
As a first step, we want to ensure that BAföG is automatically and regularly increased in the future and includes a housing allowance based on location.
This allows students to shoulder rising living costs and rents.
In a second step, we want to develop student financing into a two-pillar model.
In the first pillar, all students receive a student grant - an equal basic amount for all.
With the second pillar, an individually assessed needs allowance is added.
Unlike the current BAföG, neither is to be repaid.
II. WE FIGHT FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND LIVABLE COMMUNITIES
At home, on the street, at work, in daycare centers and at school, we spend our lives together.
Our everyday questions are answered on the spot.
Is the way to the job quickly accessible and the rent affordable?
Is the doctor only a stone's throw away?
Does the bus run every five minutes or is there no bus stop at all?
Is there a favorite pub, movie theaters and enough sports venues within walking distance?
Is the village store a nearby and popular meeting place or closed long ago?
Can you just start cycling without having to slalom through potholes?
These basics of everyday life provide well-being or frustration.
They shape the way we live together and determine whether a job is accessible and the balance between family and work is possible, and whether everyone can live how and where they want.
They help decide whether children grow up well, whether a good life is possible in old age and whether care functions smoothly.
The quality of life is decided by what is on offer locally, whether in the countryside or in the city.
Our places of residence should enable participation and opportunities in everyday life regardless of one's pocketbook.
An extensive and high-quality local public offering is a springboard into social life, especially for people without much financial leeway.
1. the power to act in the hands of the local community
No two places are alike.
While many cities and metropolitan areas are facing new population growth and increasing economic pressure, many small and medium-sized towns are suffering from structural economic weakness.
This not only reinforces social injustices, but also regional inequalities.
There are prosperous and financially weak, growing and half-abandoned, old and young cities and communities - often in direct neighborhood.
Despite all the diversity on the ground and the common task of charting their own course, one thing is the same for all: cities and municipalities must keep the reins of action in their own hands.
Only in this way can they act autonomously and decide appropriately who will provide the bus service, create affordable housing, or operate the waterworks and power grid.
Public museums and theaters, renovated schools, good sports fields and intact neighborhoods ensure a high quality of life in many places.
Dilapidated gymnasiums, closed libraries and cultural facilities, and moldy swimming pools are concentrated in others.
The gap between rich and poor cities, towns, counties and neighborhoods is widening.
We Greens therefore want to give structural and financially weak municipalities a helping hand, regardless of the point of the compass.
Our goal is adequate funding for all.
With an old debt fund, we enable highly indebted cities and municipalities to make a fresh start.
Noticeable relief from social spending makes day-to-day business easier for structurally weak municipalities in particular.
We will make the revenues more reliable with the municipal business tax and make the property tax fairer in order to promote land-saving construction and to combat land consumption and building land speculation.
The federal and state governments must stop burdening our cities and communities with more and more new tasks without making the necessary money available for them.
Our principle is: He who orders, pays.
We also need much more sustainable investment.
For decades, renovations and repairs of public infrastructure have repeatedly fallen victim to the red pencil or have been realized without ecological and sustainable benefits.
This investment backlog is concentrated in the already financially strapped municipalities.
With our green investment program in the double-digit billion range, we want to help with the refurbishment of schools as a first step, as this is where the need is greatest in many places.
We also want to support local authorities in fair procurement by offering more advisory services.
2. affordable housing for all
In many places, the search for an affordable apartment in the middle of the city is comparable to looking for a needle in a haystack.
Apartments are in high demand and often the payer decides about the new tenant.
In many cities today, this has become one of the great social challenges that affects almost everyone.
Vibrant, colorful neighborhoods in particular are hip and at risk of gentrification due to strong demand for vacant apartments.
But money should not be the deciding factor in whether friends, daycare centers, jobs and family can be reached quickly from one's own front door.
Affordable housing in adequate housing is existential for all of us.
Our apartments must not be objects of speculation.
We want diverse and vibrant neighborhoods.
We want to prevent more and more financial investors from controlling and abusing housing in our cities.
Therefore, real estate speculation should be taxed without restriction.
We GREENS are committed to a housing policy oriented towards the common good.
To this end, we want to build one million apartments and bind them socially, permanently affordable, livable and in the center.
We are putting money back into affordable housing instead of supporting the construction of luxury properties.
We promote housing for young families and people with lower incomes.
We are creating more barrier-free apartments to save elderly citizens and people with disabilities from having to go to a home.
We want to create fair, good and affordable housing with a new housing non-profit, revive cooperatives and promote social housing much more strongly.
In addition, we GREENS will also help people with small and medium incomes to acquire shares in cooperatives.
The federal government must no longer act as a real estate speculator, but should hand over properties to municipalities at preferential rates, for example for transfer to public welfare organizations, if this is necessary for urban development or housing policy reasons.
For us, housing is part of the provision of public services.
However, all of this is far from enough.
We will limit rent increases, fight the practice of building out and end displacement.
For this reason, we will place stricter limits on rent increases where there is a shortage of housing, in existing leases and in milieu protection areas.
A real rent brake without a back door is needed.
We want to introduce an ecological and social rental law so that climate-friendly, warm housing remains affordable in good locations.
We want to make it easier for cities to exercise their municipal right of first refusal.
We will provide additional assistance to needy people by increasing housing subsidies,
make protection against dismissal a protective instrument again, and strengthen tenant protection associations.
We want to allow municipalities with housing shortages to decide for themselves where to prevent the conversion of rental apartments to owner-occupied apartments.
We want to promote short distances, more green in the city and more meeting places and life in the neighborhoods through district centers.
We want to strengthen mixed neighborhoods and prevent the displacement of small-scale businesses by enabling commercial rent caps.
We want to strengthen cooperation between cities and municipalities.
We want to think about the issues of housing and mobility together and achieve an improved connection of the urban hinterland.
We support urban gardens, housing projects, building communities, citizen energy and generation-friendly living.
We want to strengthen land-saving construction and compact space concepts, curb the consumption of greenfield sites and use more renewable and healthy building materials.
We will modernize the building code and launch a fair green heat package to conserve resources and the climate - and make it affordable for all.
For livable cities and villages with an identity, for public spaces, streets and buildings that make people feel good, we support the development of building culture in metropolitan areas as well as in rural areas.
3. rural areas - livable and sustainable
Affordable living space, your own garden and the swimming lake just around the corner, who doesn't dream of that?
No good school, shopping facilities, bus connections, training opportunities or jobs, poorer social and medical care are unfortunately all too often the other side of the coin when you live in the countryside.
But we also want to preserve, nurture and flourish the places that are not so much in the spotlight.
We are facing major challenges here, because the aging of society is being felt particularly strongly in rural areas.
It is mainly the younger ones who leave their village or small town after school.
A coexistence of growing cities and villages and communities with fewer and fewer people is emerging.
We want to look for and take advantage of the opportunities that arise from upheaval and change on the ground.
We want to think and plan living, working, shopping and recreation together in the entire region right from the start, barrier-free and generation-friendly.
We know how this can be achieved even with scarce resources.
For this, we want to turn some things around.
The question of how a life's journey will go should not be decided by geographical chance.
This is also a question of justice.
Many regions are treading water or are in danger of being decoupled, despite subsidies.
That's why we need a fresh start in funding policy.
In addition to the existing business-related structural support from the EU, the federal government and the states, we need more investment in our general infrastructure.
To this end, we want to expand the joint task of the federal and state governments to include the promotion of regional services of general interest in structurally weak regions, regardless of the point of the compass in the Basic Law.
We are committed to ensuring that town and village centers remain vibrant places to live.
We want a fast network - everywhere; we describe how we do this in the chapter "We are shaping digitization.
Doctors and hospitals must be accessible.
That is why we want to strengthen "one-stop healthcare".
We also support the principle of "short legs, short distances" in rural areas.
In rural dwarf schools, children can learn together in small classes across grades and are well cared for all day.
We want to strengthen clubs and youth work and expand offerings for young people, such as youth centers, and thus invest in cohesion.
Micro-enterprises should be able to work together to train.
To ensure that the next generation of skilled workers finds high-quality jobs and apprenticeships, we want to get regional economic cycles moving.
With targeted support, we want to create new prospects for women in particular.
In this way, value creation remains local and we can revitalize regions that are increasingly becoming orphaned today.
If you vote GREEN, you are voting for these three projects:
Relieving the financial burden on municipalities and providing targeted support for structurally weak regions
The gap between poor and rich cities, municipalities and counties is widening.
We want to help structurally and financially weak municipalities.
We will tangibly relieve the municipalities of social spending, in particular by gradually taking over the costs of housing and heating, thus making day-to-day business easier for the municipalities.
We enable highly indebted cities to make a fresh start by transferring excessive debt to a common fund (Old Debt Redemption Fund).
This relieves them of oppressive interest rates.
We want to make revenues more reliable with the municipal business tax.
Structurally weak regions need our support.
That is why we want a new start in funding policy through the creation of a new joint task, Regional Services of General Interest.
One million permanently affordable apartments
We need a new dawn for affordable housing.
The time of selling and speculation with social housing must end.
We want one million additional affordable housing units.
In new construction as well as in existing buildings, permanently affordable and livable, preferably not on greenfield sites, but within our cities and villages.
With the concept of the new housing non-profit, we will again attract cooperatives, municipal housing companies and private investors for social housing construction.
The principle here is: allowances and tax incentives in exchange for affordable housing.
Putting the brakes on rents - for a rental law without loopholes
Rents have been exploding for years.
This must now come to an end.
We are finally tightening the rent brake properly and abolishing unnecessary exceptions.
No one should be displaced because of luxury modernizations.
The modernization levy in its current form is harmful.
That's why we're capping and slashing them and creating a new, fair distribution of costs.
The rent index should take into account the ecological building quality and reflect the rent levels over a longer period of time.
We will extend the period without rent increases and strengthen tenant protection associations.
We double the housing allowance, adjust it dynamically and take heating costs into account again.
In addition, we are introducing a climate subsidy for energy-efficient modernized homes,
so that housing benefit recipients can also live in energy-efficient homes.
III. WE SHARE WEALTH MORE EQUITABLY
Social cohesion crumbles when the wealth gap in the population is too high.
The gap between rich and poor in Germany has widened too much in recent decades.
Although the economy has grown steadily, the real income of low-income earners and parts of the middle class has fallen, while the incomes and assets of top earners have grown significantly.
We Greens want to change that and give everyone a fair share in prosperity and quality of life.
No one should live in poverty.
Wealthy people should make a fair contribution to the community.
The drifting apart of rich and poor creates economic problems.
If gains in prosperity do not reach the majority of people, this is not only unfair - there
is also a lack of customers with purchasing power.
Instead, too much money is flowing into the global financial market, where wealth has too often been destroyed by speculative bubbles, overheated real estate markets and financial crises.
Too much inequality is detrimental to a democratic society.
Because it gives too much power to a few people.
And it is unfair, because the link between great wealth and socially recognized performance is lost, while many people barely make ends meet despite working hard.
High incomes can be justified by special performance, effort and responsibility.
But when the dividend income of individual grand heirs is higher than the annual income of all CEOs of DAX companies combined, when managers earn a hundred times as much as their employees and nurses, police officers or educators are underpaid, then something is wrong.
1. for a turnaround in the financial market
Unleashed and inflated financial markets have no benefit for society and exacerbate inequality.
The share of financial transactions in the national economy has risen sharply over the past three decades.
Many of them have no meaningful function for the real economy, because employees, companies or consumers do not benefit from them.
But when speculative bubbles burst, they pay the piper.
Since the outbreak of the financial crisis in 2008, millions of people in Europe are still out of work, and youth unemployment in some southern European countries is over 40 percent.
Banks have been rescued with billions of euros, states are groaning under their debts, and there is no money for public investment.
Unfortunately, European governments have been far too timid in their response.
The financial sector is inflating again, real estate prices and rents are rising, and the state continues to miss out on important funds through tax tricks and fraud.
European banks continue to be unstable, and building societies, life insurers and pension funds are also experiencing problems.
We need to regulate the financial markets even better after the financial crisis so that they once again serve society and the real economy, sensibly direct investments in an economy and enable people to make sensible financial investments.
Strong financial markets are also of great importance for ecological modernization.
Instead of the current very complex rules, we want simpler but tougher rules.
Large banks are thus prevented from circumventing them through resourceful tricks.
We want to reduce bureaucracy for small, regionally active credit institutions.
We GREENS are also calling for a debt brake for banks so that they can answer for their losses themselves.
Insurance companies also need more equity capital, and not only customers but also their owners should be called upon to stabilize them.
Much stricter rules are needed for shadow banks.
We will put the brakes on high-frequency trading with a financial transaction tax and appropriate market rules so that long-term players in the financial market are not harmed.
The state must also prohibit the sale of harmful or non-transparent investment products.
Banks that are too big are a danger to the real economy, as we cannot wind them down without harming everyone.
That is why we need stronger merger control that also takes into account the so-called "too big to fail" criterion.
For banks that are already too big, we want to introduce a separation banking system so that the deposit business is separated from the crisis-prone trading business.
As a last resort, unbundling must also be possible for such banks.
Consumers must be better protected from opaque and dangerous financial products.
We want to ban commission-driven advice and organize a switch to fee-based advice (--> Chapter: We make consumers strong, p. 157).
2. for fair wages - work should be worthwhile for all
Capital income has risen sharply in recent years, while labor income has largely stagnated for many years.
Real wages have recently risen again, but the task now must be to stabilize this trend.
To achieve this, we want to strengthen the tariff system again.
It should be easier for collective agreements to be generally binding for all companies in an industry.
This benefits employees and employers alike.
Executive board members in large companies have been able to achieve very high salary increases in recent years.
The relationship between their incomes and normal wages is now often disproportionate to their performance.
We want to counteract this trend by strengthening the rights of shareholders.
For example, we want companies to be required to publish the compensation of their management board members in relation to the normal workforce.
We want to limit the co-financing of excessive salaries, severance payments and pension commitments by citizens.
We therefore want to cap the tax deductibility of severance payments at one million euros per capita, and that of salaries at 500,000 euros per year and capita.
That's about 30 times the minimum wage.
In principle, profit-sharing schemes should be linked to the long-term success of the Company.
At the same time, wages for low-wage earners have fallen in real terms in recent decades.
The minimum wage introduced was an important stage victory.
It must apply to all employees without exception.
To give low-wage earners more money in their pockets, we want to reduce their social security contributions.
Many millions of people work in temporary or fixed-term employment.
What may occasionally make sense in terms of flexibility is often abused to permanently lower wages.
We Greens want to reverse the trend toward more and more insecure jobs.
Jobs should no longer be able to be limited in time without a good objective reason, and temporary work should be paid the same from the first day - plus a flexibility premium.
A self-determined life must also not be a question of gender.
We GREENS want women and men to finally have the same career opportunities and receive equal wages for equal and equivalent work.
We are committed to a genuine equal pay law, better pay for typical female occupations, and a functioning women's quota.
We want to transform mini-jobs into jobs that are subject to social insurance contributions and ensure that contributions through taxes, duties and social benefits are coordinated in such a way that gainful employment always pays off.
At the same time, the burden of taxes and levies must not increase by leaps and bounds.
This makes it more attractive to work more than marginally.
3. for a fair and equalizing tax policy
Taxes finance our community.
Security, infrastructure and education are prerequisites for a functioning society.
Our economy also benefits from them.
The currently relaxed general government budget situation is due to historically low interest rates and the high level of employment.
It should not obscure the fact that structural risks remain.
To clear the investment backlog in our country, we therefore need greater financial leeway - especially for local authorities.
A fair tax system ensures that everyone contributes to an intact and functioning society according to their ability to perform.
However, there is a lot wrong with this in Germany.
Labor is often taxed more heavily in our country than interest and returns.
We Greens want to change that.
We want to eliminate the unequal taxation of investment income to all other income by making this income subject to the normal, personal income tax rate again.
We are still losing high tax revenues.
With aggressive tax tricks, banking secrecy, and tax dumping countries, there are too many ways for the super-rich in particular to avoid tax responsibility.
We are declaring war on this practice.
There must be no more anonymous shell companies.
We will sanction businesses in tax swamps that systematically support tax fraud.
We want to put an end to tax advantages resulting from relocations abroad.
We also want to tackle tax avoidance.
All internationally active companies above a certain size should disclose their profits and tax payments by country, so that it becomes visible when corporations like Starbucks, Apple or Google shift their profits so that they pay no taxes in the countries where they do good business.
We want to put a stop to trickery with royalties and interest.
Banks bear a special responsibility in this context and must not be involved in tax avoidance, either directly or indirectly through appropriate advice.
This is also how we strengthen our SMEs.
There is no fair competition when Amazon pays less tax than the bookseller around the corner.
Wealthy people can also contribute more to our community.
We GREENS want a constitutional, productive and implementable wealth tax for the super-rich.
It goes without saying that we attach particular importance to the preservation of jobs
and the innovative strength of companies.
The grand coalition has made inheritance tax more complicated, not fairer.
However, if it fails again before the Federal Constitutional Court, we will develop a simple and fair inheritance tax model that complies with the Basic Law.
We want to ease the burden on small and medium incomes by increasing the basic tax-free allowance and, to counteract this, raise the top tax rate above 100,000 euros in taxable single income.
At the same time, we want to simplify the tax system for small and medium-sized businesses, the self-employed and employees in order to ease their burden.
The workload due to accounting and tax return obligations has risen continuously in recent years.
We want to ease the burden on small and young entrepreneurs in particular, so that they have better opportunities in competition.
These include increased depreciation limits for low-value assets and a simplification of VAT with a view to the complex procedures involved in trade within the EU.
In addition, we want to examine whether the small business threshold for sales tax and the trade tax allowance should be raised appropriately.
If you vote GREEN, you are voting for these three projects:
Debt brake for banks - regulate shadow banks
When a bank gets into difficulties, taxpayers should no longer bear the burden.
We want a simple but tough capital ratio that requires banks to finance their operations with more equity.
This is to be gradually increased and in the medium term will comprise 10 percent of the total business volume.
In this way, they are better able to take responsibility for their own risks.
To ensure that high-risk investments can no longer be outsourced from the regulated sector, the shadow banking sector must be given clear rules analogous to the regular banking sector.
All companies that conduct banking business in the broader sense must be subject to the same rules as credit institutions.
Draining tax swamps - global rules against tax avoidance
Panama Papers, offshore or Luxembourg leaks - we do not accept that corporations and the super-rich use banking secrecy, tax dumping countries and other tax loopholes to embezzle their contribution to the common good.
That is why we are fighting for an internationally binding set of rules that sets minimum standards for the tax obligations of companies and states.
We are also taking action at home: we are prohibiting banks and law firms from doing business with uncooperative countries, international corporations must break down their profits by country, and we are removing the basis for letterbox companies through a transparency register.
In this way, we ensure that all companies assume their responsibility for the community and make their tax contribution - the international coffee company just as much as the baker on the corner does today.
More for the common good - holding the super-rich accountable
We do not want the super-rich and top managers to disconnect themselves from society.
Too often, managers' compensation loses touch with their own contributions and with average earners.
We are sending a clear stop signal: In the future, companies should only be able to deduct a maximum of 500,000 euros per head from their taxes.
Also because ma na ger salaries are borne by the general public when companies deduct the payments as operating expenses.
In addition, there is a need for a constitutional, high-yield and feasible wealth tax for the super-rich, because in few countries in Europe is wealth distributed as unequally as in Germany.
It goes without saying that we attach particular importance to the preservation of jobs
and the innovative strength of companies.
Because we want everyone to make a fair contribution when our community is financed
and investments are made for the future.
IV. WE MAKE THE WELFARE STATE SECURE AND FUTURE-PROOF
Staying healthy, living with dignity and self-determination even in old age, until the end.
Finding a place in society: We can't do all that alone.
Only together and in solidarity can we provide each other with social security, stand by each other in case of illness, poverty or loss of job.
Our goal: All citizens should be well insured against life's major risks - on fair and equitable terms.
Our social security systems achieve a great deal, especially in international comparison.
But we must ensure that the welfare state can still deliver on its promise of security in the future
and that it does so fairly.
Digitization, globalization and demographic change are and remain major challenges.
Many people are rightly concerned about whether their pension will be enough for a good retirement or whether poverty is imminent if they lose their job.
When people fear relegation, it is poison for social cohesion.
Therefore, social security is a condition for domestic peace.
It is also a prerequisite for creativity and courage to face life.
Because if you're insecure, you can't perform freely.
Precisely because we are living in turbulent times in terms of foreign, social and economic policy, social security is more important than ever.
Solidarity is the backbone of our society.
But there are groups that are poorly covered: small self-employed people with unsteady life histories, women without their own pension entitlements, low-paid people without money for old-age provision.
We are continuing to press ahead with the alignment of pensions in the east with those in the west.
In doing so, we will also keep the interests of future pensioners in all parts of the country in mind.
We must improve the welfare state so that it can keep its promise of security for all.
One of the great challenges of the future is how to organize social security in a sustainable, solidarity-based and poverty-proof manner, also in the wake of digitalization and demographic change.
We want to drive forward a broad social debate and look at issues ranging from the introduction of an unconditional basic income that enables social participation to the question of a value-added levy and institutional reforms of the security systems.
Many of our proposals, from basic child security to guaranteed pensions, were also influenced by the basic income proposal.
We want to discuss these ideas further.
We need answers to questions that have not yet been answered.
We also want to take into account experiences from other countries and test the basic income in a model project.
1. how the pension becomes really secure
In order to make pensions secure and reliable again, sustainable and generationally appropriate, we are committed to putting the three-pillar system of old-age provision on a sound footing.
First and foremost, we are strengthening the first pillar, statutory pension insurance.
After all, it is and remains the most important pillar of old-age provision.
The pension reforms of recent years have lowered the pension level.
Stabilization is urgently needed.
Today's pension level - already significantly lower than in 1998 - should not fall any further.
The pension level and contribution rate must be in an appropriate ratio so that the younger generation can continue to have confidence in the statutory pension.
Those who have paid into the system for many years should also be able to live off their pensions.
With the guaranteed pension, we want to introduce a minimum level of pension insurance for all people who have been insured for most of their lives, worked, raised children or cared for others.
The guaranteed pension is tax-financed and the amount will be above the basic income support level.
There is no means test, and company and private pension plans are not taken into account.
In order to give the statutory pension a broader financial basis and solidarity, we want to pay for noninsurance benefits out of taxes
and improve employment conditions, especially for women, so that they can work more often and on an equal footing.
We want to take the first step toward citizens' insurance and include the self-employed, mini-jobbers and members of parliament who are not covered by other insurance schemes in the statutory pension insurance.
The long-term unemployed are also to be insured again.
There will be transitional arrangements for the self-employed and especially for start-ups.
We also want to help self-employed people with health insurance premium arrears and cancel debts.
In a later step, we also want to include freelancers and civil servants in the statutory pension insurance.
We will work with the countries on this.
Pension entitlements already acquired and existing civil service relationships shall remain unaffected for reasons of protection of legitimate expectations.
In principle, we are sticking to the pension at 67.
But we want to make it easier for people to decide for themselves when they want to retire.
To this end, we are promoting genuine partial retirement by means of an attractive partial pension from the age of 60, which will benefit employees in stressful occupations in particular.
For people who want to work longer, it should be worth it.
To ensure that they receive a higher pension, we are introducing simple supplementary earnings rules and making it easier to combine partial pensions and earned income.
In this way, we make it easier for people to decide for themselves when they retire.
Employees who can no longer work should no longer be penalized for this, which is why we are abolishing the deductions for reduced earning capacity pensions.
In addition to the statutory pension, we also want to strengthen private and company pension schemes.
Funded pensions can be provided at a fraction of the cost and with a much higher rate of return than in Germany.
We therefore want to introduce a citizens' fund in public administration and open it up to both company and private provision.
If sufficiently large, the ongoing management fee can be very low.
This means that almost all of the money people save can go toward their retirement savings.
The Citizens' Fund is intended to invest sustainably, taking into account social and environmental concerns.
In the future, all employers should offer their employees a company pension and support them with their own employer contribution.
We make this easier for small businesses by changing the liability rules.
If they do not organize it in their own company or through other companies, it should be possible to carry it out unbureaucratically through the Citizens' Fund.
Employees are not obliged to accept the offer of their employers.
In the future, public subsidies for private pension plans will primarily benefit low-income earners.
We reject deferred compensation because it weakens the statutory pension.
Many women are at risk of poverty in old age.
They perform more child-rearing and care work, often work part-time or in low-paying industries, and acquire fewer pension rights.
It must become easier for women to provide for themselves through gainful employment.
With good childcare options, the conversion of mini-jobs into employment subject to social security contributions, the right to return to full-time work, genuine caregiver leave, a fair reflection of caregiver leave in pensions, and equal pay for equal work and work of equal value, we can close the pension gap for women in the medium term.
We will also reorganize the way in which expense allowances for honorary positions are offset against pensions.
We want to end the discrimination of Jewish immigrants from the former Soviet Union compared to ethnic German immigrants in pension law.
2. solidarity-based health for all - out of two-tier medicine
Health and care are part of the provision of public services.
The focus must be on the patients, and care must be geared to their needs.
We want to ensure high-quality care close to home regardless of age, income, gender, origin and disability, to correct regional overuse and underuse alike.
In order to provide better care in sparsely populated regions, for example, municipalities and regions need more influence and should promote innovative solutions such as the establishment of local health centers.
Inpatient and outpatient care are strongly separated, which has many disadvantages for patients.
We want better networking, coordination and collaboration among all in the health care system and joint planning of outpatient and inpatient services.
We strengthen patient associations and self-help.
We want a patient foundation, a hardship fund for medical errors and independent patient counseling.
Our goal is primary care in which family doctors, pediatricians and other health professionals work together as equals.
For this reason, we also advocate stronger interdisciplinary training and an upgrading of general medicine.
But we should not act only when the disease is already there.
The healthcare system must do a better job of promoting health: From daycare and school to working life and old age, healthy living should be enabled and supported.
Gender issues need to be given more attention in our health care system.
However, we are experiencing two-tier medicine in Germany today.
People with statutory insurance get an appointment with a specialist later than those with private insurance.
Physicians settle primarily where they find attractive living and working conditions.
In private health insurance (PHI), the old and sick pay more than the young and healthy.
Often, insured persons are quickly overwhelmed by the high premiums in private health insurance.
At the same time, many high earners in private health insurance do not participate in solidarity with the socially disadvantaged.
This is paid for by those with statutory health insurance, i.e. mainly those with low and medium incomes.
Such a system is unjust and lacks solidarity.
We Greens want to develop the statutory and private health insurance into a citizens' insurance.
All citizens, including civil servants, the self-employed and high earners, participate.
Contributions are also levied on share gains and capital income.
Employers and employees will once again each pay half of the contribution, and the additional contributions previously borne solely by employees will be abolished.
In the case of physician fees, no distinction is to be made between those with statutory and private insurance.
We want to abolish co-payments for medicines and other deductibles.
With citizens' insurance, health care would be stable, future-proof and fairly financed, and all health insurance funds would compete for the best care on the basis of a risk equalization system that is less susceptible to manipulation.
We want to provide people in mental crises with the appropriate support and therapy as early as possible, better coordinate local assistance and expand prevention.
In addition, there is a need for better research into alternative medicine procedures using recognized methods.
We want the greatest possible protection against infection for the population, also in the interest of those who cannot be vaccinated.
To achieve this, we rely on voluntary consultation and better information.
Good care requires adequate staff.
To this end, we advocate binding nationwide assessment instruments for nursing staffing levels.
This makes work more attractive again.
Such regulations are also needed in the care of the elderly.
In order to improve the quality of care, we also strive for regulations for sufficient staffing of professional groups such as midwives and maternity nurses in hospitals.
We want to strengthen obstetrics and ensure better remuneration, especially for employed and freelance midwives and maternity nurses.
We want to work towards ensuring that, within the framework of self-governance, the institutions involved develop new reimbursement models to strengthen physiological birth and women's self-determination, and to reduce the Cesarean section rate.
Freelance midwives need a permanent solution to high liability insurance premiums.
For this we want a legal liability insurance for midwives and the other health care professions.
We advocate good, numerically sufficient and free training for all health professions, for example in geriatric care, physio or occupational therapy, speech therapy and for midwives.
In addition, we want to reform the training of psychotherapists, also in order to enable appropriate training remuneration.
We also call for nursing and the other health care professions to have a better say in the bodies of self-governance, so that they can contribute to the good further development of nursing and the health care system with their experience and knowledge.
Additional training positions are needed for the health professions at colleges and universities, including for physicians.
The federal and state governments must work together to provide funding.
Many hospitals are suffering from funding problems.
University hospitals need more solid compensation because of the specialized patient care they provide.
We want to ensure needs-based inpatient care in all regions.
With a reform, we want to improve quality, counteract misguided incentives to expand services, and restructure investment financing in a way that is shared between the states and the health insurance funds.
We want to reform emergency care in Germany so that patients receive adequate care.
Digitization can improve many things in healthcare, for example for the chronically ill.
Patients need self-determined access to their data and the highest possible level of data protection.
All patients should be entitled to a secure and networked electronic patient record.
3. good care - self-determined and dignified
Today, family caregivers still provide a very high proportion of care and care work.
This potential will also decrease in the future due to demographic change.
Reliable residential and nursing care, even "around the clock" if required, is increasingly in demand.
Instead of more large facilities, we are focusing on a comprehensive expansion of outpatient living and care options.
Day, night and short-term care are also needed, as well as facilities such as neighborhood support centers or neighborhood centers that also ensure "round-the-clock" care and support.
In this context, people's different cultural, religious, sexual or gender-specific identities must find their way into the design of local social infrastructure and care concepts.
We also want to significantly improve the living and care situation for residents in existing facilities.
We want to support local authorities in setting up assistance networks and give them more rights to become active themselves.
We want local services to relieve the burden on families and ensure that people with small pensions also get the help they need.
To help people in need of care and their families find the right services for them, we are creating a legal right to independent counseling by case managers.
We also want to provide better support for people who care for relatives or friends.
To this end, we propose the three-month PflegeZeit Plus and ten days per year for acute emergency situations.
Caregivers receive a wage replacement benefit and are released from work.
Nurses need to be paid better.
By having sufficient staff, we want to avoid overloading.
The nursing profession must be upgraded and working conditions improved.
Joint nursing education is an important step in this regard.
It must be ensured that the goal can be achieved without loss of previously existing specific competencies and without loss of training capacities.
And we are entering into a dialog with the players in care about new ways of ensuring quality in care, for example with an independent institute for quality in care.
Finally, we also want to turn long-term care insurance into a citizens' insurance and thus finance it adequately in the long term.
Good care also includes enabling the dying to end their lives with dignity.
The hospice movement and palliative care make an important contribution to this, and we want to improve their framework conditions.
4. protection against poverty, support in case of unemployment
The basic income support must guarantee the socio-cultural subsistence minimum for all.
This is what human dignity demands.
The standard rate of unemployment benefit II must be calculated and increased in such a way that people can live on it in a dignified manner and social and cultural participation is possible.
The child rule rates must be determined appropriately so that all children can really participate.
We want to introduce a separate flat rate for electricity costs and ensure that reasonable housing costs are covered.
Unavoidably necessary larger purchases, such as washing machines, must also be possible.
We will further develop basic benefits into individual benefits,
because the principle of needs-based communities puts women at a disadvantage and cements their dependency.
We want the basic right to exist to be exercised simply and reliably.
Job centers should become service providers for job seekers and work cooperatively with them.
We strengthen the rights of those entitled to benefits and do not rely on sanctions in basic benefits, but on motivation, recognition and advice.
That is why we want to abolish sanctions.
This applies in particular to the special rules for under-25s and to the costs of housing and heating.
Gas and electricity disconnections must be restricted by law.
We want to eliminate discriminatory regulations only for recipients of basic benefits.
This means that the focus of employment services is once again on providing the unemployed with tailored support in finding a new job, for example through further training, language support, social counseling, and integration or start-up subsidies.
There also needs to be more ways to resolve conflicts without going to trial.
To this end, we want to ensure that integration agreements are not replaced by an administrative act.
Work is an important field of social participation, recognition and meaning in everyday life.
That is why we want to develop unemployment insurance into employment insurance, which supports employees while they are still in their jobs, but also when they are unemployed and need further training (--> Chapter: We fight for good work and better reconciliation, p. 216).
We are not giving up on the long-term unemployed and are calling for a reliable social labor market.
The principle is to apply: Anyone who pays contributions to unemployment insurance must receive an appropriate entitlement to unemployment benefits.
5. security in independence
To master social and ecological modernization, we also need the innovative power of entrepreneurs.
We want to support all those who dare to take the courageous step into self-employment in order to secure themselves better and more simply and to
promptly eliminate unequal treatment compared to employees.
We want to significantly reduce the burden of health and long-term care insurance contributions for the self-employed with lower minimum contributions.
We want voluntary employment insurance for the self-employed that is affordable, open to all self-employed workers, and more equitable.
Optional tariffs are intended to provide more flexibility for the self-employed.
We want to include all self-employed persons who are not otherwise covered in the statutory pension system and give them greater flexibility in their contributions than today.
Self-employed persons should be able to pay higher contributions in advance or in arrears in good times so that they are relieved in bad times.
We stand by the artists' social security fund without any ifs or buts.
Analogous to minimum wages, to which only dependent employees are entitled, we also want to enable industry-specific minimum wages.
If you vote GREEN, you are voting for these three projects:
Strengthen statutory pension, keep pension level stable, introduce guaranteed pension
For most people, the statutory pension is still the central pillar of old-age provision.
And it is much better than its reputation.
The level of the statutory pension should not decline further.
We can do this, and we will make sure that the pension level and contribution rate are in an appropriate ratio so that the younger generation is also taken into account.
In order to improve the financial position of the statutory pension system and make it more solidly financed, we want to pay for non-insurance benefits out of taxpayers' money and offer
women in particular better employment opportunities
and enable targeted immigration.
We guarantee people who have worked most of their lives, raised children or cared for relatives a real pension instead of means-tested basic benefits.
Private and company pension plans are not offset against our guaranteed pension.
In the medium term, we are aiming for pension insurance for all.
As a first step toward citizens' insurance, we want to include members of parliament, mini-jobbers and the previously uninsured self-employed in pension insurance.
Citizens' insurance in the health care system - first-class for all!
We want a fairly financed citizens' insurance in the health and care system.
Everyone pays into it, including civil servants, the self-employed, entrepreneurs and members of parliament.
All are treated at the same high level by doctors.
The two-tier system, in which private patients are preferred, has come to an end.
In addition to wages and salaries, contributions are also levied on investment income.
In this context, we will introduce tax allowances on interest income.
In the case of wages, employers and employees will again each pay half of the contribution and the additional contributions will be abolished.
In this way, health care and long-term care are financed fairly
and the financing basis is broadened.
Citizens will finally have real freedom of choice: in future, all health insurers will offer citizens' insurance and compete on the amount of the contribution, the service, the additional range of benefits and, above all, the quality.
Time for good care - promoting compatibility of care and work
When loved ones become dependent on care, many things need to be arranged.
It takes time to do that, as well as to be close to loved ones and take care of them yourself for a while.
We want to make this easier: With PflegeZeit Plus, for the first time there is a wage replacement for the time spent in care.
For three months, we replace wages for people who care for relatives themselves, just as we do for parents on parental leave.
In addition, caregivers are to be able to take ten days off a year to provide particularly intensive care for a person in need of care.
Just like parents can take time off when their child is sick.
We believe that anyone who takes responsibility for a person in need of care deserves our support and appreciation.
PflegeZeit Plus is our answer to this.
We combine that with more respite services such as care, comprehensive outpatient care and support.
Municipalities are the right level to create a suitable environment for all generations, including more alternative forms of housing such as careWGs and house communities.
V. WE LIFT CHILDREN OUT OF POVERTY AND SUPPORT FAMILIES
Families provide support for many people.
In families, people are close to each other, they learn from each other.
Children can grow up securely into self-confident personalities.
Families accompany elderly people in the last phase of their lives.
For us GREENS, family is everywhere where people take responsibility for each other.
Families achieve a great deal: for each other, but also for society as a whole.
But many do so under often difficult conditions: In single-parent families, one person has to shoulder the tasks alone; in many a family, there is not enough money at the back.
Women still take on, on average, nearly twice as many hours of unpaid domestic work as men.
But more and more couples want to share parenting as partners, without this being at the expense of career prospects.
We GREENS stand for a contemporary family policy that closes this gap between desire and reality.
Caring for others can enrich life.
And at the same time, our society only functions when people stick together.
Families are now as diverse as life itself: There are married couples with children, single parents, patchwork families, non-marital families, rainbow families, foster families or families without children.
We GREENS make a policy that supports families in all forms and models.
That is why we ensure that the financial security of children and families no longer depends on the parents' life model.
Social parents, i.e. people who, as in many patchwork families, assume long-term responsibility for a child without being the child's biological parents, lack a legal framework for their form of family.
And this despite the fact that they are constant companions of their children.
We want to support foster children and foster families and improve their legal situation.
Foster children also have a need for and a right to permanent and stable living conditions.
In addition, with the Pact for Living Together, we want to create a new legal form that legally safeguards the cohabitation of two people who take responsibility for each other, regardless of marriage.
1. more support for families
Work-life balance is one of the biggest challenges for families today, still especially for women.
We want to make sure that parents don't run out of breath.
Agility and a departure from outdated patterns are needed to
bring the demands of the world of work more in line with the needs of employees and to ensure that work, education, training and study fit better into life.
Many companies have recognized this and started to rethink working time and develop innovative concepts for their workforces.
We want to support such paths: with flexible full-time work, which allows employees to decide more freely what their personal full-time work looks like within a corridor of 30 to 40 hours;
with a right to return to the original number of hours after a phase of part-time work; with a
right to home office as a supplement to the fixed workplace;
and with caregiver leave, which helps to better reconcile caring for a loved one with work.
But above all with targeted support for families through our KinderZeit Plus concept.
KinderZeit Plus replaces parental allowance and makes it legally possible to reduce working hours in phases even after the child's first birthday.
Families get more mobility with it.
Families need a supportive infrastructure.
Women and men can only combine their work and life with children well if there are good childcare options.
In addition to a legal entitlement to all-day childcare, this includes the comprehensive expansion of all-day schools, or at least a legal entitlement to after-school care.
Otherwise, in many families, all arrangements for balancing family and career break down when the child starts school.
To relieve the burden on family caregivers, outpatient support services are to be expanded nationwide.
This enables people in need of care and their relatives to live a self-determined life in familiar surroundings.
Older people have a lot to contribute.
They volunteer for projects.
They do this voluntarily, self-determined and courageously.
They build networks and establish organizations with which they can act more effectively.
Child and youth welfare supports young people on their way to adulthood.
Whether it's childcare, youth work, after-school care or help with parenting, almost everyone uses these services at some point in their lives.
And the tasks are growing.
Young people and their families need well-resourced child and youth services and youth work that reaches young people, as diverse as they are.
The deciding factor for an end of assistance must not be the 18th birthday, but the actual need.
It is also necessary to merge the service and support systems for children with and without disabilities in youth welfare law and to maintain the individual legal right to assistance in upbringing.
The growing up of children must be supported in the best possible way.
Here, there should also be no different standards for native and refugee children.
All children and youth should be protected from neglect, emotional and physical abuse, or sexual abuse to the best of their ability.
Therefore: We need more prevention offers, so that it does not come so far in the first place, as well as sufficient help, counseling and therapy offers for children, to whom something happened.
To this end, cooperation between child and youth welfare services and the health care system must be regulated in a binding manner.
This includes clear quality specifications and appropriate funding.
We want to ensure sufficient financial support for the "Family Sexual Abuse Fund" and permanently safeguard the work of the Independent Representative on Child Sexual Abuse.
2. relieve the burden on families and support children - with the green family budget.
Children live very differently in our country.
They all have the same rights, but they do not all come into their own equally.
Fortunately, society does not have to worry about many children.
But currently, almost three million children in Germany also live in poverty or are at risk of poverty.
Single parents and their children, as well as families with three or more children, are particularly at risk.
Poverty hurts and marginalizes.
With the Green Family Budget, we are putting together a major reform package that addresses numerous weaknesses in family support.
We want to relieve the burden on families with twelve billion euros.
For us, combating child poverty is a priority goal.
We strengthen single parents by providing real livelihood security for children.
In this way, we relieve the burden on low- and middle-income families and finally put an end to the unequal support of children along the lines of their parents' incomes.
The family budget consists of three reform parts.
The standard rates for children and adults in the basic income support system must be determined in such a way that they reliably ensure a sufficient level of subsistence.
The needs must actually be met,
including those for participation in social life, education, culture and mobility, insofar as these are not covered by infrastructure offerings.
Parents with low incomes receive an income-related child benefit bonus that guarantees their needs (material subsistence level) without red tape and without having to apply for it.
Parents with low incomes receive the child benefit bonus in full.
In case of higher income of the parents, the amount is reduced.
As a basis for all, we want to introduce a basic child benefit that is independent of income and replaces child benefit and child allowances.
As a result, parents with small and medium incomes will finally receive the same support for their children as parents with high incomes.
This new basic child allowance is to be linked to the introduction of individual taxation with a transferable basic allowance.
For those who are already married or partnered, they can decide whether to keep the old law with spousal splitting, child benefits and child allowances or switch to the new system with basic child benefits and individual taxation.
This is how we ensure that everyone benefits from our reform.
The family budget combines the child allowance, child benefit, child supplement and child standard rate into one unbureaucratic benefit.
Furthermore, in addition to good education, children also need genuine participation in key social goods such as sports, music and culture.
The current education and participation package does not achieve this goal and should therefore be abolished.
Instead, we want to provide the existing benefits for the affected children in part through federally funded free access to the appropriate services and in part in the standard rate.
The best remedy against child poverty remains the employment of parents.
That is why it is particularly important for mothers that they finally receive adequate pay in jobs that are enough to live on,
receive better social security and good childcare facilities for their children.
It is important to ensure that work and family are compatible.
3. children and young people should have a say in what their world looks like
We GREENS make policy for a child-friendly country.
In it, all children have their rights, those from academic households as well as those from working-class families; those whose families have always lived in the same place as well as those whose parents immigrated to Germany or came to us only recently; those with disabilities as well as those without; girls as well as boys.
That's why our top priority is to enshrine children's rights in the Basic Law.
Children and young people should have a say in who shapes their world.
That's why we want to lower the voting age to 16 for all elections.
If you are taken seriously in childhood and feel that you can change things yourself, you will go through life more confidently as an adult.
If you vote GREEN, you are voting for these three projects:
For a modern family law - recognizing and protecting all family forms
Family is where people take responsibility for each other.
More than 30 percent of all families in which minor children live are not marriages, but: non-marital families, single parents with child, patchwork families or rainbow families.
For many of these family constellations that are taken for granted today, there is no clear framework that names their rights and safeguards their family form.
We want to further develop family law and create an offer for these families that legally strengthens them in their responsibility as parents (legal institute of parental co-responsibility).
In this way, we want to clearly regulate which rights and obligations, for example at school, when visiting the doctor or in everyday life, but also which responsibilities for the child the biological and the non-bodily, but co-parenting parents have.
KinderZeit Plus - so that parents can be there more for their children
Parents have to manage many things at the same time: work, the household, time for the children, friends - and they also want to have a little time for themselves if possible.
At the same time, it is important for them to share gainful employment and child rearing as partners.
We support these goals through our Green Time Policy: With KinderZeit Plus, we are replacing parental allowance.
Because it's not just the little ones who need their parents.
The green KinderZeit Plus allows working hours to be reduced for certain phases.
KinderZeit Plus can be taken until the children are 14 years old.
In this way, we support parents even after the child's first birthday.
This also gives parents with low incomes more leeway to spend time with their already somewhat older children.
In KinderZeit Plus, each parent receives eight months of financial support - another eight months can be freely divided between the parents.
So we support parents for a total of two years.
Relieving the burden on families, supporting children - with the green family budget
With the Green family budget, we are putting together a twelve-billion-euro relief package that addresses numerous weaknesses in family support.
For at present, child and family support is neither equitable nor effective, despite its wide range of benefits.
Every fifth child in Germany lives in a family that is poor or at risk of poverty.
We want to change that.
To this end, we want to finally end the unequal support of children along the income of their parents.
Because today, family support is upside down.
Parents with high incomes receive more support from the state for their children than parents with small or medium incomes.
Single parents are particularly disadvantaged by this system.
With the Green Family Budget, we will provide equal support to all children
and provide significant relief to families.
In the future, couples will be taxed individually and benefit from the green family budget.
Married and partnered couples can decide whether they want to keep the old law with spousal splitting, child allowances and child benefits or whether the new regulation with individual taxation and a green family budget is more favorable for them.
This is how we ensure that everyone benefits from our reform.
VI. WE FIGHT FOR GOOD WORK AND BETTER COMPATIBILITY
For most people, gainful employment is a very central part of their lives.
They put energy, life time, skill and creativity into their tasks.
If they do a good job, they know they are needed and are recognized by their colleagues, employees and superiors.
Almost everyone wants a good job that is financially secure, fulfilling and enjoyable.
This, too, and not just wages, is the great importance of gainful employment for our society.
And this is another reason why unemployment and unfair wages are great explosives for social cohesion.
Today, more people are employed in Germany than ever before, hundreds of thousands of new jobs subject to social insurance contributions have been created in recent years, and unemployment is relatively low.
However, a quarter of employees are in small part-time jobs, temporary work, work on call, mini-jobs or repeatedly in temporary jobs.
Many of these jobs are insecure, poorly paid, make life and family planning difficult, and lead to poverty in old age in the long run.
Women continue to be disadvantaged in the labor market.
Overwork, stress and time constraints lead to the depletion of one's own health and person.
We want to change that.
Our working world is changing very rapidly due to globalized companies and digitalized workplaces.
We GREENS want to make these developments fair for everyone.
Everyone should be able to work under good conditions.
Workplaces must be designed to accommodate age and aging.
We want to raise the status of social professions, in which women in particular work.
In addition, women and men should finally receive equal pay for equal work of equal value.
We support a partnership-based division of paid and unpaid tasks.
Both partners should be economically independent so that they can live self-determined lives - even in old age.
1. good work instead of precarious jobs
Work must be paid fairly.
The general minimum wage is a milestone there.
However, it must apply to all employees.
We welcome an increase in the minimum wage.
The level of the minimum wage should not only be based on the development of wages.
It should make it possible to live from work in dignity.
Protection against wage dumping, fair competition and job security must also play a role in determining the level.
Science should also be given voting rights in the minimum wage commission.
In addition, we need more industry-specific wage floors above the minimum wage so that corporate competition does not take place at the expense of employees.
Due to the digitalization of our society and new business models of companies, more and more employees also work on Sundays and public holidays, often without being compensated for giving up work-free Sundays and public holidays.
This does not do justice to the high value of the work-free Sunday and public holiday.
To ensure fairer compensation, we want to introduce a mandatory flexibility allowance for all those who have to work on Sundays or public holidays.
This is to be exempt from tax and social security contributions under the existing surcharge regulations.
Good work needs good working conditions, especially in areas where overwork and precarious work are common.
Flexibility is good - but the right balance must be struck with regard to social security and the employees' right to have a say.
Temporary workers should receive at least the same pay as permanent employees from day one - plus a flexibility bonus.
Temporary work must be clearly distinguished from contracts for work and services.
We want to prevent bogus self-employment with legally secure criteria.
Work on call should no longer be possible if the activities can be performed with normal employment relationships, for example by using working time accounts.
Jobs should no longer be able to be limited in time without a factual reason.
Good work must not make you sick.
We will strengthen occupational health and safety so that it effectively protects against stress, burnout, mobbing and the dissolution of work boundaries.
Fewer and fewer jobs are covered by collective agreements today.
That has to change again.
Collective agreements should be made generally binding more easily and apply to all companies in an industry.
We need strong works councils.
We want to protect them better, expand their co-determination rights and lower the threshold for parity-based company co-determination to 1,000 employees.
After all, participation and democracy are also important in business life.
This should also apply to the churches, one of the largest employers in the country: We also want to guarantee freedom of association and the right to strike for their employees.
In addition, we consider the personal loyalty obligations of employees of church agencies outside the religious sphere of proclamation to be disproportionate.
We therefore want to strengthen the rights of church employees and limit exceptions.
Mini-jobs seem to be a good opportunity to earn some extra money.
But at no time have they achieved the goal of building bridges into regular employment.
Instead, they have proven to be a career dead end and a poverty risk, especially for many women.
We therefore want to convert mini-jobs into jobs that are subject to social insurance contributions and ensure that contributions through taxes and duties and social benefits are coordinated in such a way that gainful employment always pays off.
At the same time, the burden of taxes and levies must not increase by leaps and bounds.
This makes it more attractive to work more than marginally.
2. good training for good jobs
We GREENS want to take all people with us into the future of work.
Continuing education is becoming increasingly important - also because people are getting older and working longer.
With BildungsZeit Plus, a mix of loan and grant, we can support adults who want to continue their education.
To prevent unemployment from occurring in the first place, we want to develop unemployment insurance into a green labor insurance scheme that covers all employees and the self-employed.
Unlike in the past, it does not only become active in the event of unemployment, but also provides preventive support in the form of further training and qualifications, taking into account changes in sectors and skills, in order to avoid unemployment.
It is thus an effective instrument for providing people with security and opening up new perspectives in times of technological upheaval.
It provides social security in the event of unemployment and helps with successful re-entry into the labor market.
3. create accesses
Unemployed people are to be supported in well-equipped job centers and agencies in order to place them permanently in work.
People with disabilities or refugees also need services tailored precisely to them.
These include, above all, qualifications, language support, job coaching and supported employment, integration or start-up subsidies.
For many, participation is linked to gainful employment.
All must be given access to the labor market.
There are, however, unemployed persons who foreseeably have no chance on the first labor market.
That is why the social labor market is essential.
We want to finance work instead of unemployment so that the unemployed with particularly diverse problems can also regain access to the labor market - gradually and sustainably.
4. time for more
Until now, it was mainly employers who demanded flexibility from their employees.
Now it's time for employees to have more time sovereignty as well, so that they can better balance work, private and family life.
To do this, they need more say over the scope, location and place of their work.
By offering optional working hours between 30 and 40 hours per week, we want to redefine full-time and turn it into a flexible working time corridor.
This makes it easier than before for women to expand their employment
and for men to go part-time without fearing career cuts.
A right of return to the original number of hours must also finally come.
It should become possible for works councils to negotiate company agreements on compatibility issues.
Time sovereignty must not result in unpaid overtime and the boundaries between work and leisure becoming increasingly blurred.
This is why modern occupational health and safety and effective employee data protection are essential.
Creativity is needed in companies to better reconcile the demands of today's working world with the needs of employees.
More and more employers have already recognized this, abandoned outdated patterns and developed innovative concepts for their workforces.
We still want to convince everyone else of this.
Life cannot always be planned.
Sometimes caring for the mother becomes more important than the job, sometimes a child gets sick.
We want to help people rebalance the relationship between work and the vicissitudes of life.
Green working time policy wants to enable more self-determination over one's own (working) time.
We want to recognize and support when someone takes responsibility for others.
Because the support and care of old and sick people is not a private task.
It is socially important and it is currently performed predominantly by women.
For those who support people in need of care, we propose a three-month CareTime Plus with wage replacement benefits.
It is to be based on income, as is the case with parental allowance.
If you vote GREEN, you are voting for these three projects:
Good work for all -
including people with disabilities
We want to make the world of work fairer.
Temporary workers receive the same wage as permanent employees and a flexibility premium.
Dubious service and work contracts, bogus self-employment and fixed-term contracts without reason no longer replace work that is well paid according to collective agreements.
People with disabilities have the same right to earn a living through work.
For this to happen, their access to the general labor market must improve.
We will significantly increase the compensatory levy to support companies that train and employ people with disabilities in excess of their quota.
We will strengthen the representation of severely disabled employees.
The budget for work, supported employment and inclusion companies facilitate entry into the general labor market.
In the workshops for people with disabilities, all those who do not manage to get started are offered fairly paid work.
We are abolishing the "minimum level of economically viable performance" as a prerequisite for the workshops.
Flexible full-time - arrange working hours more freely
Employees need more say over how much, when and where they work.
Part-time management should also be possible for women and men as a matter of course.
We propose a full-time working time corridor in the range of 30 to 40 hours.
Within this hourly corridor, employees should be able to freely determine their working hours.
In order to give employees and companies planning security, notice periods must be observed.
Only urgent operational reasons should be able to prevent the adjustment of the number of hours.
The existing legal entitlement to part-time work is to be supplemented by a right to return to the previous number of hours, by a right to work from home as a supplement to the permanent workplace, provided that there are no important operational concerns to the contrary, and by a say in the location of working hours.
Enabling further training with employment insurance
We are stepping up our investment in training and continuing education for employees and the unemployed to make them fit for jobs with a future and thus improve their job opportunities.
To this end, we want to develop unemployment insurance into a comprehensive employment insurance scheme.
It should be there for all employees and the self-employed and provide them with security.
With this fundamental reform of employment promotion, it will be possible to create access to work for those who have a particularly hard time today: In the future, there will be tailored and individual integration strategies for people with disabilities, young people without training, the long-term unemployed, older employees and refugees.
VII. WE ARE SHAPING DIGITALIZATION
Smartphones, 3D printers, delivery apps, online commerce and the share economy - the digital revolution is already fundamentally changing our economy, our working world and our everyday lives.
There is much to suggest that this process will accelerate once again.
Self-driving cars may be on the road in just a few years, with artificial intelligence beckoning on the horizon.
We want to actively shape the digital transformation.
Because we see many opportunities and possibilities through digitization that we want to seize.
We want to promote new, good jobs in new fields of work.
We want to take advantage of the ecological opportunities that arise for the energy and transport turnaround through intelligent control, automation or networking.
We will set the right course for all of this.
We want to encourage and promote all those who have the courage to dare something new.
And we want to support those whose jobs or whose future are threatened.
For at the same time, this change raises ethical questions and generates enormous pressure to adapt, for example in the education, economic, financial and social systems.
What is needed here is a debate involving society as a whole to find comprehensive solutions.
Digitalization is encountering an economy that is facing long-term ecological damage,
Weak investment and demand,
There are a number of problems with the over-concentration of wealth and excessive hunger for resources.
We want to bring order to this system.
To achieve this, we need more investment to make our economy more crisis-proof and dynamic.
To achieve this, we need a public authority that can also take action against corporations to ensure fair competition, protect consumers and preserve public goods.
It is important to us to shape digitization with clear rules in such a way that the benefits do not accrue to just a few in our society,
and risks, for example in data protection or in the concentration of power by a few Internet corporations, are limited in order to counter potential abuse of power, particularly with regard to the violation of personal rights.
Like any technological revolution, digitization will cause existing activities and jobs to disappear and new ones to be created.
For many people, this is a legitimate cause for concern.
This is where we as a community of solidarity are called upon.
We want to actively promote new jobs all the more.
We will adapt our social security systems to this change and ensure their future viability.
We will ensure that everyone can enjoy a good education - throughout their lives.
This is how we can make digitization a win-win for our country.
We want a digital awakening in which companies, civil society and politicians work together to ensure
that digitization brings us closer to our goal of an ecological and social market economy that is oriented toward long-term prosperity rather than short-term profits.
1. invest more and more sustainably in our future
Investments are the prerequisite for a dynamic and sustainable economy and for competitive companies.
The returns, for example, from investing in education are significantly higher than the interest we currently have to pay on our loans, and investing in the future means more demand and therefore more orders for our local economy
and good jobs.
This also helps to make the economy more resilient to crises.
However, we have been investing far too little in Germany for a long time - both companies and the state.
Our children and grandchildren will have to compensate for this undesirable development if we do not change course quickly.
The exclusive fixation on the black zero does not contribute to intergenerational justice.
We will only achieve this if, in addition to limiting debt, investments are made in the future of the country.
That's why we want to invest at least an additional twelve billion euros a year.
At the same time, a new investment rule is to supplement the existing debt brake so that public assets do not continue to melt away.
We therefore want to change the accounting rules for public assets to make their value and depreciation transparent.
It makes no sense to rejoice in the black zero when, on the other hand, public infrastructure is collapsing.
Future generations always pay the bill for investments that are missed today.
By systematically reducing environmentally harmful subsidies, we are creating further budgetary scope for investment.
We Greens want to invest in modern mobility, affordable and energy-efficient housing
and an educational breakthrough - in other words, in the future of our prosperity.
If we want to take advantage of the opportunities offered by digitization and ensure that the digital start-up era is possible everywhere in Germany, we need to invest in fast, nationwide Internet now.
To this end, we want to sell the federal government's holdings in Deutsche Telekom shares worth around ten billion euros
and invest in broadband expansion.
The topic of digitization must be better coordinated within the federal government and represented independently in the cabinet.
In addition, we create planning security through reliable framework conditions and want to give special support to companies that reinvest rather than withdraw their profits.
2. fair competition instead of power economy
Concentrated and encrusted markets are poison for fair competition.
We GREENS are committed to non-discriminatory and open markets, for example with regard to network neutrality.
True network neutrality is the prerequisite for fair digital competition.
Nobody needs a "two-tier Internet".
We ensure prices that tell the ecological and social truth - as with ecological financial reform and temporary employment.
Thus, it is not those who pollute or exploit the most who benefit.
The framework conditions should be formulated in such a way that small or young companies can also master them.
Simple but effective rules such as a debt brake for banks, an EU-wide minimum tax rate for companies and a functioning CO2 emissions trading system are further important levers for fair competition.
We want to better regulate sectors and markets with very powerful individual companies, so that individuals cannot increase their profits and exploit an abusive advantage at the expense of consumers, the environment, personal rights or taxpayers.
Big Internet companies like Google, Facebook, Amazon and others are rapidly changing the way we live and the way our economy works.
Data and networking are becoming increasingly important for production, but also for the value of goods and services.
It is conceivable that the value of a car will very soon be measured more by how well it is connected to the Internet and what data-driven services and programs it offers drivers than by how good its engine or processing is.
Large platforms and portals are gaining in importance with each and every user.
Generally speaking, whoever has the data and uses it has a competitive advantage.
On the one hand, we want to ensure that the protection of our data is always guaranteed in the process.
On the other hand, this change in value creation represents an enormous challenge for the German economy.
Companies must not miss the trend and must stay fit through innovations.
We want to help them remain competitive.
We want to prevent monopoly-like structures.
As a result, the public sector is becoming increasingly important as the guardian of fair competition.
We therefore advocate a new political and legal regulatory framework and further development of competition and antitrust law that effectively limits the information, market and data power of individual companies.
This also means that large corporations, banks that are "too big to fail" or network monopolies should be unbundled in extreme cases.
To ensure that SMEs are well positioned to compete with large companies in the course of digitization, we want to establish an IT consulting network for the digital transformation.
This decentralized network of consultants should be able to go into companies, check IT security and make vendor-independent suggestions for improvement.
Recommendations will also be made on how the company can position itself for the future in the process of digitization, automation and networking
and also attract more women to the industry.
We are calling on major companies worth billions - including those in the digital sector - to live up to their social responsibilities once again.
It must once again be a matter of course for large companies to pay taxes on profits - we will oblige them to do so.
They must also comply with clear legal requirements, such as the new EU data protection law, which we are leading the negotiations on.
We also want to create a European digital single market, which would open up new opportunities for many innovative European companies.
3. good work 4.0
The digital working world will be more networked, more technical and also more flexible.
And we want it to be more humane, family-friendly and ecological as well.
Digitization is changing work content, jobs and work structures.
Work is no longer bound to place and time.
That is why we are also calling for a right to home office as a supplement to the permanent workplace and taking into account the operational possibilities.
This creates time sovereignty and freedom for more self-determined work.
However, digitization also presents us with new challenges: permanent availability, extra work and comprehensive performance monitoring.
The boundaries between work and leisure, dependent and self-employed activity, between self-determination and self-exploitation are in danger of becoming blurred.
Here we want to protect employees and the self-employed.
That is why we will adapt occupational health and safety to the digital world of work, strengthen co-determination rights at the workplace, and protect employees from comprehensive performance controls with an independent Employee Data Protection Act.
In the future, solo self-employed and creative workers must be socially secured for all circumstances
and they must be paid fairly.
Therefore, we want to introduce a general minimum fee as an absolute lower limit for time-based services and, at the same time, allow industry-specific minimum fees for certain works and services that fit well with the respective industries.
Work arranged via online platforms and the number of click workers are increasing.
Platforms must not be misused for wage dumping or as a distribution channel without rights.
Only if today's social and labor standards continue to apply will fair competition and good working conditions be created in the digital world of work.
The digital transformation of the working world has already begun.
We want to shape this structural change in a positive way.
Digitalization will create new jobs, but some activities will also be automated.
Ecological modernization is an opportunity to create new jobs not only for programmers, but also for craftsmen and skilled workers.
Digital competencies will be of central importance.
That is why we promote further training already in the job and not only in the case of unemployment (--> Chapter: We fight for good work and better compatibility, Labor Insurance Project, p. 216).
However, digitization and automation also offer the opportunity to reduce workloads, enable other commitments, such as volunteering, or improve the work-life balance.
However, this requires active political management of the transition processes and setting the right course in terms of labor policy.
4. promote business start-ups
With their ideas and creative power, founders challenge established companies, dare to do something new and thus modernize our economy.
Due to digitalization, we are currently experiencing a new era of start-ups.
It is the companies that are putting the energy, mobility and agricultural transformation into practice and making it a successful model.
They take risks and find creative solutions.
We want to support them by improving access to social security systems for the self-employed, strengthening new forms of financing such as crowdfunding and linking them with development banks, and promoting co-working and commercial space for entrepreneurs.
In addition to project and start-up funding, we also want to provide tax incentives for research activities in small and medium-sized enterprises in order to mobilize the creative potential and inventive spirit there even more strongly.
A 15 percent tax credit will support their research and development spending in the future.
We want an unbureaucratic and effective funding instrument for all those willing to start a business.
With the green start-up capital, anyone who wants to become self-employed and presents a convincing concept receives a one-time flexible and interest-free loan of up to 25,000 euros.
Repayment is made as soon as the company has gained a foothold.
We want to improve access to microcredit, especially for small entrepreneurs, by reducing the bureaucratic and financial burden.
Open standards, interfaces, data and software make it easier for resourceful minds to implement new business ideas.
In addition, we want to raise the limit for immediate depreciation of low-value assets to 1,000 euros.
And we want to set up a nationwide one-stop store for start-ups so that all the necessary bureaucratic requirements and advisory services can be found in one place.
We want to formulate and simplify political framework conditions in such a way that small or young companies, cultural workers and creatives can also master them - and large companies can no longer simply leverage them with their expensive lawyers.
An innovative country needs strong universities.
Science needs curious people and they need sufficient rooms and good equipment, i.e. a modern infrastructure of knowledge.
This requires a modernization program to clear the backlog of renovations: for more student housing, the expansion of labs and libraries, but also for digital infrastructure.
With this proposal, we will bring universities back up to speed and improve their core funding to enable diverse, independent, and excellent research and teaching.
Digitization also facilitates the establishment of companies that focus on alternative forms of economy - from the solidarity economy to social entrepreneurship and the sharing economy.
We want to strengthen such models politically and anchor openness as a guiding principle for digital models of sharing.
If you vote GREEN, you are voting for these three projects:
We invest in the infrastructure of the future
We GREENS want to invest in the infrastructure of the future.
We want to accelerate the roll-out of fast Internet by investing ten billion euros in broadband expansion.
In return, we are selling the Federal Republic's shares in Deutsche Telekom.
We want to promote electromobility - at all levels, be it cars, charging infrastructure, buses, trains or cargo bikes.
We will also promote high-speed cycle paths for the mobility of the future.
With the "Local Transport Program of the Future", we are improving the range and quality of local transport services with an annual investment of one billion euros.
In order to create affordable housing, we want to significantly increase social housing subsidies at the federal level and promote an additional one million homes through the New Housing Community Benefit.
Our investment package for better infrastructure in education, training and science includes a five-year school refurbishment program and a modernization program for university equipment.
Unleashing ideas - with the research bonus for companies
Small and medium-sized enterprises are helping to shape ecological and social change.
Research and development are its most important resources.
We want to promote new ideas simply and unbureaucratically - with our tax research bonus of 15 percent on all research and development expenditure for small and medium-sized enterprises.
Companies that have not yet made a profit will be paid this bonus.
This is especially helpful for founders and innovative start-ups.
Shaping the digital world of work positively and providing better protection for the self-employed, cultural workers and creative professionals
The digital world of work offers opportunities for more time sovereignty and self-determined working.
But it can also become limitless.
That is why we will adapt occupational health and safety to the digital world of work.
Co-determination also needs an update.
If trust-based working time constantly results in overtime, works councils are to be given a right of co-determination over the amount of work.
Self-employed, cultural workers and creative professionals value their entrepreneurial freedom, but they are often not sufficiently protected due to low or irregular income.
We want to strengthen them with minimum fees and also provide them with better security.
To this end, we want to achieve a reduction in the minimum contribution for voluntary unemployment insurance and very significantly lower the minimum contributions for statutory health and long-term care insurance.
As a first step toward citizens' insurance, we want to include self-employed persons who are not covered elsewhere in pension insurance.
We want to maintain and further strengthen the artists' social insurance fund.
F. WHAT WE WANT TO TAKE RESPONSIBILITY FOR
I. TEN-POINT PLAN FOR GREEN GOVERNANCE
We live in times when many things are changing.
Threatening as well as positive.
Change is hoped for by some, feared by others.
We are convinced that our country still has the best ahead of it in a united Europe - if we act now with determination.
We want to take responsibility for this.
It takes courage to make changes to move our country forward.
Challenges cannot be solved by merely talking about yesterday's successes and resting on them.
We want to fight for progress.
With many allies.
Also for those who do not yet participate in it.
That's why we want to govern.
We need partners for this.
This partnership must be based on the fact that many things must change today so that we can all live well tomorrow.
Anyone who wants to form a coalition with us must be prepared to take a decisive lead in these projects.
1. advance climate protection
The preservation of the natural foundations of life determines our political actions.
Protecting the climate is a human task.
We want Germany to meet its climate protection targets - without any ifs and buts.
By 2050, the energy supply for buildings, mobility and industry will also come exclusively from renewable energies.
We are accelerating the energy transition, abolishing the cap on the expansion of renewables and ensuring a fair transition.
We introduce a national minimum price for climate pollution.
We will abolish the electricity tax and introduce a revenue-neutral CO2 price in its place.
We are phasing out climate-hostile coal in a way that meets climate protection targets and our goal of 100 percent renewable energy in the electricity sector by 2030.
We will shut down the 20 dirtiest coal-fired power plants immediately so that Germany can still meet its 2020 climate protection target.
2. helping e-mobility to achieve a breakthrough
A successful economy in the future will be renewable, efficient and digital - including mobility.
That's why we're rethinking it.
Without noise, exhaust fumes and traffic jams.
We will launch intelligently coordinated mobility between emission-free cars, electromobile trains and public transport, cycling and walking, which is also affordable.
For us, this includes expanding long-distance and local public transportation throughout the country and significantly improving the infrastructure for bicycles.
Intelligent mobility also includes cars without exhaust fumes.
We want the clean car to be developed and built in Germany as well.
Germany has the best engineers in the world for this.
But it needs an ambitious policy framework and thus the ability to plan.
We are ending the era of the fossil combustion engine with clear ecological guard rails.
From 2030 onwards, we want to register only emission-free cars and are creating the tax, fiscal and infrastructural conditions for emission-free mobility in the future.
We end subsidies for gas guzzlers, as with the company car privilege.
We are boosting e-mobility by integrating a bonus-malus system into the vehicle tax for new cars, from which those who emit less CO2 benefit.
This promotes innovation and secures jobs and value creation with German high-tech.
3. make agriculture sustainable
More and more people want healthy food that is produced in harmony with nature.
They want agriculture that protects our groundwater and soils,
that preserves the richness of our wildlife and plants instead of causing bee and bird deaths.
With us, Germany will switch to sustainable agriculture - without agricultural poisons and genetic engineering.
We will abolish industrial factory farming over the next 20 years.
We enforce animal welfare standards by law that are geared to the needs of the animals and put an end to torturous breeding and cruel factory farming.
And we are introducing a farm label for all animal products - as a first step for meat.
We redirect the European tax billions in such a way that environmental protection and animal welfare become new income opportunities for farmers, because the new agriculture only exists with the farmers.
4. unite Europe
We want to strengthen the united Europe.
Because without a united Europe, there will be neither peace nor prosperity nor security for all of us in the globalized world.
With us, there will be a clear course correction in German European policy.
Because what is needed is partnership with respect at eye level and more solidarity and sustainability instead of unilateral austerity policies.
We will invest massively in ecological modernization and the digital future of our continent
, thus also helping to combat unemployment in many countries - instead of spending two percent of economic output and thus 30 billion euros more on defense in Germany alone.
We want more transparency for citizens and more decision-making rights for parliaments in European policy.
Through common rules, we will effectively counter tax dumping and money laundering.
We are fighting to ensure that CETA is not ratified in this form.
5. strengthen families
We want the promise of advancement to apply equally to all.
This requires fair opportunities for all.
We are also investing in good education, in better quality daycare centers and intact and well-equipped schools - instead of spending money by the bucketload.
We fight child poverty and strengthen single parents.
We are improving family support with an additional twelve billion euros:
We are improving family support with an additional twelve billion euros: The Green family budget - with everything that goes with it - not only strengthens families, but also promotes the economic independence of women.
And we are finally opening up good opportunities for all children in their lives - regardless of their name, where they live and who their parents are.
6. create social security
With the digitalization of the world of work, we are facing a major upheaval.
We want to ensure that the welfare state can still deliver on its promise of security in the future and thus counter fears of decline.
We want social security that protects against poverty and guarantees participation - whether in the event of unemployment or in old age.
And we want to reduce social inequality in Germany.
That is why we are gradually transforming the social security system into a solidarity-based citizens' insurance for all.
We are stabilizing the pension level.
We will end two-tier medicine and restore parity in cost sharing for employers.
And we are improving social security for the self-employed
7. making integration a success, protecting refugees
It is not important where someone comes from, but where she or he wants to go.
Anyone who wants to be happy here must recognize our Basic Law and its fundamental values.
In our common country, this applies to everyone, regardless of whether they come from Dresden or Damascus.
In the future, we will place more emphasis on education for democracy for all children and young people in our immigration society.
We are reforming citizenship law: anyone born in Germany is a German citizen.
We want recognized refugees to be allowed to bring their families, because this also helps them to integrate.
They also have a right to live together as a family.
We stand for a humane, human rights-oriented and, moreover, common European refugee policy.
With us, there will be no amendment to the Basic Law for an upper limit on the right of asylum.
We reject further tightening of asylum laws and deportations to war and crisis zones.
We owe this to our history and our values.
8. living equally and self-determined
In 2017, women and men are still not equal.
We ensure that work of equal value is finally paid equally - regardless of whether it is performed by women or men.
We are launching an effective equal pay law.
All should have a right to return to full-time work.
And we're breaking through the glass ceiling that women far too often hit in their careers.
Quotas remain the most effective tool, whether on the DAX board or at the top of administrations.
We want to make marriage for all possible in Germany as well and open up adoption rights.
When two people love each other and want to take responsibility for each other, that deserves respect.
This is how most people in Germany see it: they want gays and lesbians to be allowed to marry.
In 22 countries worldwide, 13 of which are in Europe, gays and lesbians can say "I do".
Why should it not be possible in Germany to do what is the law in many places?
The marriage ban for gays and lesbians does not fit our modern country Germany.
9. secure freedom
If you want to live freely, you have to be able to feel safe.
Islamist terrorism is one of the greatest threats of our time.
Right-wing extremist violence and terror have been allowed to spread in our country for far too long without effective opposition.
Women are still affected by violence in a special way - both in private and public spaces, both online and offline.
Racism is still commonplace and often results in violence.
Refugees, LGBTIQ*, even homeless people are threatened or attacked.
Added to this are inflammatory debates that divide and unsettle our society.
Many people are rightly frightened by the high number of burglaries.
We stand for an effective security policy.
A security policy that takes threats seriously, but responds with a sense of proportion and with respect for citizens' rights.
We ensure that the police are well equipped to carry out their growing tasks in order to be able to protect effectively.
We are strengthening cross-border cooperation between security authorities.
We rely on targeted surveillance instead of mass spying on all citizens.
We strengthen the principle of prevention as an integral part of internal security.
This also includes tightening gun laws.
10. fight the causes of flight
Germany is a reliable international alliance partner.
But we are currently contributing to insecurity in the world with arms exports to dictatorships and crisis regions.
That is why we are putting an end to such exports with a binding arms export law.
We do not want to make profits at the expense of people in other countries and fuel conflicts there.
That is why we strengthen ecological and social standards worldwide with fair trade agreements.
We want to put an end to overfishing off the coasts of Africa
and eliminate agricultural subsidies that promote rural exodus and hunger elsewhere.
The fight against climate warming is also a fight against the causes of flight.
The best refugee policy is one that consistently protects human rights and helps prevent people from having to leave their homes.
Our binding offer
These intentions do not describe all of our concerns - but they do describe the most important ones.
They are our benchmark for government participation.
They are our binding offer to you, the citizens.
If you vote for the GREENS, you will get full commitment in return.
We want to replace the gridlock and indecision offered by the grand coalition.
That is why we are ready to talk to all parties except the AfD after the election to see if we can implement our plans.
This corresponds to our understanding of democracy and responsibility.
We have already governed our republic successfully for seven years in a coalition with the SPD and brought it forward.
We would like to pick up where we left off.
But it is you, the voters, who decide on possible majorities.
The stronger the GREENS are in the next German Bundestag and a federal government, the more weight we will also have to push through these goals.
We can and will govern if the direction is right and our core projects can be implemented.
This is a requirement for us to use your voice responsibly.
If our core projects cannot be implemented, then we will fight for change and social majorities from the opposition.
If there are successful coalition negotiations, we will present the result to our members in a ballot.
We want a modern and ecological,
a diverse
and just society.
Anyone who wants to govern with us must initiate a change of policy.
The future is made of courage!
