Social justice is the program of the LEFT.
Before the election and after the election, in parliaments and in disputes at work, on the street, in initiatives, in everyday life:
We want to eliminate poverty and redistribute wealth.
Basic social rights,
good work for all and
free education.
We want to preserve the natural foundations of life and improve them again for future generations.
We want to strengthen public common ownership
and expand and improve public services.
We have a vision of how we want to shape the ecological transformation in a socially just way.
We stand up for peace.
We defend civil rights
and oppose the constant dismantling of civil and human rights.
This has been our policy from the very beginning.
Our conviction does not change because there are elections.
Many are now - just in time for the start of the election campaign - talking about social policies again, but words cost nothing.
DIE LINKE is putting on the pressure.
We want to ensure that words are followed by actions.
No one should become poor because he or she is old, unemployed, disabled, chronically ill, or because their parents are poor.
We want to fight poverty:
The Hartz IV system must go.
Instead, a needs-covering, sanction-free minimum income scheme is to be introduced in the medium term.
The unemployed are harassed because they are not allowed to refuse even the worst jobs; sanctions are threatened.
This also increases the pressure on employees to accept low wages and overtime.
Children must be effectively protected from poverty.
We want respect, dignity and a good life for employees and the unemployed alike.
Our demands are not abstract, but very concrete:
For better wages and working conditions, it must be easier to declare collective agreements generally binding.
The pressure on employees must be ended: no dumping competition through temporary work, work contracts and low wages.
Many work until they drop, and yet it is not enough to live on.
This is also a result of mass unemployment.
We need jobs that are good to live on, for everyone.
Pensions must not only protect against poverty, they must secure the standard of living.
Finally also in the east of Germany!
More than 20 years after the fall of communism, the country is still divided.
We will not accept this.
These are the interests that we take up, defend, that we care about.
The lobby of the corporations and the rich does not find a hearing with us.
Social justice and growing inequality are incompatible.
But inequality can only be effectively combated by those who have the courage to limit wealth and redistribute it in such a way that it benefits everyone.
We do not cave in to the rich:
We want to tax the rich and wealthy - millionaires, billionaires, capital assets - in a courageous way and ensure that they contribute adequately to financing the community.
We want to stop the expropriation of the population.
Few gather great wealth in their hands.
We want to invest it in public services of general interest: Education,
Childcare,
public transportation,
Health,
Care,
Water,
Energy supply,
Affordable living space - the need is great.
At the same time, this strengthens democracy and ensures the participation of all.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel wants a "democracy that conforms to the market".
We are not available for this.
On the contrary, we want to strengthen social rights and civil rights.
We want to break the power of the banks and corporations.
That is why we advocate a social, democratic and solidarity-based Europe that is removed from the grip of the financial markets.
Borders may run between countries.
But the populations and workers of these countries have common interests: the fight against wage depression, recession and mass unemployment.
DIE LINKE is the party of the socio-ecological transformation of society.
Ecological restructuring is only fair if it is also social.
But the reverse is also true: the struggle for global social rights must include the ecological question.
DIE LINKE has presented a concept for this with the PLAN B project.
We are not available for an ecological policy that only has the better-off in mind and allows E.ON, Vattenfall & Co. to pass on the costs of the energy turnaround to the population - and to disconnect the poorest.
Energy is a common good, it belongs in the hands of the people!
DIE LINKE is the peace party.
We are the only parliamentary group and party in the Bundestag that has not approved the Bundeswehr's foreign deployments and will not do so in the future.
German troops must be withdrawn from Afghanistan immediately.
Germany's responsibility goes even further:
arms exports and the production of armaments in the Federal Republic must be banned.
DIE LINKE rejects arms exports, also within the framework of the European Union and within the NATO military alliance.
DIE LINKE is the socialist civil rights party.
We have consistently opposed the restriction and dismantling of fundamental and civil rights.
Every other party represented in the Bundestag has so far made significant encroachments on civil and human rights that could only be reversed, if at all, by the Federal Constitutional Court.
We will continue to oppose encroachment on civil and human rights in the future, because we consider their existence to be one of the elementary components of a just society.
These positions and demands make up the core of our policy.
We will base our work in the next Bundestag on them.
We bring them into the discussion again and again - and with success.
The other parties shy away from a policy of social justice at the latest when it comes to effectively fighting poverty and low wages and
financing social policy with a redistribution of wealth, backing
workers in workplace disputes
and ensuring the same access to health care for all.
And to increase pensions so that they not only protect against poverty.
In this sense: DIE LINKE is putting on the pressure.
Together, we can develop and shape policy and unleash resistance.
Together with others, we are moved by the question of how we want to live tomorrow.
This is a question of democracy: what strengthens our cohesion, what creates equitable access for all, what can we do without in the future?
We want to connect experiences and ideas that make our coexistence more peaceful, productive, sustainable and also safer.
We don't need banks that speculate riskily and put the brakes on entrepreneurial ventures.
No one should look the other way when children in a rich country go to school in the morning with an empty stomach.
That is exclusion instead of freedom.
Poverty among children and the elderly in our society is growing.
And that is just the tip of the iceberg of injustices that threaten our coexistence.
When it is hopeless to find gainful employment, when the income is degrading, when people with disabilities or asylum seekers are disadvantaged in multiple ways - when existential fear and a lack of prospects have become part of everyday life, then politics has failed.
The social and civil rights of the people are disregarded
and participation and inclusion fall by the wayside.
Our response is democratic, creative and open to new ideas.
We bring in different experiences: from the trade union struggles for good work and the welfare state, from feminist and anti-racist movements, from the peace movement.
Also from the1989 uprising against repressive state socialism.
To speak critically about the experiences of state socialism so that they do not delegitimize the diverse life experiences is also a leftist task.
We bring all these experiences into our policy against repressive capitalism, for the strengthening of public services and a social-ecological restructuring, against arms exports, for good wages and pensions, for social freedom rights.
Freedom for people, that is something different from the freedom of markets or "free" competition, which divides people in Germany and worldwide into winners and losers.
We oppose that the poorest are still insulted
and that refugees are treated like criminals.
Everyday racism and Nazi ideologies of inequality are built on the social fissures and divisions in society.
Obviously, state structures have failed here, downplayed and covered up.
Social fissures and divisions can grow sexism, anti-Semitism, hostility against gays, lesbians and trans people.
The cost of these cracks and fault lines will ultimately cost us more than the renewal of what strengthens the cohesion and makes up the social fabric of society.
For that, we need social investment.
The federal government advertises with the lie that "we" have come through the crisis well.
Threateningly, the government and the media point to developments in other countries in Europe and claim that "we," on the other hand, are doing well.
The banks and the rich have come through the crisis well - here, in Europe and worldwide.
Society, however, is drifting apart.
Officially measured unemployment is lower in Germany than in other countries.
Right.
But when the numbers are adjusted, there are still five million people.
And what are these working relationships?
Low wages, fixed-term contracts and precarious employment are on the rise.
Many employees suffer from the increasing stresses at their workplace.
They worry about rising rents and electricity prices or whether they will find enough time for their children.
Many have to work longer hours for poor pay just to make ends meet.
Others have to do even more in less time.
Many cannot work as long as they want, others are forced by the job center into poorly paid jobs, unpaid internships or one-euro jobs.
Stress and exhaustion are part of everyday life for many: those who receive low wages, the self-employed who have to fight for every order, those who work in production or in hospitals.
The causes are the same: Against the backdrop of Hartz IV and without a statutory minimum wage, companies can more easily depress wages and worsen working conditions.
Capitalism is a profit-maximizing system that is currently focusing more and more on short-term profits on the financial markets.
Public goods are being privatized and trimmed for profit: Housing, water and energy supply, health.
The expansion of temporary employment and starvation wages, the Hartz laws, the pension only after 67, the abolition of parity financing of the social systems, the deregulation of the financial markets and the tax giveaways to corporations as well as the reduction of the top tax rate are the result of the policies of the CDU, FDP, SPD and Greens.
This redistribution from the bottom to the top was initiated by the SPD and the Greens under the Schröder-Fischer government, then continued by the grand coalition and now by the Merkel government.
Steinbrück, the SPD candidate for chancellor, played a key role in shaping this policy both as Minister President in North Rhine-Westphalia and as Finance Minister in the Grand Coalition.
A society that is primarily focused on profit and the market cannot and will not satisfy the needs and interests of more and more people and leads to ecological disaster.
Nevertheless, the federal government just keeps doing what it's doing.
If people in Europe become poor, if wages and salaries fall everywhere, the recession, the economic downturn, also threatens Germany.
The government wants to increase competition between employees in Europe.
It wants to increase the pressure on wages and salaries in Germany.
It relies on a lean, starved state and thus on ailing, poor public infrastructure and services of general interest.
The federal government portrays people and their demands for a good life as the cause of the crisis instead of seeing that it is the task of democratic politics to make this good life possible for all people.
The Merkel government's loyalties lie elsewhere.
It subordinates democracy and social justice to the interests of corporations and the financial markets.
Social inequality is on the rise.
There are more poor people - and more wealth.
This is the everyday crisis.
In contrast, for us LEFT parties, people come first.
Together, we are pushing back profit orientation and privatization in order to create space and air for solidarity-based alternatives.
We are fighting for this in the parliaments, in the factories, on the streets, in the cooperatives, in the citizens' initiatives.
We want a program for the future: there
is a lack of daycare places,
schools,
public services, and the
infrastructure must be improved.
We have earmarked investments in our program that together amount to around 100 billion euros.
In this way, we want to improve the supply of goods and services to the population,
combat mass unemployment
and reinvigorate the welfare state.
We want to expand public services - by investing in education,
hospitals and care -,
make the energy transition socially just
and improve public, barrier-free passenger transport.
And we want to create additional employment protected by collective agreements.
The expenses of this future program are covered by our redistribution concept.
Our program is feasible, affordable, and a gateway to a better, more humane society.
In brief, it includes the following points:
- We want no one to be poor in old age and in work.
We demand a statutory minimum wage of ten euros per hour.
Wages must rise
and the pension level must be raised again to 53 percent.
- We want good work instead of bad, unsecured and underpaid jobs.
That is why we want comprehensive regulation and protection of all employment relationships. -
We want to expand public and social services
and promote ecological restructuring,
thus reducing unemployment through good work.
To this end, we are calling for a program for the future.
- We want a solidary minimum pension of1,050 euros net - below that, poverty threatens.
- We want the rich and companies to participate fairly in the financing of the community and to ensure that private wealth does not lead to public poverty.
- High incomes must be taxed again at a top rate of 53 percent.
We also want to introduce a millionaire's tax on high wealth and reform the inheritance tax.
- DIE LINKE defends people's basic social rights as the foundation of democracy and justice.
We want an inclusive society in which all people participate in society's wealth, culture and education -
and have a say in how society develops.
We demand better benefits for the unemployed and: away with the Hartz IV system.
As a first step, sanctions must be eliminated and Hartz IV rates increased to 500 euros.
To effectively protect children from poverty, we want to introduce a basic child allowance.
- We want to stop the displacement of tenants and cap rents.
We need more housing with a social commitment. -
We stand for a peaceful, cosmopolitan Europe based on solidarity,
in which social standards are negotiated jointly
and the rich are involved in financing them through property levies.
- The financial markets and banks must be effectively controlled and put at the service of society.
We want a financial transaction tax
and a Europe-wide one-time levy on assets over one million euros.
- We want to ecologically restructure the economy and society, placing the social question at the center of the restructuring process.
The basic supply of energy must be guaranteed as a fundamental right,
the waste of energy can be curbed.
Supply must not be in the hands of corporations.
We want to ban electricity and gas cut-offs.
In the medium term, local transportation should be available free of charge
and the range of services expanded. -
We want to strengthen civil rights
and expand the social foundations of democracy.
We want to end the influence of the business lobby on politics.
Democracy means that important things in life are decided jointly and publicly.
To achieve this, public ownership must be strengthened
and the participation of the people must be ensured.
There are many opportunities: Co-determination in companies is being expanded.
Private companies providing public services are being remunicipalized.
Cooperatives in housing construction are strengthened.
The possibilities are improved for workforces to take over their companies or found cooperatives.
- We oppose the destruction of the welfare state with the "debt brake" and therefore advocate its abolition from the Basic Law and all state constitutions.
- Instead of surveillance, restrictions on legal protection and the creeping loss of constitutional standards, there must be a reversal.
Data protection must be guaranteed, access to the courts - including social access - must be ensured, and government action must once again be aligned with the principles of the rule of law.
- We want solidarity-based health insurance: one fund for all.
Everyone pays in, everyone is equally well cared for.
All co-payments and additional contributions will be abolished, and parity financing will be restored.
For most, contributions will fall, private health insurance will be limited to supplementary insurance.
- DIE LINKE is the party of peace - the only one in parliament.
We stand for an immediate, unconditional withdrawal of the Bundeswehr from missions abroad
and a halt to arms exports.
The production of weapons must be ended and - with the participation of the workforce - transferred to the production of civilian goods.
Those who want to can quickly enter into a feasible different policy:
Introduction of the minimum wage of ten euros an hour,
pushing back temporary work, fixed-term contracts and mini-jobs,
increase in pensions,
withdrawal of the pension only from 67 years,
wage and pension justice in East Germany,
solidarity-based health insurance,
wealth tax,
Abolition of Hartz IV sanctions and raising Hartz IV rates to 500 euros,
withdrawal from Afghanistan and an end to all foreign deployments of the Bundeswehr, a
ban on arms exports - these are decisions that a new government could make immediately, these are our immediate demands for a change in policy.
For us, these measures are just a start.
They can be entrances to a new model of society, an alternative to financial capitalism.
A model of togetherness, of practical solidarity.
Solidarity is not a call for personal renunciation.
The idea of solidarity is expressed in how we organize our society: in the joint design of public life and public infrastructure;
in a responsible and sustainable model of economic activity that combines the social and the ecological, that transcends classes, and that serves democracy rather than harming it.
We want to shape a democratic - liberal, ecological, lustful - socialism.
There are many steps to take along the way.
They start with people's needs and worries, wishes and dreams.
We have a program of feasible alternatives that we want to develop and implement together with as many others as possible.
We paint a picture of a changed Federal Republic:
it is more socially just, it is
serious about the energy transition,
it is peaceful with a view to international responsibility,
and it is working toward a Europe of solidarity.
It enables everyone - regardless of origin - to participate in education and development, and in the wealth of society in general.
Change only succeeds with people.
That is why a new democratic everyday life is needed: in parliaments as well as in companies and in public life.
We do not make policy on behalf of others.
We are part of the many who fight for more justice and freedom, dignity and public spirit.
Our ideas and concepts, our theories and beliefs may be different.
What we have in common is that we get involved in social struggles, support initiatives, social movements and trade unions.
And we give a voice to those who are left alone by politics, to whom existential hardship and a lack of prospects have taken away their courage.
Our place is by their side - and it stays that way.
We campaign for the strengthening of the public sphere, for more self-determination and thus for more democracy, put pressure on other parties to pursue different policies.
All great changes begin with first, determined steps.
Our program for the federal election is an invitation to walk the path with us.
I. Reinventing Solidarity: Good Work and Social Justice
Moving toward a just society requires several decisions at once:
Delineate poverty and wealth, i.e., use taxes and levies on the rich to collect the money to finance public services and good infrastructure;
regulate unequal incomes and prevent people from working themselves poor;
fight mass unemployment and protect the unemployed from degradation;
guarantee social participation and prevent the fear of Hartz IV from forcing people into bad working conditions;
prevent the job from dominating the whole life, so that there is time for recreation, family, fun, also to get involved politically;
guarantee a life in old age with a secure standard of living.
It must be certain that sufficient and good public infrastructure is provided for education and child rearing.
Even those who have little money must have the opportunity to maintain good health.
Everyone has the right to work and the right to refuse specific job offers without having to fear blocking periods or other sanctions.
A society based on solidarity must distribute wealth from top to bottom, from private to public, and thus also create something new:
above all, provide efficient public services - education, health, culture, transport, energy supply, etc. - for everyone.
This involves major investments as well as small practical steps for a better everyday life, such as a free hot and healthy lunch in all daycare centers and schools.
It is only fair to make much greater use of those who are wealthy and rich to finance these measures.
In this respect, good gainful employment, a good wage, protection against unemployment and poverty as well as efficient public services and infrastructures on the one hand and higher public revenues due to taxes on the rich, millionaires and higher corporate taxes on the other hand are two sides of the same coin.
Both together form the basis of a just and solidary society.
DIE LINKE stands for such an entry into a new justice.
Good work instead of low wages and insecure jobs
"I work as a nurse to the point of exhaustion, and yet there is not enough for the family. There is hardly any time for the patients, who always have to be processed quickly; since privatization, it's all about saving time and making a profit. I often work longer hours so that I can spend more time with patients. Then I often don't have time for the children at home, and I have a guilty conscience. The children are under enormous pressure at school. And I don't know how I can still offer them something, go on vacation, pay off the house. And if that's how it's decided with the pension, I'll only get 730 euros if I last until 67. And I can't do that, lifting patients every day and all that. When will there be a bailout for us?" Katrin, 42, nurse from Zwickau
Good work means that we can live from our gainful employment, shape our lives independently and develop ourselves further.
The claim that the work must be good refers to the level of pay, the content, the work processes and the design of the workplace and working hours.
Many people work too long because they earn too little or because the work is so organized that they literally take it home with them and can't get it out of their heads.
Many suffer from stress and exhaustion.
Additional material and psychological pressure arises due to insecure working conditions.
Others suffer because they have no work.
Agenda 2010 represented the deepest cut to date in the social systems and working conditions in post-war history.
The labor market and working conditions have been restructured in the interests of companies with the Agenda 2010 of the then Red-Green federal government, and the social rights of employees and job seekers have been significantly restricted.
Over the past ten years, more than two million full-time jobs have been eliminated - at the same time, almost twice as many bad jobs have been created.
Temporary jobs, subcontracting, work contracts and mini-jobs were a declared goal of Agenda 2010 and are now part of everyday life:
they undermine collective agreements and are deliberately used to put pressure on permanent employees with their usually higher wages.
At the same time, mass unemployment has become entrenched.
Together with Hartz IV, it functions as a threat and disciplining of employees.
We want to combat unemployment and make up for the shortage of personnel in public services.
Public investment and a different orientation of industrial and economic policy are urgently needed for this (see Chapter IV ).
DIE LINKE wants to regulate work, its distribution, its payment, its organization in a new and better way:
Wages must rise significantly more than prices,
collective agreements must be universally binding, and
fixed-term employment relationships must not be the norm but the exception.
Everyone must be able to make a living from their gainful employment, have time and peace to relax, maintain life with the family, pursue hobbies and interests, and be politically active.
- DIE LINKE demands a ban on temporary work.
Pending its implementation, equal pay for temporary workers and permanent staff must be enforced with immediate effect.
The duration of temporary employment is to be limited to a few months and a flexibility allowance of ten percent of the wage for temporary workers is to be introduced.
In principle, they must be permanently employed by the lender; fixed-term contracts with the aim of synchronization with periods of lendings are not permitted.
The use of temporary workers in the hiring company is only to be permitted with the consent of the works council.
- No wage dumping via contracts for work and services!
The abuse of contracts for work and services - whether in the form of bogus self-employment or outsourcing - must be effectively prevented.
No contracts for work may be awarded without the consent of the works council.
- We want mini-jobs to be converted into jobs that are fully covered by social insurance from the very first hour.
The goal must be to ensure that part-time work is not performed for less than18 hours a week; employees should have a legal right to this.
- We want to push back the proliferation of fixed-term employment contracts - permanent employment must once again become the norm.
We want to prohibit chain fixed-term contracts and fixed-term contracts without a fixed term.
We want to limit fixed-term employment to a one-time occurrence, to a maximum of one year, and to a few objective reasons.
- We want to put an end to the abuse of interns as cheap labor.
Internships that are part of an apprenticeship should be compensated within the framework of the apprenticeship pay, but with at least 300 euros per month.
Internships as a career entry after a completed apprenticeship are to be remunerated according to the collective agreement.
Real wages fell by five percent between 2000 and 2011.
Many people feel this in their everyday lives:
the money is not enough at the back and front.
This did not prevent the economic crisis, as the government claims, but kept the downward spiral of wages going.
To reverse this trend, the rights of employees and trade unions must be strengthened.
In the public sector, there are more direct opportunities to shape policy.
Politicians can ensure that wages and salaries are raised significantly, especially in the social services sector.
We advocate that wage development must at least compensate for productivity and price increases as well as for the wage sacrifices that have led to real wage reductions, especially in the wake of the Agenda policy.
- We want to push back the low-wage sector and transform these bad working conditions into good ones.
- Wage dumping must be prevented: with a nationwide statutory minimum wage of ten euros.
The incomes of nearly eight million employees would increase directly and noticeably.
The minimum wage must increase annually, taking into account at least productivity and price trends.
By the end of the election period, the statutory minimum wage should be aligned with the "60 percent of the national average wage" mark.
That is currently twelve euros. -
The statutory minimum wage is not enough:
We want industry-specific higher minimum wages and the wage structure based on them, which are negotiated by trade unions, to be able to be declared generally binding more easily than before and also without the consent of employers.
Collective agreements must be declared generally binding at the request of a collective bargaining party, and the trade union side must be granted a right of veto.
- We demand that the awarding of public contracts be linked to minimum wages and compliance with local collective agreements.
We advocate that collective agreements should once again be allowed to apply in all areas of public procurement.
- If the owner of a company changes, the previous collective agreements must remain permanently protected in their respective valid version for an unlimited period.
Collective wage evasion and wage dumping through company transfers can thus be prevented. -
Equal pay for work of equal value:
The structural underpayment of women must be ended.
Unequal pay must not be enabled by different employment relationships, such as temporary work.
Tariffs in the east and west must be aligned.
People with disabilities are also entitled to equal pay for equal work and the statutory minimum wage.
- It is crucial that the sanctions regime of Hartz IV - the compulsion to take up any job, no matter how poorly paid - is eliminated.
It is not only antisocial, but also leads to the blackmailability of employees.
The threat of job cuts is more threatening against this backdrop.
Those who criticize low wages and the fact that people remain or become poor despite their gainful employment cannot remain silent about manager salaries and exploding executive salaries in DAX companies.
If the (mostly male) CEO of a DAX company receives on average 54 times what his employees earn, then this cannot be explained by performance.
What is fair about it?
Together with representatives from trade unions, churches, social associations and academia - even responsible companies - we want to initiate a debate on how much income inequality is acceptable and at what point cohesion and democracy in our society start to suffer as a result.
We propose that no one should earn more than 40 times the social minimum - at the current distribution, that would still be just under half a million euros a year.
We call for binding rules for all public companies - the capping of managerial salaries at the Landesbanken can be a model here - and are fighting to ensure that such rules apply in all companies.
We call on members of supervisory boards to stop agreeing to excessive salaries and to work towards a voluntary commitment by the company.
- We also call for an end to the tax deductibility of annual salaries above half a million euros.
We want to exclude bonuses and excessive severance payments altogether.
Expand co-determination and shorten working hours
The fact that we can create more and more goods and material wealth with less and less work is actually good news.
Working hours could therefore be shortened so that work is distributed differently and people have more free time at their own disposal and to shape society democratically.
However, the benefits of this development only accrue to the companies.
Not the employees: some have to work a lot of overtime, others have to settle for forced part-time work and few hours.
Flexibility, which could also bring employees more self-determination, has become a threatening word.
Work is more than gainful employment.
Work also includes all volunteer work, educational work, care work, and the like.
These need to be more widely recognized in our society.
To make it easier to combine gainful employment, for example, with family life and raising children, we need new working time models.
Parents can then divide the household chores and raising the children more fairly than before.
The concept of flexibility in working life must finally be geared to the needs of employees.
Example: Employees should have the opportunity to take a sabbatical year twice in their working lives, combined with the right to return to the same or an equivalent job.
Employees need greater rights of self-determination and co-determination with regard to their working hours and the organization of their work - overloads must be reduced.
This is the only way to leave enough free time for recreation, leisure and self-determined activities.
Today, the pressure to profit is increasingly being passed on to every single employee.
The company does not only want the manpower, it wants the whole person: his motivation, his creativity, his knowledge, in order to save costs and to increase the performance even more.
It is time to reverse this trend: Work and workplaces must be designed according to the needs of employees.
There is a right to an end to work.
- We want to amend the Working Hours Act so that the maximum permissible weekly working time is reduced from the current 48 hours to a maximum of 40 hours.
Exemptions must be significantly reduced, overtime must be effectively limited, and stronger controls, especially those by independent employee representatives, must be prescribed by law.
- Expansion of the collective co-determination of employees and workplace interest groups: In the office, on the store floor, in workshops for the disabled, on the ward and in the store, the rights of employees and those of works councils, representatives of the severely disabled and workshop councils, as well as their co-determination in the design of their individual activities, must be strengthened - for example, by means of veto rights and with regard to job plans, in the design of collective work processes and in staffing levels.
- We support initiatives to gradually eliminate the "white spots" of co-determination, such as companies without any employee participation.
- Germany must finally ratify the additional protocol to the European Social Charter on collective complaints, so that trade unions, among others, have the right to complain to the Council of Europe about violations of the Social Charter.
- We support initiatives to impose stricter limits on the statutory closing time for stores; in particular, work on Sundays and public holidays should be restricted to a few strictly defined exceptions.
- Immediately implementable is the introduction of an anti-stress regulation, as also demanded by IG Metall, and an individual right of veto on the reorganization of work tasks.
- We want to improve occupational health and safety and the Youth Employment Protection Act.
We want to shorten working hours with full pay and personnel compensation.
The notion that "full-time" is an eight-hour workday dates back to the struggles of the 19th century and was legislated in 1918.
We urgently need a new goal:
six hours is enough.
Good work for all, but less work for individuals - that's what we want as the new full employment.
We support the initiatives from trade unions to promote a new social debate on a limit to working hours.
We are aiming for an upper limit of 35 hours, and 30 hours in the longer term.
To ensure that shorter working hours do not "degenerate" into work intensification and thus into wage cuts, and are thus counteracted, the co-determination rights of employee representatives in personnel and job plans must be extended.
Capital and labor always face each other in our society.
Notions of what is just and equitable are negotiated in political and social struggles.
The balance of power has been shifted in favor of capital under neoliberalism. -
Co-determination rights must be expanded,
information, control and veto rights added and extended to economic issues, in particular also to changes in operations, location changes and dismissals, as well as to the organization of activities and working conditions.
- DIE LINKE supports workforces that want to continue running their crisis-stricken companies on their own.
Cooperatives and employee-owned enterprises build on the knowledge, experience and planning skills of employees and give them more opportunities to have a say in the type and content of production.
- The right to strike is indivisible - this also applies to employees in the church, Diakonie and Caritas.
It is time that employees of church institutions get the same rights as all other employees.
Church employee representation law is materially worse.
Therefore, the Works Constitution Act must apply without restriction to church employees.
Section118 of the Works Constitution Act is to be deleted accordingly.
Church institutions that receive public subsidies must be accessible to all as employees as well as users.
The General Equal Treatment Act must also be applied in church institutions.
Labor law must ensure that what the churches see as a "lack of private good conduct" may not be made the basis for dismissals in church institutions and enterprises.
Strong unions are essential for good working and living conditions.
DIE LINKE wants to restore the industry-wide collective wage agreements.
To this end, the unions' right to strike must be improved and protected from any legal restrictions
, and a right of association action must be introduced to ensure compliance with collective agreements and statutory provisions.
Collective agreements must be considered generally binding at the request of a collective bargaining party.
Guarantee basic social rights instead of harassment and poverty through HartzIV
Jörg (51) and Anja (43) have been unemployed since the automotive supplier filed for insolvency three years ago. The job center regularly sends Jörg and Anja invitations. Each time, they wanted to talk to them about their job situation, but couldn't offer anything. Jörg was a master car mechanic. Finally, the case manager wanted to force a job on him as a security guard, where he would have just received 5 euros an hour. He wanted a job that matched his qualifications. But the main reason was that they found the wage degrading. The case manager then cut Jörg's money.
Social security creates the foundation for people to live in dignity.
In this way, it can be seen how important justice is for a society:
Those who are poor must not be marginalized; fighting poverty and its causes belongs at the center of politics.
It should be self-evident that everyone can participate in the life of society.
Because social safeguards have been systematically weakened, for example by the introduction of Hartz IV, poverty in Germany has taken on a new dimension, with more and more people forced to take bad jobs with poor wages:
This is "reasonable" and is part of a "new voluntariness".
In reality, it is about higher profits for the companies and about lowering wages, also with the help of state subsidies for all those whose wages are still below the subsistence level.
Increasingly, poverty and the pressure of sanctions drive them into isolation; they are excluded from participation in society, its wealth, its cultural assets, and the many small and yet so important encounters and events in everyday life.
Mass unemployment can only be reduced if additional jobs are created and working hours are distributed fairly.
A labor market policy that seeks the cause of unemployment among the unemployed themselves can therefore only fail.
We need a change of course in social and labor market policy that consistently breaks with the Hartz IV logic:
1) An insurance against unemployment that secures the standard of living and prevents a fall into poverty.
- Even in the case of unemployment, social benefits must approximately ensure the previously achieved standard of living.
DIE LINKE calls for an unemployment benefit that is more accessible and paid for longer.
We want to include the self-employed in unemployment insurance so that they are entitled to unemployment benefits in the event of insolvency.
Blocking periods must be abolished because they discard entitlements that have been regularly earned and worked for.
Job offers to the unemployed must take into account their professional qualifications and their ethical convictions;
no one may be forced to accept gainful employment against his or her convictions.
- All unemployed people should have a legal right to support and further training, regardless of how long they have been unemployed.
2) A labor market policy that creates more good work opportunities with public funds.
- With a publicly funded employment sector (ÖBS), we want to open up new prospects on the labor market for people who are currently unable to pursue regular employment.
The ÖBS creates additional, meaningful, living wage jobs that are protected by collective agreements.
This can strengthen civil society structures such as district centers, initiatives and cultural projects.
Publicly supported employment must be geared to the needs of the unemployed and to regional conditions.
The remuneration may not be less than an hourly wage of ten euros and a gross monthly wage of at least1,500 euros.
Here, too, the minimum wage should rise to at least twelve euros by the end of the election period.
Inclusion is based on the principle of voluntariness.
- In the area of public services, full-fledged, collectively agreed employment relationships must be created.
- More funds must be made available immediately for education and qualification of the unemployed.
- We advocate an enforceable legal right for the unemployed to further training and counseling.
- The crisis is returning: We need a new initiative to protect jobs.
Protection against dismissal must be strengthened and profitable companies must be prohibited from mass layoffs.
3) Finally, we still say loud and clear: Hartz IV must go!
Instead, we need a needs-based and sanction-free minimum income that protects those affected against poverty and guarantees social participation.
We want to expand public social services and infrastructure:
free and ecological public transport,
health care without co-payments,
free access to the Internet as well as cultural and art offerings,
a publicly organized electricity supply with social pricing,
free and high-quality meals in schools and daycare centers,
access to a computer with Internet access for every student,
social tickets for the railroad.
- In the short term, the Hartz IV standard rates must be increased to 500 euros and the sanctions and so-called "one-euro jobs" must be abolished.
We want to introduce a concept in which no minimum benefit is below 1,050 euros.
If necessary, this must be able to be supplemented by housing allowance in the case of high rents.
The minimum income ensures both employable and non-employable adults, e.g. pensioners with reduced earning capacity.
- Demonstrable special needs are additionally covered.
- DIE LINKE urges the introduction of the individual principle, taking into account legal maintenance obligations, in place of the needs and assignment communities.
The special regulations for young people up to the age of 25 must be abolished.
- Legal aid and counseling assistance must be expanded instead of restricted.
Legal assistance in court proceedings must also be made possible for people with a low income.
As a transitional measure, the options for appealing against decisions made by job centers and agencies must be expanded.
Parts of the LEFT advocate the concept of an unconditional basic income in order to decouple the right to a secure existence and social participation of each individual from gainful employment.
This concept is the subject of controversial debate within the party.
We want to continue this discussion.
We also support the establishment of a commission of inquiry on basic income in the German Bundestag.
- Together with social ticket initiatives from all over Germany, we will put pressure on the states and municipalities for a social ticket for public transport.
In the long term, local public transport should be organized free of charge. -
We support the self-organization of the unemployed and low-income earners and
will work together with initiatives for the unemployed in parliament and on the streets to campaign for a sanction-free minimum income.
We demand free and independent counseling centers.
We stand with the people who are being evicted from their homes and neighborhoods and are fighting back.
- Forced removals must be stopped.
DIE LINKE will not participate in any government that privatizes services of general interest or cuts social services, or whose policies worsen the performance of public service tasks.
Good pensions: safeguarding living standards, preventing old-age poverty, equalizing pensions in the East
"I've worked as a saleswoman all my life, and I get a pension of 846 euros. If the pension plans continue like this, my younger colleague will get just 677 euros in 2030, even though she has to slave away until 67. If she can keep it up at all." Emily, Berlin
The contributions paid into the pension insurance system are increasingly "worth" less:
As a result of the pension policy cutbacks of recent years, the benefit level of the statutory pension is set to fall even further - to 43 percent - by 2030.
A pension of formerly 1,000 euros is then only worth 800 euros.
Employees are to close the gaps themselves by making private provision.
This calculation does not add up:
Many need their entire income to finance everyday life and literally cannot afford additional retirement provision.
In addition, insurance quotes are often poor.
With many Riester contracts, the administrative costs are so high and the returns so weak that the money might as well be put under the mattress.
The billions in taxpayers' support for private pension provision primarily benefits the insurance industry and seriously increases private capital seeking returns on the financial markets.
This fuels existing crises and creates new ones.
More and more people have to apply for basic benefits in old age or continue working despite their well-earned retirement.
- The security level of the statutory pension must be raised again to 53 percent so that the standard of living in old age can be secured and pensions for all can rise noticeably.
The prerequisite for this is that the reduction factors introduced since the Agenda policy are removed from the pension formula.
- We want to strengthen solidarity in pension insurance:
Periods of low wages, unemployment, child-rearing and care must be significantly better covered so that they do not lead to poverty pensions.
For example, three years of child-rearing periods should be credited to the pension of mothers or fathers, regardless of the year of birth of the child.
- All earned income must be included in the pension insurance - including that of the self-employed, civil servants and politicians.
Contribution assessment limits are to be abolished, and pension levels are to be flattened.
- We want to create the possibility of transferring the entitlements acquired in Riester contracts to the statutory pension.
Everyone knows that retirement only at 67 is not feasible for most people.
They can't even work that long because they are no longer healthy after a long working life or they don't have or get a job at that age.
Thus, retirement only at 67 is usually tantamount to a significant pension reduction.
The materially halfway secure retirement is thus endangered or becomes an illusion from the outset.
- The retirement age of 67 must be abolished - without ifs and buts.
Everyone must be able to retire without deductions at the age of 65 at the latest.
- After 40 years of contributions - including periods of equal status - we want to create a retirement age without deductions.
This should be possible from the age of 60.
- Access to reduced earning capacity pensions must be made easier, and we want to abolish the deductions.
In order to prevent the threat of poverty in old age, conditions on the labor market must be significantly improved.
People can only acquire sufficient pension rights of their own if there are enough good jobs with good wages or salaries;
this particularly affects women, who make up the majority of those employed at low wages.
We also need sufficient public offerings for raising children and caring for family members.
The pension must secure the standard of living in old age and reliably prevent poverty.
Such a pension policy is feasible and affordable if the statutory system is strengthened and companies once again share equally in the costs of old-age provision.
- Contributions to the statutory pension insurance must be financed equally by the employees themselves and the companies or clients.
This applies to all employed persons.
The level of contributions should be based on the desired security target and not on the willingness of companies to pay.
- To ensure a dignified retirement and social participation in old age for everyone, we need a minimum standard in the statutory pension.
That is why DIE LINKE wants to introduce a solidarity-based minimum pension.
This is fed, on the one hand, by their own contribution-based pension entitlements and, on the other, by tax revenues for those whose income and assets would lead to a life below the poverty line.
That is why we are campaigning for a solidarity-based minimum pension of1,050 euros net in the coming election period.
Higher rent costs are to be absorbed by the housing allowance.
Special needs, e.g. for the chronically ill, people with disabilities, are granted within the framework of the Solidarity Health Insurance.
DIE LINKE is fighting for a policy that strengthens public systems and fights the privatization of risks.
It stands for a policy that enables a self-determined life in dignity and social security in old age.
LEFT pension policy means more than just minimum security.
A good life in old age also means at least maintaining the standard of living from the employment phase without too many cutbacks, as well as being able to shape one's life in dignity independently of income from previous employment, free from employment constraints.
That's why, for us, a secure standard of living and minimum protection go hand in hand.
- We do not forget that the Merkel government has broken one of its central election promises: to bring pensions in the east into line with those in the west.
DIE LINKE calls for the pension value for the East to be brought into line with the West as quickly as possible.
The alignment must be completed by the end of 2017 at the latest.
Lifetime achievements in East and West must finally be recognized in the same way.
The alignment must not be to the detriment of those insured today.
Therefore, the high valuation of East German wages and salaries must be maintained as long as there are still strong wage differences between East and West.
Disadvantages in the transfer of pension regulations from the East to the pension system in the West for various occupational groups and women divorced in the GDR must be compensated.
Strengthening solidarity and quality in health care - putting an end to two-tier medicine. Health is not a commodity
People living below the poverty line are statistically seven years more likely to die than the average population.
Poverty makes you sick and sickness makes you poor.
This vicious circle can only be broken if the health care system is made truly solidary for all.
Co-payments are due for almost all health services - whether for medicines, hospital stays or remedies and aids.
- All co-payments and additional contributions must be abolished.
All revenues and surpluses of the health insurance funds must be used for the benefit of the insured.
- All medically necessary services must be paid for again by the health insurance fund.
We advocate for science-based care that focuses not on maximum profit for providers, but on optimal therapy for patients.
We oppose any efforts to ration medical supplies.
- We advocate an effective limitation of drug prices.
The responsible authorities should set these prices.
The introduction of a positive list is overdue:
all useful drugs must be fully reimbursed - expensive drugs that are only apparently new, on the other hand, do not belong in the benefits catalog.
Where recognized diagnostic and therapeutic methods are not available for serious diseases, especially rare ones, or are not effective in individual cases, health insurance funds should also finance unconventional procedures if it can be expected that they will not harm patients and there is at least a reasonable prospect that they will be effective.
- We advocate a good nationwide and barrier-free supply of medical practices.
New forms of care such as patient buses, group and part-time practices, or publicly owned medical care centers can make working in rural areas more attractive again for young physicians, as can supportive social and health services with non-physician specialists.
- We are committed to ensuring that medical care close to home and directly involved with patients is adequately remunerated and not less than other medical services.
- DIE LINKE relies on the qualifications and experience of pharmacists in supplying people with medicines and in providing pharmaceutical advice.
We do not want any advertising for or mail-order sales of prescription drugs, because patient safety is our focus.
- Corruption in the healthcare sector not only damages health insurers financially, it also undermines the relationship of trust between medical professionals and the people who need their help.
That is why we are committed to ensuring that corrupt behavior in the healthcare sector is consistently prosecuted and punished under criminal law.
In recent years, the health care system has been increasingly aligned with market and profit interests.
Profit and competition lead, for example, to the fact that necessary treatments could be refused and more expensive services without proven benefit could be offered.
Employees have to take on more and more work, leaving them less and less time for individual patients.
Hundreds of thousands of jobs have been cut in hospitals.
That should make hospitals cheaper, better and more efficient for employees and patients, they said.
The opposite occurred: For the employees, this reduction resulted in increased workload, time pressure, strain and stress.
All health professions must be included in demand planning.
Health care is more than medical care.
By way of comparison, one nurse in Germany looks after an average of 21 patients, ten in Denmark, nine in Norway and eight in the USA.
- Hospitals must be financed solidly and in line with demand.
The federal and state governments must provide sufficient funding for a nationwide infrastructure.
Health insurance funds should adequately secure the operation of hospitals.
- There must be no further privatization of hospitals; we want to transfer hospitals that have already been privatized to public and non-commercial ownership.
Employees must also have a greater say in the organization and planning of their work.
- The shortage of staff in hospitals, nursing homes, outpatient care and home care must be eliminated.
We advocate for mandatory staffing levels derived from medical need.
The system of flat rates per case (DRGs) sets the wrong incentives:
it rewards treating as many cases as possible with as few staff as possible in as short a time as possible.
Costs are reduced at the expense of employees.
Hospitals strive to perform lucrative but medically unnecessary procedures.
For patients, flat rates per case mean early discharge and frequent readmission ("revolving door effect").
DIE LINKE therefore advocates the abolition of all forms of service billing that create incentives for overuse and misuse of services.
- The underfunding of hospitals must be stopped.
DRGs as a market-based payment system are incompatible with the purpose of institutions providing services of general interest.
Funding must be based on need, on medical, not economic criteria.
- Quality in psychiatric and psychotherapeutic care must be ensured.
The introduction of a per diem payment system in psychiatry (analogous to the DRG system) jeopardizes a well-coordinated, integrated humanistic psychiatry.
Instead, sufficient outpatient and inpatient treatment options and therapy places and enough staff must be available.
- To ensure that health care is provided throughout the city and the country, planning and care must be cross-sectoral.
All health care professions must be included in demand planning, not just physicians.
- The separation of outpatient and inpatient care must be abolished and hospitals must be allowed to run an outpatient clinic or polyclinic.
- Self-governance in the health care system must be further developed democratically.
The rights of insured persons' representatives must be extended.
- Health promotion and prevention must contribute to reducing the social causes of unequal opportunities for health.
To this end, we are calling for a Prevention Act and a coordination and decision-making body at federal level.
- The electronic health card (e-card) has failed.
Storing health data on central servers does not benefit patient care, creates bureaucracy in doctors' offices
and is risky from a data protection perspective.
In addition, the system costs billions in insurance premiums, is inflexible and has to be renewed every few years.
- DIE LINKE is committed to the development of IT solutions in the healthcare sector that are flexible, inexpensive and decentralized.
Personal health information belongs exclusively in the hands of the patient.
In order to ensure good care for all, a solidarity-based health insurance system is needed: one health insurance fund for all ("solidarity-based citizens' health insurance").
This will allow the health insurance contribution rate to be kept consistently low at just over ten percent of income for years to come.
Insured persons would only have to pay a share of 5.25 percent on wages and salaries and pensions instead of the current 8.2 percent.
Even employers would pay a 5.25 percent share instead of the current 7.3 percent.
This lower contribution rate resulted in significant savings for insured persons up to an income of 5,800 euros per month.
Employees with average incomes would have about 1,000 euros more available net per year.
Health care spending has remained constant at ten to eleven percent of gross domestic product for 20 years - so there has been no cost explosion.
Contributions to the statutory health insurance system are rising for one reason only:
they are paid from wage and salary shares alone, and these are falling.
The fastest growing incomes - profits and capital gains - are not included.
Well-earning and healthier insured people migrate to private health insurance.
- All people living in Germany pay into the solidarity-based health insurance scheme "Solidarische Bürgerinnen- und Bürgerversicherung" (solidarity-based citizens' insurance) according to their income.
All types of income will be subject to contributions.
- In the future, we want to include insured persons with incomes above the current income threshold in the solidarity-based financing system at the same contribution rate.
- Private comprehensive insurance is thus superfluous and will be abolished.
Private health insurance will be limited to supplementary benefits and employees of insurance companies will be able to make a socially acceptable transition to statutory health insurance.
- In the case of income from wages and salaries and remuneration, the employers or the service providers pay half of the contributions; in the case of pensions, the pension insurance fund pays half of the contribution.
Good care: Dignity for care recipients, relatives and employees
"When my mother was discharged from the hospital, nothing was the same. Suddenly she was dependent on nursing and care. I have to take extra time off and risk my job. Everything is fast, fast, even with me at work in the nursing home. There is money for everything, but not for the most important things. What's the situation like for people who don't even know how nursing works?" Johanna, 42, nursing assistant in Kassel
The German government has not succeeded in further developing long-term care insurance in such a way that it meets people's needs.
Long-term care insurance is a "partial insurance" and is also chronically underfunded.
It only provides a subsidy to people with care needs for the cost of care that is intended to supplement family, neighborhood, or volunteer care.
Those affected must fall back on their income and assets.
Many become dependent on social assistance or on the support of their relatives.
These, in turn, are often overburdened and heavily burdened.
- The new concept of care and the new assessment procedure, which have been in place since 2009, must finally be implemented by the legislature, and cognitive and/or mental impairments must be recorded in the same way as physical impairments.
- The new assessment procedure must also include a method for determining the need for care for children and young people.
People with dementia must finally be adequately included in long-term care insurance.
DIE LINKE understands care as a task of society and thus as part of public services.
A policy that is just and based on solidarity can organize and finance effective care and support that is humane and geared to individual needs.
An end to the partial cover principle:
A socially just long-term care insurance system must cover all necessary benefits in the long term.
This can be financed if all incomes are included in the solidarity-based long-term care insurance (solidarity-based citizens' insurance in health and long-term care).
Women in particular - spouses and partners, daughters or daughters-in-law - take on care work.
But family structures, the image of the family, women's employment biographies are changing - and that's a good thing.
Nor do people in need of care automatically want to be cared for by their relatives.
A self-determined decision about who will care for me is not possible in many cases:
care increasingly depends on the size of one's wallet.
- DIE LINKE demands that benefits be structured in such a way that it is possible for all people to make a self-determined decision as to whether they want to use outpatient, partial inpatient or inpatient care or assistance services.
An expansion of affordable, barrier-free housing is essential for this.
- Good care must not be dependent on one's own financial means.
For such a new care policy to succeed, the benefit level of long-term care insurance must be raised significantly.
This offers those affected the opportunity to receive professional care at home.
- We are calling for a halt to the private supplementary care insurance scheme ("Pflege-Bahr"), which is subsidized by five euros a month.
The move to privatize long-term care provision is antisocial, makes no economic sense and puts low-income earners and people with disabilities at a disadvantage.
Instead, insurance companies are sponsored in this way, and they return the favor with hefty party donations.
While low-income earners and people with a potential risk of long-term care cannot afford supplemental insurance, higher-income earners and healthy individuals are able to access lower-cost, unsubsidized products.
This leads to two-tier care, which we strongly oppose.
Good care depends crucially on qualified and committed employees.
The everyday life of nurses is characterized by work intensification, rigid time constraints and poor pay.
Everyone involved suffers from this: the nursing staff and the people being cared for, as well as their relatives.
Care is a difficult and demanding job that must be recognized by society and paid accordingly.
- Raising the benefit level of care insurance opens up the financial scope to pay care workers better.
Mini- and midi-jobs in care must be transformed into regular jobs paid according to collective agreements.
In order to prevent wage dumping in the care sector, a nationwide statutory minimum wage of ten euros must be introduced as the lowest limit.
- In order to ensure the quality of care, DIE LINKE calls for nationwide standards on quality-related staffing levels.
By then, the federal and state governments must jointly set the goal of staffing at least half of the personnel positions with specialists.
- In order to ensure the equal participation of those affected in the center of our society, municipal support structures such as care support points and housing counseling must be expanded.
- Nursing training must be further developed in line with the times in order to meet the demands for high-quality care and make the nursing professions more attractive.
To this end, the nursing professions are to be merged into a three-year dual training program.
A two-year basic training program is followed by a one-year concentration in general nursing, pediatric nursing or geriatric nursing.
Re-steering with taxes: Wealth is divisible
If, in a democratic society, the main financial burden falls on those who have the least influence, if democracy does not mean that everyone contributes to the community - then something is out of balance.
To restore the balance, we need a new model: the
wealthy and companies must do their share to finance the community, public services and social services.
It is often claimed that DIE LINKE primarily wants to spend money.
In fact, DIE LINKE is the only party that has a well-calculated tax concept that is feasible and socially just.
We are committed to redistribution from top to bottom, from private to public, and to redistribution in favor of a sustainable economic and social model that is oriented toward social and ecological needs and interests.
Private wealth in Germany has grown despite the crisis - and as a result of neoliberal policies, it is distributed ever more unequally:
The top ten percent own more than half of all wealth, while the bottom half of the population owns almost nothing.
This is not acceptable.
Redistribution for social justice, education and socio-ecological transformation
Private wealth is increasing, partly because taxes for the rich and for companies were drastically reduced by the SPD and the Greens about ten years ago.
Those who have a lot are given numerous opportunities to further increase their wealth and avoid funding the common good.
Those who have little have to pay a lot and repeatedly - for example, due to the privatization of public property and the dismantling of social security systems.
High assets, top incomes, capital gains, financial transactions and large inheritances must be taxed more heavily or at all.
- We call for the introduction of a millionaire's tax - i.e. a wealth tax for millionaires.
In this context, the first million of assets remains tax-free.
Accordingly, a tax rate of five percent is levied on private and business assets, deducting the debts encumbering them.
An increased tax allowance of five million euros applies to tangible assets required for the business operations of sole proprietorships and partnerships.
The regulation does not call into question the ability of (small and medium-sized) companies to act.
It prevents private assets from being shifted to business assets and thus evading millionaire tax.
For a private financial or real estate asset of two million euros, for example, 50,000 euros in taxes would have to be paid per year.
Additional annual revenue: 80 billion euros.
- Large inheritances are taxed far too low in Germany compared to other EU countries.
By reforming tax rates and exemptions, we aim to significantly increase inheritance tax revenues.
Normal owner-occupied residential property and other smaller properties are exempt from inheritance tax.
We want to abolish the preferential treatment of corporate heirs, which is unnecessary to safeguard jobs and only serves to preserve multimillion-dollar private fortunes.
Additional annual revenue: 7 billion euros.
- Corporate taxes have been massively reduced in recent years.
The corporate income tax must be raised again to 25 percent.
DIE LINKE advocates a Europe-wide standardization of corporate taxation to prevent tax competition.
We want to revoke the tax exemption for capital gains.
Additional annual revenue: 35 billion euros.
- The "Mövenpick tax" (reduced VAT rate for hotels and accommodation services) enforced by the CDU/CSU and FDP must be withdrawn.
Annual additional revenue: 1 billion euros.
- To offset the antisocial effect of sales tax, the reduced sales tax rate will be introduced on products and services for children, labor-intensive craft services, pharmacy-only medicines, and rail passenger transport.
In the case of products and services for children and labor-intensive craft services, we want to ensure that the corresponding areas of application for the reduced VAT rate are extended in the EU guidelines.
- Tax enforcement at state level must be improved, in particular more specialist staff must be recruited.
and tax enforcement should be standardized nationwide.
In order to combat tax evasion, money laundering and subsidy fraud more effectively, DIE LINKE also advocates the establishment of a federal financial police force.
It is realistic to collect about 15 billion euros more annually with more consistent tax enforcement and the fight against tax evasion in tax havens.
Unjustified exemptions for industry from eco-taxes and energy levies must be abolished.
Ecologically counterproductive benefits and subsidies are to be abolished through the introduction of a kerosene tax, the restructuring of company and company car privileges, and vehicle tax, among other measures.
Profiteers of the crisis to pay
While the richest in society were able to significantly increase their wealth during the crisis, the majority of the population bears the burden of the crisis.
The causes of the crisis are not being eliminated, they are not even being named:
There is far too much private capital for which investment bankers are desperately seeking profitable investments - on the financial markets and in speculation.
- In Germany and in all EU countries, a one-time levy is to be imposed on large fortunes.
The aim is to reduce the higher public debt resulting from the bank bailouts and the financial crisis and to improve the public sector's ability to act.
For Germany, DIE LINKE is calling for a one-off wealth tax of ten percent from a personal allowance of one million euros (two million euros for business assets), 20 percent from ten million euros, 30 percent from100 million euros.
The additional revenue would then amount to at least 300 billion euros on a one-off basis.
- With a financial transaction tax, we want to curb speculation on the financial markets and make those who caused the crisis bear their share of the costs.
We also demand that the money raised be used equally for sustainable development in the countries of the South and for global climate protection on the one hand
and for the socio-ecological restructuring of our industrial society.
A tax rate of 0.1 percent is to be applied to every financial transaction.
Annual additional revenue in Germany: at least 30 billion euros.
Finally creating tax justice - relieving the burden on small and medium incomes
Not only have assets and private wealth developed unequally, the income gap has also widened.
DIE LINKE wants a reform of income tax that is guided by the following principle:
Anyone with an income of less than 6,000 euros per month will have to pay less tax, while those with a higher income will have to pay more.
Specifically, the following applies:
- By increasing the basic tax-free amount to 9,300 euros, no taxes will be due on gross wages of up to1,000 euros per month.
The income tax rate curve is smoothed.
In concrete terms, this means that around 85 euros less tax will have to be paid on monthly earnings of 2,500 euros.
The top tax rate, on the other hand, is to be raised again to 53 percent (as under the Kohl government) for taxable incomes of 65,000 euros per year or more. -
We want to tax very high incomes in a special way:
Every euro that - after deduction of social security contributions - exceeds one million in income is to be taxed at 75 percent (wealth tax).
- DIE LINKE wants to abolish the final withholding tax and tax income from capital assets again according to the individual income tax rate.
- Marital splitting is to be abolished.
Instead, we want to introduce individual taxation.
To ensure that cohabiting couples with children are not worse off, we want to use the savings to promote cohabitation with children.
For strong communities and better public infrastructure
The current social inequality is so serious that it blocks the entire society and slows down positive development.
Investments in the future - for example, in a socio-ecological energy transition, in good healthcare and care for all, or in a fair education system - cannot be financed.
A just society is better for everyone.
The municipalities finally need sufficient funding again.
We want cities and communities with - not without - libraries, daycare centers, swimming pools, theaters and cultural centers.
When transferring tasks, the connexity principle ("he who orders must pay") must finally be implemented.
DIE LINKE advocates a comprehensive municipal finance reform that increases the autonomy of municipalities.
DIE LINKE wants to put the current trade tax on a broader basis and transform it into a municipal business tax.
In the process, the tax base is expanded (inclusion of rents, leasing rates and royalties) and the group of taxpayers is enlarged (inclusion of the self-employed and freelancers).
The exemption amount is raised to 30,000 euros and the assessed tax is taken into account in the income tax.
Included in this reform is the abolition of the trade tax levy, which provides financial relief for cities and municipalities.
Additional revenue for local authorities:15 billion euros.
Bottom Line:
The LEFT's tax concept leads to additional annual revenues for public budgets totaling 180 billion euros.
This means that our receivables are counter-financed.
The asset levy will raise a one-off 300 billion euros to repay the national debt resulting from the bank bailouts and the financial crisis.
Strengthening the public: stopping the expropriation of the population
Acting for the "common good" is considered the task of politics and the state.
But what is understood as the common good and how best to serve it is the subject and outcome of democratic debate, social conflict and struggle.
Who generates social wealth and who disposes of it?
Who determines what is produced, when, how, where and to what extent, and to whom is it available?
At their core, these issues concern the question of property and therefore the essence of democracy.
The expansion of public ownership, infrastructure and services of general interest must be accompanied by efforts to democratize the state.
There must be more participation and transparency.
Participation means not only having a say, but also being able to influence decisions effectively.
This also means that, for example, in the planning of infrastructure projects, decisions can be made not only about the "how" but also about the "whether".
At all political levels, especially in the municipality, people should also be able to participate and have a say directly in matters of finance, economics, the development of cultural life and education, and the shaping of administration: through participatory budgets and planning processes, all the way to regional councils for a social-ecological structural policy that encompasses industry and services in equal measure.
In our view, the wealth of a society must be reflected in public wealth and in life opportunities for all.
Only this kind of wealth benefits everyone
and forms the basis for democratic coexistence.
Without efficient public ownership, without state, municipal, regional, but also cooperative or community ownership, a democracy cannot function. -
DIE LINKE is fighting for citizens to have a say in the purpose of public enterprises and to be able to control public enterprises and institutions;
they must be involved in decisions and in shaping their living environment.
- We want public companies and institutions to operate transparently and for contracts concluded by the public administration to be disclosed.
The co-determination rights of employees must be extended.
Temporary work, privatization or service and work contracts undermine fundamental rights of employees and their co-determination.
In order to protect these employees, it is not only such forms of work that must be fought:
DIE LINKE advocates that the right of staff representation applies without restriction to all people who work for a department.
In the past 20 years, public property has been sold off on a large scale: Apartments, hospitals, power generators, transport and water companies, city halls, hospitals and care facilities.
It was promised: Privatization makes everything better.
Demonstrably, the opposite has occurred.
Citizens and municipalities often have to pay more and expensively for poorer services.
Privatization means that people have to pay more: for private preventive care, visits to the doctor, dentures, swimming pools, music schools.
This rule is as primitive as it is ruthless:
those who can pay can participate.
Those who have too little money are left out.
The rich set themselves apart and have long since established their own world.
The government points to the national debt.
Supposedly, "we" could no longer afford the public sector, otherwise we would only leave debt to our children and grandchildren.
We, on the other hand, state: It is precisely in the interest of our children and grandchildren that we must not hand over the community to the market.
Wherever services of general interest are run by private companies, the focus is no longer on providing services for the people, but on making profits and serving market interests.
The foundations for a just society are being destroyed with the privatization of everything from water to energy, local transport to education.
- We stand for a new model of efficient, democratic, public services and infrastructure.
- Everyone must be able to use public services and facilities, regardless of where they live.
- Public services must be affordable, non-discriminatory and barrier-free for everyone.
- Public services must meet high environmental standards.
- Therefore: "Away with the debt brake"!
The only thing that slows it down and destroys it is the social, cultural and democratic development of society.
We advocate their removal from the Basic Law and from all state constitutions.
The majority of the population rejects privatization.
Referendums such as those in Leipzig, Düsseldorf and Freiburg show that resistance to privatization is growing.
The municipalities themselves are also struggling with the unforeseen consequences of privatization.
The financial crisis relentlessly reveals how risky cross-border leasing contracts or non-transparent interest rate transactions are.
These financial crash landings, as well as the more expensive loans, will put a significant strain on municipal budgets for years to come.
A number of privatisations have been reversed and public services have been successfully returned to the municipal level.
Citizens' initiatives and referendums have often played a decisive role in this process.
DIE LINKE advocates a brake on privatization instead of a debt brake.
We will not participate in or tolerate any government that privatizes public services.
- We want the privatization of public services to be stopped, as well as public-private partnership projects.
- It must once again become the rule: Public institutions are operated under public responsibility.
- In the past, citizens' and referendums on privatization have often gone in favor of public ownership.
- We want water and other goods of general interest to be inalienable.
Until this is enforced, all privatization projects must be put to a vote of the citizens.
DIE LINKE is also fighting at EU level against privatization pressure and interference in local self-government.
We currently oppose such advances in water supply and wastewater disposal that may follow from planned changes to the EU's Services Directive and Concessions Directive.
We therefore support the European citizens' petition "Water is a human right.
- We want to remunicipalize privatized areas of public services.
We want to organize basic services such as health care, housing, education, culture, energy, water, local public transport, long-distance transport and waste disposal in public hands.
We also want to reverse the privatization of the postal service, Postbank and Telekom at federal level in the interests of society, users and the employees affected.
- We want to transfer privatized hospitals, youth welfare and care facilities to non-commercial ownership.
- Public services and public companies must be geared to society's needs.
Among other things, this means that there will be no more staff reductions.
Administrations are rebuilt or increased accordingly where needs have changed.
- The civil service is a role model when it comes to training.
The proportion of employees with a migration background is to be increased, also in order to ensure multilingualism in administration where there is a need for it.
- Employees in administration, public institutions and companies must be able to influence their development, i.e. be directly involved in decisions in the institutions and companies.
Privatizing public ownership means loss of transparency, public influence and co-decision in the development of municipal services, and public control.
Only public enterprises and public ownership offer the chance of democratic control and co-determination by citizens and employees.
Public ownership and citizen participation go together.
Citizens must be involved in municipal decisions from the very beginning.
There has to be a public discussion about which tasks and offers are done and produced under public responsibility.
A democracy functions only if it can enforce the goals of democratic majorities even in the face of economic power.
Companies must be given the goals of doing business and a clearly defined framework for action by parliaments.
That is why we are advocating a new economic and social order.
The financial sector must be democratically controlled.
In future, all banks should serve the common good.
That is why it is necessary to socialize the large private banks.
For it is precisely they who use their power to blackmail states and play them off against each other.
The topic of economic democracy also belongs on the agenda.
Giving free rein to corporations and financial funds prevents democracy.
This is exactly what we are experiencing every day.
Each and every company must take into account the social obligation of ownership in its decisions.
We want to socialize private banks,
subject the financial sector to public control and strictly regulate it,
transfer the private banking sector to public ownership and - in line with the savings banks - commit it to the common good (see Chapter II).
We want to democratize the economy:
Workforces should be able to participate in large companies;
state aid should only be granted in exchange for corresponding ownership shares by the public sector and the workforce;
nationalizations or partial nationalizations should be combined with democratic control and more co-determination.
In order to support solidarity-based economies, cooperatives must be promoted more strongly, also with the instrument of labor market policy.
In various social movements, especially in the global South, the concept of the commons has spread.
Free software, which is not developed and distributed for the market, has further promoted this discussion:
Computers, Internet, digitalization play a major role in the lives of more and more people.
"Commons" often refers to "resources" such as land, housing and water, as well as non-material goods such as knowledge and information.
The focus is on the fact that the goods are used jointly.
They are not owned or used in free competition - and how they are used should not follow rules dictated by corporations.
We want to discuss further how forms of demand-oriented, democratically organized and solidary production and use can be supported and what significance the "commons" and the commons economy have in this context.
For affordable rents and social housing: Stop speculation with living space
Apartments have become a popular object for financial speculation.
In the metropolises, initiatives are fighting against "gentrification," the displacement of low-income residents from their neighborhoods.
They are fighting against the destruction of affordable rental housing through demolition, conversion, and misappropriation, and against the mass vacancy of apartments and commercial spaces for speculative or subsidy-related reasons.
Tenants are evicted from their apartments in order to market them at high yields after refurbishment.
Rents are rising rapidly, especially in metropolitan areas.
Many can no longer afford the rising cost of housing for rent, utilities, water, electricity and heating.
Hartz IV victims are forced to move.
The population of entire neighborhoods is replaced.
Brokerage firms use semi-legal and illegal methods to seek out the most lucrative applicants among those seeking housing.
The German Tenants' Association speaks of a two-tier society in metropolitan areas, and
social housing construction has effectively come to a standstill.
The state has completely withdrawn from the steering function for a socially oriented housing supply and limits itself only to subsidy gifts for the construction and real estate industry.
Housing has become a field of social conflict, and the housing question has become a central social issue.
The financial crisis is exacerbating this development; safe investments are in demand.
Financial investors are buying up apartments on a large scale in order to then operate them with maximum returns.
At the same time, many apartments are vacant in structurally weak regions, especially in eastern Germany.
The continuing burden of old debts and the expiration of urban redevelopment programs make social urban development more difficult.
The withdrawal of the state from a socially controlling housing policy and the liberalization of the housing market are leading to a dramatic decline in affordable housing.
Accessible affordable housing is hard to find.
New residential construction has shrunk to one-third within the past 20 years.
Municipal housing stocks are being privatized.
Rental apartments are being converted en masse into condominiums and misappropriated as vacation homes or for other uses.
Numerous apartments and commercial properties that can be used as living space are vacant for speculative reasons.
Since tenants' rights have been dismantled, rents can be driven up by owners.
We want to strengthen the rights of tenants.
Their interests must be paramount, not market laws and returns.
For DIE LINKE, housing is part of the provision of public services.
The right to housing must be enshrined in the Basic Law.
We support local authorities in setting up their own housing companies that are not profit-oriented but operate for the common good, are publicly controllable and have a direct influence on good quality housing at low rents.
To this end, we are calling for a remunicipalization fund as a federal program to enable municipalities to reacquire formerly privatized housing stock.
To facilitate this, municipalities should be given a statutory right of first refusal for these and other rental apartments.
We support the democratization of housing cooperatives and want to amend cooperative law accordingly so that cooperative members have a greater say and can decide for themselves on rent levels, investments and modernization.
Cooperatives' business processes and cash flows must be fully disclosed to their members.
Social housing must be revived and refocused.
It is intended to promote public and cooperative housing construction, in particular
the ecological and energy-efficient refurbishment of existing apartments.
The subsidies for this must be increased permanently and must not be refinanced on the private capital market.
We want to oblige private investors who take advantage of public funding to build a proportion of social housing - with the aim of developing lively, diverse neighborhoods.
The rent control must be for an indefinite period.
DIE LINKE wants to continue state housing subsidies, expand them and, where housing is lacking, concentrate them on direct subsidies for the construction of new housing.
In addition, social housing promotion is intended to ensure that barriers can be removed in housing stock and energy-saving measures can be carried out without increasing the rent.
The states are to receive an annual guaranteed housing subsidy based on need and top it up from their own funds.
This is to build up efficient public housing funds.
These special funds are to be used to promote social housing construction/social housing promotion through favorable construction loans subject to strict conditions and through the funds' participation in the equity capital of public-non-profit housing companies.
- At least 150,000 rental apartments with social commitment must be built each year.
In doing so, it must be ensured that these are planned in a needs-based, barrier-free, ecological and energy-efficient manner.
- The anti-tenant provisions of the recent tenancy law reform must be withdrawn and a new right of association action for tenant organizations must be created.
The Tenancy Law Amendment Act dismantles tenants' rights and shifts the costs of energy-efficient renovation of residential buildings onto tenants.
Housing must be democratic:
DIE LINKE wants to expand citizen participation in planning and building law.
Neighbors and affected parties who are not owners must also be involved in building applications and planning and, if necessary, be able to file a complaint.
We support the democratic participation of tenants in tenant advisory councils and members of cooperatives and demand more opportunities for them to have a say in decision-making processes.
- No one should be evicted from their living environment as a result of a change of ownership or due to renovation measures.
There should be no forced evictions.
The right to terminate a tenant's right to own property must be restricted, and protection against termination must be extended for affected tenants.
- Land belonging to public owners may only be allocated on a leasehold basis and preferably to housing companies committed to the common good.
- We want to cap rents:
The rent index must be introduced nationwide and be based on all existing rents, not just those concluded in recent years.
Municipalities are given the right to set maximum rents on the basis of these rent indexes in order to stop price increases.
The net cold rent in existing tenancies may, in principle, only be increased up to the amount of the standard local comparative rent within the framework of inflation compensation if there is no significant improvement in the housing value.
Rent increases solely because of new leases are inadmissible.
- We want to ensure that even people with medium and low incomes do not have to spend more than 30 percent of their net income on appropriate housing - i.e. rent, operating costs, water, heating and electricity.
We want to combat speculation in housing.
- The tax-privileged sale of residential buildings must be abolished.
Residential sales in the context of corporate sales are equivalent to private residential sales for tax purposes.
The municipalities are to be granted a statutory right of first refusal for housing stock built with public funds.
Otherwise, a holding period is to apply to apartment sales in order to prevent speculative transactions.
There must also be security for alternative forms of housing.
The occupation of speculatively vacant houses must be legalized.
Alternative forms of housing used by minority populations for financial or idealistic reasons, e.g., allotment plots, construction trailer sites, must not be "cleared" or subjected to harassment by the authorities.
The task here is to bring together integrative forms of regulation by the municipalities and to recognize and legally secure "unconventional housing" in the sense of cultural diversity.
- We want to stop the mass conversion of rental apartments into owner-occupied apartments and the misuse of rental apartments.
Municipalities must be given the option to prohibit this by ordinance.
- Vacancy to housing.
The mass vacancy of residential and commercial space must be eliminated through use or conversion.
In areas of high housing demand, such as university towns, residential space should be prioritized in vacant properties.
To this end, after a vacancy period of six months, the municipalities are to be given the opportunity to prepare and occupy the vacant premises for residential purposes.
Sufficient personnel resources are to be made available to the municipalities for the control, sanctioning and elimination of vacancies.
We want to prevent vacancies for speculative reasons.
The tax deductibility of losses from renting and leasing due to vacancies is to be restricted in order to prevent deliberate vacancies for speculative reasons.
- The municipal housing inspectorate must be expanded in terms of personnel and content in order to effectively counter vacancies, usurious rents and housing defects, for example.
- As a matter of principle, brokerage commissions must be borne by the client.
If a landlord or landlady hires a real estate agent, the costs may not be passed on to the tenant.
As an alternative, DIE LINKE is striving to establish municipal housing agencies.
- We want to make modernization tenant-friendly:
The levy for refurbishment and energy modernization must therefore be reduced from eleven to five percent and withdrawn after a period of 20 years.
- Energy-efficient building refurbishment must be publicly subsidized so that it is not one-sidedly at the expense of tenants.
- The corresponding federal funding must be increased in line with demand (5 billion).
Tenants must not have to pay more rent after the structural interventions than they save as a result of these measures (warm rent neutrality).
People who receive transfer payments, e.g. Hartz IV recipients, or who earn low incomes must not be forced out of their homes:
- Forced relocations must be ruled out.
The assumption of housing costs must correspond to the rents charged in simple and medium housing locations. - The
housing allowance must be individualized and related to the gross warm rent, and
the regional housing allowance tables are to be reviewed and adjusted.
Heating costs must once again be included in the housing allowance.
- The housing companies in eastern Germany must be relieved of old debts.
Urban redevelopment in the east must continue to be supported by the federal government, but it must not lead to a housing shortage and must aim to improve the quality of housing.
Federal urban development funding (urban redevelopment, Socially Integrative City, historic preservation, etc.) must be equipped in line with needs and programmatically further developed in such a way that cities, municipalities and regions are enabled to master the various challenges of demographic development, social cohesion and energy-related redevelopment.
Education is not a commodity. Good education for all
The existing education system exacerbates social disparities instead of providing greater equity.
It cements privilege and social exclusion instead of overcoming them.
In hardly any other industrialized country does social background determine educational careers as much as in Germany.
For DIE LINKE, education is a human right.
Education contributes to people being able to shape their lives in a self-confident, self-determined and independent manner and to critically evaluate and change social conditions.
That is why everyone must be given access to education - throughout their lives.
No one must be excluded, educational barriers must be removed, disadvantages must be compensated.
Equal access to education is a fundamental prerequisite for successful participation in society and social justice.
We need an inclusive education system that is geared to enabling all children, young people and adults to make the best possible progress in learning, irrespective of their social and personal circumstances:
- To achieve this, it is necessary to enable all children to learn and live together with other children in daycare centers all day from the very beginning.
- This requires overcoming the early allocation of educational opportunities through a segregated school system.
- To this end, sufficient training places must be made available.
- To this end, access to higher education, i.e. also to studies up to a master's degree, must be made easier for all.
- DIE LINKE demands a uniform childcare ratio in daycare centers throughout Germany of at least one educator to a maximum of four children up to the age of three and at least one educator to a maximum of ten children between the ages of 3 and 7.
As a public task, education must also be publicly financed
and democratically organized.
We reject the privatization and commercialization of public education and
do not want educational content and goals to be determined unilaterally according to economic usability.
- Good education costs money.
In daycare centers, schools, universities, and in training and continuing education, there is a shortage at every turn.
We call for an immediate increase in public spending on education.
- Ensuring good education for all is a joint task of the federal and state governments.
Only if they pull together can necessary reforms be tackled and the necessary funding raised.
But that is forbidden at the moment.
In 2006, the SPD and the CDU/CSU imposed a ban on cooperation between the federal and state governments in education.
This must be reversed immediately and a joint responsibility for education must be enshrined in the Basic Law.
- Education must not depend on money.
We fight for the abolition of all fees in the public education system.
This also includes free daycare centers.
- For educators and teachers to be able to work well, the framework conditions must be right.
We are fighting for greater appreciation for the education professions.
This applies not only to their pay and working conditions, but also to their training.
To this end, pedagogical specialists must be trained more and better, and training as educators in early childhood education must be gradually raised to university level.
- We advocate for minimum fees and fight to increase the industry-specific minimum wage in continuing education.
We want the allocation of employment agencies in continuing vocational training to focus on the quality of education and good pay for teachers.
Precarious employment relationships in education, whether in (high) schools or in the further education sector, should be abolished.
- Education without the Bundeswehr!
The Bundeswehr should no longer be allowed to advertise in schools or universities.
Soldiering is not a normal profession:
it requires a willingness to kill and be killed on command.
That is why DIE LINKE is campaigning for the existing cooperation agreements between the Bundeswehr and the ministries of education to be terminated.
Military research is to be excluded at all universities with a civil clause.
One school for all
To create more educational opportunities for all, we want to overcome the segregated school system.
The community school as a standard school, in which all children and young people learn together for longer, has been proven to reduce the dependence of educational success on social background.
It can lead more students to educational success and higher levels of schooling.
It corresponds to the pedagogical self-image of the community school that everyone belongs, no one is excluded and diversity is normal.
Disability is not seen as a "deficit" but is part of human diversity.
We want community schools that are inclusive all-day schools with smaller learning groups and more teachers, educators, school social workers and other educational specialists.
The education system must be changed so that diversity of origin and cultural background can be understood as an opportunity,
so that the disadvantage of migrants and refugees can be ended.
Special abilities such as bilingualism must be specifically promoted and poorer starting opportunities must be compensated for.
- We want the conditions for inclusive education to be created at all schools.
No child should be referred to a special school anymore.
To this end, the federal government must assume its responsibility more effectively, both financially and in terms of content.
- We demand effective initiatives from the federal government to improve and harmonize teacher training between the states.
The training must be practice-oriented and, above all, geared to the requirements of inclusive education.
DIE LINKE stands for training for secondary school teachers that is independent of the type of school.
- We want school social work to be secured at all schools.
To this end, the necessary legal framework must be created at the federal level,
and a permanent federal contribution to funding must be ensured.
- We are committed to free teaching and learning materials and to free access and open exchange of digital teaching and learning materials.
Among other things, the development of "Open Educational Resources" (OER), i.e., teaching and learning materials created collaboratively and self-determinedly by educators, students and pupils and freely reusable, can contribute to this.
DIE LINKE therefore advocates a federal funding program that finances and coordinates OER pilot projects and provides scientific support for their conceptualization.
Good training and good continuing education
A good professional education means a comprehensive and modern education with high quality.
It serves all young people to realize and expand their own interests, inclinations and abilities.
That is why we advocate for the right to education.
Training improves the opportunities for a self-determined life and professional participation in society.
- Initial vocational training should be free of charge for all forms of training.
Training fees should be abolished.
- A training allowance must be paid, the training framework conditions must be regulated by collective agreement, and there must be compulsory social insurance.
In the long term, apprenticeship pay must enable them to live independently.
- Together with the trade unions, DIE LINKE is working to ensure that the permanent employment of trainees does not remain the exception, but becomes the norm.
- We want to impose a levy on companies that do not train apprentices, which we will use to support companies that fulfill their social obligation to provide training.
The aim is to provide a selectable range of in-company training places.
- People who were previously excluded from training must be supported so that they can obtain a recognized vocational qualification.
DIE LINKE demands an immediate program that provides the necessary framework conditions as well as the necessary resources.
- The career choices of women and men continue to be strongly influenced by gender.
That's why we want to provide targeted support to companies that train women in occupations that are not typical for women or men in occupations that are not typical for men.
- We also want to provide targeted support to companies that increasingly train people with an immigrant background, design their training programs to be inclusive, and integrate those who have been excluded from training for years.
- Employees should have the opportunity for regular vocational training - for the personal development of the individual as well as for sustainable opportunities to participate in working life.
- DIE LINKE is committed to making companies responsible for the continuing education of their employees.
Industry funds can be set up to finance this, with companies paying into them in proportion to the number of employees they employ.
We advocate for a Federal Further Education Act that defines further education as a public task and ensures a legal entitlement.
We support initiatives for educational leave or time off for all employees in the federal states.
Offers of general and political continuing education must be accessible to all.
This requires better financial and legal framework conditions.
- Precarious employment in the continuing education sector must be reduced.
Universities beyond the market
Universities have become increasingly focused on competition, the market, and elite promotion.
The financial endowment will be tied to market-based criteria.
Direct private-sector influence on teaching and research collaborations with large corporations are on the rise.
At the same time, there is a lack of study places, lecture halls, teachers, university infrastructure and housing for students.
The introduction of bachelor's and master's degrees in the course of the Bologna reform has made courses of study even more complex:
Studying is determined by time pressure and exam stress.
- We demand the abolition of the Bologna system - away from repressive study regulations and towards self-determined, interdisciplinary and critical studying.
- Study places should be expanded in line with demand: for all those entitled to study who want to take up a course of study.
Study places must be financed in such a way that the student-teacher ratio can be improved and good teaching guaranteed.
- We want to use federal funds from the former joint task of university construction for an infrastructure program.
The aim is to create barrier-free social infrastructures such as halls of residence and canteens.
as well as scientific and digital infrastructures for Uni 2.0.
- We want an inclusive university that grants everyone access to and participation in research and teaching regardless of chronic illness or disability.
This requires barrier-free university construction, adapted teaching methods, and counseling and support structures that actually guarantee equality for people with chronic illnesses or disabilities.
Social background still has a high influence on the decision for or against studying.
Social barriers to college have actually been raised in many places through entrance restrictions and selection interviews.
And universities are less and less able to fulfill their function as critical authorities vis-à-vis society and as social bearers of independent science.
- We advocate the abolition of all forms of tuition fees.
Fees have a deterrent effect on lower-income groups and push students into courses of study that are supposedly close to the market.
- We want demand-oriented public funding of universities across the board instead of one-sided promotion of excellence and selected third-party funding.
This is the only way to guarantee that teaching and research are not carried out in the interests of financially strong individual interests and large corporations as well as individual political interests.
- We want to open up the universities.
DIE LINKE is committed to overcoming access and admission restrictions such as NC, selection interviews, IQ tests or job interviews, as well as free access to the Master's degree for all students within the framework of a federal law on university admission.
Students should be able to decide for themselves what subject and where they want to study and what degree they want to complete.
In addition, permeability between university and university of applied sciences degree programs must be increased.
Higher education courses must also be opened up to those who have completed vocational training in accordance with the Vocational Training Act (BBiG) or comparable training.
- We want to restructure BAföG so that it is independent of parents and covers needs, and we want to press ahead with adjusting the maximum duration of payment to the real average duration of studies.
In the future, BAföG will again be paid as a full subsidy.
In view of the increased cost of living, we are advocating an immediate increase of ten percent, including an annual adjustment, and the abolition of age limits.
We are fighting for the introduction of a demand-covering tuition fee.
Beyond BAföG, special needs are granted, e.g. for the chronically ill and people with disabilities within the framework of the Solidarity Health Insurance.
- DIE LINKE fights for the democratization of universities.
We want stronger voice for all employees and students.
We want to enforce nationally constituted student bodies with a general political mandate.
University committees should be composed on a quarter parity basis so that all status groups of the university are ensured co-determination.
Supervisory board-like bodies such as university councils have no place at the university, because universities are not companies.
Democratic sciences
Research findings, innovations and technologies are helping to shape our lives and the working world of tomorrow.
Science also has a critical function vis-à-vis society.
With its analysis and critique of societal and social grievances and possibilities for their change, it is of central importance for social movements and left-wing politics.
To ensure that new research findings can benefit everyone, research and teaching must be protected from one-sided economic interests through financial independence.
We want to significantly strengthen the basic funding of the public science system compared to third-party funded research and thus support the self-motivated research of scientists.
We want to phase out the Excellence Initiative without replacement in favor of broad-based university funding.
Federal research and innovation funding must be oriented toward the goal of social and environmental sustainability.
DIE LINKE wants to democratize decisions on funding programs worth billions and bring transparency to the cooperation between universities and industry.
Knowledge that has been generated with taxpayers' money must be available to all.
For this reason, we advocate mandatory Open Access publications as well as the accessibility of research data according to the principle of Open Data.
DIE LINKE advocates a federal research law that describes in principle the structure, tasks, profiles and development prospects of non-university research in the Federal Republic.
- Cooperation agreements and other contracts between public universities or research institutions and private companies must be disclosed. -
We support all initiatives to anchor civil clauses in higher education laws as well as in a federal research law to be created:
research should exclusively serve peaceful and civil purposes.
- Municipalities and other public administrations, including hospital, social services or local transport providers, should be able to become demanders of research services.
- We want to expand the advisory bodies and the addressees of the federal government's funding programs to include non-governmental organizations, employee representatives and trade unions, as well as other civil society actors.
Good science needs good working conditions for scientists.
Permanent positions must be created for permanent tasks.
We see the doctorate as an entry into a scientific career.
As a rule, it should be completed in a position covered by a collective agreement that allows you to work on your own qualifications during working hours.
Traditional hierarchies must be overcome and the equality of women in science must be promoted.
- Temporary employment contracts should only be concluded for scientific qualification projects and for the entire duration of the project.
We propose a federally financed start-up program for100,000 permanent positions to improve working conditions for mid-level scientists.
- Copyright-protected works should be made available for educational, research and teaching purposes under an exemption clause.
- Scientists and scholars should be given an indispensable right of secondary publication for their works, so that the rights of use cannot be appropriated exclusively by publishing companies.
- DIE LINKE calls for a bindingly sanctioned quota system in scientific institutions that guarantees a minimum share of 50 percent for women at every career level.
So that we can live the way we want: Emancipation and gender justice
A gender-equal society begins with a consistent equality policy that ensures equal participation for women in the workplace, in politics, in education, in the media, and protects them from discrimination and violence.
Disadvantages such as the persistent wage gap of more than 20 percent, the low percentage of women in decision-making positions, sexism and human rights violations point to structures of domination that must be overcome.
Equality alone is not enough for us.
Gender-equitable politics is social politics and concerns the equality of women, men, transgenders and intersexuals, without setting a gender or a way of life as a norm.
Our ideas of gender-equitable politics do not culminate in a demand that women take equal seats on the Titanic while racism, social struggles, and environmental disasters go unaddressed.
Just as we don't want all genders to be allowed to work low-wage jobs with equally lousy pay.
Strengths, such as social competencies of all genders and the wealth of skills and abilities, must not only be exploited for profit in labor and distribution struggles.
Time, money and social guarantees for a good life
A self-determined life requires a different power of disposal over the available time: for gainful employment, for the family, for education and cultural exchange, for political involvement, for sufficient recreation and time for oneself.
This requires a corresponding living wage or an income that ensures a dignified life.
Immediate and lasting entry into a reassessment of all socially necessary activities must be ensured through concrete political measures.
Because it is unfair that a daycare teacher is paid less than a car mechanic.
It is unacceptable that the low crediting of child-rearing and care periods in pension calculations still contributes to poverty pensions for women.
In our social security systems, an outdated and male-dominated employment biography of 45 years of full-time work is the standard.
This continues to ignore the real lives of women and men in their current circumstances, and prevents solidarity and emancipation.
A reassessment can be achieved through a new distribution of all paid and unpaid activities between the sexes.
and between the unemployed and those in full-time employment.
A first step is a radical reduction in working hours, initially to 30 hours per week, toward shorter full-time and longer part-time.
In this context, not only full wage compensation but also equal pay must be ensured, and a variety of family- and education-friendly working time models must be established.
We demand equal pay for equal work and work of equal value.
The wage inequality that women in Germany are paid 22 percent less than men must be overcome.
- The legislature should legally oblige the collective bargaining partners to revise collective agreements according to gender-equitable criteria.
- The federal budget must be structured in a gender-equitable way according to the criteria of gender budgeting.
- The 50 percent quota for the civil service can be introduced immediately by the legislature at all levels and in all salary groups.
Eliminate discrimination against women comprehensively
Quotas are a means, not a goal, to ensure equal participation of women.
DIE LINKE calls for quotas for women - and not just in boardrooms.
All policy areas have to make their contribution to gender equality.
The employment rate of women in well-paid, permanent jobs subject to social security contributions must be increased.
The partner-dependent calculation of unemployment benefits must be ended.
- DIE LINKE demands an equality law for the private sector.
Companies in which women or men are disadvantaged in terms of pay, promotion and responsibility must introduce binding equality measures.
- Professional care work and personal services (childcare, nursing) must be upgraded through better pay and better working conditions.
- For migrant women and women and girls with disabilities, binding measures are needed to eliminate multiple discrimination.
- Self-determination over one's own body and reproduction, including the freedom of prescription for the morning-after pill, must be guaranteed.
We want to delete §§ 218, 219 StGB.
Effective protection against violence against women
The protection of women and children against violence must be recognized as a mandatory federal policy task and enshrined in law.
Safe, fast, unbureaucratic and needs-based protection and qualified help in women's shelters and other shelters as well as women's counseling centers must be accessible to those affected regardless of their physical condition, residence status or living situation.
Uniform federal funding must be ensured.
Victims of forced marriage require special assistance.
- Protection and assistance facilities should be independent of individual cases, funded on a flat-rate and reliable basis, and be barrier-free.
The widespread funding via per diem rates must finally be ended.
The financing of women's shelters is part of a duty to protect and must no longer remain a voluntary service.
These demands are also part of international agreements that the Federal Republic of Germany has ratified.
- Federal policy is responsible for ensuring that state authorities such as the police, courts and offices are sensitized to the issue of violence against women and that the Protection Against Violence Act is implemented uniformly.
Particular attention must be paid to rights of access and custody when children are affected by violence as witnesses or themselves.
- All forms of violence against women must be publicly condemned and the causes must be explained.
Glorification of violence against women in a wide variety of media must be consistently combated.
Violence against women in war and crisis zones plays a special role.
For example, sexualized violence, such as mass rape of women, is still used as a weapon in armed conflicts.
The binding establishment of conflict prevention and resolution,
criminal prosecution, the
civil protection of human rights and
the guarantee of social rights belong at the center of an action plan.
- The many forms of human trafficking and sexual exploitation must be actively combated.
Victim protection and compensation must be granted regardless of a victim's willingness to testify as a witness in criminal proceedings.
Therapeutic means and integration measures as well as a secure and bound right of residence for affected persons must be granted.
Strengthening diversity - freedom of choice in life plans
Social rights and civil rights are inseparable.
They apply to all people regardless of gender, sexual identity, origin, disability, religion, social and ethnic origin.
Legal equality and social acceptance of the diversity of lifestyles include overcoming the unequal treatment of registered civil partners.
Up to now, marriage and civil partnership have been equal in terms of obligations (e.g. mutual maintenance obligations), but in many areas, such as tax law, adoption law and social insurance, they continue to be disadvantaged.
This includes the exclusion of unmarried and lesbian women from assisted reproductive medicine.
For DIE LINKE, the guiding principle is the recognition of the diversity of all non-discriminatory family forms and lifestyles: single-parent families, singles, friends living together, relatives, patchwork families, elective relationships or even couples who have decided against marriage and civil partnerships.
We do not want outdated and real discriminatory privileges of marriage to be maintained or extended.
Gays and lesbians should also be able to marry.
However, in the future, the special protection and support provided by the state and society should not benefit married couples, but rather those who live with children or those in need of care and therefore require compensation for any resulting disadvantages.
Our policy offers are not only directed at those who are discriminated against today, but also at the beneficiaries of the still valid, traditional role assignments, the majority of men.
They, too, have a right to choose their life plans, to work in their families and to do voluntary work.
Everyone is called upon to help overcome outdated role models.
- The state subsidization of an outdated sole breadwinner or additional breadwinner model must be ended within the tax, social, pension and family law.
- The actual care and nursing services, living together with children should be subsidized by taxes and compensated in pension law.
Marital splitting is abolished.
This will also end the tax discrimination against lesbians and gays.
- We stand for an active anti-discrimination policy.
No one should have to fight alone for his or her rights in stressful situations.
Therefore, the General Equal Treatment Act must be improved with a real right of action for associations.
- DIE LINKE demands the inclusion of protection against discrimination on the basis of identity, sexual orientation and lifestyle in Article 3 of the Basic Law.
In order to guarantee this extended fundamental right, we demand the establishment of anti-discrimination offices, the right of associations to sue, the reversal of the burden of proof in proceedings, and measures aimed at a change in social consciousness.
- DIE LINKE demands the compensation and repeal of the injustice sentences of homosexuals persecuted in the FRG and GDR, according to the bill of the parliamentary group DIE LINKE in the Bundestag.
- DIE LINKE supports transgender people in their struggle for recognition of their gender identities.
The abolition of the assessment and the judicial procedure is a first step towards the realization of the right of self-determination of trans persons.
In addition, the Transsexual Act must be repealed as a special law and integrated into existing law.
In this context, the legal safeguarding of the health insurance funds' obligation to provide benefits must be anchored.
Intersex initiatives, groups and individuals have long demanded the prohibition of non-medically - indicated, early childhood surgery for the purpose of gender reassignment.
DIE LINKE supports these demands.
Operations on intersexuals may only be performed if they are capable of giving consent themselves and have given their consent.
- Furthermore DIE LINKE is directed against the new § 22 PTsG, which was passed by the Bundestag on 31 January 2013 on the suggestion of the Ministry of Family Affairs, according to which an entry of the sex of intersexuals after birth is now prohibited.
DIE LINKE joins the demands of the intersex groups here as well.
Due to § 7 PStV, which has existed since 2009, it is possible to leave the gender entry blank after birth anyway.
DIE LINKE is of the opinion that the parents of intersexual children are more likely to be encouraged to undergo early childhood surgery by banning the entry of gender after birth.
- Accordingly, the change of the first name and the civil status for intersexuals and transgenders is to be regulated without discrimination upon application without precondition.
Colorful and reliable: for an emancipatory family policy
Family is where people take responsibility for one another, whether as a cohabiting community, a single-parent family, a small or large family, a married couple, a multigenerational household or in other forms of community.
Family is where people, regardless of sexual orientation, are there for each other.
DIE LINKE stands for an emancipatory and forward-looking family policy.
Family policy must enable everyone to live a good, predictable life without fear for the future.
This requires public infrastructure
and social security must be effectively expanded.
Private services only benefit better-off families - those who can't afford them are out of luck.
Public services, on the other hand, are available to all and ensure that people are not further marginalized, but that problems in precarious life situations are genuinely perceived and tackled.
The necessary expansion of public childcare is stalling.
The public and social infrastructure for children and young people has deteriorated massively in many places.
Services have been reduced, music schools made more expensive, or libraries closed.
However, family life can only function within an efficient social system.
Families must be supported by society and need social security.
The policies of recent years have had the opposite effect.
Because of the constant social cuts, the financial burdens of families increased.
The race for the "serious side of life" is breaking out at an ever earlier age in kindergartens and schools, and one-sided performance and competition are being promoted.
At the same time, unequal starting conditions remain untouched, and social integration falls by the wayside.
- DIE LINKE demands a demand-oriented and high-quality all-day care offer for children that meets their different and age-specific needs.
All children from the age of one have a legal right to a place in a daycare center.
The provision of places in daycare centers is based on actual demand and not on arbitrarily determined quotas.
In addition, the legal and financial basis must be created for a full-day school offering that is adequate in terms of area and demand.
- Today, parents who both opt for part-time work during the parental allowance period are financially disadvantaged.
Parents' legal right to equal sharing of parental leave must be secured.
- We want to ensure free, high-quality meals for all children in free public childcare.
- Parents need childcare facilities with flexible opening hours so that they can combine work and family life.
At the same time, the standards of good work must be realized in these facilities.
If the services are expanded, then the specialist staff must also be increased.
DIE LINKE supports working time models that enable mothers and fathers to reconcile their careers with family and private life.
Instead of a flexibilization of working time that is merely oriented to operational requirements, employees need more time autonomy.
Working hours must be structured in such a way that everyone has the opportunity to integrate work, family, leisure and commitment into their daily lives.
- Parents need more rights as employees in order to have enough time for their family despite gainful employment.
The individual right to part-time work must apply without restriction.
The pay structures between industrial, service and care work are not equivalent and need to be adjusted.
A right of return to full-time work must be introduced.
Special protection against dismissal will be created for parents, which will apply until the child reaches the age of 6.
- It must be made easier for parents to return to work after a break due to pregnancy or child-rearing by offering free continuing education.
- DIE LINKE calls for a flexible parental allowance of twelve months per parent (or 24 months for single parents) instead of herd premiums such as childcare allowance.
The parental allowance is to be further developed into a socially designed parental allowance account.
Parental allowance should also be able to be taken in partial periods of at least two months until the child reaches the age of seven, and by both parents at the same time.
This favors as equal a division as possible of gainful employment and also of child-rearing work between the parents.
Young fathers should be supported in taking more care of their children.
- Parental allowance is available to all parents and must not be offset against other transfer payments such as Hartz IV.
- Single parents need more support to be able to return to work and, if necessary, to complete an apprenticeship.
Funding must be expanded.
Childhood and youth - free from poverty and exclusion
Almost one in five children in our country is affected by poverty - a disgrace for a society as rich as ours and a catastrophe for every child affected.
DIE LINKE wants to enable children and young people to grow up free from poverty and exclusion.
Children and young people have their own rights and an independent claim to participation.
Children's rights belong in the Basic Law.
- Together with numerous welfare associations, DIE LINKE will campaign for basic security for all children and young people.
It is to be oriented to the actual, constitutional subsistence level of the children.
This currently stands at 536 euros.
As an immediate measure, child benefits should be increased: for the first two children to 200, and for all further children on a correspondingly graduated scale.
The Hartz IV rates must be calculated in accordance with the constitution and increased accordingly, and the construct of the community of need must be abolished.
Child benefit must not be offset against transfer payments such as Hartz IV.
- Children and young people must be given largely free access to public cultural institutions, museums, libraries, theaters and music schools.
Every student should have access to an Internet-enabled computer.
Children and young people need their own spaces where they can meet and be active, develop cultural preferences and receive support, away from the constraints of cost and consumption.
The participation and co-determination of children and young people
as well as appropriate pedagogical and cultural full-time support.
- We want to strengthen the educational program against racism and for the acceptance of different lifestyles.
- The cuts in child and youth welfare that have been ongoing for years must be reversed by the federal and state governments.
An immediate program is needed to rebuild child and youth welfare structures so that local agencies can fulfill their legal responsibilities and effectively protect and promote children and youth.
We want to strengthen the regional child protection networks
and support family midwives in the long term, making their services and help available to all families.
Furthermore, liability insurance for midwives must be covered in full by health insurance companies.
The discourse and enforcement of high standards for equipment and quality of services for children and young people must be intensified.
Culture for all - creative, diverse, dialog-oriented
The arts, cultural education, memory culture are indispensable for a living democracy.
We want diversity in cultural life
and to enable all people to participate in culture.
Culture is everyday culture and high art in equal measure, cultural heritage and subculture.
Culture is normality and irritation, progress through creativity and astonished reflection on what has been created.
Culture and art enable communication and understanding, identity and integration, education, freedom and self-assurance.
Even if art is allowed to disturb, it still stimulates.
Culture and art set impulses and strengthen the imagination.
Culture is not least pleasure and joy.
All this is not a luxury that society should afford, but the meaning of life.
DIE LINKE advocates a democratic culture in
which all people living in Germany, regardless of their social, regional or ethnic origin, can find and express their cultural identity.
We want to promote cultural life in all regions and milieus as a basis for understanding between the various groups in society.
Left-wing cultural policy is aimed at creating favorable framework conditions and free spaces for the development of the arts and cultural life.
We are committed to maintaining public funding for culture and want to promote the diverse cultural scene - from public institutions to the independent scene, non-profit projects and initiatives, and
small businesses in the cultural and creative industries.
As a result of the financial and economic crisis and the federal government's misguided financial and tax policies, more and more municipalities are facing financial ruin.
Cuts often start with so-called voluntary services such as culture.
It is high time to change course and take measures to financially strengthen the states and municipalities and to maintain the cultural infrastructure.
Underfunding or closures of institutions, staff reductions and privatizations have consequences not least for cultural workers.
Their economic and social risks have increased.
The majority of artists cannot make a living from their artistic work.
They do not receive a sufficient share of the profits generated by their works.
We want good, living wage jobs and social security in the cultural sector. -
We want minimum wages and fee floors
and a copyright contract law that strengthens the negotiating power of creative artists.
- Collecting societies must be transparent and democratically structured.
An exhibition allowance should be introduced for visual artists.
- The artists' social insurance must be maintained and expanded.
Creatives who work on a freelance and self-employed basis, especially in the new sectors of the cultural and creative industries, must be better included in the social security systems.
- The reduced VAT rate for cultural goods is one of the essential instruments of indirect cultural promotion and should definitely be maintained.
We want to strengthen public cultural funding by expanding cooperative cultural federalism.
- We call for a clear commitment to the state's responsibility to protect and promote culture.
Culture as a state objective should be included in the Basic Law.
- We want to see the inclusion of a joint responsibility for culture in the Basic Law and the abolition of the so-called cooperation ban in order to finally place the cooperation between the federal and state governments in financing culture on a secure footing.
- We call for a federal minister of culture with cabinet rank and a ministry of culture to represent the interests of culture more effectively vis-à-vis other ministries and at the European level.
- We want a cultural report and a federal cultural concept that takes into account the changed framework conditions for cultural work. -
We want cultural education for all from the very beginning
and a democratic culture of remembrance to deal with our contradictory history.
We want the UNESCO Convention on Cultural Diversity to be implemented.
- We are committed to promoting the diversity of cultures in Germany as a country of immigration, to intercultural opening and intercultural dialogue in domestic and foreign policy. -
We want to strengthen the participation rights of minorities at the federal level
and achieve adequate funding for institutions and projects for the maintenance and development of recognized minority languages and cultures.
- We want to promote the cultural dimension of European unification through more intensive exchange and joint cultural projects.
- Culture is more than a commodity and must not be viewed solely from a commercial point of view.
DIE LINKE advocates that the special character of goods and services in the cultural and media sector, as set out in the UNESCO Convention, also be taken into account in international free trade and investment agreements.
Cultural and creative industries from the left
The cultural and creative industries are on a par with large industries such as chemicals, mechanical engineering or the automotive industry in terms of scale.
Their importance, on the other hand, is only gradually being recognized.
In 2011, 984166 self-employed and insured people worked in the cultural and creative industries and turned over 143.38 billion euros.
In general, eleven submarkets are assumed: Music industry, book market, art market, film industry, broadcasting industry, design industry, architecture market, press market, advertising market, software and games industry.
The terminology, economic statistics surveys and promotional tools are still inadequate.
Strengthening the cultural and creative industries is an integral part of left-wing politics, without ignoring the ambivalent situation in this rapidly growing sector.
Cultural and creative industries need a left-wing perspective.
Many of the creative professionals, artists and cultural workers work precariously and are not even covered by surveys.
For example, many artists are forced to become entrepreneurs in this field because they cannot make a living from their artistic work alone.
You need to think in terms of entrepreneurial risk.
Such ratios lead to managerial employment rather than creative output.
The peculiarities of the industries are their small-scale nature, their myriad of individual enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises on the one hand.
On the other hand, creativity often has something to do with imagination and enthusiasm.
No musician stops making music just because they can't make a living from it.
DIE LINKE intends to step up its efforts to develop this sector and set its own left-wing accents.
The link between cultural policy and the cultural and creative industries is the linchpin here.
Policymakers, administrators and stakeholders must think and work across departments.
Interfaces must be expanded and new ones created.
DIE LINKE would like to specialize and expand the funding instruments for this sector of the economy.
Interdepartmental funding programs must be established.
Sensitivities are to be replaced by mutual understanding between creatives and business administration.
The small-scale nature and the associated lack of organization of the creative industries require special network support, such as association structures, in order to establish contact persons.
The regional competence centers for the cultural and creative industries must be enlarged in terms of personnel and better equipped so that, not least, consulting services can be offered to a greater extent.
The specific working conditions of creative professionals must be improved.
The fee and salary situation must be improved just as much
as the old-age provision.
Binding exhibition fees for public sector institutions can be a first step in this direction.
Opening up the artists' social insurance fund to other professional groups from the cultural and creative industries would take into account the precarious situation of many creative people.
Continuing education must also be eligible for artistic fields.
II Overcoming the crisis. Defending democracy and the welfare state - here and across Europe
Since 2007, the global economy has been in the greatest crisis in 80 years.
For all to see: capitalism is proving incapable of solving humanity's most burning problems.
Financial capitalism relies on exacerbating social inequality.
He is counting on depressing wages and salaries and largely removing the rich from funding the commonwealth.
The search for short-term investment and profit opportunities has become the driving moment of economic development.
Democracy is declared an obstacle to the pursuit of profit and comes under pressure.
The main cause of this crisis is imbalances in Europe's foreign trade.
The excessive export surpluses of some lead to the indebtedness of others, who have to import too much.
At the beginning of any solution to the crisis: Reducing imbalances,
raising wages
and social-ecological investment programs
that increase demand,
regulate financial markets
and tax the wealthy.
DIE LINKE was the only party in the German Bundestag to reject the supposed "euro rescue" and the fiscal compact.
The federal government's policies have exacerbated the crisis.
It is not states or people that are being rescued, but banks and wealthy individuals.
At the same time, the German government and the Troika are using the crisis to launch the biggest attack on democracy and the welfare state in Europe's post-war history.
The Merkel government's policies have reinterpreted the financial market crisis as a sovereign debt crisis.
This reverses cause and effect.
It was not excessive spending and entitlements that caused the crisis in Europe.
Rather, the triad of upward redistribution, deregulation and privatization is largely responsible for the financial and economic crisis.
In Germany, it came to a breakthrough with Agenda 2010 and the liberalization of financial markets under the Red-Green government.
Large companies, banks and wealthy people were paying less and less tax.
A crisis policy that has given priority to bailing out banks at the expense of employees, the unemployed, and pensioners in Europe has fortified this development.
Germany - under the Merkel government and Finance Minister Steinbrück - has played a central role in exacerbating the crisis and destabilizing the crisis countries as well as Europe as a whole.
Through cutback dictates ("austerity") that damage the welfare state and social justice, the logic of neoliberal finance capitalism continues to be served.
DIE LINKE, on the other hand, wants
1) a protective umbrella for people instead of banks and make the profiteers of the crisis pay,
2) initiate a stable, sustainable and socially just economic development in Europe and
3) create a sustainable long-term perspective for European unification.
To achieve this, it is necessary to end the downward slide in wages fueled by the low-wage sector in Germany
and to improve the financing of the EU and its member states through Europe-wide taxation of wealth.
The financial markets and the banks must be democratically controlled and managed.
A redistribution from top to bottom would provide sufficient funds for a policy change for more social justice: in Germany and throughout Europe.
- Together with the European Left, DIE LINKE calls for a one-time levy on assets of one million euros or more in all EU states.
The aim is to reduce the higher public debt resulting from the bank bailouts and the financial crisis and to improve the public sector's ability to act,
without cutting public and social services.
A separate allowance is taken into account for business assets.
- Very high incomes are to be taxed with a wealth tax of 75 percent on every euro of income above one million euros per year (after deduction of social security contributions).
- We advocate the introduction of a financial transaction tax of 0.1 percent.
DIE LINKE, together with the European trade unions and social movements, is campaigning for minimum social and fiscal standards.
A downward equalization of living standards must thus be prevented.
Through international struggle in solidarity, living conditions can be improved.
For a just way out of the crisis: no bank bailouts at the expense of the population
The federal government claims that the crisis is the fault of the populations of the most indebted countries: through their unwillingness to work harder and "tighten their belts."
This assertion distracts from the real causes of the crisis.
What is concealed is that the bailout of the banks has driven up the national debt - it is not least German banks that benefit.
We want to get out of the debt spiral.
The real perpetrators and profiteers of the high national debt must be held accountable.
Bank bailouts are not to be financed with taxpayers' money, but by the owners and creditors.
The deposits of small savers must be publicly protected.
- In order to make the banking sector bear a targeted share of the costs of the crisis, we advocate the introduction of a bank levy.
- At the same time, the fight against tax evasion must be stepped up: through automatic reporting requirements for banks, the possibility of freezing suspicious assets, revocation of banking licenses for non-cooperative banks and improved law enforcement against tax evasion and through capital controls.
- In the short term, public borrowing must be freed from the dictatorship of the financial markets.
It is not reasonable that banks can borrow money cheaply from the European Central Bank (ECB) and then lend it on to the states at a high cost.
- The European Central Bank should directly finance the states in the euro zone within a defined framework.
As a first step, DIE LINKE calls for the establishment of a European bank for public bonds, which can take out central bank loans for its refinancing.
- The programs of social cuts and cutbacks in the European Union will be stopped and reversed immediately.
The fact that the banks have taken on a life of their own has exacerbated the financial crisis; the bailout of the banks by the states and their subsequent interest rate policy has accelerated the sovereign debt crisis in the European states.
DIE LINKE stands for the banks being held accountable.
The banking sector must be restructured.
The tasks and functions must be redefined:
First and foremost, they must ensure reliable and cost-effective payment transactions, including an appropriate cash supply.
Second, banks need to be limited to the role of collecting capital, providing safe, understandable and sustainable savings opportunities for savers, rather than engaging in risky transactions with their and others' money.
Third, banks must fulfill their financing function by funding corporate and government investment through loans on acceptable terms.
The goal must be to shrink the financial sector considerably in volume and to roll back its position of economic and political power.
In order to make the banking system functional again, all loss risks still on bank balance sheets must first be disclosed.
For this purpose, the impaired assets of the individual banks must be spun off into separate entities at market prices.
Where no market prices can currently be determined, the "junk securities" must be valued at zero.
In the event that this depletes equity, we intend to develop a procedure for insolvency and restructuring.
In these proceedings, first the owners and then the creditors must be held liable for the bank's losses.
Deposits of private savers are to be secured up to EUR 100,000, as provided for by law.
If further equity is provided by the federal government, it will become the owner of the bank and use this to directly influence its business policy.
- Against the monopoly of private rating agencies, we want to create a public, European rating agency.
Ratings of private agencies must not be subject to binding EU rules.
DIE LINKE calls for the introduction of a financial MOT, which must examine the business practices of the financial industry and all financial products offered and approve them before they are introduced.
Banks must be more tightly regulated, and risky speculation must be eliminated.
Investment banking - which only invests in businesses to generate high returns - is to be wound up as a business segment.
The financial system does not need casinos.
The model for the new financial system is savings banks and cooperative banks; like the savings banks, the banks to be created in this way will be committed to the common good.
- Shadow banks such as off-balance-sheet special purpose vehicles, hedge funds and private equity companies must be dissolved.
This is done directly, provided they have their place of business in Germany.
If they are headquartered abroad, we need indirect forms of regulation that target shadow financial centers and the links with the German banking sector. -
We want to transfer large private banks to public ownership under democratic control and management, and
we want to reduce the size of state banks and also control and manage them democratically.
- Overdraft interest rates must be limited to a maximum of five percent above the central bank interest rate.
Regulating banks cannot be done by the banks themselves.
They must be subjected to democratic control bodies.
The transfer of banking supervision to the European Central Bank (ECB) should be rejected because it lacks direct democratic legitimacy.
- Not only "experts" or politicians belong on the committees, but also trade unions, social associations, consumer protection and environmental associations and other civil society actors.
Such bodies not only review and control business operations, they also have a responsibility to contribute to the further development of the business strategy.
Restart of the European Union: democratic, social, ecological, peaceful
DIE LINKE stands for a new start for the European Union.
Together with other left-wing parties, DIE LINKE stands for a change of policy in Europe: for a different, a better EU.
The starting points of our policy for the further development of the Social, Economic and Peace Union are people, not markets
, solidarity instead of brutal competition,
democracy and co-determination instead of elitist backroom diplomacy.
We want a European Union without exclusion,
poverty
and war.
We want an EU in which well-paid and socially secure work and a life in dignity are ensured for all.
We want a Europe that does not create mass unemployment, a 'lost generation' of youth and massive poverty, but decisively fights social ills like these.
DIE LINKE stands against the plans of all other parties represented in the Bundestag to make the EU Commission an instrument of control over the budgetary policies of the member states, subject to sanctions.
We oppose the logic of further disempowerment of parliaments - it contradicts democratic traditions in Europe.
DIE LINKE has rejected the Lisbon Treaty and demands a fundamental change in the EU's treaty foundations in order to create the conditions for a democratic, social, ecological and peaceful European Union.
The crisis in Europe is also the result of a misguided conception of the European Union.
Since the Maastricht Treaty at the latest, there has been a comprehensive neoliberal orientation, with the emphasis on the free movement of capital and competitive advantages for the economically strong countries.
In the past, attempts to define common social standards or corridors have failed.
At the same time, more and more decisions are being made at the European level that reduce the room for maneuver for national policies.
For DIE LINKE there is no decision for or against one or the other - we have to struggle for good social standards in Europe as well as in Germany.
Even though the European Monetary Union contains major design flaws, DIE LINKE does not advocate an end to the euro.
A prerequisite for its continued existence is that the course of austerity, the policy of cuts, be ended.
It is the policies of the Troika, Merkel & Co that are destroying the single currency.
The monetary union must be turned upside down and realigned so that it does not deepen divisions but helps bridge inequalities
and promotes peaceful and fruitful cooperation in Europe.
To achieve this, the dictates of cutbacks must end
and in the future, the economic, fiscal, tax, social and labor market policies of the euro member states will be more closely coordinated in such a way that the competition that prevails today through tax, social and wage dumping is prevented.
By means of a European Equalization Union, the euro states must be committed to the goal of balanced trade flows, in which not primarily countries with high wage increases are penalized, but countries with too low wage increases and lowered social standards (keyword Agenda 2010 and pension only from 67), such as Germany in particular, are called upon to higher wage and social standards.
The European left's response to the crisis in Europe must therefore be joint resistance across national borders - for higher wages, better social standards and workers' rights.
In Germany, a structural change is needed that shifts from export orientation to a significant strengthening of the domestic economy with well-secured and remunerated jobs.
Such a change, which would clearly benefit the vast majority of employees and the unemployed in Germany, would also be the best contribution to defusing the euro crisis, because higher wages and social benefits in Germany reduce the pressure for social and wage cuts in the other euro countries.
DIE LINKE stands for a new beginning in Europe and a fundamental change of policy in the European Union.
Competition is controlled in the EU - we want compliance with social regulations to be checked throughout the EU and violations of them to be punished.
- Trade unions and collective agreements must be strengthened throughout Europe.
- The welfare state must be one of the EU's goals and values and must have top priority in the implementation of EU policies.
A "social progress clause" must be included in the treaties, giving fundamental social rights priority over the "fundamental freedoms" of capital.
- We want wage dumping to be abolished in the EU.
Wage, tax and social policies must be coordinated in this sense.
- In order to break with finance-driven capitalism, a new beginning in democratically controlled economic development is needed.
- Effective steps must be taken immediately against mass unemployment, poverty and a lack of prospects for young people in the crisis countries.
To this end, DIE LINKE is calling for an investment program that focuses primarily on development in the area of public and social services.
and socio-ecological conversion.
The DGB has proposed a "Marshall Plan for Europe" for this purpose.
The European Union must be transformed into a truly democratic, social, ecological and peaceful union.
The treaty foundations of the European Union are not suitable for this.
- We want a European Union that promotes prosperity and welfare for all.
Together with the trade unions, DIE LINKE calls for a social progress clause in the EU treaties.
Fundamental social rights
and collective bargaining autonomy must take precedence over internal market freedoms.
The welfare state must be protected in the EU treaties alongside democracy and the rule of law. -
The creation of a "Genuine Economic and Monetary Union", which has recently been increasingly propagated in the European Council, aims at an even greater dismantling of social welfare and
further de-democratization by restricting the rights of national parliaments
and largely eliminating the European Parliament.
At the same time, the increasing replacement of Union law by agreements between EU institutions and member states is leading to further disintegration of the EU.
Chancellor Merkel's proposed "competitiveness pact" at the "economic summit" in Davos represented similar ideas.
DIE LINKE will resolutely oppose both.
- We do not expect any positive development from the free trade zone between the EU and the USA, which has recently been called for in many quarters.
Especially in the field of agriculture, the unrestricted import of genetically treated products would lead to unmanageable consequences.
We also expect increased competition between the respective major companies in the USA and Germany to the detriment of a necessary catch-up development of the EU member states with current economic difficulties.
In the area of financial services in particular, there is also a risk that low standards will be cemented in international law - as in the U.S. state of Delaware, for example.
Under no circumstances can it be accepted that services of general interest become the unrestricted subject of unregulated world market competition. -
We want to strengthen the rights of the European Parliament
and create and expand grassroots democratic elements in the EU.
Binding referendums and plebiscites must become possible in the EU, which can also be used to amend the EU treaties.
- Europe's new beginning presupposes a cross-border understanding from "below" about common interests and claims.
To make democracy a reality, workers, unions and other social movements must coordinate and intensify their struggles in Europe.
We want to work toward minimum regulations for a European wage and social system.
In the process, the special German restrictions on the right to strike must be eliminated:
It must be possible to exercise the right to political strike throughout Europe.
- A democratic public sphere in Europe requires the creation of Europe-wide public media and platforms and equal access for political and social forces.
The German government in particular is pushing to put markets in the EU above the interests of citizens.
This damages standards for fundamental democratic and social rights:
Europol has far-reaching powers to collect and store data.
In addition to data on convicts and suspects, information is also collected on: Contacts and companions, including material gathered during investigations such as videos and photos, but also "lifestyles" and "habits", data traces of all digital and analog means of communication, voice profile, blood group or dentition.
The storage categories "racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or ideological beliefs, or trade union membership" also remain. -
DIE LINKE is committed to strengthening fundamental rights in Europe:
against profiling and data storage without suspicion,
for democratic control of compliance with fundamental rights.
The right to legal assistance and translation must be ensured in the European arrest warrant and the European investigation order.
Freedom of travel must apply to all within Europe.
The EU is the world's largest arms exporter, with a global market share of 34 percent.
During the crisis, total international arms sales grew by a quarter over the past five years.
We want to disarm Europe.
This concerns the production and export of arms - and the militarization of external borders:
- The EU Armaments Agency promotes arms production and export.
DIE LINKE wants to abolish the EU arms agency
and ban arms exports EU-wide.
- Frontex, the agency for "securing" the external borders, is and remains a symbol of the EU's inhumane policy of sealing off people in need.
DIE LINKE wants to dissolve Frontex and fights for a humane and solidary refugee policy.
- The Dublin II Regulation determines in which member state an asylum application can be filed and is in fact a third-country regulation.
An asylum application can usually only be filed in the country where the external borders of the EU have been crossed.
The regulation is the basis for the inhumane asylum and foreclosure policy.
We want to create a fair and solidary system of responsibility for refugees in the European Union.
For this, the principle of responsibility of "illegal entry" must be replaced by the principle of "free choice of member state".
- DIE LINKE advocates the unconditional repeal of the EU's "Common Position" on Cuba and an end to the U.S. blockade policy against Cuba.
III Peaceful and just in the world.  No to war
Political, economic and social injustice, as well as competition for scarce resources, lead to violence and war.
Large parts of the world's population suffer from poverty and hunger, people die of treatable diseases, lack of access to clean drinking water.
War must not be a means of politics.
Wars kill people, but also destroy their environment and habitats.
In order to end war and violence and provide a good life for all people, global peaceful and cooperative solutions must be found.
This can only be achieved if conflicts are resolved peacefully,
if there is consistent disarmament
and if the world economic order is organized fairly - and with international solidarity.
The withdrawal of all German soldiers from missions abroad
and a ban on arms production and arms exports - these would be important first steps on this path.
We want to convert the arms industry to civilian production so that the work of the employees is not in the service of war and destruction.
Instead of spending billions on armaments and the military,
alternative energies,
public transport with new transport systems
and public services of general interest should be expanded.
Resolving conflicts peacefully - ending foreign deployments
When the German government speaks of "German interests," it almost always means economic interests such as securing raw materials or access to sales markets.
To secure this, the CDU/CSU, FDP, SPD and Greens have openly used military means, threatened war and waged war.
DIE LINKE opposes all imperialist policies
and stands for a consistent peace policy.
Germany and the EU should neither participate in breaches of international law and wars nor support them directly or indirectly.
No soldiers, no weapons, no money for the wars of this world!
DIE LINKE rejects the militarization of foreign policy. -
We demand the immediate, complete and unconditional withdrawal of the Bundeswehr from Afghanistan
and that a viable, civilian concept be implemented seamlessly that enables the Afghan state to ensure itself the security tasks hitherto assumed in part by the Bundeswehr,
as well as the end of all other foreign deployments of the Bundeswehr.
We are committed to the complete investigation and, if necessary, prosecution of crimes and attacks, especially on civilians, by security forces and soldiers in foreign missions with German participation.
- The Federal Republic of Germany should make the total amount of money that has been used to date for the Bundeswehr mission in Afghanistan available for civilian projects and reconstruction in Afghanistan for at least ten years.
- We reject the idea of German soldiers training other armies that are then directly or indirectly involved in acts of war. - We oppose
a civil-military European External Action Service, participation in missions within the framework of the CFSP and ESDP,
and reject the participation of German soldiers in missions within the framework of the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) and the European Security and Defense Policy (ESDP) as well as in EU battlegroups and EU intervention forces.
- We demand an end to the participation of federal and state police forces in international police missions that serve to support wars and authoritarian regimes.
- The conversion of the Bundeswehr into an operational army must be stopped, and its personnel strength must be further reduced in conversion processes for those affected and locations.
We want to disarm the Bundeswehr into an army that is structurally incapable of attack and intervention.
The Bundeswehr must be drastically reduced over the next four years.
DIE LINKE pursues the long-term goal of a Germany, a Europe without armies, a world without wars.
- We advocate an end to all military advisory missions, as these lead to an intensification of conflicts worldwide.
- DIE LINKE opposes the construction of expensive training centers where the Bundeswehr practices intervention missions and urban combat, as is planned in Saxony-Anhalt.
Military interventions are often justified with reference to "security":
"security against terrorism" or "security against regional destabilization", which is to be established militarily.
Against this understanding of security we place the approach of security from hunger, exploitation, poverty and violence.
The rise of violent groups and political and economic destabilization almost always have their roots in injustice and oppression.
The corporations and the policies of the German government bear a decisive share of the responsibility for this.
We oppose this aggressive policy and stand in solidarity with all people around the world who are fighting for peace, social progress and democracy.
This is the alternative to military intervention.
We want to place the resolution of the causes of conflict and the prevention of violence at the center of German policy.
DIE LINKE rejects the linking of civilian and military measures.
"Civil-military cooperation" and "networked security" merely disguise the militarization of foreign policy.
The integration of development cooperation and humanitarian aid into counterinsurgency strategies - such as in Afghanistan - prevents development, contradicts the imperative of neutrality, and endangers both the population and the staff of development organizations.
- We want a reorientation of state policy toward nonviolent and socially just peacebuilding.
The participation of the local population is particularly important.
Projects aimed at expanding civil conflict transformation in the countries of the South are to receive comprehensive support.
We want to increase funding for the Civil Peace Service, which sends specially trained experts to conflict areas.
We want to increase the number of peace experts currently deployed to 300 to at least 600 by 2017.
This can be financed with part of the money saved by stopping the Bundeswehr's foreign deployments.
We want to anchor civil clauses in the shareholder agreements of the implementing organizations of German development cooperation.
- Even within Germany, the use of the Bundeswehr and military force must not become a means of policy.
Social and political conflicts must be resolved peacefully and democratically - not by threat or even the use of military force, but by extending democratic participation rights.
DIE LINKE therefore resolutely opposes the deployment of the Bundeswehr within Germany.
We strongly support the establishment of a European Civil Peace Service.
Social justice worldwide
The gap between rich and poor is widening, and not just in Germany.
More than one billion people worldwide go hungry, and more than two billion live on less than two dollars a day.
In contrast, the few rich are getting richer and richer.
Justice in international trade and economic relations is therefore a direct prevention of poverty, violence and war.
We want to change the unjust global trade and economic relations in a way that creates real development opportunities for people.
German and European "development aid" is often tied to extortionate structural reforms and thus undermines independent development.
That is why we advocate a reorientation of development cooperation that is focused on the interests and needs of those affected in the countries of the South.
Using scarce resources sparingly and switching to renewable alternatives here in Germany is also a matter of global justice - and helps to avoid resource conflicts.
The challenges that climate change has for agriculture, water resources and habitats must be solved in solidarity and globally.
Those who suffer the most need special support.
Germany's climate finance transfers are to increase to seven billion euros a year by 2020 and be provided in addition to existing development cooperation.
In addition, the German government's 2008 pledge of 500 million euros annually for international biodiversity and forest conservation must be honored.
Economic partnership agreements that undermine or threaten regional economic alliances must be ended.
The same applies to free trade agreements.
Neoliberal structural adjustments must no longer be forced.
The international financial markets must be regulated and, in particular, speculation in food must be prevented.
- Agricultural and forestry products may only be imported if they have been demonstrably produced fairly, sustainably and in compliance with European consumer protection requirements.
Certification and control criteria must be developed for this purpose.
The import of agrofuel must be banned because it threatens human nutrition and biodiversity in the global South.
The appropriation of large tracts of land should generally be discouraged, especially in poorer countries.
We see a high level of self-sufficiency in agricultural production at national and European level through the optimal use of natural, economic and human resources as our solidarity-based contribution to solving the world's food problems.
- German funds for development cooperation must finally be increased to the internationally pledged 0.7 percent of gross domestic product.
Together with social movements and trade unions, we advocate for EU agreements that actually enable and promote development;
that include equitable, solidarity-based trade, cultural exchange, and technological and scientific cooperation.
We demand an honest and solidary transfer of knowledge.
The EU's free trade agreements with developing and emerging countries, on the other hand, unilaterally serve the interests of transnational corporations.
We support the cooperation of countries on equal terms and in solidarity, such as the ALBA alliance in Latin America,
and oppose the continued blockade of Western countries against Cuba.
Raw materials must be paid for appropriately in order to increase the revenues of the resource-rich countries of the South.
At the same time, an increase in the cost of raw materials is also intended to force resource-saving production.
The processing of raw materials in the countries of origin must be specifically promoted in order to leave part of the value creation in the countries of origin.
- German corporations must be obliged to uphold social and democratic rights worldwide.
Legal regulations, compliance with which is independently verified, transparency and accountability can prevent goods from being sold in Germany that have been harvested, mined or produced under inhumane conditions in poor countries.
The import of products made with child labor is to be stopped.
We advocate binding rules for multinational companies.
Those affected from the countries of the South should also be able to take legal action against corporations at their home locations.
- To this end, DIE LINKE is calling for a legal obligation to disclose all suppliers to German companies, for example.
This applies to the raw materials as well as to the production itself, to the cotton in T-shirts as well as to the working conditions of the seamstresses and sewers.
Strengthen international law and human rights for all
DIE LINKE is the party of international law.
We see the United Nations as the central organ for peaceful understanding between states and societies.
The prohibition of violence, as stipulated in the UN Charter, must be strengthened.
Worldwide respect for and enforcement of human rights is also subordinate to the UN Charter's prohibition of violence.
We oppose any attempt to play human rights off against international law and to misuse them as a justification for war, as all federal governments of the last 15 years have done.
Human rights are universal and indivisible.
All human rights - including social, cultural and environmental - must apply fully and globally to all people.
Human rights must not be used as a tactical maneuvering tool to justify the use of the military - as all other parties do.
To this day, the German government refuses to sign the Additional Protocol to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, which allows individuals to file complaints with the United Nations in the event of violations of these human rights.
We want to achieve the strengthening and democratization of the United Nations.
UN civilian bodies must be made more efficient,
better funded and politically strengthened.
We reject the militarization of the UN.
Thus, issues of global economic development should be negotiated in United Nations bodies such as the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) and the Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), rather than in self-mandated circles such as the G8 or the G20.
The legitimacy of the Security Council should be increased.
We therefore advocate greater representation of African, Latin American and South Asian states
and equal rights for Security Council members.
We reject a permanent German seat on the UN Security Council.
The General Assembly, in which all members of the United Nations are represented, must be able to decide more.
Building peace without weapons: Ban arms exports, advance disarmament
Leopard main battle tanks for Saudi Arabia, German assault rifles for Gaddafi, nuclear-capable submarines in Israel: these are just three of the German arms export scandals of recent years.
They show how unscrupulously and uncontrollably Germany exports war equipment.
Only the USA and Russia are even more unrestrained in the "business with death" than Germany.
Germany is one of the world's largest manufacturers of small arms, assault rifles, pistols and revolvers.
There are approximately 875 million small arms in circulation worldwide, and over 1300 people are killed by small arms every day.
Our international policy aims at disarmament and demilitarization.
Currently, Germany is the world's third largest exporter of weapons.
Every weapon that is exported from Germany serves to arm another country, promotes oppression and makes it possible for conflicts to be fought violently and wars to be waged elsewhere in the world.
DIE LINKE demands a ban on all arms production and arms exports - without exceptions.
- As a first step, we demand an immediate ban on all exports of small arms and arms factories.
It is precisely these so-called small arms - assault rifles and submachine guns - with which most people are killed in the wars of this world; they are the weapons of mass destruction of the 21st century.
- Arms exports must no longer be supported with taxpayers' money, neither through state backing with Hermes guarantees nor through training support or via other channels.
- As a further step, we demand that arms production and exports are no longer supported by the state and therefore a comprehensive civil clause for science and support corresponding movements at universities and other scientific institutions.
- DIE LINKE advocates the cessation of all arms production in the Federal Republic of Germany.
Together with social partners from trade unions, churches, the peace movement and others, we want to enter into a new process of debate on conversion programs for employees in the defense industry in order to create new jobs.
We are thus linking up with the peace and economic policy debates of the trade unions in the1980s and the conversion discourses in the early1990s in the context of the dissolution of the NVA.
A comprehensive ban on production is the best means of containing and preventing arms exports.
- Research into arms conversion, i.e. conversion from military to civilian production, should be funded both by public money and by the private sector and its associations affected by it.
- DIE LINKE demands a ban on the participation of German companies in international or foreign arms companies.
The vision of a world without weapons of mass destruction also includes consistent disarmament at home.
- The last US nuclear weapons still stationed in Germany must be withdrawn and destroyed immediately.
- No modernized nuclear bombs must be stationed in Germany and no funds must be made available for the modernization of carrier aircraft for dropping nuclear bombs.
- DIE LINKE strongly advocates a treaty-based outlawing of nuclear weapons worldwide in the next legislative period.
- The Bundeswehr and the police forces of the federal and state governments must not acquire combat and surveillance drones or participate in the operation of such systems, for example abroad.
DIE LINKE advocates the international outlawing of all unmanned combat systems (armed drones and combat robots) within the framework of an international convention (along the lines of the ban on cluster munitions or biological weapons).
We demand the dissolution of NATO.
It is to be replaced by a collective security system with Russian participation that has disarmament as a central goal.
Irrespective of a decision on Germany's remaining in NATO, DIE LINKE will advocate that Germany withdraw from the military structures of the military alliance.
DIE LINKE will not participate in a government that wages wars and allows combat missions of the Bundeswehr abroad.
IV. Transforming society socially, ecologically and barrier-free and democratizing the economy
Social justice, ecological management, accessibility and a good life are interconnected:
Alternative production and consumption will only prevail throughout society if they simultaneously lead to greater social equality.
A new promise of solidarity for the regions in east and west
An increasing gap is emerging not only between social classes, but also between entire regions throughout Germany.
And it continues to strengthen.
Advancement and growth on the one hand may conceal the fact that decline and precarization processes of entire regions are taking place on the other.
This applies to the entire Federal Republic.
Thus, eastern Germany is now no longer the largest closed crisis region in Germany, but has become a patchwork of regions with precarious status on the one hand and areas with future opportunities and relative stability on the other.
Comparably precarious regions are also emerging in the west.
This does not make things any better, but it does make it clear that important social differences today and in the future can no longer be grasped and dealt with solely against the East-West background.
DIE LINKE does not have this knowledge exclusively.
What it does have, however, is an edge in experience and competence in dealing with social and regional inequalities.
In recent years - especially in eastern Germany - we have been involved in many entry-level projects for the socio-ecological and democratic modernization of society in various social and parliamentary constellations.
For DIE LINKE, the socio-ecological restructuring of society is based on a different perspective of regional and structural development: the regional perspective.
The participation of citizens in the decisions on how we generate energy, how we trade, how we want to produce and in whose ownership grids, production plants or even the municipal utilities are, creates the necessary acceptance, also at the local level, for the question of how we actually want to live, to answer as a LEFT:
DIE LINKE stands for a decentralized energy transition, an energy transition anchored in the regions, which is socially and democratically designed.
The regionally designed energy transition as an alternative path to the dominance of the large power companies has now reached a "point of no return".
Energy cooperatives are being formed, bioenergy villages are emerging, and cities and municipalities are reacquiring concessions for energy networks.
As a result of the continued expansion, municipal value creation from renewable energies has grown considerably.
The participation of citizens in these projects is a strong motivation to turn value creation into a development impulse for the region and the homeland.
As a socialist-ecological party, DIE LINKE is a partner and motor of this social change - in East and West.
Justice for the People in Eastern Germany: Establishing Equality of Living Conditions
The goal of left-wing politics is to overcome the social and economic division of Germany into East and West.
We want to finally make the mandate of the Basic Law and the Unification Treaty a reality.
23 years after German unification, people in the eastern German states live with an unemployment rate that is nearly twice as high.
The income level reaches only 80 percent of the West German level.
The low-wage sector is twice as large, so that at the end of working life retirement incomes are 18 percent lower than in the West.
Child poverty is widespread, and the life expectancy of men working in the low-wage sector is declining.
But at the same time, East Germans have gained experience in restructuring their living and working environments in recent years, giving them new self-confidence for shaping the present and the future.
DIE LINKE continues to see itself as representing the interests of East Germans:
in the recognition of East German life achievements and in the elimination of existing discrimination against East Germans:
- The equalization of the pension value of the East to the West level is to be achieved by the end of 2017.
The high valuation of East German wages and salaries must be maintained as long as there are still strong wage differences between East and West.
There must be an end to the approximately 20 injustices and discriminations created for various occupational and affected groups in the course of the pension transition.
The lifetime achievements of the East must be recognized.
- The ongoing division, particularly in the eastern German labor market, must end,
the slashing of active labor market policy must be stopped.
Cuts present financially weak municipalities in particular with insurmountable tasks.
DIE LINKE is therefore calling for a reversal in labor market policy in which "good work" is the guiding principle in the eastern German labor market as well.
The collective bargaining systems must function, low wages must be excluded and the collective bargaining commitments of companies must be increased.
- The Solidarity Pact II is a cornerstone for the development of the eastern German states and must not be touched.
Intensive thought must already be given to possible mechanisms and instruments for follow-up support for structurally weak regions in the east and west after 2019.
For the crisis regions in East and West, we advocate a Solidarity Pact III.
- In the course of socio-ecological restructuring, the "Joint Task for the Improvement of Regional Economic Structures" must be secured in the long term as an important economic development instrument.
Priority is to be given to investing in future industries and future technologies.
This also applies to the innovation programs for small and medium-sized enterprises in eastern Germany.
Overall, more must be invested in science and research in order to further increase innovation performance in eastern Germany.
- The "Zwanzig20" program, which is important for the promotion of research in eastern Germany and is to be endowed with a total budget of 500 million euros by 2019, must be placed on a secure financial footing and universities in the east must be strengthened through additional funding for basic research.
- Urban development funding, urban redevelopment programs and the "Socially Integrative City" program must be provided with appropriate federal funding in line with requirements and further developed programmatically in such a way that cities and municipalities are able to meet the challenges of demographic development,
urban redevelopment and conversion,
social cohesion and integration
climate change and the energy transition.
- This includes freeing the eastern German housing companies from the so-called old debts (around seven to eight billion euros), canceling them in the interests of tenants on the one hand and public companies on the other, and making them the responsibility of the banks that have benefited to date.
The financial resources freed up are for a genuine increase in urban development funding,
to accelerate the energy-efficient refurbishment of housing stock
and for their barrier-free conversion.
Regional development and equal living conditions
Precarious regions are also emerging in the West; the Ruhr region, Bremen and Bremerhaven, among others, are threatened by this development.
The social situation in the Ruhr region in particular is coming to a dramatic head.
The planned site closures of Opel Bochum and ThyssenKrupp combined with further mass layoffs threaten to accelerate this rapid increase in poverty.
DIE LINKE is therefore also calling for an immediate program to combat poverty specifically for the Ruhr region.
Mass layoffs must be prohibited by law.
We want to fulfill the mandate to create "equal living conditions" by increasing investment in the service sector, in small and medium-sized enterprises and craft businesses, by expanding and promoting personal services and by environmentally compatible and civil industrial production.
Our concepts for socio-ecological restructuring and the restructuring of the arms industry are also a contribution to regional policy.
Small and medium-sized enterprises and craft businesses are important for employment and value creation in the regions.
And they can be pillars of regional socio-ecological transformation.
In many cases, however, they lack the money for investments, and with weak equity capital, they have difficulty qualifying for subsidies.
We need public programs to strengthen their means for investment.
Against the entanglements of global finance-driven capitalism, we rely on a structural policy that promotes regional economic cycles.
Only in this way can "equal living conditions" be combined with expanded democratic co-determination and participation. -
We want to democratize regional planning,
strengthen the role of trade unions, associations, societies and other civil society actors in the restructuring process,
develop regional models and anchor them in society in order to create model regions for socio-ecological restructuring.
- We want to promote networks between regional universities, trade unions, small and medium-sized enterprises and cooperatives.
One model could be regional structural and economic councils, as they have been developed in trade union discussions.
- We want to provide more sustainable support for small and medium-sized enterprises and regional economic cycles.
Equity ratio, creativity, public infrastructure and services of general interest must also be improved
like medical care,
the cultural offerings
and the structures of child and youth welfare.
Fast access to the Internet must be ensured by expanding the corresponding infrastructure.
- The expansion of broadband Internet connections in the flat countryside cannot be afforded under the rules of the free market, as the investments cannot be refinanced in line with market expectations.
Non-profit associations in counties and municipalities could carry out the network expansion and make the connections freely reusable accordingly.
To facilitate this, DIE LINKE is campaigning for the deletion of the privatization ban in the telecommunications sector in the Basic Law and in EU directives. -
We want to strengthen regional energy cycles and organic energy villages, and
promote regional markets for food and animal feed.
Putting profit logic in its place
Mass unemployment continues to prevail in Germany and there is a shortage of around five million living wage jobs.
We are not resigned to the fact that entrenched unemployment excludes millions of people from social participation.
We need a change of direction in fiscal and economic policy that overcomes mass unemployment,
raises wages and incomes for the broad population,
and strengthens public finances.
We want to support small and medium-sized enterprises and the skilled trades and
create a counterweight to expansionary export policy with a stronger focus on the domestic market and regional economic cycles.
The growing export surpluses are one cause of the economic crises in Europe and the growing economic imbalances.
The government's economic policy is based on deregulation and flexibilization.
When global demand collapses or transnational corporations relocate sites, it seems like fate befalling employees.
In fact, this is the result of a misguided economic policy.
If investment is not managed according to other criteria, public infrastructure will deteriorate
and mass unemployment will be cemented.
We want to combine socio-ecological restructuring with a strengthening of public services and the expansion of personal services.
To achieve this, the economy must be shaped democratically:
in the workplace through more direct co-determination from below, and
in society as a whole through a policy of stronger social, financial and ecological regulation.
Only under the right framework conditions can good work, social and ecological ideas prevail in companies.
We want to set the course for the future:
What we produce and how must be democratically negotiated
and sustainable for nature and people.
We need to transform the energy supply
and develop environmentally compatible forms of mobility that are accessible to all.
We want to create alternatives to arms production and environmentally harmful branches of production.
In the process, jobs are also to be transformed and secured.
This transformation goes hand in hand with the expansion of democracy at various levels.
We want an economy that is not focused on maximizing profits or financial market returns, but on the needs of people.
In the medium term, therefore, structures in industry and the economy as a whole will have to be transformed.
We want to create good jobs and overcome precarious employment.
To this end, we want to promote social, ecological and public services and expand public services of general interest.
We want to halve greenhouse gas emissions in Germany by 2020 compared with 1990 levels, and reduce them by at least 90 percent by 2050, and enshrine this in a climate protection law.
Public infrastructure - bridges, railways, roads, hospitals, schools - is deteriorating.
The existing is not repaired and rehabilitated, in new is not invested.
The Education and Science Union, for example, puts the annual funding requirement for education at over 50 billion euros and the current investment backlog at an additional 45 billion euros; in
the area of healthcare, the figure is far higher still.
We want a public investment program that modernizes infrastructure and raises it to an efficient level.
This creates better living conditions for the future, work, income and social security.
Overall, our planned investments in barrier-free transport,
socio-ecological transformation,
education,
jobs
and social housing amount to100 billion euros a year.
Expenditures are covered by our expanded revenues.
As a matter of principle, government funding measures ranging from low-interest loans to research funding should be tied to criteria for socio-ecological transformation and good work.
The awarding of public contracts must also be based on these criteria.
Government crisis aid may only be granted in exchange for corresponding ownership shares and decision-making rights for the public sector and the workforce.
In no other industrialized country is service work so poorly paid in relation to industrial work as in Germany.
We want to change that!
Personal services in particular must be upgraded.
- This requires significantly higher investment funds for the expansion of public services.
By comparison, the Scandinavian countries have about twice as many employees in the areas of child-rearing, education and health care.
We also need to create more jobs in these areas that are covered by collective agreements.
- We are committed to significantly increasing the use of solar cells and solar thermal energy on the roofs of public authorities at federal, state and local level.
- We want to promote the use of combined heat and power plants (CHP) as a highly efficient bridging technology and capacity reserve in the energy transition to a much greater extent than is currently the case via the Act to Promote Combined Heat and Power (CHP).
Schools, public authorities and other public buildings in particular, but also apartment buildings, can modernize their energy generation in this way.
- Environmentally friendly and attractive modes and concepts of transport should take priority over the expansion of roads, airports and high-speed rail links.
This requires a permanent increase in investment funds for rail and an increase in regionalization funds.
Areas within the economy that serve the public interest - such as large energy generation plants, energy grids, water and wastewater, and strategic services such as education, health, banking, transport, or housing - belong in public or cooperative hands.
We want to preserve them there or transfer them there.
As a first step, all contracts for the privatization of public and municipal enterprises must be disclosed.
Industrial policy for the future: changing what we produce and how
The orientation towards short-term profit interests has also become established in the corporate strategies of industry.
Profit-oriented companies hardly ask about social utility and ecological compatibility, and the pressure of the financial markets radicalizes the profit logic in the process.
Thus, even in an upswing, business groups reduce sustainable investments.
They attack their equity base just to pay out the highest possible profits to shareholders.
Products and services that are urgently needed but not profitable in the short term are not developed.
We therefore want an active state industrial policy that does not continue to focus on cost-cutting, job losses and cut-throat competition, but is committed to the common good.
It is not enough to switch to renewable energies:
Emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases must fall overall, and the consumption of resources and energy must also be more than halved globally by the middle of the century.
We want to advance alternative production.
A new industrial policy must set the following goals: a stronger focus on the domestic market,
offering good jobs,
creating conditions for a good life.
DIE LINKE is fighting for a social-ecological transformation of our society.
Without improving public finances, a social-ecological investment program and the organization of just transitions, the transformation will not succeed.
- For this industrial transformation, we need binding ecological targets and multi-year phased plans.
A mix of incentives, requirements, prohibitions and transparency is intended to reward the conservation of resources and to punish or prevent their waste.
To avoid waste and increase consumer protection, guarantee and warranty obligations should be extended and predetermined breaking points should be prohibited by law.
In this way, products can last longer or be repaired instead of being thrown away.
- We are against the constant flood of leaflets, brochures, magazines and other advertising papers that are supposed to encourage consumers to buy, but are usually thrown away unread.
These practices waste resources and cause great damage to forests.
- In the future, companies should have to assume so-called product responsibility for the entire life cycle of their product for more product groups than has been the case to date.
Companies must then take back products at the end of their service life and recycle them.
- Companies must be required to maintain meaningful energy and raw material management systems and to report their results in a publicly accessible manner.
- We want to oblige companies to disclose environmental data and social standards and subject them to external controls.
Activities of subsidiaries, suppliers or contract manufacturers must also be included.
To monitor compliance with regulations and specifications, we need more rights for citizens to have their say
and environmental authorities with good staffing and expertise.
- Companies will be obliged to orient their products to the standard of the most efficient device within three years in order to continuously improve them ("top runner model").
- We want to bring a system into the discussion that establishes quantity regulation at EU level for the import and extraction of selected raw materials.
The main aim is to reduce the consumption of resources that are rare and whose extraction and use entail unacceptably high environmental or social burdens.
- In the industrial and construction sectors, too, material flows are to be recycled in the future and waste materials from production and consumption are to become raw materials for production and reuse.
Assessments of risks and consequences are an integral part of the development of processes, technologies, materials and products.
Democratizing the economy: from co-determination to self-determination
Democracy must not end at the office door, the factory gate or the entrance to the hospital.
We advocate a new economic and social order in which democracy is extended to the economy instead of subordinating it to the demands of markets and competition.
This includes - as described - the financial sector under democratic control and regulation of the financial markets.
The social commitment of ownership must also be secured at company level.
Employee co-determination at company level on supervisory and administrative boards must be maintained and further developed, taking into account economic structural changes.
- The scope of the laws on employee co-determination in the supervisory boards of larger corporations must be extended to include bogus foreign companies.
The possibility of circumventing the right of co-determination in the member states by relocating the headquarters of a company within the EU and thus playing off the economic and social systems against each other must be prevented.
- We support the demands of the trade unions for an expansion of the scope of application of the co-determination laws by reducing the minimum number of employees required by law.
In addition, on supervisory boards of larger corporations, shareholders and employees must not only be equally represented, but must also make all decisions equally.
We also want to adopt the core provisions of the VW Act for large structurally important companies and systemically important credit institutions based in Germany:
The federal and state governments would then have a blocking minority in the shareholders' meeting.
The design of a social economy with regional economic cycles must follow clear standards that include distribution measures, democratic control, participation and voice for all groups involved.
In this context, cooperatives play an important role for us. Against the backdrop of the financial market and economic crisis, they represent a clear alternative for social and sustainable economic activity.
We want to expand the cooperative principle and strengthen cooperative law.
Economic democracy also requires the expansion of employee ownership, which strengthens employee co-determination, promotes regional economic cycles through stronger regional ties between companies and contributes to a fairer distribution of wealth.
For this reason, we want to specifically promote companies that are wholly or partly owned by their employees by offering tax breaks and preferential treatment when awarding public contracts.
Extended co-determination rights and inter-company advisory councils provide further opportunities for democratizing the economy.
And it is a question of ownership: public utilities, financial institutions and structurally important companies in the energy sector have long belonged in public hands.
We want to transfer structurally dominant large companies to social forms of ownership.
That includes the goal of disempowering the big power companies.
They must be transferred to public ownership.
Their socialization is achieved through remunicipalization and decentralization of the energy industry,
with democratic self-government and democratic control.
This reorganization is accompanied at all levels by industry dialogs and coordinated by industry advisory boards.
They are made up of companies, scientists, environmental and consumer associations, and trade unions.
The advisory boards have special tasks for each level.
They have a right of initiative at their respective political level.
- Employee co-determination and the rights of trade unions and works councils must be expanded.
- The anti-strike paragraph §160 SGB III favors the already stronger side, the employers, and must be abolished.
- We want to extend the right of co-determination and the right to strike to divestments, takeovers and the relocation of companies or parts of companies and, together with the unions, enforce the right to political strike.
Cold lockout is not allowed.
- The German government's plans to limit managerial salaries by strengthening the rights of shareholders are an election campaign hoax:
The shareholders will not regulate this any better than the supervisory boards, which still include employee representatives.
DIE LINKE calls for a statutory limit on managers' salaries to 20 times the lowest wage group of the respective company.
This would still correspond to an annual salary of around half a million euros.
Rights to information, participation and legal action in the context of approval procedures can be a sharp sword for protecting the environment and the interests of the population if they are sensibly designed: for example, in the fight against new coal-fired power plants, inadequate industrial plants, superfluous road construction or infrastructure projects, or for the preservation of nature and recreational areas.
- We want to ensure that the Aarhus Convention - more transparency, citizen participation and legal channels for project approvals - is finally implemented in Germany.
Breaking the power of the monopolies: Energy supply in the hands of the people
The energy transition in Germany can lead to a future without nuclear power, coal and oil, towards a complete supply of electricity, heat and mobility from renewable sources.
At its core, however, the government's energy policy continues to be oriented toward the profit interests of the fossil energy and industrial sectors.
This is why socially just further development of environmental policy instruments and effective policies for saving energy and resources are hindered.
Although renewable energy generation is being rapidly expanded, centralized and undemocratic corporate structures are being entrenched at the same time.
As a result, the burdens of the energy turnaround are being unilaterally dumped on the shoulders of private consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises.
They pay for the profits of the corporations.
DIE LINKE argues that energy supply should be regarded as part of public services.
That is why we demand:
- In the long term, a master plan for Germany for its own energy supply will be developed and implemented.
- Electricity and heat supply are to come from100 percent renewable energies (in the first step, electricity supply to 50 percent by 2020, heat supply to 20 percent).
- Electricity and heat grids should be consistently in public hands or in the hands of democratically managed companies.
In this context, municipal utilities and cooperative suppliers will be strengthened.
- Electricity prices will be withdrawn from the profit motive and permanently guaranteed as a basic supply and designed in a socially responsible manner.
- Germany must be established as the number one research country in this field and its funding must be geared to this.
Local energy networks in particular are suitable for producing their energy requirements in a self-determined, ecologically sustainable manner and beyond the logic of profit in commons-based structures.
To drive this forward, we want to maintain the Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG) in its central pillars - priority feed-in of green electricity, guaranteed, cost-based compensation rates.
At the same time, we want to create incentives in the EEG to ensure that renewable generation plants serve the functionality of the entire energy system to a greater extent.
There is an urgent need to draw up a realistic roadmap for the energy turnaround oriented to the goals of cost efficiency, sustainability, land use efficiency and landscape planning.
Significantly less grid expansion is required if decentralized energy supply, appropriate expansion of storage systems and no longer the profit interests of coal-fired power plant operators are taken into account.
The network development plan must be revised on the basis of these criteria.
We will continue to advocate the massive expansion of renewable energies.
However, we reject the energy companies' overpriced large-scale projects such as offshore wind farms in the North Sea.
Building a sustainable energy system also means:
- The phase-out of nuclear power must be irreversible and should be enshrined in the Basic Law.
Nuclear power plants must be shut down immediately.
The production of nuclear fuel elements in Gronau must be ended.
- We want to ban the import and export of nuclear waste.
The accelerated retrieval of nuclear waste from Asse must be established as a binding goal, and the planned Konrad shaft repository and the Gorleben repository site must be abandoned once and for all.
We want the development of concepts and the passing of laws on the future way of storing nuclear waste to be preceded by an open social debate instead of party bickering in back rooms.
- We want to phase out coal-fired power generation.
Emissions trading has failed to do this; its record over the past eight years is disastrous.
Instead, we want to enforce a coal phase-out law that bans the construction of new coal-fired power plants and the opening of new opencast lignite mines.
Fixed remaining operating times are also to ensure that existing coal-fired power plants are gradually shut down, with the last coal-fired power plant to be taken off the grid by 2040 at the latest.
In order to limit the serious consequences of lignite mining until then, we renew our call for the Federal Mining Act to be amended:
it must be reformed in such a way that the priority of the interests of corporations and raw material extraction over the interests of the environment and the population, as enshrined in current law, is broken.
This is to be replaced by planning approval procedures with environmental impact assessments and
corresponding rights of participation, information and legal action.
In the case of mining of raw materials under populated areas, the special proof of necessity must be submitted.
In this way, we want to set a climate protection path in the electricity sector and establish planning security.
- The transition to a renewable energy system requires the flexible control of electricity generation and consumption as well as the intermediate storage of electricity.
To achieve this, we need a storage offensive in the area of research and development.
- We want to create tougher competition and antitrust laws for electricity, gas and oil companies.
- We want to swiftly abolish unjustified industrial discounts on eco-taxes, network fees, emissions trading and the Renewable Energy Sources Act at the expense of private households.
In order to advance the decentralized energy transition, we want to expand support programs for municipalities that want to take their energy supply into their own hands.
Central for us is: To avoid energy poverty, basic consumption must remain affordable for all.
Frequent consumers are to pay more to help finance this measure.
- Energy suppliers will be required to introduce a base tariff for electricity, through which every private household will receive a free basic quota of electricity based on the size of the household, covering part of the average consumption (a scheme that already exists in Belgium, for example).
Electricity consumption in excess of average consumption would be more expensive than today.
On the one hand, this creates incentives for economical electricity use and, at the same time, supports low-income households.
- Reducing the price of electricity is possible and socially just.
The design of electricity prices must be effectively monitored.
To this end, the responsible state authority is to be assisted by an advisory board in which consumers, environmental and social associations, and trade unions are represented.
Until this is implemented, we are calling for an electricity price moratorium for private households.
- Payment difficulties must not lead to people sitting in the dark or having to freeze.
Electricity, gas, water, heating must not be turned off!
Companies must be given binding legal requirements so that they minimize energy consumption.
Energy suppliers would be required to achieve annual energy savings of 1.5 percent for their customers.
An energy saving fund is to be established for the energy saving of private households, companies and public administration.
This is to be endowed with 2.5 billion euros annually.
In particular, special subsidy programs are to be set up for low-income households.
In addition to improved support for energy-efficient building refurbishment and combined heat and power plants, we want to gradually increase the mandatory share of renewable energies in the heat supply for new buildings and extend this to existing buildings in the case of fundamental refurbishment.
In order to double the rates of energy retrofitting of buildings, a binding plan extending to 2050 is to be drawn up, containing demanding classes for the energy status of buildings to be achieved in stages.
We are committed to ensuring that both the underground injection of CO2 (CCS)
as well as the extraction of natural gas by injecting toxic chemicals underground (fracking) is banned.
Fracking not only poses great dangers to groundwater, but also causes enormous damage to nature and the landscape.
Democratic co-decision rights must be secured in natural gas production and other areas of raw material extraction.
Mobility for all - with less traffic: flexible, ecological, barrier-free, affordable
"I spend a large part of my life in traffic jams: between home, driving the children to school, then to work, running errands after work, taking the car to the supermarket. As we have to live a bit out of town, there are hardly any alternatives to the car, it's not flexible enough and too expensive."
Heike, 51, Kreuzbruch, Brandenburg
Mobility is freedom of movement.
Mobility does not equal traffic.
Traffic noise impacts many people, especially in homes and neighborhoods affordable to low-income people.
Mobility is formulated as a requirement in gainful employment and by the job center:
Individuals should be prepared to commute long distances.
Mobility is becoming more and more expensive.
Many are therefore excluded from social participation.
The mobility allowance in the Hartz IV rates does not even cover the cost of a social ticket.
Moreover, a real social ticket exists in only a few municipalities.
In order to reduce commuter traffic, a new guiding principle for regional planning and structural policy is needed that brings the different areas of life together again.
In freight transport, we want to promote intelligent linking of transport and logistics control systems with priority given to rail and environmentally friendly shipping. -
Initially, we want to convert the commuter allowance into a socially just allowance
and offer an incentive to use the environmental network.
Investments in local and long-distance public transport have declined, and the quality of public transport services is decreasing.
In the countryside, one is almost inevitably dependent on a car.
We want a mobility guarantee in rural regions as well.
Public transport is to be developed barrier-free
and cost considerably less for users.
We focus on traffic avoidance, short distances and energy-saving means of transport.
Instead of forced, unwanted mobility, we want a reappropriation of the public and the city as a living space.
- The financing of local public transport by the public sector must be guaranteed and improved.
- In perspective, the rail transport sector should be exclusively under public influence.
The federal government must fully ensure the maintenance and necessary expansion of the railroads and provide the states with sufficient funds on a permanent basis for transport services and infrastructure expansion in local public transport.
Local and long-distance public transport should be democratically regulated and operated in a cooperative manner with the involvement of interest groups representing passengers, employees, environmental associations and other stakeholders.
The intelligent networking of mobility on foot, by bike, by bus and train, and with rental cars/car sharing is a good prerequisite for new socio-ecological lifestyles in cities and in rural areas.
Good accessibility in rural areas takes pressure off the influx into cities and stabilizes regional value chains. -
We want to expand local and long-distance transportation and
, in the process, create good, tariff-based work under public ownership to meet the new demand for ecological forms of mobility.
In the long term, we want ticketless public transport.
Experience shows that more and more people use it if it is free of charge and tax-funded.
- Together with social initiatives, we are fighting for the nationwide introduction of social fares and a social rail card for low-income households.
- In rural areas, we want flexible services such as community buses or low-cost shared cabs to make life there more attractive. -
Together with social initiatives such as "Bahn für alle" (Rail for All), we are campaigning against the privatization and further dismantling of Deutsche Bahn
and for broad democratic control.
Rail transport is an interconnected structure and belongs in public hands.
It must be based on the needs of the population, not on returns, and must not be broken down into profit-oriented individual parts.
We reject the expansion of a competing long-distance bus network.
Transport's share of harmful CO2 emissions has risen to about 20 percent, and the trend is upward.
Electric cars are not a sustainable alternative:
their production places an excessive burden on the environment.
Biofuels also have a negative eco-balance in some cases because they require land around the world that is then not available for growing food.
Increasingly, land is being sealed and landscapes destroyed by road construction.
The largest increases in CO2 emissions, traffic noise and air pollutants are due to truck traffic and aviation.
Air traffic within Germany should be shifted to rail as far as possible, and a large proportion of intra-European air traffic should be shifted to rail.
The subsidization of airports must be ended. -
We want to change the motor vehicle tax for newly purchased vehicles to ecological criteria
and consistently enforce compliance with particulate matter and nitrogen oxide limits.
The company car tax privilege must be redesigned according to ecological criteria.
- We advocate at the European level the setting of a CO2 limit for new cars of a maximum of 60 grams of CO2 per kilometer for 2025.
- DIE LINKE wants to ban the import of agrofuel because it displaces food production in countries of the global South, thus promoting hunger and destroying valuable forests and other biotopes.
Regional, pure vegetable oil fuels should only be used in the agricultural sector and for local public transport.
- A tax on aviation fuel must finally be introduced and the VAT exemption for foreign flights abolished.
In addition, the airline ticket tax should be raised.
- In freight transport, its high social and environmental costs should be reflected in an increasing energy tax and a mandatory truck toll.
We want to enforce longer rest periods for truck drivers.
Good work also applies to them!
- We want to prohibit the introduction of monster trucks, so-called Gigaliners.
- Traffic noise on existing traffic routes and at airports must be significantly reduced through strict limits and active noise protection.
DIE LINKE demands effective specifications for the reduction of environmental noise, road, rail and air traffic noise in a binding noise protection law as well as a significant increase in funding for noise protection.
Future-oriented transport policy must first and foremost ensure the health protection of those affected and be directed toward sustainable environmental protection.
- We advocate a strict ban on night flights from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m., especially for areas close to cities.
This ban on night flights must be anchored in the Federal Aviation Act.
- A majority of the population in the Federal Republic is in favor of introducing a speed limit of120 kilometers per hour on highways - let's implement it!
Together with citizens' initiatives and movements in other European countries, we are working against large, useless projects in which billions are spent, a few profit and the provision of services in the countryside falls by the wayside.
The symbol for this dispute is Stuttgart 21
- We demand that Stuttgart 21 be abandoned and that the existing terminus station be upgraded.
- When planning transport projects, planning authorities must involve citizens and interest groups more closely from the outset and make referendums possible at an early stage.
We want to see a fundamental reform of federal transport route planning toward environmentally compatible mobility planning.
Traffic route planning has accelerated in recent years, limiting the influence of local residents.
We want to introduce citizens' councils at the federal, regional and municipal levels to democratize decision-making.
These advisory councils are made up of passenger interest groups, employees, environmental associations, and citizens who, together with parliaments, decide on requirements, long-term investments, and the design of networked mobility services.
Flight paths must also be worked out in a transparent, public, democratic and interstate process.
Ecological lifestyles for all
The socio-ecological transformation will only succeed if it is also culturally supported from below, if an ecological, resource-efficient lifestyle becomes established beyond small groups.
DIE LINKE does not want to prescribe certain lifestyles; there are many ecological lifestyles.
However, it is crucial that the ecological footprint remains within globally permissible limits, i.e. that it does not cause more than 1.5 t of CO2 per capita and year in the long term.
How it is created is left to individual freedom.
It is important to shape the social framework in such a way that a life that is easy on resources and decelerated, with more time prosperity, becomes attractive and feasible for everyone.
Environmentally produced healthy food and other products must be affordable and regionally available to all.
Only expanded social security makes it possible for everyone to try out and shape new lifestyles.
Protection of soil, water, air and biodiversity
We want the Bundestag, the Bundesrat and the federal authorities to use their powers to improve the framework conditions for better protection of soil, water, air and biodiversity.
We need a stronger emphasis on soil protection in urban land use planning and a role model in limiting land consumption for our own construction projects as a contribution to achieving the 30-ha limit for daily land consumption nationwide.
Legal and financial regulations for the removal and revitalization of hazardous brownfields (contaminated sites fund) are also necessary.
As the achievement of the objectives of the European Water Framework Directive (good ecological status of water bodies by 2018) is at risk, the federal government must set up a national implementation program, e.g. for the renaturation of federal waterways.
The national marine conservation strategy must be underpinned by concrete funded action plans and measures.
Of particular topicality are the reduction of nitrate inputs into water bodies and the ban on discharging potassium-contaminated wastewater into the Werra and other receiving waters.
Protecting the air from particulate pollution cannot be left to the municipalities alone (e.g., by designating environmental zones), but must be supported, among other things, by shifting freight traffic to rail.
Air pollution with emissions of fine dust, microorganisms and odorous substances from livestock farms must be reduced through stricter mandatory regulations on air filtration and limits on the size of facilities, as well as stricter distance regulations.
The implementation of the national biodiversity strategy and the obligations for the European Natura 2000 protected areas (FFH and bird sanctuaries) by the federal government, states, municipalities, companies and associations is insufficient and must be addressed more intensively.
For example, the strategy's goal of removing ten percent of public forests from use should be implemented quickly.
In Natura 2000 sites, uses that degrade the protected asset must not be allowed to continue, such as bottom trawling in marine protected areas or the introduction of alien species in forest protected areas.
In particular, the administrations of federal highways and federal waterways must give priority to the environmental compatibility of their construction measures.
Landscape fragmentation by federal highways shall be minimized by wildlife bridges.
Federal waterways must be made passable for migrating fish.
Riverine floodplains must once again serve as flood retention areas and provide space for biodiversity.
We want to strengthen nature conservation
and protect it from privatization of land.
With the exception of environmental and nature conservation associations as owners, protected land should remain in public hands.
The National Natural Heritage must be secured and expanded by 30,000 hectares of federally owned land.
A "natural heritage fund" should be created to finance the measures.
The federal states must be financially supported in the implementation of management plans in Natura 2000 areas.
The federal biodiversity program must be increased financially to 100 million euros, also to ensure the co-financing of EU LIFE projects, e.g. for peatland protection.
Even in cultural landscapes, the diversity of species of life can and must be protected.
The protection of biotopes and their interconnections is to be strengthened by federal legal requirements.
The consistent protection of wild animals dictates that their keeping and dressage in circuses, dolphinariums and households be prohibited.
We advocate the complete replacement of animal testing for the testing of pharmaceuticals and cosmetics.
Making rural areas fit for the future. Protecting nature and animals
Away from the centers, Germany is agricultural and characterized by diverse landscapes.
Rural areas provide food and raw materials, are commercial, residential and recreational areas.
At the same time, the agricultural production of food has an existential social significance that can only be fulfilled in close interdependence with lively villages and small towns.
With a sustainable way of life and economy, our livelihoods air, water, soil and biodiversity are reproduced.
DIE LINKE wants to promote sustainable rural development.
Many rural regions are structurally disadvantaged and in crisis.
Weak economic foundations, lack of activities and alternatives lead to unemployment, dramatic population decline and aging.
Young people in particular are migrating to other regions in search of training and employment prospects.
Demographic change is exacerbating the financial situation of municipalities.
The demand for equal living conditions is being abandoned and funding is increasingly being concentrated on growth centers.
Individual villages and entire regions are simply left behind.
- The ownership of land forms the basis for rural development.
We want to preserve the broad social distribution of land ownership in Germany and protect small private, cooperative and public ownership from being sold off.
DIE LINKE wants to achieve this by reducing the legislative backlog of reforms in land, cooperative, agricultural and tax law.
- We want sustainable agriculture and forestry across the board.
Horticulture and fisheries must also be sustainable.
Farms should be put in a position to meet economic and social challenges as well as the requirements of consumer protection, nature conservation and animal welfare.
- We see a high level of self-sufficiency as our solidarity-based contribution to solving the world food problem.
That is why we are particularly committed to a protein strategy to reduce and replace soy imports.
We reject the export orientation of the EU agricultural economy and want to orient it socio-ecologically towards regional production, processing and marketing.
- Under the priority of food and feed production, the agricultural industry should make a regional contribution to the energy transition.
Energy crop cultivation must be sustainable, fit into on-farm food production, and contribute to biodiversity on and off the field.
Pure vegetable oil should replace fossil agricultural diesel for agricultural and forestry machinery.
- DIE LINKE advocates promoting environmentally friendly agriculture, organic farming, horticulture, forestry and fisheries and aquaculture, according to socio-ecological criteria and by supporting regional processing and marketing structures.
The preservation of biodiversity in nature and the diversity of species, breeds and varieties in agriculture are important to us.
The use of mineral fertilizers and pesticides is to be reduced.
At the same time, we advocate near-natural forest management at the federal, state and local levels.
That is why we want to ensure at the federal level that federal forests are managed ecologically on the basis of the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council).
- We want to ban agro-genetic engineering, bio-patents and bio-piracy.
Immediately, the Genetic Engineering Act, the EU approval procedure and the labeling regulations must be tightened.
We uphold zero tolerance for seeds and food and support GMO-free agriculture and food.
- We want to secure the right to freely reproduce seeds and oppose the market power of seed and genetic engineering corporations.
- DIE LINKE calls for soil-based and animal-friendly livestock farming.
Husbandry systems must be adapted to the animals.
Cruel practices in animal husbandry must be stopped and transports of live animals limited to a maximum of four hours.
The use of antibiotics should be reduced to the bare minimum and administered only in genuine cases of illness and not prophylactically.
In the case of new or unknown animal diseases, we want an emergency fund for affected farms.
The authorities must be better equipped in terms of funding and personnel to enforce animal protection laws.
- We want bee-friendly land use.
We want to protect bees and other insects from pesticides and genetically modified crops.
- Citizens as well as environmental, animal welfare and nature conservation associations are to be given comprehensive rights to information, participation and legal action.
- State quality controls in production, processing and trade are to be expanded to ensure that only high-quality raw materials, feed and foodstuffs that pose no health risks enter the market.
- We want to remove obstacles that stand in the way of even more successful development of agricultural cooperatives, especially since this legal form gives priority to people over capital and the cooperatives in the new federal states in particular manage a considerable portion of the land and ensure value creation, jobs and training positions.
- The available public funds of the EU (GAP), the federal and state governments (GAK) and the respective state should be allocated more purposefully for environmental and social services.
- Particularly in structurally weak rural regions, we want to combine the resources from the structural funds into regional budgets under the leadership of the EAFRD administration.
- Self-management and self-organization of the regions, producers and all those active on the ground are to be supported by bundling instruments and further developing LEADER principles and programs. -
We want to reform agricultural social insurance by transferring health, pension and accident insurance to the general statutory systems
and by abolishing the "farm surrender clause" in agricultural old-age insurance.
- We want to significantly strengthen agricultural research, especially in the public sector.
It is important for us to improve the coordination of agricultural research and teaching and to improve their links to practice.
Empower consumers
Transparency is not enough.
Self-regulation by industry is often self-deception.
We want to strengthen consumers' rights vis-à-vis companies.
This is not just about information rights, but also about enforcing clear legal requirements and regulations on companies and public control of markets: from safe food to telecommunications and the Internet, financial services, affordable housing, the supply of water and energy, and customer-friendly local and long-distance public transport.
DIE LINKE is particularly committed to consumers with low incomes.
Ecological and social policies belong together.
- Strengthening food controls under federal responsibility so that food scandals are not repeated.
To achieve this, the staff and equipment of the state food inspectorate must be significantly increased.
The costs of the control tasks should be co-financed by the food industry.
- Food, must be declared: Origin, content, ingredients, quantity, prices in writing that is also legible for older people.
- A clear nutritional labeling of food (traffic light).
- The results of hygiene inspections of restaurants must be made transparent.
- Better investor protection through a functioning banking supervisory authority and a financial MOT, so that "junk papers" no longer come onto the market.
- Overdraft and overdraft interest rates must be limited by law.
- We advocate an end to dubious and excessive debt collection practices.
- Unfair business practices and aggressive advertising practices must be effectively stopped.
Consumer protection is only effective if there are public institutions capable of taking action and strong, well-funded consumer organizations to enforce it.
To this end, the consumer centers must be given financial security and legally strengthened, for example, by introducing the right of associations to take legal action.
We finally need a strong consumer ministry and a consumer protection agency.
The collective representation of consumers' interests must be strengthened at all levels.
- We want a Consumer Information Act that provides information free of charge and is not limited to the food sector but covers all services.
- Consumers must have the opportunity to obtain information directly from the company about its products and their social and ecological production conditions.
Tourism: ecologically compatible and socially just
The social division of society excludes many people from tourism and thus from participation in opportunities for recreation, education, culture and experiencing nature.
We want all people to be able to participate in this.
The federal government should provide more funding for social, accessible tourism, especially for travel by children and young people, families and single parents with children, and people with disabilities.
Rural tourism should be expanded because, as a pillar of regional economic development, it also promotes ecologically sustainable social tourism.
Good training and good work must also be ensured in the tourism industry.
We want to prevent real estate prices in tourist hotspots from exploding further.
The construction of second homes in these regions must be limited.
Tourism is an important economic factor, which is mainly characterized by small and medium-sized enterprises and still belongs to the sectors with very many precarious working conditions and below-average wages.
By making a significant contribution to the gross domestic product, providing a large number of jobs and training places, promoting the cultural infrastructure in the regions and generating important revenues for local authorities, it is inextricably linked to the social and ecological transformation of work, the economy and society.
V. Democratic participation: for a democracy in which there is something to be decided
All people must participate in society, culture and education,
form their opinions free from state surveillance
and participate in the democratic process.
Those who have made the experience that there is nothing to decide, that all important questions have already been decided, withdraw from democracy.
Economic power entails democratic powerlessness.
That is why democracy must intervene in economic power.
We are currently experiencing the opposite.
European parliaments are being robbed of their influence in the course of crisis management.
Chancellor Merkel calls for a "democracy that conforms to the market".
Social inequality and the restriction of civil rights damage democracy.
We want to strike out on a new path.
Democracy means more than holding elections every four years or voting in parliament.
Democracy is the foundation of the polity.
This means that everyone participates equally effectively in decisions that are binding on all.
We want to strengthen the social conditions that are suitable and necessary for this,
protect civil rights
and advocate new forms of democratic participation.
Our goal is to promote a sustainable democratization of democracy, state, society and economy.
Misguided developments inside and outside parliament must be corrected, and new impetus must be given.
Political, social and cultural participation and the rights necessary for this must be universally guaranteed.
Social and democratic rights are indivisible.
Basic rights must apply equally to all citizens; they must not be restricted for the unemployed, those affected by Hartz IV, migrants or extra-parliamentary initiatives and movements.
Participation in elections and decision-making must be checked for obstacles at all levels and improved.
- DIE LINKE calls for a comprehensive reform of electoral law.
The five-percent blocking clause should be abolished.
We want the right to vote from the age of16. age and for all people who have lived here for five years.
We oppose excluding people who are under full care from voting.
We reject voting by means of voting computers.
- The accessibility of polling stations and voting processes is long overdue and must be guaranteed.
The self-evident right to vote must be preserved - regardless of health status - for people with and without disabilities.
- We want popular initiatives, referendums and plebiscites to finally be able to take place at the federal level as well, with low access hurdles and citizen-friendly voting conditions (street collection, postal voting, etc.).
In referendums, there shall be no subject exclusions, only the fundamental rights and principles guaranteed in the Basic Law (§§1-20) and the Budget Act shall be excluded as subjects of voting.
The expansion of co-determination rights also includes the introduction of referendums, i.e. citizens should be given the opportunity to veto parliamentary decisions.
- Comprehensive rights to information and disclosure should be introduced.
Legislation and government action are to be made transparent for citizens through Open Data.
We want the Freedom of Information Act to be further developed into a transparency law (modeled on the Hamburg state law of the same name) so that citizens do not have to apply for information first, but all federal authorities are obliged to publish official documents from the outset.
- We want to strengthen opposition rights in plenary sessions and committees in all parliaments.
Committee meetings shall in principle be open to the public.
Infrastructure and large-scale projects such as Stuttgart 21 or the nuclear waste storage facility in Gorleben have drawn criticism and protest.
Decisions by the ruling politicians were questionable and showed great deficiencies in democracy.
It is not just a matter of advance information and transparency, but of citizens having real influence on their affairs locally, in the states and at the federal and European level.
- We want to establish binding citizens' forums.
Planning approval procedures must be designed in such a way that everyone has sufficient time to inform themselves, to check whether their interests are being protected and to participate.
We reject any acceleration of the planning approval process at the expense of public participation procedures.
- Major economic, ecological and technical projects must be the subject of parliamentary deliberations at the federal, state and local levels, with all the information provided.
- The influence of lobbying on politics must be curbed.
Corruption and bribery, the granting of advantages, the acceptance of benefits, lack of transparency and party sponsorship must not be a means of exerting influence.
Laws must not be written by those who profit from them.
We want to make bribery of members of parliament a punishable offense.
We want to introduce a binding and transparent lobby register and advocate a
ban on the employment of lobbyists in federal ministries and - in the case of full-time parliaments - of members of parliament by companies and lobby organizations.
- We want to put a stop to the increasing mixing of political and economic interests:
DIE LINKE demands a waiting period of five years for federal ministers, parliamentary state secretaries and state secretaries who, after leaving office, move to companies with whose economic interests they were previously politically involved.
- The ancillary earnings of members of parliament are to be published in euros and cents.
We want to ban corporate donations to parties and party sponsorship, such as company stands at party conventions, and limit donations from private individuals to 25,000 euros. -
We need a democratization of the economy: In
companies, conditions are anything but democratic.
Co-determination rights at company and corporate level must be extended, and employees and society must participate in productive capital.
We need new structures - for example, in the form of sectoral councils - that guarantee society's democratic influence on economic activity and thus make the genuine socialization of certain sectors possible (see Chapter IV).
We demand the right to a general strike.
- We advocate for a nationwide registry of corrupt companies.
DIE LINKE promotes the idea of a new solidarity from below.
Democratizing democracy also means strengthening the influence of social classes that are not already privileged through education, income or access to the public sphere.
Resources must be made available publicly that enable broad sections of the population to also take advantage of democratic participation opportunities.
This concerns technical and spatial infrastructure, legal advice and financial resources.
DIE LINKE wants to strengthen the co-determination and participation interests of senior citizens.
Within the framework of a federal seniors' representation law, we advocate a stronger voice for older people in the political decision-making process at the federal, state, district and local levels.
We want to see the consistent implementation of the separation of powers:
introduce self-administration of the judiciary and strengthen the independence of the courts.
By European standards, Germany brings up the rear and has been called upon by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to follow the example of the vast majority of European states and introduce self-administration of the courts and public prosecutors through judicial councils in order to secure the structural independence of the judiciary.
- DIE LINKE therefore advocates the consistent implementation of the principle of separation of powers and the democratization of the judiciary at the federal and state levels.
The judicial councils to be formed shall be independent of party politics and exclusively committed to the implementation of the constitutional right to justice.
- Judges and public prosecutors are to be appointed exclusively by judicial selection committees instead of under the decisive influence of the ministers of justice, as has been the case to date.
It must be ensured that the selected candidates adequately represent all social strata.
Only a representative composition of the judiciary can guarantee that justice is actually dispensed in the name of the people.
Strengthening the rule of law also requires prosecutors to be as independent as judges.
Freedom and security: expanding civil rights
Fundamental and civil rights come under pressure time and again, even in parliamentary democracies.
They are relativized for economic reasons or sacrificed for security on the grounds of protecting freedom.
The freedom of assembly and the right of citizens to express their opinions in public are being massively restricted time and again.
Public space is subjected to permanent surveillance in the name of security, and employees in companies are often deprived of their personal rights through control and observation.
In order to protect private individuals' computers from searches by the state, the Federal Constitutional Court had to define a new fundamental right.
DIE LINKE fights for the defense and reinstatement of basic and civil rights.
- The right to petition must be further expanded as a civil right and an opportunity for political participation.
- The special political criminal law (§§129a and129b StGB) must be abolished; the general criminal laws are sufficient to fight crime.
- Democratic control of all federal security agencies, such as the Federal Criminal Police Office (BKA) and the Federal Police, must be strengthened through, among other things, mandatory identification of uniformed police officers and an independent ombudsman's office to investigate police misconduct.
Parliamentary control powers over the security authorities must be significantly expanded.
- We want to prevent or reverse the privatization of security through steward services, black sheriffs.
It is already difficult enough to monitor state security authorities, but it is impossible with private services.
- We want to safeguard the right to informational self-determination:
against data retention,
Inventory data information and online searches,
Non-individualized radio cell query,
Video, spying, eavesdropping and dragnet searches.
With regard to social media, civil rights must be renewed and secured.
This includes protection against bullying as well as the right to complete deletion of all stored data.
- The NSU scandal has shown that secret services do not protect democracy, but endanger it.
We defend democracy and therefore want to abolish the secret services including the Office for the Protection of the Constitution in favor of an independent observatory "Neo-Nazis, Racism, Anti-Semitism".
This also serves to protect the constitution.
- State and non-state civil organizations must not be further militarized.
We want to end civil-military cooperation (CMC) in favor of strengthening civil protection.
The existing ZMZ structures and the reserve force structures (RSUKr) that are currently being set up must be dissolved.
- DIE LINKE supports the protection of persons and structures that make critical publicity possible: so-called whistleblowers - whistleblowers about abuses in companies and public authorities - and platforms on the Internet where critical information can be published (leaking platforms).
In public spaces, we want to protect the safety of citizens through more personnel.
Keep your feet off the Nazis: Anti-fascism is democracy in action
Racism, nationalism, anti-Semitism, and a general ideology of human inequality are the hallmarks of the extreme right in all its shades.
Racism and anti-Semitism are deeply rooted in the center of society.
It is always representatives of the "center" who make racist outbursts and resentment socially acceptable.
While in the 1990s it was Interior Ministers Schäuble and Kanther who encouraged neo-fascist violence with their "the boat is full" rhetoric, today it is Federal Interior Minister Friedrich and several state ministers who incite against Roma and refugees.
Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 in the USA, people of the Muslim faith have often been under general suspicion of terrorist activities, which has led to structural Islamophobia.
We seek dialogue with Muslim and Jewish communities and associations and stand together against anti-Muslim racism and anti-Semitism.
Racist attitudes are also directly and indirectly legitimized in the population through laws, regulations and official actions such as "racial/ethnic profiling" by police authorities;
with negative consequences for coexistence throughout society.
Social exclusion and the disprotection of living conditions are also the breeding ground on which fascist politics can grow.
An effective policy, on the other hand, must start with these foundations: Reducing precariousness,
promoting the democratization of society
and creating social security.
Especially in times of crisis, right-wing groups try to capitalize on this development.
A strong LEFT, as a look at the situation in other European countries shows, can be a barrier against the growth of anti-democratic, nationalist and racist tendencies.
As part of democratic society, DIE LINKE also stands against ideologies of inequality, any form of racism, anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, hostility to democracy and neo-fascism.
The series of murders and terrorist attacks by the "National Socialist Underground" has clearly shown the deadly danger from the right - supported by the secret services.
It is also reflected in nearly 1,000 right-wing violent acts a year and more than160 deaths from right-wing and racist violence since 1990, of which state statistics only acknowledge a scant third at all.
DIE LINKE demands a systematic recording of crimes with a racist, anti-Semitic or Islamophobic background.
Without a broad social commitment against the right - together with all democratic forces prepared to do so - the fight against the Nazis in defense of the democratic constitutional state and against all ideologies of inequality cannot be won.
That is why DIE LINKE is committed to ensuring that this anti-fascist commitment is recognized and promoted.
DIE LINKE demands the recording of Islamophobic crimes within the framework of the Criminal Police Reporting Service - Politically Motivated Crime (KPMD-PMK) in order to make the full extent of Muslimophobic hate crime clear.
- Federal programs against the right must be funded permanently and comprehensively, and all obstacles to the programs (e.g., the extremism clause) must be removed.
DIE LINKE is also committed to a culture of anti-fascist remembrance.
- Groups and individuals who oppose right-wing extremist and racist efforts must not be discriminated against by state authorities and persecuted under pretext by the law and the police.
In view of the large number of cases in which those who critically observe, publicly address and protest against neo-fascist activities have been prosecuted by the police, we want to establish a nationwide ombudsman office.
- DIE LINKE demands a ban on the NPD and all other neo-fascist organizations.
It will not solve the problem of right-wing extremism and racism on its own, but it stands for social ostracism and prevents state support for the structures of the extreme right.
- DIE LINKE will campaign for an anti-fascist clause in the Basic Law.
- DIE LINKE will block Nazi marches on streets and squares together in broad alliances.
Democracy for all who live here. Equal rights for migrants
DIE LINKE stands up for a cosmopolitan society, for respectful social coexistence in recognition of the diversity of all people.
This requires equal rights to social and political participation for all people living in Germany.
Racist discrimination and social exclusion policies, as well as a socially and ethnically selective education system, have led to an increase and entrenchment of poverty, especially among migrants.
15.9 million people in Germany have a migration background, the majority of whom are German nationals.
They are almost twice as likely to be unemployed, and their risk of poverty is three times higher than that of the rest of the population.
This discrimination is due to the antisocial and exclusionary policies of previous federal governments.
DIE LINKE rejects a migration and integration policy that grants rights according to whether people are considered "useful" for capital:
Quotas, quotas and points systems are instruments of a neocolonial, selective immigration policy.
We do not need tighter residence laws and racist debates about alleged integration refuseniks.
DIE LINKE demands: All children and young people born here should have a right to German citizenship - without having to reject the citizenship of their parents.
What is needed, on the other hand, are targeted support services and a consistent anti-discrimination policy.
We want to eliminate structural disadvantages and barriers in access to education and training, the labor market and social services.
- Furthermore, DIE LINKE demands easier naturalization opportunities for migrants living in Germany.
We want to enable multiple citizenships.
The option obligation must be abolished.
Naturalization that is not dependent on income and low fees are also necessary.
- We want voting rights for migrants living in Germany at the federal, state and local levels so that they can help shape society on an equal footing.
- We want an improvement and expansion of integration and language courses based on voluntary participation.
The employment situation and remuneration of teachers must be fundamentally structured in such a way as to ensure good working conditions, secure employment relationships and fair wages.
- The family reunification of children, spouses and (same-sex) partners must not be hindered.
We want to abolish the discriminatory German tests for spousal reunification and in the right of residence.
- The right of residence of migrants/refugees must not be made dependent on family status or economic and social circumstances as well as German language skills.
- DIE LINKE demands comprehensive visa liberalization or, if possible, the abolition of visa requirements.
We demand open borders for all people.
- Discrimination against Turkish nationals, which is contrary to European law, must be ended and their rights under the EU-Turkey Association Agreement must be fully respected.
- Qualifications acquired abroad must be recognized.
Align policies for minorities with European standards
For the Danes, Frisians, Sinti and Roma as well as the Sorbs/Wends, who have been at home in Germany for centuries, the standards of the European minority agreements must be comprehensively applied.
The Federal Republic must finally draw the necessary conclusions from the Council of Europe's repeated criticism.
Structural changes are necessary.
Institutions and projects for the preservation, maintenance and development of the recognized minority languages and cultures shall be provided by the Federal Government and the Länder with the means corresponding to the increased tasks in the fields of education, science and basic and advanced culture.
Media in minority languages must continue to be able to make their contribution to the preservation and further development of the languages.
The undignified public discussions about the level of funding for minority policy must be a thing of the past.
There must be an end to the situation in which minorities have to repeatedly demand their vested rights from a "supplicant role"; the
rights of their democratically legitimized bodies vis-à-vis state and municipal authorities, including the German Bundestag, must be expanded.
Expanding the right to asylum, shaping European refugee protection in a spirit of solidarity
Asylum law is repeatedly targeted by right-wing campaigns.
Accusations of refugee fraud and abuse reach far into the bourgeois center.
In recent years, such campaigns have particularly targeted Roma from the successor states of Yugoslavia and from Romania, who sought protection in Germany from massive discrimination.
In a logic of deterrence, those seeking protection in Germany are subjected to a discriminatory and exclusionary regime of harassment.
Legal protection in the asylum process is undermined in many ways.
At the same time, the EU is establishing a civilian-military isolation regime at its external borders, which also includes authoritarian regimes and states without a functioning asylum system on the periphery of the EU.
- Arms-exporting countries, such as Germany, share responsibility for the wars and the resulting hunger and flight of people around the world.
Therefore we demand a humane refugee policy on German and European level,
the end of all wars as
well as a solidary economic, resource and trade policy to fight poverty and hunger.
- An end to the harassment of refugees!
The Asylum Seekers' Benefits Act, the residence obligation and the accommodation in collective camps must be abolished immediately.
Asylum seekers have the same right to work, the same basic security and health care.
Gender-specific causes of flight must be fully recognized as grounds for asylum.
Traumatized refugees must receive psychotherapeutic care in their native language.
- We want a right to stay for all people with uncertain residence status who have been living in Germany for more than five years.
The substance of the fundamental right to asylum (Article 16a of the Basic Law) must be restored (see Chapter II).
We want to end so-called chain tolerations, which have to be applied for annually, in favor of secure residence rights.
- The EU protection agency Frontex must be abolished.
We advocate for a fair and solidarity-based system of refugee reception in the EU.
Europe's borders must be open to people seeking protection.
Self-determined and in the middle: an inclusive society without barriers
Almost ten million people with recognized disabilities live in the Federal Republic.
More and more people are also "acquiring" a disability: through poor working conditions, stress and social pressure.
Lack of investment in the municipalities, cuts in benefits and the segregation of people on the basis of their impairment limit the options for shaping a self-determined life.
Instead of full participation in society and self-determination, people with disabilities often experience inaccessibility to public spaces, schools, medical practices and transportation, information and communication systems, exclusion in special schools and homes, and discrimination in a variety of life situations.
All people must be appreciated and supported with their possibilities as full citizens, must not be reduced to people with deficiencies and patronized - this is what the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities stipulates, and this is the basis of LEFT politics.
This requires a new way of thinking and acting on the part of those with political responsibility, citizens and those affected themselves.
We want to drive this forward together with those affected and associations:
from a more effective anti-discrimination law to barrier-free living and voting,
good work for people with disabilities,
Self-determined forms of living
all the way to a non-violent psychiatry.
All laws and regulations must therefore be reviewed on the basis of the UN Disability Rights Convention.
- The National Action Plan for the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is to be updated and concretized with the actual participation of those affected and their interest groups.
Verifiable targets, implementation deadlines and sufficient funding are essential - human rights must not be made subject to costs.
We are committed to supporting people with disabilities and their advocacy groups.
This includes, for example, the promotion of independent counseling, the support of associations of affected persons, and the strengthening of the rights of works and staff councils, representatives of the severely disabled, and workshop councils and women's representatives in facilities for the disabled.
- Existing structural and communication barriers must be removed.
To this end, we want to launch a special investment program worth one billion euros a year over a period of five years.
In the future, public investments and subsidies should also be tied to the criterion of accessibility.
- Barrier-free mobility is good for everyone - for this, barrier-free means of transport, sufficient space and an escort service are essential.
- For the severely disabled or sick who cannot use public transportation, a free individual kilometer quota for disabled travel should be available to enable participation in public life.
- The necessary framework conditions and financial resources must be provided to ensure the right to inclusive education in all educational pathways and institutions throughout life.
- In order to compensate for handicap-related disadvantages, e.g. through special aids, personal assistance or construction measures, there is a need for a uniform federal Participation Guarantee Act.
The benefits are to be provided without income and asset checks to cover needs
and guarantee good, collectively agreed working conditions for the assistants.
- To realize the right to good work for people with disabilities, we want to raise the minimum employment rate to six percent and at least triple the compensatory levy in the event of non-compliance.
The special status of workshop employees must be abolished,
their rights as employees strengthened
and equal pay for equal work enforced.
- Legal discrimination, in particular via special psychiatric laws and compulsory powers under medical or care law, must be abolished.
For a modern drug policy: Counteracting criminalization and exclusion
A fundamental rethink is needed in drug policy.
The criminalization of users to date does not effectively limit the availability and use of drugs, but forces users into the illegal market.
This promotes organized crime with devastating consequences in Germany, but also in the countries of cultivation and transit.
The goal of left-wing drug policy is to reduce drug-related problems and to create framework conditions for responsible use of intoxicants.
DIE LINKE is committed to a society that does not rely on punishment and repression against drug users, but rather uses prevention and education to prevent drug abuse and help addicts.
Problem drug use is often related to the specific circumstances of people's lives.
Effective drug prevention is therefore part of a policy that ensures healthy and fair living conditions, strengthens people's resources and enables them to shape their lives in a self-determined way.
- Need-oriented offers of psychosocial support and care for drug addicts on a voluntary basis must be available nationwide.
- We want to improve the possibilities for substitution therapy by creating legal certainty for doctors and making it easier to hand out substitute drugs.
Treatment with diamorphine, a synthetic heroin, must be made possible across the board.
- In order to reduce the health risks for consumers, we want to enable drug-checking services to test the contamination of drugs and make clean injecting equipment available free of charge to high-risk groups.
- DIE LINKE is in favor of finally implementing the internationally agreed ban on advertising tobacco products in billboard and cinema advertising and also applying it to sponsorship.
- DIE LINKE is in favor of permitting the cultivation of cannabis for personal use and of allowing cannabis clubs on a non-commercial basis.
The protection of minors and a corresponding ban on advertising must be ensured.
We want to facilitate the possibilities of using and researching cannabis as a medicine.
- DIE LINKE advocates nationally uniform, scientifically proven limits - especially for the cannabis active ingredient THC - in road traffic, which comprehensibly defines an acute inability to drive.
- We want to reduce the dangers of gambling addiction.
DIE LINKE is committed to ensuring that slot machines have fewer addictive properties and that consistent protection of gamblers and minors is enforced in gaming arcades
- in catering establishments, we advocate a ban on slot machines.
- We advocate an unbiased scientific evaluation of current drug policies.
In addition to experts, representatives of those affected should also be involved and international experience should be taken into account.
- We demand that drug support structures be enabled to react quickly and flexibly to changes, for example in the area of new substances and changed patterns and forms of use.
- We want to regulate the drug market in order to remove it from the reach of organized crime and reduce the disastrous consequences of the drug war in countries of cultivation and transit.
In order to achieve a rethinking of drug policy at the international level as well, we call on the German government to influence the United Nations Convention on Narcotic Drugs and the European Union's drug strategy toward a humane and enlightened drug policy.
Right to take time off: enjoying free time
Free time is unequally distributed, between genders, classes, occupational groups.
For many people, gainful employment is stretching them further and further, or the stresses are increasing to the point that free time is occupied primarily with restoring the ability to work.
Women still spend more time on household chores, cooking, cleaning and caring for children.
For people with low incomes, many opportunities to enjoy free time are blocked by hurdles:: Entrance fees, expensive equipment and accessories that would be needed for sports and hobbies.
We want everyone to be able to enjoy free time equally and open up access to a variety of leisure and cultural activities
- a question of democracy.
Having time to relax, unwind, pursue issues and interests - how accessible these opportunities are, how democratic free time is, depends on policy design.
Reading, going to a rock concert, surfing the Internet, going for a run or to the gym, watching TV, going to the movies, swimming, going to the library or listening to the radio.
DIE LINKE is committed to ensuring that everyone can make use of this diversity in a self-determined way.
Diversity also needs spaces to try things out and discover, so that everyone can find out what they want and are capable of.
In order to discover and promote talents as well as cultural traditions, music lessons, theater subscriptions, materials for sculpture, painting or rehearsal rooms, and sports fields are needed.
This is not a question of taste, but of left-wing politics.
- With publicly funded employment, we want to create meaningful and additional jobs that are covered by collective agreements, especially in the areas of social services, culture and ecology, and which must not be below the minimum wage.
- For us, public youth clubs, cultural institutions, libraries and much more are components of a basic provision of public services that we want to organize publicly and equip adequately.
To achieve this, the financial resources of the municipalities must be significantly improved.
We want to improve the conditions of access to sports for all.
Being able to play sports should not depend on income and social status.
We promote disabled-friendly, inclusive, nature-friendly and environmentally friendly sport.
- We want to relaunch the sports facility funding program for the renovation and construction of sports facilities for mass sports.
Fans and active members of clubs should be more involved in the design of sports facilities.
- We want to create publicly financed employment in the area of mass sports.
- We see this type of mass sport as the basis for de-commercialized competitive sport.
Competitive sports should be possible in all sports, regardless of sponsorship.
- Bureaucratic hurdles to voluntary involvement in mass sports are to be removed.
- Funding for fan projects, initiatives and projects against right-wing extremism, discrimination and violence should be increased and made permanent.
- We oppose blanket suspicions and surveillance of fans of certain clubs or sports.
We want to improve the participation of fans in club decisions.
- All people with disabilities must be able to participate fully in sports.
Democratization of the media: information and self-determination
A democratic society needs a lively public sphere and the polyphony of discussion.
In this, the media contribute to comprehensive information as well as to the formation of opinion and will - if plurality is established and secured.
The fact that media are commercialized and shaped by power relationships weakens democracy.
Public media should counterbalance this, but they themselves often focus on quotas or come under pressure from partisan majorities on the broadcasting council.
Critical reporting and quality journalism - and thus the provision of information to the population - are thus made more difficult.
For journalists in the private print media, the opinion corridor is becoming narrow:
Their jobs depend on profits and advertising revenues.
Without public support and control, there is a danger that the media themselves will contribute to endangering democracy.
We want to defend high-quality radio and television broadcasts against the pressures of commercialization.
We advocate safeguarding the interests of all those who are dependent and often precariously employed in the media and film industry.
- We want to create good working conditions for media and filmmakers: "Fair Work" in media production.
- We stand up for the guarantee of freedom of communication and media:
To this end, we want to shape a democratic media order in traditional and digital media.
We want to reform public broadcasting and democratize and quota the broadcasting councils.
Editorial statutes should enshrine a high level of employee co-determination.
- Antitrust laws must be tightened to curb media concentration.
- The public orientation of journalism must be reorganized - via alternative financing models, user co-determination in program content and remuneration approaches oriented to the common good.
- We want to comprehensively strengthen media competence and media education: in preschool education, in schools and lessons, in civil society projects and in the world of work.
- We advocate reform of the broadcasting fee introduced on January 1, 2013.
Social injustices and unlawful interference with citizens' right to informational self-determination must be eliminated.
We don't want residents of nursing homes and dachas, the blind and the hearing-impaired to pay while the hotel lobby has secured perks.
- Accessibility in the media and the representation of disabled people's associations on broadcasting councils will continue to be important issues for us in the future.
For an open and free internet: fighting digital divides
The Internet has changed the way people produce, communicate and deal with information.
The network can enable solidarity-based action and new social economies; we want to promote these tendencies and expand opportunities for political participation.
But there are also many dangers: Commercial social media are removed from democratic control, and their data collections endanger informational self-determination.
Business interests threaten the neutrality and equal treatment of all users.
Government surveillance is on the rise.
For DIE LINKE, network policy is social policy.
We want the Internet to remain open as a space for social innovation.
Knowledge should be allowed to continue to be used productively.
This must be reconciled with the right of creators of intellectual works to receive adequate payment.
We want to regulate these issues in a modern patent and copyright law.
The private-sector appropriation of knowledge in the form of copyrights and patent rights must not become a barrier to economic or cultural development.
- We call for a reform of copyright contract law so that creative people can effectively assert their claims to appropriate remuneration.
We advocate new licensing and remuneration models (Creative Commons, Kulturwertmark, crowdfunding)
as well as a comprehensive reform of collecting societies.
- We want to reverse the extension of copyright protection periods and create the basis for fair, non-commercial usage options.
We reject the criminalization of entire user groups.
We want to stop the excessive and massive use of warning letters against citizens for alleged copyright infringements by limiting warning letters to commercial abuse and actual infringements and capping attorney fees.
Non-commercial acts of use in file-sharing networks are to be permitted.
We demand a right to resell digital cultural assets.
We reject a performance protection right for press publishers.
We see access to the Internet as part of the socio-cultural minimum subsistence level and the provision of services of general interest.
In the short term, we want to technically secure egalitarian access to the network and anchor it in law:
- Securing network neutrality is - like the supply of water and electricity - an important infrastructural task that must not be left to market control.
- The telecommunications networks should therefore be transferred to public and public service ownership.
- We want to prevent censorship and network blocks.
We want to stop the privatization of law enforcement on the network
and prevent deep packet inspection, i.e., looking into data packets by network operators and providers or government agencies.
We want to unleash the democratic and social potential that the digital revolution makes possible:
- We advocate the comprehensive use of "open data" in which personal rights are preserved.
Data from administrations, public authorities and public companies should be made available on the Internet under free licenses and in machine-readable form.
We want to strengthen data privacy and preserve the right to anonymity online:
- The ability to use services and applications must not depend on consent to data collection or disclosure.
We advocate privacy-friendly technology ("Privacy by Design"), data-saving basic settings ("Privacy by Default") for web services, smartphones, tablet computers and apps, and the right to take one's own data with them (data portability) or to delete it.
- We want to ban digital dragnet searches and data retention.
- Software and devices that can be used to track Internet users and set up Internet blocks must not be exported.
A clear separation must be ensured between the police and intelligence services.
We want equal access to the network for all people.
This requires nationwide broadband coverage, especially in structurally weak regions
and for all those who are socially and culturally disadvantaged.
- We want to include broadband Internet connections in the statutory universal service and stipulate a minimum bandwidth of initially 10 Mbit/s in law and adjust this minimum bandwidth to technical standards at regular intervals.
We also want to support local authorities and free radio initiatives so that they can set up free and autonomous radio networks.
The so-called "Stoererhaftung" (interference liability) must be changed to allow Internet connections to be shared with others at any time. -
We want to end the exclusion of socially disadvantaged people from digital communication,
recognize Internet-enabled devices as part of the socio-cultural minimum subsistence level, and
make information and participation offerings barrier-free.
In the long term, we want to establish new models for financing creative works.
We want to promote free software and open technologies and evaluate how to expand the use of free software in public administrations and support independent bloggers and innovative online platforms.
If digital media content and new formats are promoted in the public interest, they must be made freely available on a permanent basis.
Poor working conditions, unfair wages, ecologically and health-wise intolerable conditions in IT supply and production companies, in the extraction and processing of indispensable metals and rare earths must come to an end.
That's why we campaign internationally for fair work in the IT industry.
Realize freedom of confession, treat religious communities equally, separate state and church institutionally
DIE LINKE defends the right of all people to profess a worldview or religion.
It advocates the protection of ideological and religious minorities, the
institutional separation of church and state
, and the abolition of military chaplaincy.
- Fundamental rights and employee rights must also apply in churches and religious communities and in their institutions, including the right to strike and the Works Constitution Act.
- Discrimination by church employers against employees on the basis of their circumstances or their religious or denominational affiliation in areas that do not directly serve the practice of religion must be prevented by law.
- We do not want to give preferential treatment to church organizations over public organizations when awarding sponsorship, e.g. for daycare centers.
- Schools should impart knowledge about religions and promote mutual tolerance among religious communities.
Teaching is to be provided within the framework of the state's educational mandate by state-recognized teachers, independent of ecclesiastical or religious-political influence.
School prayer, school worship and religious symbols such as the crucifix are to be removed from state schools.
- Constitutions must not have any religious references.
Special religious regulations such as the blasphemy law (§166 of the German Penal Code) and the laws on public holidays must be examined to determine to what extent they are necessary to protect the religious sensibilities of members of the various religious communities.
- We want to finally implement the constitutional mandate that has existed since 1919 to replace state payments to the churches.
- The church tax must be abolished.
The religious communities themselves are to be exclusively responsible for the levying and collection of membership fees and, associated with this, for membership administration per se.
A survey of religious affiliation by the registration offices thus becomes superfluous and can be omitted.
VI Changing the country together
Our program for the election and the policy of the next legislature consists of a variety of proposals and projects.
They are related to our idea of an alternative based on solidarity, democratic socialism.
We are fighting for a society in which the self-evident should once again apply: that no one should have to live in poverty,
everyone can make a good living from work,
the standard of living in old age is secured,
that wealth should not remain in the hands of a few, but should be invested in society for the benefit of all,
that the following applies to foreign policy: Never again war.
Today, these simple things have to be fought for anew.
The fact that these demands belong together is at the core of LEFT politics.
Old-age poverty cannot be combated if pension levels are not increased and low wages are eliminated.
Low wages cannot be combated unless Hartz IV sanctions are dropped
and everyone is entitled to a minimum wage that really protects against poverty.
Those who do not want to redistribute wealth and go easy on the rich cannot pay for the change in policy - and are already preparing, unfortunately, not to be able to keep the promises made during the election campaign.
DIE LINKE puts its finger in the wounds.
We give a voice to those who cannot find a lobby in big politics.
We put on the pressure and don't let up:
we show how it could be done.
It often looks as if society and politics are only made in parliament and on television.
But social and democratic improvements are only achieved in close cooperation between extra-parliamentary, social movements and left-wing forces in parliament - and against resistance.
From these struggles comes self-confidence, strength and social pressure.
DIE LINKE and the Left are on board.
Our politics of resistance is colorful, radical and imaginative.
We make connections.
What we care about is what we change together.
The horizon is open, we can shape it together.
Fair for all.
