RENEWAL AND COHESION -
WE IN GERMANY
PREAMBLE
With our centrist policy, we have begun the renewal process in Germany:
And we want to continue it
and secure cohesion.
These four years have been worthwhile for our country.
The reform backlog has been cleared.
Germany is on the move.
Our country has become more economically robust, modern, fair and open to the world.
The standstill has been overcome.
This policy of social
and ecological modernization remains correct.
Because the challenges of today and tomorrow cannot be mastered with recipes from yesterday and the day before.
Germany needs the politics of renewal and cohesion.
This is our middle-of-the-road policy.
We had innovation.
and justice promised
We have kept our word.
This also applies to the future.
We say what we do and we do what we say.
That is why we do not make unfulfillable promises.
Some desirable things are not feasible, at least not immediately.
We have called for security in change and security through change, and this remains the orientation for our policies:
We want to do justice to Germany's role in Europe and in the world,
we want to sustainably develop the proven welfare state model,
secure prosperity
, achieve employment for all, and
guarantee a healthy environment.
And we want to enable a living democracy, with a free and open culture.
The direction is right.
We will continue along the path.
Germany is a strong country, it has all the opportunities.
Confidence in Chancellor Gerhard Schröder
As Chancellor, Gerhard Schröder successfully led Germany into the new century with new political ideas and a new political style.
He has been passionate about the cause and measured in his responsibilities.
Gerhard Schröder seeks social consensus and he leads decisively.
It gives courage and confidence that the future can be shaped.
He shows that he likes life.
He faces challenges.
Gerhard Schröder is doing a good job for our country.
He enjoys trust.
And there is still a lot to do.
Gerhard Schröder must remain Chancellor of our country.
German Social Democracy in the Middle of Society
We live in times of change.
The challenges of today and tomorrow cannot be mastered with yesterday's recipes.
Over the past four years, we have begun to unwind the reform backlog.
We will continue this policy of social modernization.
People demand orientation and security in times of change.
Therefore, the federal election will also be a decision about the shape of our society at the beginning of the 21st century.
It is about fundamental alternatives:
about sensible rules for the globalization of the economy or markets left to their own devices; about
social cohesion or polarization of society; about a
modern family policy or a return to the exclusion of women from the workforce; about
liberal and cosmopolitan policies or nationalistic narrow-mindedness; about
consolidation of public budgets or bad checks on the future;
about priority for qualification and activation for the labor market or mere administration of unemployment.
Germany continues to need the courage to change and renew.
We want to continue to bear political responsibility for this in Germany in the coming period.
For a social
and democratic policy.
Renewal
Investments in education and research are increasing significantly.
If you want to reap tomorrow, you have to sow today.
We don't just think from election day to election day.
We focus on sustainability.
That is why the consolidation of public finances has such great weight in our policy;
the march into the debt state has ended.
No new debt will be added from 2006.
The JUMP program for the young who need training
and the state-subsidized funded pension plan - these are examples of successful renewal.
They point to the future.
The intergenerational contract applies.
It is important to ensure, without bureaucracy, that qualified and targeted placements are made in good time.
With the Job AQTIV Act and the reorganization of the Federal Labor Office, we have increasingly involved the labor market in renewal.
We have embarked on an energy policy that - on the basis of a resilient energy mix - takes greater account of renewable energies,
exploits savings potential
and pushes through the phase-out of nuclear energy.
We have taken significant steps toward achieving equality between men and women at work and in society.
We want to continue on this path.
And we have put the family at the center of politics, materially and ideally.
After all, family is important for children's development opportunities.
Now the priority is the care of school-age children.
All-day schools and their expansion are of great importance - also for the compatibility of family and career.
In the interest of mothers and in the interest of our national economy, which depends on the knowledge and creativity of women.
Cohesion
The tax reform lowers the initial tax rate from 25.9% in 1998 to 15% in 2005 and significantly raises the basic tax-free allowance.
The next tax cut takes place in 2003.
This applies equally to all income groups up to the top tax rate.
This also helps small and medium-sized enterprises.
As a result of our comprehensive tax reforms from 1998 to 2005, a total of around €41 billion more remains in private accounts and does not go to the tax office.
Continued payment of wages in the event of illness
and general protection against dismissal were reintroduced,
and co-determination in the workplace was expanded.
Employers and employees should meet on an equal footing.
Also in the future.
A major achievement of this legislative period is the new law for people with disabilities, a step forward that was long overdue.
But in practice, there is still a lot to do here as well.
The recognition of same-sex partnerships that we have regulated by law implements what has long been accepted in social reality.
The conservatives were incapable of doing this.
The new citizenship law and now the immigration law provide clarity and controllability where for decades reality was disregarded and suppressed.
This is where the political maturity of our democracy will have to prove itself.
CDU and CSU - always against
Most of these initiatives for renewal and cohesion had to be pushed through against often massive resistance from the CDU and CSU.
Without our policies since 1998, Germany would be less modern, less social and less liberal today.
Employment - Task No. 1
Work for all is and remains the central goal of our policy.
We have made progress in combating unemployment, from an annual average of 4,279,200 in 1998 to 3,851,636 in 2001. The
number of people in employment increased by 1.2 million.
But that is not enough.
External influences slowed down the initially rapid progress.
We are not resigned to unemployment.
The economic upswing worldwide and also in Germany will secure employment and create new jobs.
An aggressive SME and start-up policy means additional employment.
On the labor market itself, the high demand and considerable supply for targeted qualifications must be met.
and targeted placement.
The trend into illegal employment must be broken and reversed.
The Alliance for Jobs, Training and Competitiveness remains an indispensable platform in the joint efforts of all social forces to create employment.
Reconstruction East - The Second Half of the Road
It is to the credit of the Gerhard Schröder government that it has reordered priorities, increased investment, developed growth cores, strengthened the regions in their own right and honestly named the realities.
The Solidarity Pact II, which secures financial solidarity for the eastern German states until 2019 and offers a reliable perspective for reconstruction, demonstrates two things
: We are building concretely.
Half of the way is done.
We are ready for great further efforts.
The reconstruction of eastern Germany is also a prerequisite for prosperity throughout Germany, for a strong economy, strong regions and good prospects for life.
Germany's role in Europe and the world
The world is in a time of great change, with profound consequences for our country as well.
The return of civil war and genocide in southeastern Europe, right on our doorstep, and the horrific events of September 11, 2001 in the United States have brought home to us our security responsibilities in the international community.
We have assumed responsibility within the scope of our forces
and are helping politically-diplomatically,
humanitarianly
and also with the deployment of the Bundeswehr.
It's about stopping violence, fighting terrorism.
We want to contribute to a peace policy that prevents conflicts and war.
In doing so, the priority for the opportunities of foreign policy and economic cooperation policy remains.
Germany has become a natural equal partner in international politics.
Germany in Europe
Peoples at odds for centuries have joined together in peace to form a community.
A continent with a great history and with significant potentials combines its knowledge and forces for the benefit of all.
It's worth making a commitment to Europe.
Yet we know: The smaller the world, the more necessary the European Union.
The epochal changes and the developments of the world economy in general require - also for the benefit of our own country - a united and peaceful and economically strong Europe.
In doing so, we make sure that the European and, above all, the German idea and tradition of the social market economy and the welfare state remain alive and that social orders do not prevail which, under the pretext of absolute freedom, implement the principle of the power of the strongest without restraint.
Freedom and security
We promote individuality as a condition and expression of freedom.
Individuality gives the chance to choose one's own path and way of life and to act on one's own responsibility.
Personal responsibility and social cohesion are mutually dependent.
Our centrist policy expands the scope for freedom and encourages action in solidarity.
The state retains its role of setting rules and ensuring security in change and through change.
This applies to social
security, but also to internal security,
protection against violence
and protection of property, the
fight against white-collar crime
and corruption
, the prohibition of right-wing extremism.
We prevent crime, but we also fight it vigorously, at home
and in the international community.
The state
In this world of change, the tasks of the state must also be reviewed.
We do this without bias.
On a large scale as well as on a small scale.
We respect the principle of subsidiarity
and promote the idea of civil society.
The tasks that can be performed locally, by social groups and by individuals on their own responsibility, should not be regulated by the state.
Accordingly, however, claims on the state that overburden it must also be withdrawn.
We see the state as a partner in a free civil society.
But we also see and affirm the responsibility of the state.
We are committed to this responsibility of politics.
The state must lay foundations and determine guidelines and make decisions for a humane society.
Only the state can do that.
We reject the ideology of total denationalization.
The state must not be a mere repair store for conflicting interests that remain unresolved in civil society.
The state has a steering function.
Politics of the center
We are concerned with value-oriented policies that combine freedom, justice and solidarity - that is centrist politics.
Ensuring equal opportunities for all is as much a part of this policy as recognizing people's diverse abilities and interests.
For us, justice means allowing everyone to share in the opportunities of our society in a fair way.
And to encourage them to be innovative and confident in their ability to shape the future.
Such reform policies depend on broad social support.
Not all decisions are comfortable, but they lead to a good future and have an effect far beyond the phase of one legislature.
We invite all forces in society, every woman, every man and especially the youth, to join us in realizing our pragmatic vision for a modern and just Germany.
In coalition with the citizens, we will ensure that Germany moves forward.
We in Germany!
POLICY MUST BE SUSTAINABLE
Politics needs long lines and a view beyond the next legislative period.
Mountains of debt
and mountains of waste
are as irresponsible as research gaps
and maintenance gaps.
Whoever eats the seed cannot harvest tomorrow.
In the political debate, sustainability is primarily associated with consistent environmental protection.
With the claim, therefore, to protect air and water and soil and, above all, people.
We strongly support this goal of sustainable environmental protection.
So that natural disasters caused by humans do not destroy the habitat tomorrow or someday.
Ecological modernization brings together work and the environment.
But sustainable policies in this sense are also necessary:
for the lasting stability of prosperity,
for the long-term functioning of social security systems,
for safeguarding freedom
and peace.
Many of the decisions being made now will have an impact far into this decade and beyond.
With our special commitment to education and research,
our supplementary pension scheme
, and our humanitarian
and peacekeeping efforts worldwide, we have set good examples of sustainable policy.
The idea of the generation contract has proven its worth.
It remains valid, supplemented by the growing certainty that it also has a significant international connection.
We represent the interests of the people today and the interests of our country.
For this very reason, however, we also consider and take into account the interests of future generations
and other countries.
Our policy has a future.
1. Germany's role in Europe and the world
- Assume responsibility
Germany's role in the world has changed.
Our voice has gained weight.
Our advice and help are needed.
The international community is counting on Germany, and it can rely on Germany.
We have made a decisive contribution to this with our policy.
Because we share responsibility for common security in our one world, we have gradually developed foreign policy, economic cooperation policy and security policy.
We want to continue this process and strengthen it worldwide through the application of common legal principles.
Our goal is to secure peace worldwide.
Conflicting interests must be reconciled peacefully.
With us, aggression will never come from Germany.
But the reality of the world is not only peaceful.
Our task today is to prevent conflicts and curb violence.
We are committed to an active peace policy.
Our role in this policy stems from Germany's geographic and political position in the heart of Europe
, our membership in the European Union,
the United Nations
and as a partner in the Atlantic Alliance.
Our peace policy is determined by our values and beliefs
and our national interests.
Whether in the Balkans, in the reorganization and reconstruction of Afghanistan, in the resolution of regional conflicts or in the fight against international terrorism - since 1998, Germany has also faced increased security policy challenges and has lived up to its international responsibilities.
And we do so in a way that corresponds to our self-image and that our partners and the international community can expect from us.
With state unity we have not only regained our national sovereignty in full, but at the same time the right and duty to international solidarity.
We have become a normal European country.
We stand by the deployment of our soldiers internationally, where it is legitimized by resolutions of the United Nations and the German Bundestag and is accountable to the soldiers.
One must not shirk one's responsibility when genocide or the escalation of violent conflicts threaten or happen.
This is also a lesson from our own history.
Strengthening the United Nations
Peace
and worldwide respect for human rights are our goal.
The way to achieve this is through increased cooperation,
active assistance in economic development
and a common system of security and justice.
We not only have markets to offer people - but also opportunities and solidarity.
The United Nations is indispensable for cooperation in this world.
The majority of the 189 member states of the United Nations have no other body to represent their interests.
Strengthening the United Nations and giving it better and expanded working opportunities through more rights and internal reform therefore remains our goal.
Germany is ready to become even more involved in the United Nations.
The requirements for safety have become more diverse, more complex and less predictable.
Today, Germany is a partner for security and stability in Europe and the world
and pursues a consistent policy of balancing interests and multilateralism.
We will continue to advance an active peace and security policy that
- places prevention at the center of foreign, development and security policy, as was successfully done in Macedonia, -
recognizes the indivisibility of security, and
- relies on cooperation across national and regional borders.
Prevention requires support for political conflict resolution in the regions,
for arms control,
disarmament and confidence building,
for economic development, for
social balance.
A comprehensive and effective peace policy also requires the availability of effective military capabilities.
At the beginning of the 21st century, the Bundeswehr's contribution to such a peacekeeping policy has become even more important.
Germany is called upon when the United Nations, NATO, the EU and the OSCE become involved to avert threats and secure peace, and will fulfill its international obligations.
In doing so, our national interests and capabilities must be respected.
The continuation of a policy of disarmament and arms control contributes to a forward-looking peace policy.
There is no alternative to a further development of treaty-based disarmament policy.
The goal of non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction remains our top priority.
The Non-Proliferation Treaties, the Chemical Weapons Convention, the Biological Weapons Convention, and the Missile Technology Nonproliferation Regime (MTCR) must be strengthened.
The START process must continue and the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty (CTBT) must be ratified.
- A just world order
Globalization is a reality.
Trying to stop them is illusory.
Giving it free rein is dangerous.
Shaping them and harnessing their potential for everyone - that's what matters.
We want a global economic order that is oriented toward the goal of a social and ecological market economy.
This is what we stand up for, this is what we campaign for, this is what we want to push through despite all the difficulties.
We advocate fairer world trade relations in the interests of developing countries.
With a view to the new world trade round, this means that we are advocating further market opening.
This involves reducing tariffs,
eliminating non-tariff trade barriers,
better protecting the environment, and
respecting workers' rights.
The international financial architecture must be developed further in an equitable manner.
We are committed to ensuring stable and functioning financial markets as an engine for economic growth and employment.
We need a Europe-wide coordinated mix of measures to regulate the international financial markets
as a start to a global agreement.
Developing countries must be given a better chance for their products and for supplying the population with effective and inexpensive medicines.
We have always worked to strengthen the law around the world.
We encouraged the establishment of the permanent International Criminal Court and support its work.
It is about replacing the right of the strongest with the strength of the law.
For effective development cooperation
Increasing prosperity in poor regions is not only a matter of justice, but also part of our efforts to strengthen democratic structures and equal development worldwide.
We want to decisively reduce poverty and hunger
and secure peace through development.
This is the only way to effectively combat war, poverty migration and international terrorism in the long term.
With the Cologne Debt Relief Initiative in the summer of 1999, we laid the foundation for better life chances in developing countries.
Debt relief is linked to national poverty reduction strategies, which are developed with the participation of the population.
This is intended to ensure that the relief primarily benefits the poor sections of the population.
We have made important commitments with a consistent 2015 action program to reduce poverty worldwide.
We will help achieve the goals set by the international community:
Halving extreme poverty worldwide, providing
basic education for all children up to the age of 14,
drastically reducing child and maternal mortality,
and combating AIDS.
The international target of devoting 0.7% of each country's gross national product to development cooperation applies.
But the reality is still far from that.
The goal must be implemented in stages.
As agreed at the EU summit in Barcelona, we also want to do our part in Germany and increase our share to 0.33% of GNP by 2006.
At the same time, we will explore new funding opportunities for development.
The non-governmental organizations, churches and foundations are doing important work.
With their skills and knowledge, they are our important partners in shaping globalization, fighting poverty and securing peace.
We will continue to expand the civil peace service in close cooperation with these organizations.
The economic and technical-organizational potential of the companies flows into the development partnerships with industry, which we will continue to expand.
The countries of the South and East need fair integration into world trade.
Their interests in the world trading system must be taken into account to a greater extent through better participation in the WTO structures.
The European Union is the most important trading partner for many of these countries.
The EU must ensure free access to its markets for the poorest developing countries.
The market opening decided by the EU for the 48 poorest developing countries is a first step in the right direction.
Within the framework of the WTO, tariffs and trade barriers for processed products must be reduced.
and at the same time anchoring social and ecological minimum standards more firmly in global trade.
In line with the decisions on the new world trade round, export subsidies for agricultural products, which lead to unfair competition with developing countries, must be ended
- Germany in Europe
We belong to Europe and Europe belongs to us.
Germany with its regions is and remains our home.
The growing together of Europe in the European Union is one of the most hopeful developments worldwide.
The stability that European integration has found establishes lasting peace and prosperity for our continent.
Now there are further important decisions to be made about how Europe is to continue and what distinctive face Europe is to have.
In this decade, an enlargement of the EU must succeed that includes, above all, the European countries of the former communist dominion.
And the EU must develop a formative power that - democratically legitimized and politically efficient - is equal to the new task.
The European idea has its own value, but it is also the indispensable answer to globalization.
We are doing everything we can to advance the European integration process
while taking into account Germany's well-founded interests.
Strengthening the European social model
The euro strengthens Europe in global competition and contributes to stability in the world financial system, from which all economies benefit.
The introduction of Economic and Monetary Union has made the EU a large economy with an extensive internal market as well as relatively low levels of foreign trade.
This increases the need and opportunity to coordinate monetary and fiscal policy in order to promote employment as bindingly as possible while maintaining monetary stability.
At EU level, we want to work toward strengthening and exploiting the existing opportunities for economic policy coordination between the European Central Bank (ECB), the collective bargaining parties and the governments of the member states.
The aim is to achieve consistent, non-inflationary and environmentally compatible growth
and a high level of employment.
By consolidating the federal budget, we are making our contribution to the stability of the euro,
with social common sense
and clear priorities for public investment.
This is another reason why we will stick to our concept of structural reforms and modernize Germany's economy and society.
Europe is set to become the world's most dynamic economic area in the next ten years
, and it is set to lead the world in research and development in ten years' time.
That is why the EU must invest more in innovation and modernization.
We must consistently develop the European Research Area
and offer top researchers and companies greater incentives to work in Europe or to collaborate with European research institutions.
The European welfare state model must be preserved and further developed.
It has proven its worth and there is no other system that combines the willingness to perform and personal responsibility on the one hand with social cohesion and solidarity on the other in a comparable and acceptable manner.
Those in need can rely on the community.
Expanding European foreign and security policy
A common EU foreign and security policy is a prerequisite for equal transatlantic partnership, for closer European cooperation with Russia, and for a more coordinated EU presence in international organizations such as the OSCE and the United Nations.
A stronger role for Europeans in the alliance and a stronger security role for the EU will strengthen NATO.
The transatlantic partnership remains the foundation of European security and NATO the crucial political and institutional bracket for the Euro-Atlantic community.
With the CFSP, the European Union must develop a comprehensive security concept that encompasses political, military, economic, social, and environmental elements,
dovetails European foreign, security, defense, and development policies,
and strengthens conflict prevention capabilities.
In the future, the EU will also be able to act militarily independently in crisis management if NATO as a whole does not get involved.
A common European border police force will provide effective protection against organized crime and illegal immigration at the future external borders of the European Union.
Completing European unification
Politically and economically, the eastward enlargement of the EU will be a gain for the candidate countries as well as for Germany and the current member states of the European Union.
With enlargement, the European Union will become the world's largest single market.
Their global competitiveness will be further strengthened, as the countries being added are growth markets.
In Germany, as one of the most important economic partners of the Central and Eastern European accession countries, trade with Central and Eastern Europe already secures many jobs.
We will continue to do our part to
- bring the enlargement negotiations to a successful conclusion quickly and carefully, so that most candidate countries - if possible - can already take part in the next elections to the European Parliament in 2004.
- This will also require a fundamental reform of all European Union policies, freeing up resources for the candidate countries.
- 7-year transitional periods should be agreed in particularly sensitive areas such as the free movement of workers or the freedom to provide services, which on the one hand offer a high level of protection against distortions in the labor market, but on the other hand allow a rapid response to changed conditions through flexible design.
Getting the European Constitution off the ground
We have put the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights on the European agenda.
After its adoption, the most important task now is the drafting of a European constitution by the EU Constitutional Convention.
The constitutional debate must become transparent for all interested citizens.
The next few years will decide the nature and face of the future Europe.
We want to organize a broad social debate on this in Germany.
The Constitution for Europe should ensure that Europe's structures are understandable and that decisions are comprehensible
and subject to parliamentary control.
That is why we want the next President of the EU Commission to be elected directly by the European Parliament
and advocate that the Party of European Socialists nominate a lead candidate for the European elections to run for the office of President of the Commission.
Clearly regulating Europe's responsibilities
The historically evolved division of tasks between the European Union and its member states no longer meets the requirements of the 21st century.
In the course of this process, the member states - and in Germany also the Länder and municipalities - have lost some of their political leeway, although in many areas appropriate decisions are better taken at their level.
On the other hand, even today the European Union does not have the competences needed to safeguard its interests at the international level or to safeguard internal security.
In Nice, we achieved a more precise delimitation of responsibilities between the EU and the member states in line with the subsidiarity principle at a further EU reform conference in 2004.
It must become clear to the citizen who is responsible for which policy.
Support Russia
We will continue to support Russia on its path to democracy and a social market economy and work to ensure that it finds a place in the future European security architecture commensurate with its importance.
We support Russia's admission to the WTO and wider inclusion in G7/8 cooperation.
- Our Federal Armed Forces
We will continue the reform of the Bundeswehr. It
aligns the Bundeswehr with the challenges of the 21st century,
- adapts the organization of the Bundeswehr to the new requirements and makes targeted investments in people and equipment, -
eliminates imbalances in personnel structure and pay,
- relies on modern management principles.
The reform process will rebalance the scope of tasks, organization, equipment and resources of the Bundeswehr and complete the stationing and location concept by 2006.
With the medium-term financial planning for the Bundeswehr and the adopted program for internal and external security, we have created financial planning security for the Bundeswehr.
The material equipment of the armed forces is to be continuously improved.
Universal conscription and the large number of temporary soldiers who serve in the armed forces for a limited period only and then return to all areas of civilian life ensure that the Bundeswehr will remain firmly anchored in society in the future.
That's why compulsory military service is here to stay.
2. economy and employment
In 1998, we promised policy change:
More jobs,
Economic growth
and sound finances.
We have kept our word
and given a strong impetus to strengthening the competitiveness of companies
and reducing the financial burden on employees.
And for the consolidation of public finances.
The success: more employment and fewer unemployed.
1.2 million more people in employment than in 1998 - this is at an all-time high in employment in Germany.
And in 2001, there were around 428,000 fewer unemployed on average than in 1998.
400,000 young people were given a new chance with the "JUMP" emergency program.
This is a turnaround, but these successes are not enough for us.
We are not satisfied with this - especially in eastern Germany.
Steady and sustainable economic growth,
Employment
and social justice remain the central concerns of our policy.
This is another reason why we will continue the Alliance for Jobs, Training and Competitiveness.
All social forces must pull together.
World economic developments influence the national economy, because we are part of globalization.
We are an active part and must contribute to organizing the global economy according to clear rules and social and ecological principles.
A strong and united EU is also needed to make this goal achievable.
European policies at the economic and fiscal level need to be better aligned and coordinated.
This applies in particular to the harmonization of tax policy.
- Secure and increase prosperity
A competitive and sustainable economy is the basis for prosperity.
Prosperity requires employment for all
and social security.
Germany's attractiveness as a business location has increased as a result of the German government's stability policy and reforms.
This is shown by the significant increase in foreign investment.
What remains necessary is a smart combination of supply and demand policies that strengthen economic growth, support public and private investment and modernize labor market policies.
Steady and high growth is the prerequisite for a noticeable reduction in unemployment.
We will continue to improve the economic framework conditions above all through
- Promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises,
- Strengthening the innovative basis of our economy,
- Qualification and placement in the labor market,
- including reorganization of the Federal Employment Agency,
- the further reduction of the tax and duty burden through the reform laws already passed,
- high public investment,
- Orienting growth toward sustainability and environmental compatibility,
- the further reduction of bureaucracy.
Consolidation of public finances remains indispensable.
- Germany as an industrial and service location
Germany will also retain a strong industrial base as a highly developed service society.
Our industrial foundations are stronger than in many other European countries.
They are a major source of impetus for the other sectors of the economy.
This must also be reflected in EU policy.
Our key industrial lead sectors today - automotive, chemicals, energy, electrical engineering and mechanical engineering - are highly competitive on the world market.
It has to stay that way.
These industries, like our economy in general, benefit from favorable location conditions, from
high-level research and development,
from qualified employees, and
also from our flexible medium-sized structure in trade and crafts.
We want to make Germany an attractive location for the development and application of future technologies and knowledge-based services.
As a leading trading nation, we also want to supply the global markets of the future with high-quality products.
This is where there is growth potential for the future.
Germany is thus making its contribution to the common goal of making the EU the most competitive and dynamic economic area in the world by 2010.
- Strengthening SMEs
Small and medium-sized enterprises and the skilled trades are the heart of our economy.
They are the engine for investment, growth and employment.
We support them.
And we are improving the framework conditions for start-ups, thus strengthening the culture of self-employment.
We need more medium-sized companies in Germany and more self-employed people in general.
For small and medium-sized enterprises, an adequate supply of credit is crucial.
Also the possibility of financing company developments through equity investments.
- We are concentrating the federal government's funding instruments.
- That is why we will establish a federal SME bank.
- This will concentrate and intensify the federal government's support programs for low-tech companies to the same extent as for innovative technology companies.
- This bank will break new ground in advising customers and create the conditions for improving equity capital formation in SMEs.
- We want to ensure that the provision of investment capital is not made more difficult by increased demands for risk coverage (Basel II).
- Start-ups need targeted individual advice to minimize the administrative burden, especially in the start-up phase of a company.
- To this end, regulatory requirements must be reduced and unnecessary bureaucracy cut back.
- Venture capital is an important source of financing for innovative company founders.
- Particularly in view of the equity weakness of many smaller companies, the supply of venture capital must be ensured, further improved and access to it facilitated.
- To promote household-related services, we will increase the attractiveness of service agencies.
Additional costs and bureaucracy inhibit economic dynamism and hinder start-ups.
We will provide for an appropriate de minimis limit for contributions to chambers of commerce and industry and chambers of skilled trades in order to ease the burden on small businesses,
- regulate that young start-ups will be exempt from paying contributions for the first four years.
The generational change in medium-sized companies and in the skilled trades is in flux.
We are stepping up the support measures already initiated for former owners and for potential business acquirers.
We do this together with the associations.
A poor payment record jeopardizes economic independence.
The effectiveness of the law to accelerate payments due must be increased.
Self-employed persons must not be put in financial difficulty by late payments.
- Activate knowledge and skills
Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are predestined for the development and market launch of new products.
Proximity to universities and technology centers is helpful here.
Germany must make better use of its knowledge and innovative ideas.
Patents must be turned into value, ideas into work.
Preferably in their own country.
We organize and support the idea of an SME exchange for innovations.
It is designed to bring knowledge, products, financing and marketing together and to success.
It should play a leading role in cooperation with various local, regional and national institutions.
- Work quality
Quality of work encompasses many aspects from the organization of working hours to occupational health and safety.
Maintaining the health of workers is the fundamental prerequisite for their employability.
We will organize a dialog process in which leading business and employee associations, occupational safety experts and the accident insurance institutions agree on common goals and concepts for further minimizing health risks and improving company organization and processes.
Shaping the world of tomorrow also involves further securing the participation and self-determination of people with disabilities and continuing our consistent and successful disability policy step by step on the basis we have created since 1998.
3. solid finances and fair taxes
We have stopped the path to the debt state and made the policy of budget consolidation our trademark.
For us, saving is not an end in itself.
Instead, a sound fiscal policy forms the basis for more growth
and employment.
It is the guarantor of price stability and thus also of a macroeconomically oriented monetary policy of the European Central Bank.
It combines social justice with economic reason.
It creates scope for investment in important future areas
and improves the life chances of future generations.
We have steadily reduced the federal government's annual new borrowing.
We will consistently continue along this path.
Our goal remains to present a balanced federal budget in 2006.
That is why we do not make unaffordable promises in the future.
In addition to continuing quantitative consolidation,
we want to introduce qualitative consolidation in the coming years: Strengthen future initiatives and set new priorities,
- Target social benefits,
- Reduce subsidies
- and reallocate them to future growth areas -
As well as reduce bureaucracy
- and modernize the civil service.
Despite continuously reducing new debt, we have refocused and significantly increased investments in areas of the future in recent years:
- transport infrastructure expansion with priority in eastern Germany
- research and innovation
- urban redevelopment.
By continuing the Future Investment Program up to and including 2007, we are sending out important signals for the long-term implementation of important projects, particularly in the areas of transport, research and innovation.
The clear financing perspective creates planning security and triggers additional impetus for more investment.
In this way, we are laying the foundation for growth impetus in important future fields for the coming years.
We will only achieve a higher growth path for Germany as a whole in the long term if we strengthen the growth forces in eastern Germany.
To this end, we have formulated clear programmatic goals and initiated or are planning concrete measures.
- Tax reform 2003 and 2005
With the tax reform, we have launched the biggest tax cut in the history of the Federal Republic.
Above all, we are relieving the burden on employees,
families
and small and medium-sized businesses.
This sets the framework conditions for the medium term until 2005.
We create planning security for companies and private households.
Corporations in Germany have finally been given a tax system that is also internationally competitive.
We have thus achieved a top position throughout Europe.
We have managed to increase foreign direct investment tenfold since 1998. In
2003 and 2005, further income tax relief stages will come into effect:
- The basic tax-free allowance will be raised from €7,158 (DM14,000) to €7,664 (around DM15,000) in 2005.
- The entry tax rate will be reduced from 25.9% 23(1998) to 15%.
- This will reduce the tax burden on families with two children by €2,448 (DM4,788) by 2005.
- All other income levels will be relieved in the same way.
- All the way to the top tax rate (from 53% to 42%).
With these tax rates, we have achieved a level in Germany that is attractive by European and international standards.
If new scope for relief arises in the future as a result of a successful consolidation policy, we will use this to strengthen investments,
Further tax relief
and the reduction of government debt.
The principle of ecological tax reform is and remains correct.
Non-wage costs (pension insurance) are reduced,
energy consumption and environmental pollution are curbed.
The final stage of the ecological tax reform will come into force on January 1, 2003.
After that, there will be no further increase.
We will work to maintain exemptions for energy-intensive companies.
- Tax fairness and honesty
The state must ensure that everyone makes a contribution commensurate with his or her ability within the framework of fair and sensible taxation of income from work and assets.
However, inequality in the distribution of income and life opportunities remains a major challenge.
As early as 1999, we eliminated and restricted many exemptions and tax breaks that unfairly favored top income earners in particular.
The additional tax revenue thus generated will help finance the tax cuts we have implemented for everyone.
It has been shown: More tax justice is also the better alternative in economic terms.
With the law on tax incentives for foundations, we have provided incentives for a foundation culture in Germany.
In this way, we have created an instrument with which large incomes and assets can voluntarily make a meaningful contribution to securing the future viability of our society.
The taxation of investment income must be standardized throughout Europe and unfair tax competition must be effectively prevented.
This is what we are committed to.
This is just as much a matter of social justice
as does the principle of fair competition.
By combating tax evasion, illegal employment, tax avoidance and international tax dumping, we will continue to make a significant contribution to achieving greater tax justice.
Fraud against the tax office is criminal and not a trivial offense.
4. labor market
The central goal of employment and labor market policy is full employment.
This goal is achievable step by step.
We are doing everything that can be done at home and in Europe to achieve this.
The contemporary design of labor market policy is an important instrument in this regard.
Labor market policy helps to better match supply and demand in the labor market.
And it can build bridges into the primary labor market.
Our compass here: the social balance between economic necessities
and the security needs of employees.
In addition to the unemployed, the so-called "hidden reserves" of our labor market must also be placed before vacancies are filled by immigration:
- The labor force participation rate among women is rising in Germany - also due to the successes of our policies, but it is still too low.
- Better reconciliation of family and career can contribute to higher female employment.
- Of the generation aged 55 and older, only 39% are actively working.
- The actual retirement age must be changed in the medium term from today's average of just over 59 years back toward the statutory age limit.
- The experience and skills of this generation are indispensable.
-
- The course is set
We provide for those who find it difficult to gain a foothold in the labor market.
We are successfully combating unemployment among the severely disabled - 50,000 new jobs by fall 2002 -
and among the long-term unemployed.
We have already created a career opportunity for over 400,000 young people with the "JUMP" youth development program.
The Job AQTIV Act, in effect since Jan. 1, 2002, is a structural innovation.
It focuses on prevention and on targeted mediation.
Against the backdrop of 1.2 million job vacancies, a broad-based, sustainable placement offensive is required as an employment policy stimulus.
The law must now be applied consistently:
If possible, placement must begin before unemployment has occurred.
This may require further qualification.
And an agreement on reintegration must be reached early on between the employee and the Federal Labor Office that is binding for both parties.
Low-paid employment must also be attractive for employees.
The "Mainz Model" contributes significantly to this if it is actively used everywhere.
Following a trial phase, incentives to take up work in the income range of €325 to €800 will be provided nationwide via a social insurance subsidy and a child benefit supplement.
- The next steps
Further measures are needed on the labor market:
Against the backdrop of a lamented shortage of skilled workers in various labor segments, a broad-based sustainable "work and qualification" offensive is called for as an employment policy stimulus.
Qualification is the best protection against unemployment.
What is needed is a broad mix of continuing education offerings at all qualification levels
and occupational profiles, each with a clear future and market orientation.
In this sense, the continuing education landscape in Germany also needs to be restructured.
The qualification offensive is intended to benefit small and medium-sized enterprises and their employees in particular.
Successful implementation of the qualification offensive must be supported by attractive performance incentives to those involved.
Dovetailing unemployment assistance and social assistance for the unemployed enables concentrated efforts in the interest of the long-term unemployed for better, faster placement in employment.
We acknowledge our special responsibility to the weaker members of our society.
That is why, as part of the reform of unemployment and social assistance, we do not want to see future benefits reduced to the level of social assistance.
The financial implications for payers will need to be addressed in municipal finance reform.
The classic standard employment relationship will continue to dominate in the future.
However, it is increasingly supplemented by other forms of employment such as fixed-term contracts, part-time work, contracts for work and services, temporary work, teleworking or job rotation.
We want to design these flexible supplements to the standard employment relationship while guaranteeing social security.
All employment relationships must be clearly standardized, socially secure and provide a living wage.
Flexibility must not come at the expense of social security.
The official labor market for simple, personal services lies fallow.
We want to tap the employment potential of this sector to a greater extent.
Work must be more rewarding than receiving social benefits.
The number of regular overtime hours is too high.
This is economically unreasonable and unacceptable in terms of social policy.
As a matter of priority, the collective bargaining parties must strive to reach clear agreements on their meaningful limitation.
We need intelligent working time models that secure employment and create new jobs.
New forms of work organization and working hours offer great opportunities for individuals and
a better work-life balance.
A modern and flexible working time policy has a crucial role to play in combating unemployment.
There is great employment potential in the use of flexible working time arrangements, which must be tapped more strongly by promoting qualified part-time and collectively agreed working time models.
We want a more flexible distribution of working life in the form of working time accounts.
Fluctuations in the course of employment can thus be better balanced out.
This requires - the protection of time credits in the event of bankruptcy, - the regulation of long-term working time accounts under labor law, - the possibility of saving up working time for qualification, - the structuring of long-term working time accounts and - the reduction of overtime.
- Reform of the Federal Labor Office
The Federal Labor Office and, in particular, the employment agency are being fundamentally reformed and modernized.
The Federal Agency retains primarily the task of helping to prevent unemployment and - where it occurs - to remedy it as quickly as possible.
The structure and operation of the Federal Agency must be geared to changes in the labor market and in labor market policy.
The German government has appointed the Commission on Modern Services in the Labor Market (Hartz Commission).
It has been tasked with submitting concrete proposals for the reorganization and future operation of the BA by summer 2002.
5. rights of employees
Reliable social security
and guaranteed participation rights for employees have contributed significantly to Germany's economic and social stability in the past.
We are also focusing on social security for the future,
Participation and co-determination.
They are part of the successful European welfare state model.
We therefore restored social peace at the beginning of our term of office:
- Protection against dismissal also applies again in smaller companies with more than five employees.
- Full sick pay applies again.
- There is bad weather money again.
- The Posted Workers Act applies indefinitely.
We have reduced the abuse of marginal employment relationships and bogus self-employment.
The amendment to the Works Constitution Act strengthened and modernized employee co-determination.
Participation in saying and doing remains important.
This also applies to the area of personnel representation law.
Even under conditions of increasing globalization, informed employees with rights are guarantors of economic performance and success.
In contrast, social dumping and the dismantling of workers' rights endanger not only social peace
but also international competitiveness.
The autonomy of collective bargaining and the regional collective agreement have proven their worth.
They require strong and well-organized social partners whose equal opportunities must be ensured, especially in collective bargaining disputes.
If necessary, they enable flexible solutions that are geared to regional and industry-specific needs and to safeguarding employment.
They can also specifically and increasingly take operational aspects into account.
We will continue to coordinate necessary reforms with the social partners in the Alliance for Jobs, Training and Competitiveness.
The alliance has worked successfully, supporting important reforms and securing employment.
We will continue the alliance and seek binding agreements with the social partners.
This requires more efficient structures in the alliance.
A central task of the alliance will be to identify ways to reduce paid overtime and improve the availability of part-time work and family-friendly working hours.
The European Works Councils have proven to be a very essential element in the social shaping of the European Union.
However, their rights are often too narrowly defined.
Therefore, the European directive and the German implementation law must be further developed.
This applies in particular to improving the working conditions of European works councils (e.g. through a statutory right to training and the right of trade union representatives to attend meetings), the further development of information, consultation and participation rights, and their more effective enforcement.
6. education and qualification
Education decides our future.
The rapid growth of knowledge, the worldwide availability of knowledge through the new communication possibilities, the internationalization of the economy and society present us all with new challenges.
Social cohesion in society is only possible if all people have access to work and social life through education.
A good education policy enables opportunities for all, regardless of their background.
It is a prerequisite for success in the global competition for growth and employment opportunities.
That is why we need to exploit all educational potential.
Education is the social issue of the 21st century.
Germany's educational institutions have long been exemplary and are still performing well.
But the overall level today is not satisfactory.
This is something that needs to be worked on.
Our education policy is guided by clear principles:
- Access to education is based solely on ability and performance, not on social background.
- Support for the gifted and support for the disadvantaged are mutually dependent.
- Our education system must promote and challenge.
- Education is more than just imparting knowledge; it includes the teaching of values and rules and has an educational mission.
- Educational institutions must be permeable, so that it is possible to switch between different types of schools and educational paths.
- The education system has a decisive function to perform for the social integration of our society.
- The educational institutions should be developed in such a way that they ensure the highest quality.
The federal government has continuously increased investment in education since 1998.
This priority remains.
However, private capital and joint public-private initiatives will also be needed in the future.
We will take advantage of new opportunities for financing education, for example through sponsorship or foundations.
In doing so, there should be no new inequality of schools because of location or catchment area.
To ensure this, new ways of financing education will only be possible with a solidarity-based compensation system.
Money alone will not be enough to shape the education system of the future.
Schools and teachers need to be valued more again.
Students need role models from whom they can learn clear value orientations and how to follow rules.
Schools are places of education.
They complement education in families, but they do not replace it.
Only a school that demands can also promote.
We can no longer accept the fact that many young people remain without a school-leaving qualification.
We will also work to increase the number of middle and high school graduates.
It is essential for the future of the German education system that all those with political responsibility work together.
A new form of cooperation has been demonstrated by the Education Forum.
Its recommendations must now be implemented swiftly.
PISA has shown: In Germany, too, we need to take stock of our education system on a regular basis.
Continuous education reporting with the participation of the states would be a milestone on the way to more quality in education.
- From the beginning
We want children to be able to learn through play as early as kindergarten.
Early educational steps lay the foundation for further educational paths.
Kindergarten teachers must be trained to accompany this early educational process.
The decisive course for equal opportunities in later education is already set in kindergarten and the ability for "lifelong learning" is laid.
Disadvantaged children, who often come from migrant families, need targeted help, especially in learning German.
Elementary schools make a critical contribution to children's readiness and ability to learn.
They should also try out the first steps in learning how to use new media.
The first access to a foreign language and to scientific knowledge must also be possible in elementary school.
It must be ensured that children can continue the foreign language both when moving to another region and at secondary schools.
The permeability of the training system must be increased.
This creates more motivation, better performance and equity in the school system.
The PISA study shows that higher social integration in schools leads to better performance.
It is the school's task to promote talents as comprehensively as possible and to strengthen the motivation and social skills of children and young people.
German must be possible as a working language in the first school year for all migrant children.
- More all-day schools
We need a national response and a joint effort in education policy while preserving federal responsibilities!
For us, responsibilities are not an excuse for inaction!
We will therefore launch a nationwide "Future Education and Care" program with a financial volume of €4 billion, €1 billion per year.
In this way, we are supporting the efforts of the states and municipalities to expand and improve care and education services.
The program may result in 10,000 additional all-day schools in Germany by 2007.
All-day schools are key to improving the education of our children and young people.
Learning takes time
and children need more individual support.
All-day schools also support parents in their desire to better balance work and family life.
- Autonomy of schools
Schools need greater autonomy, including in staff recruitment.
They should take more responsibility in shaping their specific profile.
This requires a willingness to be accountable.
School life should be designed in close consultation with all stakeholders, especially with the involvement of students.
We want to encourage parents, associations and companies to become more involved in educational institutions.
Teacher training and continuing education are to be reformed to meet increased demands.
Teachers should be required to use part of their non-teaching time for in-service training - including in companies.
- Training opportunities
The primary responsibility for ensuring sufficient and qualified training places lies with the companies capable of providing training.
Not all of them are up to the task.
But the training situation has improved.
In Germany, there are once again more training places than applicants.
All young people can get an apprenticeship.
Nevertheless, there are still major regional differences.
In the new federal states in particular, the ratio of training places to training place seekers in the dual system remains unsatisfactory.
That is why we ensure that regional counseling and support services are created for companies and young people.
Company training alliances are intended to strengthen these efforts.
In networks, we want to promote apprenticeships in the particularly innovative areas.
In order to be able to identify occupational requirements at an early stage, we are building efficient forecasting tools for the early identification of tomorrow's skills requirements.
The improvement of vocational orientation for young people through cooperation between schools and companies is to be promoted.
Career counseling must become an integral part of instruction in all schools.
In the future, we want more permeability between the different educational paths.
Universities should be open to graduates of dual education while maintaining qualitative standards.
To this end, vocational upgrading training is being further developed and strengthened.
We are continuing along the path we have taken of better equipping vocational schools, developing new occupational profiles more quickly and making training concepts more flexible.
Young people with learning difficulties must also have a chance in working life.
Partial certificates on the way to full vocational training can help.
Measures to provide targeted support for foreign young people are to be stepped up so that they can be better integrated into society.
- More academic degrees
Germany needs more and even better educated specialists with academic degrees.
We want to increase the number of first-year students from today's 28% to the OECD level of around 40%.
That is why access to our universities must be open
and throughout Germany, tuition fees must remain free until the first professionally qualifying degree and for studies in a consecutive degree program leading to a further professionally qualifying degree.
With the BAföG reform, we have once again enabled more students from financially weak families to access higher education.
Today, we are helping around 80,000 additional young people to complete their university studies without financial worries.
By offering bachelor's and master's degrees across the board, study times will be reduced.
The consistent introduction of junior professorships will introduce young scientists to independent research projects at an early stage and, on the other hand, lower the average age of initial appointment.
The use of new media will become increasingly important for universities.
We will expand Internet-based virtual universities on an exemplary basis.
- Important pillar continuing education
Lifelong learning must become a fundamental principle of education policy.
Today, job-related continuing education is primarily used by those who already had above-average education beforehand.
The structures of continuing education must become more open and transparent and participation in continuing education must become a matter of course.
Professional mastery
We have significantly improved the Meister-BAföG and thus laid an important foundation for better continuing education opportunities in the area of vocational training.
The qualifications gained in this way can be used to start up a business of one's own or to continue one's education at technical colleges or universities.
- Education test foundation
To ensure the quality of continuing education offerings, an educational testing foundation is being established at the federal level to test continuing education offerings.
This makes it possible to achieve productive competition among continuing education providers
and create transparency for continuing education customers.
We will promote the development of regional education landscapes that lead to cooperation between schools, universities, companies and other educational institutions.
This will allow educational pathways to be better aligned and access to be facilitated.
Adult education centers and other adult education institutions will retain an important role in continuing education.
7. research, innovation, sustainability
In recent years, Germany has once again become one of the most attractive innovation locations in the world and is continuing to build on its former leading position.
Today, we have the highest density of innovative companies in Europe.
In Germany, twice as many patents are filed as the European average.
This puts us in second place worldwide.
In the case of high-value technology goods, Germany has the highest share of world trade at almost 20%.
Germany's prosperity is based on the inventiveness of our researchers and engineers.
Research and development in Germany have a global reputation.
We want to keep it that way in the future and make it even better.
That is why - after years of declining investment in the future - we have increased spending on education and research by more than 21% since 1998.
Since the German government has resumed targeted investment in research and development, private spending in this area has also increased.
We accept the challenge posed to a knowledge society in international competition.
Never before has a federal government invested so much capital in minds.
We want to continue this and usher in a new founding era.
We will therefore continue to maintain and increase research spending in the federal budget at a high level over the next four years.
We want to provide optimal conditions for the best researchers from all over the world.
Our research policy creates high-performance and competitive structures,
promotes the key technologies of tomorrow,
supports spin-offs
and simplifies technology transfer.
Research results must directly benefit people and society
and make a contribution to sustainable development.
The fight against disease, the
preservation of an environment worth living in
, and the management of mobility are top priorities here.
Research in the service of people must respect moral and ethical boundaries.
Ongoing dialogue about this in society is indispensable.
- Workshops of the future
Our universities must be workshops of the future and strengthen our country's culture of innovation.
They are in international competition.
They compete for the best minds among researchers and students.
And they also compete for research contracts from industry.
Universities need their own profiles in order to maintain a competitive position in a dynamic environment.
To this end, we are strengthening the autonomy of universities.
Young people rightly expect a course of study to be completed in a predictable time, that the study structures are clear, that they receive good supervision and that the degree is broadly usable on the labor market.
For this, we need a study structure reform.
Top-level research must be concentrated in centers of excellence at universities.
We promote spin-offs of young, innovative companies.
Basic economic knowledge and the ability to create a business plan should become the usual and familiar tools of the trade for college graduates.
Chairs for start-ups are being established at all universities.
Science and industry must be more closely interlinked through competence centers and networks to accelerate the translation of research findings into new products and services.
Small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of positive employment development.
That is why we will ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises have access to publicly funded research.
A new ''science collective agreement'' for research institutions is intended to reduce barriers to mobility when moving between science and industry.
We want to place the promotion of crucial key technologies at the center of an innovation offensive.
To this end, it is necessary to identify research goals and develop guiding principles.
Basic research and application-oriented research are thus aligned with the research fields of the future.
- Strengthening key technologies for tomorrow's markets
To shape and accelerate the transformation to an information society, the ''IT Research 2006'' funding program will strengthen four pillars in particular: nanoelectronics, communications technologies, software systems and the Internet.
Biotechnology has developed rapidly in recent years.
The number of mainly small and medium-sized biotechnology companies has increased by 25% since 1998.
Germany is at the forefront of biotechnology in Europe.
We want to more than double the number of jobs in this area over the next five years.
The B 21 initiative is intended to create a nationwide network of private companies and publicly funded research institutions.
Health and genomics research is providing new insights into the causes of diseases and how they develop.
This can improve people's quality of life, their life expectancy and the healing of diseases.
At the same time, health research can increase efficiency in the health care system and reduce costs.
We will therefore strengthen health and genome research so that new prevention and therapy methods can be developed.
We will dovetail basic research and clinical research more closely so that research results benefit patients more quickly.
The potential of genetic engineering in agriculture needs to be further explored.
In consultation with the companies, we are launching a carefully developed research and accompanying program for the cultivation of genetically modified plants.
The opportunities and limits of genetic engineering research must therefore be constantly redefined.
Research in the service of people respects the moral and ethical limit.
We welcome the debate on scientific and ethical issues and intend to continue promoting it in the future.
- Sustainable energy policy
Our energy policy is based on the guiding objective of sustainability.
This includes security of supply, as well as
Economic efficiency
Value for money
environmental compatibility.
These goals will continue to require an energy mix in the future that avoids one-sided dependence on individual supplier countries or energy sources.
It includes domestic lignite and hard coal as well as mineral oil, natural gas and renewable energies.
If used in an environmentally compatible manner, domestic coal remains an important component of a modern energy supply.
We will continue to support the structural change in the mining sector in order to offer the regions and employees clear prospects for the future.
We want to pursue a "move away from oil" strategy and further reduce our dependence on mineral oil imports
and make Germany the world's leading country for modern energy technologies.
We are focusing on the three pillars of cogeneration, energy efficiency and renewable energies for a secure energy policy without nuclear power.
The share of renewable energies in electricity generation is to be at least doubled by 2010.
To this end, we will bring together and further develop the necessary measures in a national energy plan.
The aim is to make the use of environmentally friendly energy sources more cost-effective than environmentally harmful energy sources.
Safety first: In implementing the nuclear phase-out, we will pay particular attention to the safety of reactor operation during the remaining operating life.
The conditions for the approval of off-shore wind farms will be improved.
We want to support innovative energy generation technologies until they are ready for the market.
These include, for example, the field of power plant technology, the development of alternative fuels - such as modern biofuels - new drive systems and the fuel cell.
In this way, we are initiating the path to a zero-emission engine
and reducing our dependence on imports of fossil fuels.
Export promotion for new energy technologies will be supported by an initiative to create an International Renewable Energy Agency,
thereby advancing the global expansion of energy alternatives
and making renewable energy a priority in development cooperation.
In the construction sector, too, the potential for more efficient energy use must be consistently exploited in all areas.
This also includes the development of new energetic building technologies and thus the architecture of the future, which aims at energy-autonomous houses.
- Mobility - integrated transport policy
For people, being mobile means a high degree of freedom and quality of life.
Mobility is a prerequisite for growth and development
and itself contributes significantly to economic growth.
This requires an integrated transport policy that better links the individual modes of transport.
A 90-billion-euro investment program is the necessary financial basis for this decade to maintain, modernize, expand and better connect transport routes.
With the investment program, we will - make investments permanent and eliminate bottlenecks and congestion points on the freeways, railways and waterways in a targeted manner,
- significantly improve the quality of life in the villages,
- strengthen Germany as a maritime location,
- expand the transport infrastructure with a focus on "East" in the Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan,
- to push the latest cutting-edge technology in the transportation sector,
- optimize the networking of transport modes,
- promote state-of-the-art rail technology such as magnetic levitation.
Rail reform must be pursued consistently.
Our goal is to shift more of the growing volume of freight traffic that Germany will have to handle in the future due to its central position in Europe from road to rail.
To this end, we will also double the funding for combined transport.
We want to ensure fair competitive conditions for rail transport, also in relation to other modes of transport.
More than 26 million people use public transport every day.
We therefore support public transport with large sums of money.
Particularly in large cities and metropolitan areas, mobility without public transport is unthinkable.
In order to encourage even more people to switch to buses and trains, a further increase in the quality of public transport services is necessary.
We want to ensure that public transport remains affordable in the future.
That is why we will ensure that the federal government provides long-term, reliable funding.
An essential component of sustainable mobility is the use of modern drive technology and the development of new fuels.
With industry, we are convinced that hydrogen is the fuel with the greatest potential for the future.
We therefore want to provide financial support for the construction of hydrogen filling stations and support the production of corresponding vehicles.
- Healthy environment
We are committed to the goal of sustainable development of the economy and society.
Development is sustainable if it takes into account the interests of future generations.
The implementation of the national sustainability strategy is the basis of our policy.
All sectoral policies have a duty to make their contribution.
Our vision is to increase efficiency in the use of energy and raw materials by a "factor of 4" in the medium term, i.e. we want to produce goods and services with only a quarter of the raw materials and energy required today.
The parallel improvement of competitiveness and the environment makes economic sense.
Ecology and sustainability are long-term economics.
To provide parliamentary support for this process, we want to further develop the working structure of the Bundestag and set up a "Committee on the Future 2010".
Protecting the climate is one of the great tasks of our time.
In this regard, our country is a global pioneer in reducing harmful carbon dioxide emissions.
Effective climate protection needs long-term, predictable and binding targets.
We will implement the National Climate Protection Program to reduce CO2 emissions by 25% by 2005.
An important milestone for global economic, social and ecological development is the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg in the fall of 2002.
We want Germany to play a leading role in implementing the guidelines for global sustainable development.
The globalization of the economy must be in line with the principles of sustainable development.
We will therefore advocate appropriate initiatives in the current world trade round and further efforts to strengthen the environmental organizations of the United Nations.
The conservation of biodiversity is a major concern nationally and internationally.
That is why we want to further strengthen nature conservation.
Avoid - recycle - dispose: This is the hierarchy of modern materials management.
Through clear ecological standards, unambiguously coordinated responsibilities, and transparent control options, we improve both planning and investment security for private and public companies.
In addition to regulatory law, an efficient materials management system also needs economic instruments.
That is why we will reform the Packaging Ordinance.
Competitive solutions for the implementation of producer responsibility by industry are to be permitted and promoted.
Water is the most important food and not a commodity like any other.
We oppose the liberalization of water supply.
We will therefore improve the framework conditions for sustainable water management and groundwater protection.
Together with the states, municipalities, companies and associations, we are developing a strategy for modernizing the water industry in the face of international competition.
- Modern agriculture
With the establishment of the Federal Ministry of Consumer Protection, Food and Agriculture, we have made a new political start in consumer and agricultural policy.
Responsibilities for consumer protection were bundled, monitoring was improved and consumer protection was established as an independent political task.
We want a reorientation towards consumer-oriented, animal welfare-friendly, environmentally sound and competitive agriculture.
We want to accomplish this major community effort over the next 10 years.
European agricultural policy needs to be adapted to changing conditions and changing consumer needs after 3 decades of a focus on production.
The challenge of EU enlargement to the east and the forthcoming WTO negotiations also make it necessary to reorganize EU agricultural policy.
It will be crucial here to establish clear regulations for a high level of consumer health protection.
and in environmental and animal protection throughout the Community.
This ensures the competitiveness of our agriculture and food industry.
and guarantees consumer protection at a high uniform level
The use of tax resources for the development of sustainable agriculture must therefore be reorganized in our opinion.
Starting in 2003, we will make use of the option in Germany to return product-related compensation payments to a limited extent and to make these funds available for rural development programs.
Farmers are not only producers of food and raw materials.
They also have a central role in shaping rural areas.
These services for the general public, such as the preservation of nature, cultural landscapes for water, soil and climate protection, must be paid for appropriately.
We will also make special efforts where farms process and market the products they produce regionally.
They must be able to develop additional sources of income.
Agri-tourism also plays an essential role here.
With regard to the specific problems in the new federal states, we will tackle the old debt problem.
It is one of the last serious problems of German reunification in the agricultural sector.
We therefore want to open up opportunities that will lead to an accelerated repayment of old debts.
In this context, orientation to the respective performance capability is important.
In land policy, we have removed the last obstacles to land acquisition and significantly increased the lease periods for BVVG (Bodenverwertungs- und -verwaltungsgesellschaft) land.
Agriculture and forestry make an important contribution to the economic strength of rural areas in our country.
8. the east - a strong piece of Germany
- Democracy and freedom
The people of the GDR fought for democracy and freedom themselves in 1989 with the peaceful revolution.
Social democrats were part of the East German civil rights and democracy movement.
With all those who were involved at that time, we are proud of this chapter of German history.
Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, Brandenburg, Berlin, Saxony-Anhalt, Thuringia and Saxony are a strong piece of Germany.
This has also been proven in the years since 1989.
It was above all the people in the countries and regions themselves who, after the revolution, also took the construction into their own hands, who seized the opportunities for renewal.
The Kohl government's policy set the wrong course in the early phase of reconstruction through incorrect regulations on the question of ownership, through overly short-sighted support for the construction sector and, in connection with this, through favoring speculation.
It is to the credit of the Schröder government that it has reordered priorities, increased investment, developed growth cores, strengthened the regions in their own right and honestly named the realities.
The Solidarity Pact II is a clear signal of solidarity and identification for the entire country and provides security until 2019. The
strength of eastern Germany is also a prerequisite for prosperity throughout Germany,
for a strong economy,
strong regions
and good life prospects for individuals.
Prospects for the East
To strengthen regional development, we will be guided by the following guidelines:
- a modern, efficient infrastructure
- and create an attractive living environment;
- develop clear innovative, economic and scientific profiles;
- for comprehensively qualified, motivated and flexible skilled workers and
Graduates from technical colleges and universities in the regions provide
And promote a system of qualification and further training adapted to the dynamics of economic development.
With the decision in favor of Solidarity Pact II, an important foundation has been laid until 2019.
This opens up new opportunities and represents honesty that openly acknowledges the duration of the process.
The decision in favor of Solidarity Pact II is the most important breakthrough for the future of the eastern German states and regions.
In the Solidarity Pact II, the federal government is providing €156 billion for a further 15 years.
Of this, the federal states will receive €105 billion for a modern infrastructure
and to strengthen municipal finances.
The federal government is providing a further €51 billion in additional benefits for the targeted reconstruction of the eastern states.
Promote economic development in a targeted manner
Eastern Germany has developed into a business location with future prospects.
The expansion of the East German economy will continue.
Economic development is currently characterized by stable growth in the manufacturing sector but also by painful adjustments, particularly in the construction industry.
Our primary goal is to strengthen structural change in favor of a modern and competitive economic structure as the basis for sustainable economic development in the eastern German states.
Regional growth centers are increasingly emerging in eastern Germany.
As shown by the success of the automotive industry in Saxony and Thuringia, the aviation industry in Brandenburg, the maritime industry in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania and the chemical industry in Saxony-Anhalt, there are starting points for further investments in small and medium-sized enterprises.
Development impulses radiate into surrounding regions.
We will therefore take into account the special infrastructure needs of growth centers.
Under European law, the tax investment allowance will expire at the end of 2004.
We will launch an equivalent successor scheme to promote investment in eastern Germany.
In doing so, we will further improve the targeting and efficiency of funding.
- Exploiting innovation potential
Today more than ever, a society's ability to innovate will determine its success and prosperity in the future.
In recent years, it has been possible to form innovation networks with supraregional and international cooperation in eastern Germany.
We remain committed to promoting innovation processes within the company and between innovation partners at the regional level.
These aids will be further developed.
The expansion of research centers in the eastern German states has been driven forward in recent years.
This concerns facilities of the Max Planck Society, the German Research Foundation, the Helmholtz Centers, the Gottfried Wilhelm Leibnitz Science Association and the Fraunhofer Society.
The centers are important nuclei for the economic development of the regions
and the creation of new jobs.
They also have the task of promoting the translation of new research findings into marketable products and services
, as well as initiating the establishment of innovative companies.
We want to drive forward the development of the eastern German research landscape with a new start-up offensive.
We will give priority to the eastern German states when deciding on new major research centers to be established.
The enlargement of the European Union offers a great opportunity to make eastern Germany a European connecting region,
if we orient strategies and concepts of infrastructure development, research and culture towards cross-border cooperation
and if we use the experiences of the last years together with the new members of the EU and build new networks.
That is our goal.
That is why we will establish an Eastern European Center for Business and Culture in one of the eastern German states.
We want to specifically promote cooperation between companies in eastern Germany and companies in the accession states.
- Work and qualification
Combating unemployment and securing employment is at the heart of our policy.
This is the only way to slow down migration from the eastern German states.
The goal in the eastern German states is primarily more jobs in the primary labor market.
However, active labor market policy remains indispensable.
In 2002, around €10 billion will be used for active labor market policy in the eastern German states, for example, for vocational training and continuing education, for job creation and structural adjustment measures, and for integration subsidies.
This is around € 1.0 billion more than in 1998.
We want to further increase the accuracy of our active labor market policy and focus more strongly than before on the needs of the regions.
This increases the chances of placement in the primary labor market, especially for older unemployed persons and the long-term unemployed.
Job creation measures remain necessary.
We have launched an emergency program to reduce youth unemployment (JUMP).
Due to its success, the program will continue until 2003.
Eastern Germany receives 50% of the annual funding of €1.0 billion (DM2 billion).
We will develop a JUMP Plus program for young people as an employment bridge east after initial training.
The aim is to create an additional 100,000 jobs for young people in areas of social need (social services, culture, etc.) as part of infrastructure measures and by linking part-time work for older employees with part-time work for young people.
We will provide more support for talented students at universities in eastern Germany in order to motivate them to actively shape the innovation process in the new states.
R&D personnel cost subsidies for new hires, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises, are intended to compensate for the salary gap with offers in the old federal states.
We will create centers of excellence with a clear profile in selected fields of technology in order to enhance scientific performance and attract top talent from Germany and abroad.
In a start-up offensive, we will create start-up positions over a longer period of time and provide additional funding for start-up officers
There are still different wage levels in western and eastern Germany.
While wage adjustments must also be in line with productivity to create competitive jobs,
people in eastern Germany also have a legitimate expectation that this gap will close in the coming years.
We therefore also want to implement the principle of equal pay for equal work in the public sector by 2007.
- Expand infrastructure
More than half of the transport investments planned in the 1999 to 2002 investment program, with a total volume of around €35 billion, are in the eastern German states.
The main focus of transport investment is the German Unity transport projects.
All 17 projects have been started, and many projects and project sections are already in operation.
Many gaps in the inner-German transport route network have already been closed.
And the expansion continues apace.
For the first time, federal transport infrastructure projects have received funding from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) for the period 2000-2006.
The program, worth over €3.1 billion, is making an important contribution to the creation of a permanently efficient transport infrastructure, particularly in the eastern part of the Federal Republic.
The continuation of the Future Investment Program up to and including 2007 ensures the long-term implementation of important transport projects in the eastern German states.
In 2003, we will present a revised Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan with a focus on the east
and swiftly complete the German Unity Transport Projects (VDE)
With the "Urban Redevelopment East" program, we are creating impetus to improve residential quality and stabilize the housing markets.
In addition to the funds provided by the EU, for example under the URBAN program, the federal and state governments are making around €2.5 billion available for this purpose until 2009.
This can be used to finance necessary measures for upgrading urban neighborhoods and for the unavoidable demolition of vacant residential buildings that are no longer needed in the long term.
The old debt problem is the last serious problem of German reunification in the agricultural sector.
We therefore want to open up the possibility of accelerating the repayment of old debts in line with the respective economic performance
. In land policy, we have removed the last obstacles to land acquisition and significantly increased the lease periods for BVVG (Bundes-Vermögens-Verwaltungs-Gesellschaft) land.
- Half of the way is covered
We know that only half of the way has been covered in eastern Germany.
In a number of areas, we need additional efforts to support the necessary backlog in the coming years.
We enter the second part of the route with determination and courage.
With Gerhard Schröder as Chancellor and his government, the reconstruction of the East has gained new impetus and German unity has taken on firmer contours.
We want to continue along this path and vigorously represent the interests of the people.
The resolution of the SPD's East Party Congress is the guideline for this part of the 2002-2006 government program.
9. quality of life in cities and communities
A vibrant democracy needs strong cities and communities.
The municipalities are the place of direct participation of all citizens in political, social and cultural life.
In this, we want to strengthen our cities and communities.
The dense network of intact and vibrant urban centers and rural areas is irreplaceable for the quality of life.
In the age of comprehensive mobility and extensive globalization, the importance of the small unit, the city, the residential area, the village is increasing.
- Maintaining scope for municipal action in Europe
That is why we support the cities and municipalities in their efforts to assert their place in a Europe that is growing together, and where necessary to redefine it.
We stand up for proven local self-government.
The subsidiarity principle applies.
The principle of connexity applies.
Public services will retain their function - despite the need to open up to competition in this area as well.
- Municipal finance reform
The municipalities need financial planning security and adequate funding for their tasks.
We have begun preparing a fundamental reform of municipal finances.
Its task is to bring local government revenues and expenditures back into line.
Above all, it must improve the predictability of revenues.
The municipalities need a tax source that conforms to the constitution and is based on economic strength, with their own right to levy taxes.
This allows for an equitable distribution of municipal tax burdens between large businesses, the middle class, and the resident population.
- Dovetailing unemployment assistance and social assistance
A reorganization of social and unemployment benefits is an inseparable part of sustainable municipal financial reform.
At the same time, we do not want to see future benefits reduced to the level of social assistance.
- Reforming social assistance - strengthening help for self-help
The placement of unemployed welfare recipients in the primary labor market must be improved
and the personal responsibility of the support recipients must be mobilized.
We are developing social assistance into an activating, case-based service.
Of course, the welfare state's minimum subsistence level is not up for discussion.
We are reforming social assistance with the aim of ensuring that social assistance recipients who are capable of working get into work more quickly and securely, while at the same time preserving the wage gap principle.
The welfare state must also consistently implement the principle of "support and demand" in this area
and take those affected seriously as important partners in social integration.
It must secure the right to second and third chances.
A reform of assistance for subsistence must therefore - further develop financial benefits in a transparent and needs-based manner, -
strengthen the self-responsibility of the assistance recipient
- and simplify administration, - -
improve the activating instruments and benefits of social assistance, -
improve integration into the labor market,
- effectively support states and municipalities in administrative modernization.
-
- Creating family-friendly cities
Children need space and they need development opportunities.
That is decided on the spot.
Providing childcare that meets demand is a priority.
The all-day school has an important function in this regard.
- Social city
We want cities that meet the housing and living needs of families.
Neighborhoods in which social and structural problems are on the rise are in particular need of support.
The "Socially Integrative City" and "Urban Redevelopment East" programs successfully promote local efforts for social urban development.
The revitalization of downtown areas - in cooperation with local retailers and local initiatives - is a key focus here.
And the personal safety of citizens in their city must be guaranteed without compromise.
- Affordable housing for all
Building in Germany must become easier again.
We want to facilitate cost-effective and ecological construction by streamlining and making more efficient the Building Code and, in particular, the many planning stages.
Even in big cities, we need affordable housing for all.
In this context, urban redevelopment will become considerably more important than new construction.
The exemplary "Urban Redevelopment East" program provides valuable experience in this area.
We promote owner-occupied housing as new construction, especially in the centers but also in existing buildings.
With the first housing subsidy reform in 10 years, the strengthening of tenants' rights and the initiative for cost-conscious construction, we have set important framework conditions for affordable housing.
Making cities more roadworthy for our children
We want to increase road safety in our cities and communities
and improve protection for children in particular.
10. sport is top for all
Sport is active leisure time, health care and therapy.
Sport brings joy and brings people together.
We continue to support amateur and professional sports.
We take into account the special needs of people with disabilities.
Popular sports is a great social movement.
It lives above all through the persistent commitment of the local associations and the initiative of individuals.
Particularly worthy of support is the work with our children and young people.
We are strengthening volunteerism in sports and have therefore increased the lump-sum allowance for exercise instructors.
We advocate for more school sports.
Sports facilities for high-performance sports are built, modernized and maintained with significant support from the federal government.
116.1 million in federal funding has been available for this purpose alone since 1999.
The sport can continue to rely on us in the future.
We are vigorously combating the darker side of sport.
If you dope, you cheat in sports.
To combat doping, we will further expand the control system, but also research, and create an effective anti-doping law.
We are continuing to promote sports facilities in the eastern German states and in the former eastern part of Berlin.
We have extended and nearly doubled the Golden Plan East and maintain our financial commitment at a high level.
We are actively supporting the German Soccer Association in hosting the 2006 World Cup.
Leipzig's Central Stadium and Berlin's Olympic Stadium are being upgraded to modern World Cup stadiums with federal assistance.
Early safety preparations are important and are already underway.
Germany should remain the international leader in sports.
Major sporting events must continue to be broadcast live on television for all to see, without any special fees.
11. families in the center
Family is where children are.
Families are the top performers in our society.
They live cohesion, allow free development of individuals and are the center of life.
Most people want and experience family as a place of security and safety, and many also experience it as a place of private happiness.
In families, parents, grandparents and children take responsibility for each other.
Families are the first and most important instance of education, personality and character formation.
Here young people find the space in which trust, self-confidence and bonding can develop.
Central values, virtues and rules of our society are conveyed in living together in families.
The members of a family must decide on their own responsibility how they want to organize their life together.
Politics has no say in this.
Life plans of mothers and fathers are more diverse today than in previous generations.
Above all, far more young mothers than in the past want to combine family and professional life, even as single parents.
Each model lived by families equally deserves social recognition.
- Family-friendly policy since 1998
We have helped families achieve greater material security by expanding the family benefits system.
Child benefits have been significantly increased by more than €40 per month in several steps since 1998, as has
tax relief for childcare costs.
Parents' wishes for more flexibility in parental leave and through the right to part-time work were met.
There is more child-raising benefit, more Bafög and more housing benefit.
We have improved the protection of children and women from violence in the family.
Because of the limited resources available, it is imperative that priorities be set for further family policy measures.
- Childcare - the most urgent task
An ambitious, demand-oriented and reliable care offer for children of crèche, kindergarten and after-school age is necessary and must be promoted.
A comprehensive solution to this important task will require private initiatives, corporate, private-sector and state and municipal commitment in equal measure.
In agreement with the federal states, we aim to fund a "Future Education and Care" program over the next few years, including from the federal government, with an annual sum of €1 billion over four years.
The expansion of all-day schools and all-day facilities for children of all ages is currently of particular importance due to the large backlog demand:
for the children and their educational opportunities,
but also in the interest of reconciling family and career.
This is also the most effective strategy to prevent poverty in families and among children.
We will bring together all those involved in childcare issues - the federal government, the states, local authorities, welfare organizations, churches, trade unions and companies - at a "childcare summit".
The goal is to reach concrete agreements on what can be done together to better care for children.
- Making the world of work family-friendly
Parents want and need time and space for children and partner.
The Alliance for Jobs must strongly embrace the goal of a family-friendly workplace.
The focus is on options for flexible working hours, part-time work, modern forms of work organization such as teleworking, continuing education, and programs for keeping in touch and continuing education, especially during parental leave, so that young parents do not lose touch with developments within the company.
Some large companies, but also medium-sized enterprises, are sending positive signals.
They support such initiatives.
And they take into account the skills acquired in family work in their human resources policies.
We encourage businesses to get involved in creating and arranging childcare places.
The network of family and household-related service providers with socially insured employment must be expanded.
- Develop family support
Every child must be worth the same to the state.
We will raise the child benefit to the amount of €200 in the medium term.
This corresponds to the tax savings of top earners in terms of child allowances.
Our priority is to improve the care situation.
The extended tax deductibility of childcare costs in the case of employment will particularly ease the burden on single parents.
We are bringing about more transparency in family support and making it easier for families to receive the funds to which they are entitled.
We will not abolish the marital splitting system, but we will restructure it in favor of promoting children.
Tax revenues that result will be used for family support and childcare.
- Together for the family
We want a social alliance for the family.
Everyone can and must help with this.
Also the parents and the children.
For us, promoting and demanding is a universal principle in family, child and youth policy as well.
Germany is to become a child- and family-friendly country.
We will therefore review existing and future legislation to ensure that it is child- and family-friendly.
For example, in a child-friendly society, children's noise should not be treated like other noise sources.
Family institutions, associations and counseling centers make important contributions to families.
This is especially true for families in emergency situations.
This consulting service must continue to be supported in an appropriate manner.
12. promoting cohesion - outlawing violence
This principle must be the social consensus in our country.
It is a central educational principle.
It must be exemplified in a credible manner.
Children and young people have a right to an upbringing free of violence.
The legal prerequisites for this have been created, and the guiding principle of a non-violent upbringing is increasingly gaining acceptance in people's minds.
Reconciling conflicting interests requires the ability and willingness to engage in dialogue and compromise.
This must be taught and learned.
Rules for dealing with conflicts must be practiced;
fairness, even in controversy, is part of this.
Depictions of real violence, but even more so of the - often deliberately brutal and illegal - virtual violence offered as entertainment and thrills, must not be allowed to have an unfiltered and unmoderated effect on children and young people.
Violence must not be understood and presented as a normal, customary mechanism of conflict resolution.
Particularly in the modern media society, children and young people need a firm set of values that gives them clear orientation.
Young people must be prevented from escaping from personal problems into a virtual world and thus losing touch with reality and human empathy.
As SPD, we want to help parents and educators push back the role of violence in our society and protect our children from dangerous influence.
That is why we propose: § That the educational competence of parents be further strengthened.
§ That institutions such as schools and kindergartens support parents in their upbringing through close cooperation between teachers, parents and child and youth welfare services.
§ In this way, we will also reach parents who have been less responsive to parenting counseling in the past and who need help;
§ That the German Bundestag set up an Enquete Commission this year to make proposals on violence prevention with the participation of the states and local authorities.
§ That the commission report annually to the German Bundestag on the results of its work;
§
- that the Federal Government establish an "Alliance against Violence" and form a founding initiative for this purpose, in which representatives of the classic and new media are also involved;
§ that this Alliance against Violence annually publicizes and awards examples of exemplary commitment by young people to each other and against violence;
§ - that in the self-regulatory bodies planned in the new Youth Protection Act, the representatives of youth protection, media supervision and media providers develop equal and secure standards of value and use the opportunity to build up a system of cooperation between state regulation and social self-regulation that is unique and forward-looking for Europe;
§
§ that, following the example of traditional media, a joint approach is initiated by state youth protection and Internet providers that creates safe spaces for children and adolescents through voluntary commitments and the development of quality standards as well as new types of filter technologies;
§
§ that the UNESCO Summit on the Information Society 2004 be used to look for ways, also at the international level, to prevent abuse and glorification of violence in a way that is compatible with the nature of the worldwide web.
§
13. generations with each other
People's life chances are at the heart of the political mission.
This applies to all phases of life, especially to the periods before and after employment.
The individual lifetime is growing.
People in Germany generally live significantly longer than previous generations.
Prosperity and our efficient healthcare system are major contributors to this.
In contrast to the individual lifetime, the working lifetime has shrunk, and shrunk considerably.
Young people enter the workforce later, older people leave earlier.
This trend must be reversed.
But regardless of that, youth lasts longer.
And age takes longer.
This is changing our society.
- Youth needs opportunities
Young people need opportunities, girls and boys alike.
They need material security and educational opportunities, they need emotional attention and incentive.
In the beginning, there is the family.
It is the most important experience for children and young people.
Because this is where values are set and where culture is learned, trust, self-confidence and bonding are created.
In the family, young people learn the mutual responsibility of people for each other.
We support the family.
Childcare options for children and students are important for them and for their families.
That is why our policy focuses on all-day care.
So far, this is still insufficient in Germany as a whole.
Young people's life prospects depend to a large extent on their job prospects.
Education and training opportunities must match this.
No young person should fall from school into unemployment.
Each and everyone will receive an offer of training or employment.
Priority is given to qualified vocational training in companies and vocational schools.
Our efforts over the past few years are having an impact.
Overall, the number of apprenticeships now exceeds demand again.
But there are still major regional differences between west and east.
That is why we will develop a JUMP-Plus program for young people as an employment bridge East after initial training.
The aim is to create 100,000 additional jobs for young people in areas of social need (social services, culture, etc.) as part of infrastructure measures and by linking part-time work for older employees with part-time work for young people.
Young people without a high school diploma must also have a chance.
For us, targeted support for young people with learning difficulties is an expression of equal opportunity.
Partial certificates can help on the way to full vocational training.
With the "Youth work online" program, we will bring 50,000 youth leisure facilities online over the next four years.
Youth - individual and solidarity
Our social policy aims to empower individuals and give them options.
More young people than ever before are receiving a good education.
Individual life plans become possible and accepted.
Mobility facilitates the experience of the other, even strangers.
The diversity of information, properly used, promotes specific interests and objectives.
New forms of solidarity and social responsibility are emerging.
In traditional and in new initiatives of the society dedicated to social, cultural or sports activities.
We have taken account of the commitment of young people by expanding voluntary services.
We will continue along this path.
We need young people's political work in the community.
That's why we want to give young people more opportunities and incentives to participate and have a say in the political arena as well.
Together with the states and municipalities, we are striving to establish an international youth exchange program that will give every young person in Germany the opportunity to gain experience and impressions abroad during their school years.
Youth associations in all their diversity are among the assets of our society.
We will continue to support the youth work organizations in their search for contemporary offerings.
- The opportunities of longer life
In the last 100 years, average life expectancy has doubled and it continues to increase.
However, the birth rate has been persistently low for decades.
We want to take advantage of the opportunities offered by this demographic development and minimize the risks.
Almost all areas of society are affected.
People not only live longer, they are also fit and mobile for longer.
The group of 60-year-olds and older is becoming ever larger in our society.
Old age security guaranteed
In our society, being old does not automatically mean being poor.
Overall, the elderly have more than generations before.
Our social security systems are proving their worth.
And quite a few have been able to save something in addition, in the form of home ownership or as capital.
But the most important thing is that with the pension reform we have taken a major step toward stabilizing old-age provision in the long term.
We have freed the statutory pension insurance system from the financing of noninsurance benefits and made pensions future-proof at a high level.
At the same time, the younger generation is not overburdened.
By building up a funded and state-subsidized private or occupational pillar of old-age provision, we create additional security for a carefree old age.
It's never too late for qualification
Even after retirement age, education, further training and qualification are increasingly becoming an opportunity - regardless of superficial professional usability.
In the knowledge society, there will have to be greater integration of seniors into the education system, and more academies, technical schools and universities for seniors.
Live well
The gains in prosperity over the past 50 years are more evident in few things than in the quality of housing.
Most of them live well.
And the trend among the older generation is clearly toward living independently in old age.
Mostly in apartments and in environments that you know and where you are at home.
And almost always apartments can be furnished relatively inexpensive old and handicapped-fairly in such a way that the inhabitants do not have to miss anything at the living quality.
Living well in old age is something that individuals and policymakers can and should do a lot about.
And it makes good economic and socio-political sense.
Cohesion of society with active seniors
Our society needs the new ideas of the young if it wants to move forward.
And it needs the experience of older people if it is to make full use of existing knowledge.
There are many tasks in our country where experience and prudence are needed.
This applies beyond working life.
Volunteerism is indispensable and exemplary among many elders.
The voluntary social year was created for young people.
But it doesn't have to be limited to them.
Protection and assistance for the elderly
We have set the course so that people can continue to grow old in dignity and self-determination in the future.
The quality of care has been improved, and
the rights of nursing home residents have been strengthened.
We will continue to develop the elderly care structures in the future.
14. gender equality
Social justice also means equal opportunities for the sexes.
The opportunities for women must be further improved.
Our policy is aimed at a self-determined, natural partnership between women and men in all areas of life.
Since 1998, we have made good progress in equal opportunities for women and men.
With the Equality Act for the Public Sector, the legal right to part-time work, the amendment of the Federal Child-Raising Allowance Act, the equality of same-sex partnerships, the introduction of an independent old-age pension scheme for women, the revision of the Works Constitution Act and the Protection Against Violence Act, we have made significant legal improvements to reduce gender-specific discrimination.
We want to continue on this equality policy course.
For example, we are striving to expand the range of careers for women, particularly in the IT sector and in technical professions.
By 2005, we aim to increase the proportion of women in the relevant courses to 40%.
We want to significantly increase the proportion of women among scientific staff at universities and research institutions.
Equal participation of women and men in gainful employment, in family work and in society and politics remains our goal:
- The declared willingness of companies to comprehensively improve career opportunities for girls and women in the private sector and to grant women equal access to management positions must soon lead to positive results.
- Otherwise, we will help equal opportunities in the private sector achieve a breakthrough with statutory regulations in 2003.
-
- Young women today have excellent qualifications, but these are still not sufficiently recognized in the working world.
- However, we can only remain competitive internationally in Germany if women with first-class training and a willingness to perform can also use their skills professionally.
-
- The female employment rate must rise to the level of comparable industrialized countries.
- We will therefore improve mothers' opportunities for gainful employment by providing more childcare options.
-
- We will provide targeted support for women who want to take the leap into self-employment.
-
Gender equality is a cross-cutting task that must be taken into account in all political decision-making processes in the sense of gender mainstreaming.
The federal government will regularly provide information on the status of equality in Germany in a report.
At least once in a legislative period, the Chancellor will also issue a "Government Statement on the Situation of Equality between Men and Women in Germany" to reveal any remaining deficits, highlight progress made and outline the resulting consequences.
In addition, we want to establish a federal "Gender Institute" to monitor and analyze social developments, collect and process expert knowledge, and develop proposals for the way forward on equal opportunities.
With the national action plan, we have successfully declared war on violence against women.
Together with all the institutions involved, we will continue along this path.
15. for an efficient and solidarity-based healthcare system
Health is a precious commodity for every human being.
That is why first-class medical care is particularly important.
Anyone who wants to maintain solidarity and strengthen quality in the healthcare system must be prepared to make courageous reforms.
To this end, it is essential to expand the solidarity-based competition system in the health care system and to improve transparency.
We have based the first reform steps on this: The 2000 health reform, risk structure compensation, active prevention, the curbing of pharmaceutical costs and, in particular, flat rates per case in hospitals are slowing down the cost trend and pointing in the right direction.
- Preserve solidarity
The principle of solidarity in the health care system remains correct - solidarity between the healthy and the sick; as does the equal financing of health insurance by employees and employers.
The solidarity-based strengths of our healthcare system include: Comprehensive insurance coverage for all, entitlement to benefits independent of income, strict orientation toward what is medically necessary, and care without waiting lists.
We will maintain these advantages.
Therefore, we reject the division of services into basic and optional services.
There will be no two-tier medicine with us.
- Ensure and strengthen quality
Medical and nursing skills as well as the efficiency and multitude of medical facilities and companies have ensured good care up to now. Science and research make a significant contribution to this.
Underuse, overuse or misuse must be avoided.
And care must be affordable.
For this, the system needs more competition within the framework of a solidarity-based order.
This is how we will make the German health care system fit for the future and safeguard and strengthen its quality:
- The benefits catalog of the statutory health insurance system remains uniform and common for all health insurance funds and includes what is medically necessary.
It is adapted to medical progress on the basis of verified scientific findings.
The training and continuing education of physicians must comply with this.
- For the most important clinical pictures and especially for chronic diseases, treatment guidelines are formulated on the basis of generally recognized standards.
-
- The treatment guidelines and the update of the service catalog are prepared by a public institution of independent experts.
- They must be taken into account when drafting contracts.
- More contractual freedom for physicians, hospitals and other service providers, but also for the health insurance funds.
- The providers of health care services and the health insurance funds are to be able to conclude individual contracts in addition to the existing collective contracts.
- The health insurance funds are to be able to conclude contracts with those service providers who guarantee a defined level of quality at reasonable cost.
- The obligation to contract will be modified accordingly.
-
- For the insured, access to medically necessary services is guaranteed at all times close to home.
- This is ensured by the statutory health insurers together with the associations of physicians (collective contracts) and, in addition, with individual physicians working on an outpatient basis (individual contracts).
- Where necessary, inpatient facilities and other health care professionals are also involved in the provision of care.
-
- In future, preference is to be given to establishing integrated care systems and enabling better coordination between the inpatient and outpatient sectors.
-
- For the insured, the free choice of doctor is maintained.
-
- Insurers can offer special rates to insureds who agree to use the primary care physician as aLotus in the system.
-
- We are attaching greater importance to prevention and are developing it into a pillar in its own right alongside acute treatment and rehabilitation.
- Priority prevention measures include a national cardiovascular program, an anti-tobacco program and an early detection program for cancer.
-
- We regulate the supply of medicines in such a way that it will continue to be of high quality and enable innovation in the future.
-
- Statutory health insurance will reimburse higher costs for newly approved drugs only if an additional benefit is confirmed by independent experts.
- The distribution and pricing of pharmaceuticals will be liberalized and further developed.
-
- Patient protection in medicine is given a higher priority (information, consultation, strengthening of patients' rights)
-
- We are introducing the health passport on a voluntary basis.
- This will provide patients with greater transparency, more service security and better insight into the respective treatments.
- In addition, the health passport protects against unnecessary duplicate examinations, reduces undesirable side effects and strengthens patient data security.
-
- Securing the financing basis of the statutory health insurance system (SHI)
The high quality of medical care for all patients must remain affordable.
Quality in care and competition in the system serve this goal.
Profitability stabilizes contribution rates.
Contributors have every right to expect that all efficiency reserves will be mobilized.
Treatment costs must be transparent for patients.
For reasons of fairness in contributions and demographically induced changes, it is necessary to broaden the circle of those insured by the statutory health insurance system.
Therefore, the compulsory insurance limit for new members of the GKV will be adjusted.
There are no changes to the income threshold for statutory health insurance.
- Healthcare as an economic factor
Healthcare in Germany is an important economic factor that contributes significantly to prosperity and employment.
This is another reason why we will continue our efforts to achieve excellence in medical research.
and support them in their care.
Special consideration must be given to age- and gender-specific requirements.
Appropriate working conditions for health care workers, especially those directly serving the sick, are a considerable value in themselves, but also a prerequisite for high quality care.
Unreasonable burdens must be reduced, and the applicable standards of working time law must be implemented.
- Care
Long-term care insurance remains an essential branch of social insurance.
We will continue to develop care services in a targeted manner in line with the needs of an aging society.
It's about quality and a needs-based care infrastructure, outpatient and inpatient.
The ruling of the Federal Constitutional Court on family burden sharing in long-term care insurance is implemented.
We are redesigning the interfaces between health insurance, long-term care insurance, between long-term care and rehabilitation, and also the role of long-term care in integrated care in the interests of those in need of long-term care.
This includes creating targeted transitions from hospital treatment to home care.
Our special concern is the care of dementia patients.
Further improvements must be made to them and to family caregivers.
In all of this, it is important to strengthen the rights of those in need of care and to make their needs the yardstick of modern care.
16. consumer protection
We take consumer interests seriously.
With the establishment of the Ministry of Consumer Protection, Food and Agriculture, we have drawn conclusions from the failures and crises of the past: responsibilities have been bundled, controls strengthened and consumer information improved.
Having comprehensively strengthened consumers' rights in commercial and civil law, competition law and procedural law, we are now also strengthening consumers' information rights with the Consumer Information Act.
The authorities may publicly draw attention to violations of consumer protection regulations in a timely manner.
We want to change the course from reparative to preventive consumer protection
and achieve equal opportunities between consumers and suppliers.
The guiding principles are the precautionary principle and the responsibility of the provider.
That is why we will make consumer protection a cross-cutting task of the federal government.
In any case, laws and plans of the federal government must present the consequences for consumers at an early stage and weigh the effects.
The right to consumer protection applies to all areas of life.
Consumers should be able to trust that they are only getting healthy, high-quality food.
We want consistent quality and origin assurance.
We develop these in collaboration with all those involved in the food chain, from the farm to the store counter.
Violations of labeling regulations or of guidelines for organic products are subject to penalties.
Consumer protection encompasses much more than just food safety.
It affects a large number of areas of consumption and life - from basic issues such as price quotations and general terms and conditions, to safety and protection against harmful chemicals in consumer goods such as furniture; toys or in pharmaceuticals, to a wide variety of services such as banking and insurance, travel, energy supply, online trading, health care offerings, insolvency protection for private builders and private pension provision.
We want to strengthen the rights of consumers: § as policyholders:
§ The information obligations of insurance companies and their brokers will be expanded.
§ In the event of a dispute, the insurance company must prove that it has fulfilled its duty to provide information (e.g. about gaps in cover or exclusions of liability).
§ for financial services:
§ Minimum standards for contractual agreements, product information and bankruptcy protection for insurance claims are developed and prescribed by law.
§ Investor protection for private investors is improved.
§ Asset managers are liable to pay compensation to clients for damages caused by their activities.
§ as private builders:
§ Protection against bankruptcies of construction companies or misleading service descriptions.
§ Construction companies are required by law to provide financial security for private clients in the event of insolvency and to ensure that construction projects are completed or that any defects identified are rectified by third-party companies.
§ as patients in the healthcare system:
§ The Federal Government will appoint a patient protection commissioner who will be the point of contact for all patients, create public awareness of patients' problems through an annual patient protection report, promote pilot projects and make patients' problems heard politically.
Independent consumer education is also indispensable.
To this end, we want to strengthen consumer organizations.
We also want to make it easier for individual consumers to enforce their rights.
To this end, it is necessary to review whether the current association action powers are sufficient.
By expanding consumer-friendly complaints systems, we therefore want to pave the way for fast and fair procedures in out-of-court dispute resolution.
We want to give consumers the right to cancel contracts in the event of misleading advertising and false promises.
In the event of anti-competitive behavior, consumers are to be entitled to individual compensation.
We will also ensure that profits generated from unfair advertising are skimmed off.
17. internal security
- Security: a civil right
Security against violence and arbitrariness is the foundation of any free society.
Protecting citizens from crime, violence and extremism is a central task of our constitutional state.
Only those who act decisively against crime and its causes can guarantee freedom and democracy.
For us Social Democrats, security is also a civil right.
Germany is now one of the safest countries in the world.
Crime is falling and the clearance rate is rising at the same time.
This is above all thanks to our police force, which does dedicated work and must be constantly re-equipped to perform its duties.
There have been clear successes in the fight against everyday crime.
They have a positive impact on citizens' perception of safety.
The number of residential burglaries is down, as are car thefts and pickpocketing.
Robberies and murders are decreasing.
We successfully combat organized crime through increased and efficient deployment of personnel and state-of-the-art technology.
Citizens can rest assured that for us Social Democrats, internal security is security for all - and not just for those who can financially afford private security.
- Prevention is the best protection
Preventive measures can effectively prevent crimes before they occur.
As promised, we prepared a periodic safety report for the first time in 2001.
It covers the entire spectrum of crime and comprehensively incorporates the work of the police, the judiciary and the penal system.
It shows: Further preventive measures enable a more effective fight against crime.
Repression is necessary.
But repression alone is not enough.
This is particularly true when it comes to preventing children and young people from slipping into crime.
This is where the responsible parents are particularly challenged.
Where they are unwilling or unable to intervene, the state institutions called to act must step in.
But here, too, the following applies: In the event of criminal behavior, a rapid response is required from the police and the judiciary, but also from child and youth welfare services.
Looking away does not help.
Acting responsibly means intervening.
Timely repression also has a preventive effect.
- We fight corruption
Corruption is a cancer, even in developed industrialized countries.
We fight them with consequences even in our constitutional state.
The legitimacy of democratic societies and the credibility of their politicians can only be preserved if political and administrative decisions cannot be bought.
The possibilities of criminal law to combat corruption are limited:
Here, too, priority must be given to prevention.
We are therefore taking all necessary measures to effectively combat corruption at all levels.
Organizational structures and decision-making processes must be transparent.
This can be achieved, for example, by taking the dual control principle into account when awarding contracts, by separating the tendering of services and the awarding of contracts in terms of personnel, by the rotation principle among contracting authorities and in decision-making bodies, by a temporary exclusion of companies convicted of corruption or by the establishment of a central corruption register.
Tough penalties for corruption are essential.
Business associations and institutions are also called upon to tackle the evil of active bribery, for example with a code of honor for company management.
- Safe Routes - Safe Cities
Our "Safe Community" concept ensures greater safety in the immediate living environment.
The private security industry is needed as a supplement in some places.
However, we want only qualified personnel to be allowed to work.
That is why we have created a legal basis for the private security industry for the first time.
The open use of video cameras at crime hotspots helps to strengthen prevention, reduce the number of crimes, improve detection and the sense of security.
As part of its responsibility, the federal government has created new legal foundations for railroad stations, among other things.
We want - with the states - to use video camera surveillance responsibly.
Data protection concerns are taken into account in the process.
To combat drug-related crime, we have broken new ground.
We protect our children from the temptations of drugs, from irresponsible drug dealers, and from neglect and acquisitive crime.
Our drug policy today is based on four pillars: Wide-ranging prevention system,
help for addicts
, survival assistance,
consistent action against drug dealers and the international criminal cartels behind them.
This has proved successful: Last year, the number of narcotics-related deaths across Germany fell for the first time since 1997, by around 9.6%.
We have modernized gun laws to combat the misuse of guns.
Weapons may only be in the hands of absolutely reliable persons.
- Protect our children
The crimes of dangerous sex offenders have taken the lives of children and bring untold suffering to their families.
We must ensure the best possible protection against such crimes.
Effective recidivism prophylaxis and better prevention are therefore at the heart of our resocializing penal and correctional system.
To protect children more effectively, we have expanded the scope of preventive detention in accordance with the rule of law, thereby reducing the danger posed by repeat offenders.
Safety first, we stand by that.
We will fight the misuse of the Internet for criminal offenses, in particular for the use of child pornography, and even more so its production, with the appropriate constitutional means.
In addition, we will review the benefits and risks of expanding both the monitoring of telecommunications and the entry requirements for the Federal Criminal Police Office's DNA analysis file in the case of serious crimes.
- Cooperate internationally
We have improved cooperation between the Federal Border Police (BGS) and the state police forces.
The international cooperation of the BGS with Italy, France, Poland and many other European countries was also intensified.
Police cooperation with the federal states and our European neighbors is being strengthened.
Organized crime is being dealt with relentlessly.
This is also served by the establishment of investigation teams, a team of experts against terrorism, a European border police and the fight against illegal financial flows.
We are serious about the idea of cross-border cooperation because crime knows no borders either.
In this context, international cooperation between public prosecutors and the judiciary in Europe and beyond is becoming increasingly important.
By modernizing the law and the judiciary, we are at the same time enhancing the quality of international cooperation and the importance of the principles of the rule of law.
- Removing the ground from terrorism
September 11 has shown in a frightening way that the protection of citizens requires a new and comprehensive security management.
That's why we responded immediately and comprehensively.
The security sector was increased by more than €350 million and 2,320 additional forces in 2002.
Controls at borders, airports and security-sensitive facilities have been strengthened.
Armed officers have been traveling on the planes since September 24, 2001, if needed.
Passports and ID cards are given new security features, making them even more forgery-proof.
In addition, we will regulate the inclusion of biometric features by law - with strict regard to data protection concerns.
Security management following the attacks in the United States and in the face of the new threat of bioterrorism has necessitated the expansion of civil defense and emergency coordination.
Information flow and coordination between the federal and state governments have been significantly improved.
Logistics and equipment of the civil protection facility as well.
Newly established were public warning systems via the modern media and a central office for bioterrorist threats at the Robert Koch Institute in Berlin.
Information on serious crimes from all over Europe is brought together and centrally evaluated.
The cooperation of the prosecutor's offices and the judiciary have significantly contributed to the effectiveness of the fight.
- Improve assistance for victims
With the Protection Against Violence Act and the Act to Outlaw Violence in Education, we have successfully set the course for combating violence.
We have also decisively improved the rights for victims of crime.
In the future, they will be able to bring their immaterial and financial interests to bear to a greater extent in criminal proceedings.
Offenders should be able to be ordered to pay damages in criminal proceedings to a greater extent than before.
Victims then no longer have to bring their own case;
future, they will no longer have to hold back with their compensation until the perpetrator has paid the fine.
By reforming the Code of Criminal Procedure, we will modernize and speed up procedures.
Victims as witnesses are better protected than before from unnecessary burdens.
We want the increased use of visual and audio recording.
This avoids agonizing multiple interrogations.
In the course of improving the system of sanctions, we will ensure that sufficient money (10% of the fine) is finally made available to organizations that provide special assistance to victims.
- Ensure data protection and IT security
Security in open data networks such as the Internet and the further development of data protection are the basis for guaranteeing modern civil rights in the information society.
IT security and data protection are at the same time an important prerequisite for eCommerce and eGovernment.
We will therefore ensure informational self-determination and the right of access to information.
We are increasingly focusing on the development of secure software (opensource solutions).
We want to create trust.
To this end, we have worked with providers to implement a wide range of measures to improve Internet security and have created the most modern legal basis for providers and consumers throughout Europe.
We have begun building a national infrastructure of so-called "computer emergency response teams" (CERTs).
Next, we will create a CERT infrastructure that is also directly available to citizens.
So that they can use the new services on the Internet safely.
18. immigration
Germany is a cosmopolitan and foreigner-friendly country.
Of a total of 7.3 million foreigners, more than half had been living here for 10 years or longer.
About two thirds of the foreign children and young people living here were born in Germany.
This shows: There is no alternative to a social democratic integration policy based on understanding and tolerance.
- Integration needs readiness
Successful integration requires the will to succeed on both sides.
It requires the consent of the Germans and it presupposes a serious will on the part of the immigrants to integrate into German society.
We are against any consolidation of cultural parallel societies.
The new citizenship law of 2000 has made an important contribution to this.
In the past, immigration was not accompanied by sufficient integration.
We are now stepping up government efforts
and soliciting civic engagement.
We want mandatory state integration programs and courses for new immigrants.
And incentives for migrants already living here.
The federal government will contribute to the costs.
- Control and limit immigration
In the global competition for the best brains, it is not a question of "whether" immigration will take place, but of how it can be managed in Germany's interests.
Sensible labor migration therefore limits immigration to what makes economic sense and is necessary in the labor market, without overtaxing the country's absorption capacity.
The green card scheme has proven its worth.
However, we will ensure that only those jobs for which no domestic applicants can be found will continue to be filled by migrant workers.
Our immigration law guarantees that.
- Protecting the right to asylum - preventing abuse
We stand unreservedly by the fundamental right to asylum, which we also see as a cultural achievement and a moral obligation of Germany's post-war democracy.
Those who are in need of rescue should experience it.
On the other hand, we will not tolerate asylum abuse.
Our new immigration law gives us the necessary means to take better and faster action against this.
We will exhaust them,.
also so that we have the strength to be able to give effective protection to those who are really persecuted.
- Create a uniform European asylum law
At the European level, we will also work for fairer burden sharing and a uniform asylum law so that the member states are burdened more evenly.
At the same time, we will be active in crisis regions to give people prospects in their homelands and prevent people from being persecuted and displaced.
19. modern state
- Reliable partner
Citizens rightly expect their administration to handle their affairs quickly and without complications.
During our time in government, we initiated the transformation of the sovereign state into a customer-oriented service company with the "Modern State - Modern Administration" program.
This is how our model of the "activating state" is becoming a reality.
We are continuing along the path we have chosen: reducing bureaucracy, modern management, competition between authorities, greater personal responsibility, business cost and performance accounting, efficient deployment of personnel.
So that citizens have the state by their side and not under their noses.
With successful public-private partnerships - such as the "Schools on the Net" initiative - the enabling state becomes a partner in a vibrant civil society.
We will build on this.
There are a large number of tasks that we can perform better and, in many cases, more cost-effectively together with private companies and social players.
- Management goes online
With the eGovernment initiative BundOnline, we want to make all 376 Internet-enabled services of the federal administration available online by 2005.
The German government already puts the most important laws and regulations online free of charge.
With the largest eGovernment project in Europe, we are reducing the cost of government bureaucracy by €400 million a year.
The federal government is thus becoming a pacesetter on the way to the information society
and is increasing transparency, for example, in the awarding of public contracts.
- Service law
Our modern service administration needs a modern service law.
Performance and creativity must be more rewarding.
For this reason, we will continue to expand performance pay and modern personnel management in the administration.
- Clear responsibilities
German federalism has proven its worth - even in the course of progressive European integration.
But closeness to the citizen, democracy and a modern administration need clear regulation of responsibility.
This will be an important task over the next four years.
We will gradually unbundle joint tasks and mixed financing so that the responsibilities for decisions become more transparent and ownership dominates.
- Modern law - modern justice
In the area of legal policy, we have resolved the agonizing reform backlog.
Our constitution's requirement to strengthen the rights of the weak
We have secured a high level of protection both in the area of tenancy law and in the protection of creatives and authors.
We have increased protection against domestic violence.
The new liability law has not only made us better off for drug victims and accident victims.
With the modernization of our law, and in particular of legal education, we are securing the law and the judiciary the place they have in our polity.
By modernizing our law of obligations and other important areas of law, we have once again become pacesetters in the creation of a European civil law.
We are continuing this important policy.
20. politics for a democratic country with open culture and free media
- Democracy determines political participation
Democracy needs partisanship.
Co-deciding, co-designing and co-responsibility: This is what democracy depends on.
Active participation in elections is part of this.
Politics is not a guarantee of peace,
social justice
and security, but it offers the chance to do so.
That is why we need strong democratic parties.
But we also want more direct participation rights for citizens at the federal level.
Representative democracy retains its responsibility.
But the Basic Law should also allow broader citizen participation in the future, complementing parliamentary elections: Popular initiatives, petitions for referendums and referendums should also be possible at the federal level on the basis of sensible quorums.
Attractive honorary office
A democratic state needs civic engagement.
Around 22 million people in Germany are active in clubs and associations, churches and religious communities, initiatives and projects.
They give their time and often also private money for voluntarily assumed tasks.
Without them, our society would be less human.
Their commitment is indispensable and priceless.
It is an expression of a vital civil society.
As a token of our appreciation, the honorary office is supported with an increased lump sum for exercise leaders of 150 € per month.
We have also extended it to caregivers
and made its application less bureaucratic.
With the new foundation law, we have also made volunteering more attractive.
We welcome the proposals of the German Bundestag's Commission of Inquiry to encourage the younger generation to get involved in voluntary work.
We want a social climate in which civic engagement is generally recognized.
And in which such a commitment also proves beneficial to one's professional resume.
Social competence must also be a hiring and promotion criterion for career advancement.
Companies that promote the voluntary commitment of their employees deserve social recognition.
Those who work in the ranks of volunteer services deserve not only our respect, but also recognition and support.
We will support the development of a nationwide platform that helps broaden civic engagement.
Accepting otherness
We live in a pluralistic society.
The foundations of such a society are mutual recognition and mutual respect.
As the party of justice, the SPD has always opposed exclusion and exploitation.
We also oppose those who stir up fear against people of other origins.
Peaceful coexistence requires that the multitude of cultures in Germany be recognized as equal.
The spirit of our constitution is characterized by tolerance and respect for human dignity.
Whoever lives in Germany must respect this constitution and abide by the laws, with all rights and obligations.
Strengthen the rights of minorities
The promotion and protection of the autochtonous (long-established) minorities and ethnic groups of the Danes, Frisians, Sorbs and the Sinti and Roma is our political obligation.
We will continue to support specific projects as part of long-term political programs and in coordination with the federal states concerned.
We want to strengthen the existing bodies of the minorities and ethnic groups at the Federal Government and coordinate them together with the representatives of the German Bundestag also by direct contact persons for the representatives of the minorities and ethnic groups.
Modern citizenship law
With the citizenship law we have created, the social reality is recognized.
The integration of immigrants is more easily possible.
Clear criteria for obtaining German citizenship are now laid down by law.
The naturalization of those born here has been made much easier.
We have lived up to the claim of an enlightened democracy and led our country into modern European reality.
Same-sex civil partnerships
With our Civil Partnerships Act, we have finally enforced the recognition of people with same-sex orientation in our society.
Today there is legal certainty for all those who want to stand up for each other with rights and obligations in a same-sex partnership.
Against racism
We have declared war on racism.
And we strive to ban right-wing extremist organizations that spread intolerance with their slogans and their actions.
We welcome the broad support - especially from young people and their associations - in the fight against racism and extremism and promote it with appropriate programs.
- Culture - open and for the whole country
Culture is an indispensable social good.
It helps to give our society a humane face.
With the change of government in 1998, a new openness of politics and culture emerged.
We have acknowledged the federal government's responsibility for cultural policy.
This enriches our cultural federalism and preserves our diverse national cultural heritage.
The establishment of a Committee on Culture and Media in the German Bundestag and the appointment of a Minister of State in the Chancellor's Office have contributed to increased support for cultural institutions, not least in the new Länder and in the capital
With the ''Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe'' in a symbolic location in the middle of Berlin, we are setting an example for a culture of remembrance.
Improving the situation of many cultural workers by amending the social insurance for artists and reforming copyright contract law was an important concern for us.
The new conception of foreign cultural policy as the third pillar of our foreign policy has broadened our platform of action for the dialogue of cultures and the critical monitoring of the globalization process.
This also applies to the restructuring of Deutsche Welle and the conceptual development of the Goethe Institutes.
By reforming foundation tax law, we have opened up new opportunities for patrons and donors to promote art and culture.
The newly created Federal Cultural Foundation is an expression of cultural cosmopolitanism that is committed to preserving the national cultural heritage.
This includes the European dimension.
For an economically and politically united Europe would be a torso without cultural identification.
A civil society committed to democracy requires historical awareness, but also openness to new things, the cultivation of cultural traditions and, at the same time, a willingness to change.
We succeeded in defending the fixed book price.
New accents in film promotion are intended to strengthen German film on the international market.
We are aware that popular culture in particular is an important form of expression and a source of themes for a broad section of the population.
That's why we will continue and expand the intensive dialog between the SPD-led federal government and pop artists that has already begun.
Self-confident and cosmopolitan
The beginning has been made.
But there is still work to be done.
We further enhance the policy for culture.
To this end, we are also deepening the dialog between the federal and state governments.
And we care about the role of culture in the European dimension.
It must have a culturally based national consciousness
with European identity.
Minorities must increasingly be able to find themselves in the arts and in everyday culture.
This strengthens social cohesion.
- Media diversity
Media are becoming more and more diverse.
We welcome this as a great opportunity for information, education, culture, science and entertainment.
We affirm the competition between public and private broadcasters as an enrichment of an expanding media landscape.
Both are mainstays of the media and cultural industries.
We want to meet the new challenges of global and digitalized media with a modern information and communications order.
As public broadcasters, ARD and ZDF must be able to participate in new developments and market opportunities.
They are indispensable for our democratic culture and opinion-forming.
With the culture channel ARTE, the event channel Phoenix, the children's channel and 3Sat, minority interests are covered by the public broadcaster family.
We fully support freedom of the press and the fundamental principle of media independence.
Freedom of the media is not compatible with monopolies.
We will keep a close eye on developments and, if necessary, ensure that economic power does not turn into market-dominating media power, and certainly not into political power.
Not even from the outside!
That is why we need European action to safeguard diversity of opinion and pluralism, and why we call on the Convention to establish state neutrality as a principle applicable throughout Europe.
Dealing with a multitude and variety of media in the age of digitization must be learned.
Teaching media literacy is a challenge for policymakers and educational institutions from kindergarten to adult education.
Responsible use of the Internet and a growing number of media channels also needs to be practiced in families and at work.
The path to the information and knowledge society must be accompanied by an open and public discourse on the opportunities and risks of this development.
The goal is to provide, gain and retain orientation in the diversity of information.
SPD: POLITICS OF THE MIDDLE - POLITICS FOR THE COUNTRY
The SPD's goal for the Bundestag elections on September 22, 2002 is clear: Gerhard Schröder should remain chancellor.
The SPD parliamentary group should remain the strongest parliamentary group in the German Bundestag:
So that we can continue the good political steps of the years since 1998 with a secure majority.
Solid and with the courage to try something new.
So that things don't go backwards in Germany.
The coalition with Bündnis 90/Die Grünen has proven its worth.
If the election results allow, we will continue them.
There will be no direct or indirect form of government cooperation with the PDS for us at the federal level.
We will deal with our political competitors clearly but fairly in the election campaign.
The dispute about the right way is part of democracy.
Our path is clear: RENEWAL AND TOGETHER!
WE IN GERMANY!
