2013 WE HAVE THE POWER TOGETHER FOR OUR COUNTRY Adopted at a joint meeting of the CDU Federal Executive Committee and the CSU Party Executive Committee Berlin, June 28, 2009.
A. Cohesion creates the future
1. our successes in government
The federal government led by the CDU and CSU has changed our country for the better since 2005.
We have shown that we can restructure the finances.
For the first time in a long time, we achieved a balanced general government budget in 2007.
We have shown that we can reduce the number of unemployed.
Thanks to our growth policy, the number of unemployed fell below three million in fall 2008 and we had over 40 million people in employment for the first time.
We have shown that we can strengthen families.
We have improved the freedom of choice between family and career through parental allowance, more childcare places, improved deductibility of childcare costs, the increase in child benefit and the child allowance.
We have shown that we can make education
and research.
The Higher Education Pact, the Excellence Initiative
and the Pact for Research and Innovation are to be continued until 2019.
We have shown that we can assert German interests in Europe and the world.
We have regained trust in the world
and strengthened the ability of the European Union, NATO and the United Nations to act.
All in all, our country is better equipped for the future today - in 2009 - than it was in 2005.
We are building on this.
The times challenge us.
Whenever our country was faced with important decisions, people could be sure: With the CDU and CSU, the country is on a safe course.
We have anchored the social market economy in Germany against great resistance, thus making prosperity and social security possible.
Against great resistance, we have closely integrated the Federal Republic of Germany into the circle of free peoples
and, with NATO and the European Union, given our country a level of security that we have never had before in our history.
We have held on to German unity against great odds and - when it became possible - courageously made it a reality, so that today all Germans can live in peace and freedom.
60 years of the Federal Republic of Germany and 20 years of a united Germany show what our country is capable of.
They also show: We have already mastered quite different challenges.
Today, like all other countries, our country has to cope with a global financial crisis the likes of which we have never experienced since the Federal Republic of Germany came into existence.
The course that this requires once again calls for a political force that is willing and able to shape the future.
This is the Union.
The year 2009 must not only be the year of an extraordinary global crisis, but it must also be the year in which the foundation for a new upswing is laid.
So that our country is in an even better position in 2013 than it was in 2009, both internally and externally, for the benefit of the people.
To achieve this, we, the Christian Democratic Union of Germany and the Christian Social Union, want to form a government with the Free Democratic Party in the next legislative period.
This will allow us to make the necessary decisions for the future of our country.
For the people. For a social market economy. For a secure future.
The global financial and economic crisis has a plethora of causes.
Despite all their complexity, they can be traced back to one central core: the lack of a solid regulatory framework and individual irresponsibility.
Lending, monetary policy, risk provisioning, financial products - if all this takes place without the necessary regulatory framework and sense of responsibility, if irresponsibility is even rewarded with dizzying sums as a result, then a house of cards is being erected that must eventually collapse.
In the meantime, everyone understands that we need an international economic order that is based on a sense of responsibility and guided by the principles of the "honorable merchant.
This responsible economic order is the social market economy.
The social market economy is the order that the CDU and CSU have enforced in Germany.
It is the order that has made our country strong.
In the social market economy, the state ensures the framework within which people act freely.
It ensures that fair competition creates jobs, rewards performance and protects the vulnerable.
Material prosperity alone is never enough - fulfillment and satisfaction are also measured by how much humanity, how much care, how much cohesion there is in our society.
The CDU and CSU are countering the crisis and its causes with the values we have always stood for and will continue to stand for:
We act responsibly even beyond the present day and think of our descendants.
Value creation and appreciation belong together.
We now want to anchor these principles internationally so that we can prevent irresponsibility from putting us in such a difficult economic situation again.
In doing so, we do not allow our goals to be played off against each other, even in times of crisis.
For now, too, the economy and the environment must be thought of together.
It's always about the people.
Prosperity in a destroyed environment is not prosperity.
We connect the important goals and align our policies with them.
Prosperity and climate protection,
like peace in freedom, are always the two sides of the same coin.
The task of our time is not easy.
It requires trusting, consistent and reliable cooperation with all important partners around the world.
It demands the trust that Chancellor Angela Merkel now enjoys in Europe and the world.
Only the decisive action of the German government led by it prevented the worst from happening in the fall of 2008.
Within days, in the face of the acute international financial market crisis, the federal and state governments made decisions of which we can now say: They saved Germany from great damage.
For the CDU and CSU, one thing is clear: In times of need, the state must step in - but only then.
It would be a big mistake if we misunderstood the role of the state and wanted to give it more and more new tasks in the long run.
That is precisely what the CDU and CSU do not want.
We have high regard for entrepreneurial responsibility, without which jobs cannot be created.
We firmly oppose the misconception that the state is the better entrepreneur.
State economies do not create prosperity; they take away people's freedom.
That is why we reject the idea of the state taking entrepreneurial decisions for itself.
But we advocate that he be the guardian of order.
It must help to reawaken the economy's self-healing powers.
The world must show that it has learned its lesson.
After the crisis, things must not continue as they were before the crisis.
The successful principles of the social market economy must be anchored in Europe and worldwide.
The agreements reached at the G20 summit in London on a new international financial constitution are the first building blocks for this.
2. our way out of the international crisis I. We will focus on the following ten points over the next four years:
1. we need sustainable growth to overcome the consequences of the crisis.
To achieve this, we must consolidate the budget, promote investment and ease the burden on citizens.
We want to reduce new debt by paying off the new spending needed to combat the crisis as quickly as possible.
We remain committed to the goal of a balanced budget.
To this end, we have anchored the debt brake in the Basic Law, even in the face of opposition.
It is an imperative of intergenerational justice and common sense.
The state must give itself the breathing room to shape.
The greater the progress made in budget consolidation, the greater the corresponding scope for action.
_ Anyone who wants to emerge stronger from the crisis must set the right priorities.
Our guiding principle is: invest in Germany's strengths.
We need investment in innovation
and in education.
If we want to maintain our prosperity, we will continue to depend on our country's wealth of ideas and inventions in the decades to come.
Made in Germany stands for quality workmanship and cutting-edge technology.
We will preserve this trademark.
The crisis is being overcome first and foremost by the people who are driving our country forward through their diligence, hard work and dedication.
CDU and CSU want to motivate them and therefore relieve them.
We create freedom for citizens and allow them to shape their own lives.
We set performance incentives, because performance must be rewarded.
This is the source of the power to secure prosperity and solidarity in our country.
We continue to stand up for our goal of "work for all.
To achieve this, we need more than ever to launch an education and qualification offensive.
German industry, small and medium-sized enterprises, the skilled trades and the liberal professions, employees and employers, job owners and the unemployed - everyone in our society must do their part to preserve and create jobs.
3. our country is to become a republic of education.
Education should not be a matter of parental income.
We want to further expand our educational offering.
In this way, we also support the families.
This, too, is an important contribution to making Germany more family-friendly. 4.
We will continue to strengthen marriage and the family.
Families are the core of our society.
It is our policy to create choices for families
and to promote a climate in our society as a whole that is based on respect for different life models.
To this end, we will continue our efforts to expand childcare places for under-threes and introduce a childcare allowance.
What applies to the care of children must increasingly also apply to the care of parents and grandparents.
Germany needs strong rural areas.
The CDU and CSU stand for a policy that recognizes the achievements of people in rural areas and secures their opportunities for the future.
That is why we will continue to invest in all regions.
Fair framework conditions for farmers ensure security of supply and fair prices.
A healthy and strong agriculture secures food, preserves our cultural landscape, produces renewable raw materials and contributes to energy security. 6.
6. we continue to advocate the responsible use of scarce resources
and the fight against climate change.
We are starting to do this at home:
New sources of energy must be developed for this purpose.
Our energy strategy focuses on energy security,
environmental sustainability,
affordable and competitive energy prices,
and independence.
We want to increase our efforts in research and development once again. 7.
7. realizing equal opportunities and equal pay for women is part of a cohesive society.
We stand for a balanced consideration of women in leadership positions. 8.
8. we want to enable good coexistence between natives and migrants.
The CDU and CSU have made integration a task for society as a whole.
Germany is a country of integration.
The focus is on promoting and challenging.
Good language skills and education are essential.
Those who want to accept the values of our society and Germany as their home will get their chance in our country and are welcome to join us.
9. we will maintain security in our country against internal and external dangers.
Everyone must be able to move about on streets and squares at any time without fear or apprehension.
The CDU and CSU want to anchor the principles of the social market economy internationally as well.
Germany has a good chance of its social market economy becoming a model worldwide.
Germany's and Europe's independence and influence have grown during the crisis.
We want to use this to ensure that all states are committed to future generations and the preservation of the natural foundations of life,
and that they live peacefully with one another.
We want a strong Europe that is close to its citizens.
II For this policy, we are providing special funding for six future projects. Future project: Growth potential environmental technologies
Environmental technology is one of the growth markets of the 21st century.
The efficient use of energy and raw materials, renewable energies, and sustainable water and recycling management combine economy with ecology and offer enormous growth potential.
In terms of their economic importance, environmental technologies may soon catch up with currently leading economic sectors such as the automotive industry or mechanical and plant engineering.
We want to continue to support this development through market-based instruments and smart incentives and set the necessary framework conditions.
In this way, we secure prosperity in Germany, create new export potential
and make our contribution to climate protection worldwide.
Future project: model region for electric cars
Germany builds the best cars in the world.
Together with other forward-looking drive technologies, electromobility offers great potential for reducing dependence on oil and cutting CO2 emissions.
We also want to produce the best electric cars in the future.
We will establish a model region for electromobility in Germany in order to become a global pioneer in this future drive technology.
In one region, the use of electric vehicles of all types with the associated area-wide electric charging stations is to be implemented as a large-scale project.
This region could be the first area where the vision of CO2-free transport is realized.
We will create the conditions for at least one million electric vehicles to be in use on German roads by 2020.
Future project: Promoting new materials
Automotive and mechanical engineering, the chemical industry, electrical engineering/electronics, information and communications technology, and energy supply benefit particularly from developments in materials research.
New materials are important for products and production processes that can be used to open up new markets and carry out production steps more efficiently.
Enormous cost savings are made possible by new materials.
We want innovations in the materials sector to be translated into competitive products and processes as quickly as possible.
That is why we will intensify scientific cooperation and the framework program to promote new materials.
Future project: Service to people
We demand more appreciation for service to people.
We want to improve services for people who need help and support.
Demographic developments and changes in the way people live together in our country present us with challenges,
but also offer new professional opportunities.
We want a service to people that takes everyone seriously according to their needs, promotes and offers opportunities.
As Christian Democrats and Christian Socialists, we know: Time is needed for personal contact and attention.
It is a service to the elderly who need care,
to the sick who need to be helped
as well as to the youngest who need to be given all the opportunities for development.
We want to enable more opportunities and jobs in this important field: for teachers, for educators, for nurses, for nurse practitioners and for doctors.
Better qualification offers for people who have taken over the care of a relative at home are particularly important to us.
Future project: Health research
Maintaining health is of central importance to us.
Diseases such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer and dementia are occurring in alarmingly high numbers in Germany and other countries.
We will strengthen research efforts in these areas through targeted priority funding
and coordinate the work of the various research institutions by creating a research network.
In this way, we are expanding Germany's leading position in the field of medical research.
We want to help make medicines and therapies available to people as quickly as possible in order to cure common diseases.
Future project: Volunteering
Many people are involved in volunteer work.
We want to promote this more strongly.
In the future, Germany will need more women and men than ever before to volunteer for the common good.
For this, we need a new social initiative.
It brings together those who help and those who need help.
We will create further forward-looking incentives to ensure that the many volunteers who are already active today remain active tomorrow and that we attract new ones for this task.
We will strengthen the culture of volunteerism in our country
and, to this end, specifically free volunteerism from bureaucracy.
We are just as committed to public appreciation as we are to the recognition of volunteer work and years of volunteering in professional biographies.
We will also set up volunteer exchanges, promote volunteer agencies and further develop the Ehrenamtscard.
III CDU and CSU stand for the future of Germany.
The social market economy has brought happiness to our country because it is based on a sense of responsibility.
It is good for people.
The CDU and CSU are working to anchor the social market economy internationally as well, so that this international economic crisis can be overcome and not repeated.
This is what is best for our future.
The CDU and CSU stand for the future of Germany.
We preserve what has proven itself and change where necessary.
As parties of the people, the CDU and CSU address all citizens of our country.
Our motivation is the love for our homeland.
We want to serve the fatherland.
Our ambition is to lead Germany into a secure and bright future.
For the people.
For Social Market Economy.
For a secure future.
This is what the CDU and CSU stand for.
B. Our Policy for Germany I. Our Social Market Economy - Economic Strength and Social Security
The social market economy is the successful model that will enable us to continue living in prosperity in the future.
It combines opportunities for the individual with social balance in our society.
Since Ludwig Erhard, the principle of "prosperity for all" has applied.
For us today, this means above all: work for all,
Fairness of performance
and intergenerational justice.
We believe work is possible for all and are working to achieve this goal.
Performance equity requires that performance pays
and that relieving the burden on citizens takes precedence over new areas of government action.
The Citizen Relief Act and the second stage of the tax reform to mitigate "cold progression", i.e. tax increases through the back door, will reduce the burden on citizens by around 13 billion euros at the beginning of 2010.
Intergenerational justice requires limiting the state's debt
and laying the foundations for the lives of future generations by investing in innovations and infrastructure.
The state is not the better entrepreneur.
We believe it has a duty to provide assistance and incentives in line with market conditions so that jobs can be maintained and new ones created.
I.1 Responsible tax policy for performance equity
The people who work, pay taxes, and abide by the law develop and shoulder the state's investments and responsibilities.
With these top performers, we will master the challenges of the future.
We want to relieve the burden on these citizens and their families.
Our tax policy is performance-based, family-based, generation-based and crisis-proof.
Our goal is for people to receive more net from gross.
They are entitled to a tax code based on the principles of "simple, low, fair."
CDU and CSU reject tax increases.
There will be no higher state burden on energy prices with the CDU and CSU.
Germany is a strong business location.
The CDU and CSU are optimistic that the people in our country - if we continue our growth policy - will once again create sustainable economic growth in the coming years.
We can continue to achieve growth in Germany in the future.
Fiscal consolidation remains our goal.
It creates scope to lay the foundations for more growth with attractive tax conditions.
and employment.
Especially in economically difficult times, the state is called upon.
He must do everything he can to build bridges for the next upswing.
We want to use the additional tax revenue resulting from growth in roughly equal parts for budget consolidation,
Investments in the future
and relieve the burden on citizens.
The right tax policy promotes growth.
Therefore, we will primarily implement the following relief measures.
The CDU and CSU stand for a fundamental tariff reform that mitigates creeping tax increases based solely on the tariff progression ("cold progression").
In two steps, we want to noticeably relieve the burden on citizens:
Flattening the middle-class bulge:
Performance and commitment must once again be more rewarded.
By correcting the wage progression (dismantling the "middle class bulge"), we ensure that wage increases actually reach those who have earned them.
Lowering the entry tax rate:
Every taxpayer makes a valuable contribution to our country, its people and their social security.
It is a matter of course for us that the strong have to bear a greater share than the weak.
In the same way, we think it is right for everyone to contribute as best they can.
However, low- and middle-income earners in particular often reach the limits of their financial capacity.
That is why we want to reduce the entry-level tax rate from 14 percent to 13 percent in a first step and to 12 percent in a second step.
Shifting the maximum tax rate:
Today, the maximum tax no longer affects only top earners, but already many skilled workers, craftsmen and small entrepreneurs.
We want to change this anti-performance effect.
The maximum tax rate, which today applies from an annual income of 52,552 euros, will in future apply from 55,000 euros and later from 60,000 euros.
The tax rate remains unchanged.
We will continue to develop the corporate tax reform in a crisis-proof manner.
In a global economic crisis, the state must not put any additional tax obstacles in the way of companies that hinder their chances of growth and competitiveness in international competition.
We will therefore review corporate taxation for crisis-exacerbating effects and make the necessary adjustments.
There will be no anti-growth tax policy with the CDU and CSU.
We will make tax incentives for private pension provision more flexible.
Due to demographic developments, private pension provision is essential for everyone.
That is why we want to cut red tape and simplify the promotion of private pension provision.
Self-employed persons and employees should thus be able to make better provisions in the future.
We want a structural review of VAT regulations with the aim of correcting outdated and incomprehensible tax effects for citizens
and in particular to take into account the European competitive situation of certain sectors.
In the next legislative period, we will significantly simplify the taxation process
and sustainably reduce the burden on the tax administration.
In this way, we are continuing along the path we embarked on with the establishment of the Standards Control Council and the evaluation.
Citizens and companies alike benefit from the resulting reduction in bureaucracy:
They save time, money and nerves.
This relief is also possible in times of crisis.
In the next legislative period, we intend to use any additional financial leeway for further tax cuts.
The framework conditions are to be improved to enable future investments
and to facilitate the creation and safeguarding of jobs.
We want to provide additional relief for families.
We will support industry's efforts to develop new products and technologies by providing tax incentives for clearly definable research and development expenditures.
Research and innovation are the basis for economic development in Germany
and for maintaining sustainable jobs.
That is why it is precisely now that industry must expand its research and innovation activities and prepare for the next upswing.
Fiscal and financial policy must be a driver of innovation.
The introduction of tax-based research funding is particularly helpful to small and medium-sized companies and must be done in combination with existing topic-specific project funding.
Both together result in a cohesive and internationally competitive innovation support system.
Especially in view of the banking crisis, young and innovative companies are increasingly dependent on the commitment of private investors.
We will therefore improve the framework conditions for investment in opportunity capital,
from tax incentives for harnessing the capital and experience of former executives
to special support for young companies and their investors.
For the CDU and CSU, the fundamental right to form and inherit property has always been a fundamental component of our free society.
We want to review the compromise reached on inheritance tax, particularly with a view to its family-friendly design and in light of the economic and financial crisis.
The CDU and CSU are committed to marriage as a partnership of life and responsibility and as the core of the family.
Tax law must continue to take noticeable account of this role.
We therefore want to retain the spousal splitting system in full.
In the spirit of real family splitting, we want to raise the tax allowance for children to 8,004 euros, i.e. to the basic allowance applicable to adults.
Solid finances
A policy of sound finances is in line with the principle of intergenerational justice, because today's debts are tomorrow's taxes.
The national debt has reached a level where reducing new debt and starting to pay it off has become the central issue of intergenerational equity.
It is not only the welfare of our generation that must interest us.
We are also committed to the well-being of today's children and the well-being of generations yet to be born.
We will comply with the debt brake in the Basic Law that we pushed through in the Bundestag.
Our ambition is to present a federal budget without new debt as soon as possible.
We will exercise budgetary discipline
and review the tasks assumed by the state to determine whether they are necessary.
The commitment to a stable currency
and sound public finances are hallmarks of our sustainable policy.
The imbalance in public budgets can only be corrected by a sustained reform policy with staying power.
Our country's prosperity is at risk if the state spends more than it takes in over the long term.
If we do not stop this development, the state will no longer be able to fulfill important tasks in the future.
In view of demographic change, this task is becoming increasingly urgent.
Monetary stability
and budgetary soundness are the foundations of a functioning market economy.
Sound public finances make it easier for the central bank to guarantee price stability with low interest rates.
Price stability is a prerequisite for sustained economic growth
and a high level of employment.
Inflation, on the other hand, creepily expropriates citizens
and burdens those receiving state benefits in particular.
Europe needs the European Stability Pact pushed through by Helmut Kohl and Theo Waigel.
We reject all attempts to challenge the independence of the European Central Bank through political interference.
I.2 Investing in Germany's future
A strong and innovative SME sector,
research, innovation and development as well as efficient infrastructures are decisive future factors for the prosperity of the people in Germany.
In times when enormous public debt has to be temporarily absorbed in order to cope with the economic crisis, the following applies: Investments in the future of our country must have priority.
This turns today's expenses into tomorrow's capital.
Strengthening SMEs
Germany's SMEs are our economic backbone in terms of employment, training, investment and technical progress.
Small and medium-sized enterprises, family businesses, skilled trades and freelancers stand for sustainable thinking and sound business practices.
Germany's medium-sized companies are characterized by their loyalty to their location:
Although they operate worldwide, often as market leaders in highly specialized fields, they are also firmly rooted in their home country.
Their actions convey confidence in Germany as a business location.
At the same time, the success of our SMEs is closely linked to the prerequisite of functioning competition.
and entrepreneurial freedom.
Germany's SMEs must not be allowed to fall into a credit crunch during the economic and financial crisis.
We are committed to the German three-pillar banking model.
Banks must be aware of their financing responsibility to SMEs.
We will therefore lobby for amended rating requirements for banks.
We want to prevent restrictive valuation practices at banks from causing the supply of credit to SMEs to collapse in the middle of the crisis.
Especially in the current economic situation, government funding instruments also play an important role.
For example, we will continue to rely on the ERP programs, the Joint Task for the Improvement of Regional Economic Structures and the Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau to support business investment in Germany.
We want to further reduce bureaucracy.
Since 2006, bureaucratic burdens for our economy of around 7 billion euros a year have been reduced.
Standards Control Board and standard cost measurement have proven their worth.
However, Germany's economy still bears an annual bureaucratic burden of around 40 billion euros.
Our goal is to reduce all national statistical and reporting obligations, by a net 25 percent by 2011.
We will strengthen the Standards Control Council and expand its powers.
We will also work to review all proposed legislation from the middle of the Bundestag and Bundesrat for bureaucratic costs.
Simpler and better legislation helps medium-sized companies in particular to exploit growth potential.
We will make even more intensive use of the possibilities offered by modern information and communications technologies in the authorities and for contact with citizens, thus ensuring that bureaucratic processes are simplified.
We will implement EU directives in a competitively neutral manner ("1 to 1") so that companies in Germany are not placed at a competitive disadvantage.
We reject further EU anti-discrimination requirements.
We demand less bureaucracy in Europe
and a fundamental bureaucracy check for European decisions.
We will strengthen the master craftsman principle both nationally and in the European context.
The "Meisterbrief" ensures a high quality standard, an impressive training performance.
It ensures that start-ups in the skilled trades are far more successful than in other sectors of the economy.
To make it easier for SMEs to participate in public tenders, the legal framework must be further simplified.
We will work for an improved patent system in Europe.
This is because a legally secure European patent system that is cost-effective for SMEs strengthens the competitiveness of the German economy.
We will implement improved intellectual property protection.
We will further increase research funding for SMEs to intensify technology transfer.
It is important for Germany as an innovation location to make these funding programs as efficient as possible so that small and medium-sized technology companies can be even more successful in global competition.
To achieve this, research results must be translated into products and services more quickly.
We will therefore continue to promote cooperation between research institutes and universities.
At the same time, we will promote the competitive networking of small and medium-sized enterprises and the skilled trades, research institutes and related institutions.
Universities and industry in particular need to work together even more intensively.
Our future project "New Materials" will exemplify cooperation and networking.
Promote research, innovation and development
Research and innovation are a crucial component of our program for growth and for overcoming the economic crisis.
Germany has the best prerequisites as an innovation location: outstanding research institutions, strong research-based companies and excellently trained specialists.
The task now is to take on the global challenges of the future and thus focus on qualitative growth for the benefit of climate protection, resource conservation and disease control.
We need a technology push for more sustainability.
A second economic miracle seems possible if the right course is set now for the next upswing.
We want government and business to jointly invest at least three percent of GDP in research and development.
Research and innovation are the basis for economic development in Germany
and for the preservation of sustainable jobs.
That is why it is precisely now that industry must expand its research and innovation activities.
The next ten years will be characterized worldwide by major advances in knowledge and waves of innovation in the fields of health and nutrition, energy and climate, mobility, security, and information and communication.
We will continue our successful high-tech strategy and focus on these issues.
This also includes, where appropriate, the bundling of research potential under one roof.
Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), the Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, and the National Diabetes Center are important first steps that must be followed by others.
Modern information and communication channels are of crucial importance for the innovation location.
We will push ahead massively with the nationwide provision of the relevant infrastructure, especially in the area of broadband.
We want to build on existing national strengths such as in transportation, automotive and mobility research, in the development and application of new materials, and in plant and mechanical engineering.
We will also create the conditions for one million electric vehicles to be in use on German roads by 2020 with the "Model Region for Electric Cars" project for the future.
We will promote research and development in Germany, particularly in the areas of health, ageing and medical technology, which are summarized in the future project "Health Research",
as well as nutrition, sustainability and the environment and adaptation to climate change, which make up our future project "Growth potential of environmental technologies".
We will actively shape the European Research Area
and continue to drive forward the internationalization of our universities.
We are committed to the special importance of basic research and to scientific autonomy.
We will implement the "Pact for Research and Innovation", which guarantees reliable government investment in research.
We will consistently implement the second round of the Excellence Initiative for universities and the Higher Education Pact.
We want to strengthen German research institutions and continue to promote the work of the German Research Foundation, the Max Planck Society, the Fraunhofer Society, the Helmholtz Association and the Leibniz Association in a forward-looking manner.
German science organizations have to prove themselves in an increasingly competitive international environment.
The competition for the best minds, the Nobel Prize winners of tomorrow, is being held all over the world.
The academic freedom initiative must continue to move forward.
Science needs clear ethical embedding and orientation.
This is especially true for modern biotechnology and genetic engineering.
The debate about the ethical limits of research must be conducted objectively and in the conviction that Germany needs research-friendly framework conditions in international competition.
This creates social trust and acceptance.
That is why we need safety research in controversial research areas, especially in green genetic engineering.
We rely on a strong self-confidence of the humanities and social sciences, which make important contributions to cultural memory and to shaping our future.
They promote the anchoring and discussion of values and thus create offers of orientation.
In addition, they open understanding and access to other peoples and cultures.
We will use Germany's newly created National Academy of Science for policy advice.
We will continue the "high-tech strategy" and focus it specifically on future markets.
We aim to bundle research funding competencies in a strong research and science ministry.
We will promote stronger networking between basic research and application and, in
particular, build on Germany's classic innovative strengths.
We will consistently implement the Higher Education Pact and provide
targeted support for young scientists.
In this way, we will counteract a looming shortage of skilled workers.
A high-tech location is dependent on excellent minds, scientists and excellently trained specialists.
Efficient transport networks - impetus for the construction industry
The CDU and CSU are committed to the sustainable further development of infrastructure in Germany.
The benchmarks here are the legitimate expectations and mobility needs of citizens, the
requirements of economic and logistics processes,
and sustainability.
We advocate a policy that preserves Germany's highly developed mobility culture and strengthens Germany as a business location.
In doing so, we want to meet the requirements of environmental and climate protection.
Mobility must also remain affordable.
This applies to individual transport, public passenger transport and commercial transport.
We will continue to develop the Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan in line with demand
and swiftly implement completed transport projects.
Policies for modern infrastructure need continuity and reliability in planning and resource allocation.
We will ensure that the high level of our infrastructure is maintained and that there are no investment gaps.
The transportation budget must be permanently resourced so that truck toll revenues are used to improve infrastructure.
We will meet the federal government's obligations with regard to rail regionalization funds.
and in accordance with the Municipal Transport Financing Act.
Efficient infrastructures need modern financing instruments.
In infrastructure financing, we will continue to develop PPP projects, such as the operator model for the expansion of federal highways, in a way that is friendly to SMEs.
We need a strong transport infrastructure financing company (VIFG) to manage funds more efficiently and for specific purposes.
The company is intended to support the federal states in the maintenance and optimization of the transport network.
Mobility must be designed to be as environmentally friendly as possible.
To enable environmentally friendly mobility, we will step up efforts to shift traffic from road to rail and waterways.
Road transport can and must be made more environmentally friendly: from further reducing fuel consumption to low-noise road surfaces.
We reject a general speed limit on highways.
Road safety is a priority for us.
Every accident victim is one too many.
We therefore rely on state-of-the-art safety technology for all modes of transport - without patronizing citizens.
In dialog with the transport industry, we will therefore promote the optimization of safety systems.
Germany's prosperity is based on its integration into international trade flows.
We want Germany as a logistics location to further expand its outstanding position at the heart of Europe.
Germany must not be a mere transit country in the middle of Europe, but must also participate in the value creation in trade and logistics in the future.
We will link the modes of transport in a market-oriented manner and optimize interfaces through targeted investments in infrastructure and handling technology.
To this end, we will strengthen Germany's role as a leading location for telematics and traffic management systems.
We will systematically exploit the innovation and market potential offered by the Galileo satellite navigation system.
We will continue to develop the "Freight Transport and Logistics Master Plan" in order to increase the efficiency of the freight transport system and achieve maximum benefits for Germany as a logistics location.
In this way, we also want to improve integration into the trans-European networks.
Air traffic is a mobility factor and job engine for Germany.
The "Air Transport Initiative" has proven to be an important instrument in the interaction between politics and industry and will be continued.
Germany needs a network of easily accessible airports, especially for a globally competitive economy.
We will adjust airport capacities to future growth.
We want to strengthen local public transport as a component of services of general interest.
The rail network must be accessible to all providers on a non-discriminatory basis.
Competition creates enormous optimization and savings potential for the state and customers, which we intend to exploit.
Public transport services must also be available in rural areas, because many people there are dependent on them.
The CDU and CSU want to continue along the successful path of rail reform begun in 1994.
In terms of partial privatization, the rail network and stations must remain in the hands of the federal government.
Political responsibility for infrastructure must once again be given greater consideration.
We need a customer-oriented and efficient railroad in Germany.
We will maintain and expand the rail network in line with demand and throughout the country.
We will strengthen competition on the railways and expand the powers of the Federal Network Agency to this end.
We will strengthen the performance of the German waterway network and inland navigation.
River engineering projects must be environmentally compatible and take flood protection into account.
We want to strengthen Germany as a location in the maritime integrated economy
and promote maritime shipping under the German flag.
We want to improve the hinterland connections of the German seaports.
We want to strengthen Germany's position in the European transport networks.
To this end, the long agreed routes of the "Trans-European Networks" must be implemented with vigor - such as the Paris-Stuttgart-Vienna, Budapest-Prague-Nuremberg/Dresden and Berlin-Munich-Brenner rail links.
We want to supplement the concept of the Trans-European Networks with an efficient connection from the Baltic and North Seas to the Adriatic and the Black Sea.
We stand for the fact that housing construction and urban development enjoy a high priority in Germany.
Residential construction in Germany has fallen sharply in some regions below the level of new construction required for a balanced housing market, with the result that there are once again supply bottlenecks in at least some metropolitan areas.
Sufficient new housing construction is also urgently needed in the future.
This makes it easier to achieve economic and climate policy goals.
Home ownership also continues to lag far behind in an international comparison.
The CDU and CSU want more people to be able to fulfill their desire for home ownership.
I.3 Energy - safe, clean and affordable
Germany needs a national energy strategy.
German energy policy must make its contribution to a secure, economical and climate-friendly energy supply.
Strong price fluctuations show how pressing the problems of energy supply are.
The growing global demand is faced with limited fossil resources.
Added to this are man-made climate changes and the political instability of important oil and gas exporting countries.
We need to reduce dependencies,
use energy more efficiently,
and help renewable energies make a breakthrough.
The challenges of climate change and the shortage of raw materials offer opportunities for the future, especially for the German economy.
Our goal must be to further expand our global leadership in the entire range of energy and climate protection technologies.
We are committed to a broad and climate-friendly energy mix
and want Germany's energy imports to be distributed among as many countries as possible to avoid unilateral dependencies.
We also rely on fossil energy sources, which can and must be used efficiently and in a climate-friendly manner.
Germany needs fully functional transmission networks for electricity and gas.
The German interconnected power grid must be expanded to become a building block of a Europe-wide power transmission network.
We will eliminate national bottlenecks
and create the necessary cross-border interconnections.
We want the current four grid control zones to become a uniform German grid control system,
whereby state involvement is not expedient.
Expansion measures in the extra-high voltage transmission grid are urgently needed for the further integration of renewable energies into the interconnected grid.
We want to improve the framework conditions for modernizing the conventional power plant fleet as quickly as possible.
We want to strengthen decentralized energy supply, for example through plants with combined heat and power generation, in order to bring electricity production and electricity consumption closer together.
In this way, we reduce line losses.
In addition, carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology can make an important contribution to the climate-friendly use of fossil fuels.
The construction of new conventional power plants, the upgrading and expansion of energy grids and also the expansion of renewable energies are increasingly encountering acceptance problems in the vicinity of suitable sites.
Educational work on energy policy interrelationships must therefore be stepped up.
We will identify regional and local potentials of renewable energies by developing and continuously updating an "Energy Atlas of Germany".
The goal is the intelligent networking of energy generation points and consumers.
At the same time, we also want to set framework conditions for energy generation in the area of fossil fuels that is close to consumption and in line with demand.
Renewable energies offer great opportunities in terms of environmentally compatible and climate-friendly growth,
innovative business fields,
new jobs
and value creation in rural areas.
We have set ourselves ambitious targets for the expansion of renewable energies (20 percent by 2020).
We want to make our contribution to greater economic efficiency and base load capability.
We want to further develop the hitherto predominantly quantitative expansion of renewable energies.
We are striving for qualitative expansion, in particular through a future-proof electricity infrastructure including "smart grids" and storage technologies.
We will continue to develop the tried-and-tested Renewable Energies Act and align it to the goal of an economical energy supply that meets demand.
For the time being, nuclear energy is an indispensable part of a balanced energy mix.
We see nuclear energy's contribution to the power supply as a bridging technology because climate-friendly and cost-effective alternatives are not yet available to a sufficient extent today.
We are therefore seeking to extend the operating lives of the safe German plants.
We reject the construction of new nuclear power plants.
The majority of the additional profit generated from the lifetime extension of nuclear power plants is to be used for research into energy efficiency and renewable energies in accordance with a binding agreement with the energy supply companies.
and to reduce electricity prices.
Responsible use of nuclear energy also includes the safe final disposal of radioactive waste.
The CDU and CSU want the moratorium on the exploration of the Gorleben site to be lifted immediately so that the interim storage facilities at the power plants can be closed as quickly as possible.
The federal government acknowledges its responsibility for the repositories.
In connection with the storage sites, everything must be done to ensure the safety of the population.
Increasing energy efficiency offers many untapped potentials.
With the help of modern energy technologies, it must be possible to further decouple the development of economic growth from resource consumption.
More support must be given to research into efficient technologies.
We want to initiate an "Energy Efficiency Action Alliance" together with the business community.
These include general information and education campaigns, consultations on electricity-saving options, and opportunities to introduce individual electricity tariffs.
We want to continue the successful KfW programs for energy-efficient building refurbishment and make them more flexible.
The building sector offers great potential for efficiency gains.
In addition to a more flexible design of the funding instruments for energy-efficient building refurbishment, incentives must be provided for the modernization of the heating stock.
We want to strengthen the energy competence of consumers: through increased environmental education and more advisory services, through clear labeling of energy consumption and transparent electricity meters.
We want to use market-compliant means to promote the spread of energy-saving appliances.
We advocate demanding maximum consumption standards, incentives for the purchase of particularly energy-saving appliances, and electricity efficiency as a criterion for public procurement.
We want an "Efficiency Strategy for SMEs" that aims to improve education and provides low-interest loans and grants for energy efficiency measures.
We advocate broad-based, technology-open energy research.
We want to set the course for Germany to become the world market leader in climate-friendly energy sources and climate protection technologies in all sectors.
This includes clean gas and coal-fired power plants, but also research into renewables, nuclear technology and geothermal energy.
In the field of nuclear research, the promotion of German safety expertise as a contribution to the safety of nuclear facilities worldwide is of great importance to us.
Research into storage technologies must be a priority in the area of promoting renewable forms of energy.
We will accelerate the electromobility project of the future with the necessary infrastructure - as a contribution to reconciling energy efficiency, climate protection and mobility.
Research and development in the areas of batteries, fuel cells and lightweight construction must be promoted more strongly.
Industry, science and politics must devise a strategy for future automotive technologies.
The current division of energy policy decision-making competencies among different policy areas prevents energy policy from being cast in a single mold.
To achieve greater planning and financing certainty in energy policy, we want to bundle competencies within the federal government.
Energy prices must not jeopardize the substance of Germany as a business location
or turn energy into a social issue.
Just as we therefore want to avoid a further increase in the price of energy, we must set the conditions for functioning competition in the energy sector.
I.4 Fair rules for international financial markets and the global economy
The CDU and CSU also rely on the social market economy as a model for the international financial and economic order.
The global financial market and economic crisis has made it clear that international markets need a global regulatory framework that keeps pace with financial market innovations.
For us, it is clear that global problems require globally coordinated solutions.
To this end, coordination between states and groups of states must be intensified, but multilateral institutions must also be strengthened:
The measures coordinated at European and international level to stabilize the financial market are the first building block for a new financial market constitution.
The second step must now be the swift implementation of European and international resolutions to prevent future financial market crises.
We will press for internationally uniform standards of regulation and supervision.
Germany will play a constructive role in intensive cooperation between the supervisory authorities.
We will bring banking supervision in Germany together under one roof.
In the European Union, supervisory authorities must be brought together within the framework of the European Central Bank in such a way as to ensure efficient supervision and joint crisis prevention and management.
We are striving to revise the international accounting standards.
We are committed to developing a model from European tradition that differs from the previous Anglo-American one.
The principle of prudence and precaution to be observed by the honorable businessman must be the valuation maxim.
We will work to strengthen the Basel Committee's requirements for banking supervision.
They must be changed so that rules that do not have a procyclical effect exacerbate crises
- and they must then actually become internationally binding standards.
We are striving for more effective banking regulation.
In principle, the same capital adequacy requirements must apply to loan commitments to an unconsolidated special purpose entity as to assets of comparable risk on the balance sheet.
Institutions that distribute securitized financial products must keep a certain portion of them on their own balance sheets to ensure a reasonable risk assessment.
We urge rating agencies to separate valuation and advisory services.
European and international supervision of rating agencies must be established, which sets standards for risk assessment and the issuing of credit ratings and monitors compliance with them.
We are in favor of the Bundesbank and the European Central Bank publishing assessments of the work of rating agencies on a regular basis and according to transparent criteria.
We will work to ensure that there is a European rating agency in the future.
We will enforce greater transparency for financial investors.
Their business situation and debt position must be clear from their financial statements.
Hedge funds are to be subject to an internationally coordinated set of rules.
We are committed to achieving a fair balance with the developing countries in the WTO negotiations.
We want better framework conditions for the participation of developing countries in world trade.
In doing so, we advocate effective rules for the protection of intellectual property
and appropriate global health, animal welfare and environmental standards.
Minimum social standards must be observed.
We aim to conclude the Doha Round to remove trade barriers and open markets.
We are committed to the principle of free world trade and reject protectionism.
We will consistently counter trade and competition distortions on international markets.
I.5 Social is what creates work
Work is the central source of income as well as material and immaterial wealth.
Societies based on the division of labor offer the opportunity for prosperity and a good life.
The topic of work is associated with hopes and fears in equal measure.
It is the individual's hope to keep their job, find a new one, or identify development and advancement opportunities for themselves and their colleagues.
In a time of crisis, on the other hand, there are fears of job loss, dwindling contacts, promotion and employment prospects, and falling incomes.
It is now a matter of preserving jobs and creating new ones, even with short-term, pragmatic measures.
At the same time, we are concerned with medium and long-term policies that improve employment prospects.
The CDU and CSU are committed to collective bargaining autonomy for a fair balance of interests between employers and employees.
We want to strengthen the autonomy of collective bargaining as a guarantee for the stability of Germany as a business location.
It is an indispensable part of the regulatory framework of the social market economy.
The most important starting point is that wage setting is not nationalized, but remains the task of the collective bargaining partners.
As a rule, those who work full-time should be able to live on their income.
We will continue to ensure this in the Employee Posting Act.
With the Minimum Terms of Employment Act, we are intervening where there is no collective bargaining agreement.
To prevent wage dumping, we want to clarify the ban on immoral wages in law.
CDU and CSU guarantee minimum income for all in Germany.
The income necessary for a dignified life is not secured by a uniform, statutory minimum wage, but, where necessary, by a combination of fair wages and supplementary state benefits.
For us, the following applies: Those who work must have more than if they do not work.
A minimum income also makes work possible for jobseekers without a vocational qualification or with low qualifications,
but also more attractive for older people in companies.
The minimum income succeeds in securing and creating jobs - the minimum wage destroys jobs.
The mini-jobs are to be retained.
Our goal remains the stabilization of non-wage labor costs.
In this way, we counter the relocation of jobs abroad or to undeclared work.
At the same time, we are strengthening the financial options of personnel-intensive companies and employees in particular.
The CDU and CSU are committed to Germany as an industrial and high-tech location that accepts the challenges of international competition.
We will vigorously support the necessary technological change, for example in the automotive industry.
After all, the employment prospects of many millions of people are closely linked to this.
We want more security for workers who lose their jobs and cannot find new ones because of the global crisis.
Promoting private pension provision is an important measure for preventing future old-age poverty among broad sections of the population.
For this reason, the exemption amount for the sheltered assets in SGB II should be substantially increased per year of life.
The condition here is that the pension assets are not available until retirement.
In addition, we want to protect owner-occupied property more comprehensively.
We stand for an effective and efficient labor market policy that helps the unemployed find a job again quickly.
We address many people's concerns about decline and excessive demands by promoting market-oriented jobs instead of financing unemployment.
The principle of "promoting and demanding" will continue to be the benchmark for our actions.
Only measures that effectively bring the unemployed into employment with prospects should continue.
We need a well-functioning Federal Employment Agency (BA).
Improved job placement and other labor market policy measures contribute to social stability.
Nevertheless, the path of improvement is not complete in the BA either.
Particularly at a time when unemployment is on the rise again, the BA must become even better at helping even more people find their way back into the workforce.
Demographic change is opening up new career prospects.
Particular attention should be paid to employment prospects in personal services, such as "service to people."
We are dedicating a future project to "service to people".
Here in particular, we believe that "qualification takes precedence over immigration."
We will increase the attractiveness of the occupational group of nurses and geriatric nurses
and strengthen retraining programs in this occupational group.
We want to expand and promote further training measures for family caregivers.
We aim to increase labor force participation, especially among older people and women,
and encourage more education and training efforts.
We will consistently continue programs to integrate older people into the labor market.
We want to make the profession of educator more attractive
and place an emphasis on continuing education.
The expansion of childcare and education services will open up new career opportunities.
We want to effectively protect employees from being spied on in their workplace.
Where legal regulations are necessary to ensure the protection of employee privacy, we will enforce them.
The focus of basic benefits for jobseekers must be on efforts to qualify and place people in jobs.
We want to improve incentives to work in the basic income support for jobseekers by reorganizing the supplementary income regulations
and a consistent fight against abuse.
Basic benefits for jobseekers should comply with the principles of support and demand.
We adhere to the principle that support for people who are long-term unemployed is provided in close cooperation between the municipalities and the BA.
The services are to be provided from a single source.
To this end, we will create organizational structures that combine the organizational expertise of the BA with the local knowledge of the municipalities, which is particularly important in the fight against long-term unemployment, in an efficient and ideology-free manner.
This also includes our commitment to option municipalities.
Work is particularly important for people with disabilities.
We want to support people with disabilities in finding employment on the primary labor market with finely controlled integration subsidies.
Alternative employment opportunities in vocational training centers and vocational promotion centers are important cornerstones of our social policy.
Germany's efficient public administration is an important locational advantage.
The public sector is a strong part of Germany thanks to its dedicated employees who are oriented toward the common good.
We stand by the civil service
and want to further develop collective agreements for the public sector and civil service law in harmony.
I.6 Ensuring reliable care in old age
Since 2005, the CDU and CSU have successfully pursued a policy that puts the intergenerational contract on a sounder footing
and financially consolidates the statutory pension insurance system.
A future-proof pension system rests on the three pillars of a statutory pension
and private and occupational pension plans.
Pension provision in Germany is once again reliable, not least thanks to the moderate increase in the retirement age.
This is the prerequisite for ensuring that future older generations will also be able to maintain their standard of living.
Supplementing the statutory pension with private or company pension plans and additional income provide an adequate living even with low pensions in almost all cases.
Linking pensions to wage developments counteracts old-age poverty.
Statutory pension insurance is the most successful instrument for preventing poverty in old age.
We are proud that only a few people are dependent on supplementary social benefits in old age.
That is why we will continue to adhere to the tried-and-tested structured system of old-age provision in the future.
The expansion of the statutory pension insurance system, which is characterized by the interaction of employers and employees, into an employment insurance system does not solve the challenges of a changed working world and demographic developments.
We are not closing our eyes to the fact that changing economic and demographic structures mean that there is a risk of increasing poverty among the elderly in the future.
We will curb this danger
and work hard to ensure that citizens who have spent a lifetime in full-time employment receive a pension above the subsistence level.
These will be designed according to need
and financed from tax revenues.
We will continue to work for a pension development that guarantees pensioners a reliable and fair share in the general income development
without depriving the younger generation of opportunities for development and prosperity.
In the further development of old-age provision, we will ensure that existing fairness gaps in pensions are closed.
We want child-rearing to be taken into account even better in pensions.
We have made subsidized pension provision more attractive and less bureaucratic.
A large number of people therefore use this route to make private provision.
In the future, we would like more groups of people to be able to take advantage of the state-subsidized pension plan.
We will simplify the various tax incentives for private old-age provision and free them from red tape.
I.7 Sustainable policy for health and care
The CDU and CSU want everyone in Germany - regardless of income, age, social background or health risk - to continue to receive high-quality medical care close to home
and to be able to participate in medical progress.
Patients and the insured are at the center of the CDU and CSU's healthcare policy.
It is in dealing with the sick, the elderly and the weak that society shows its social face and its foundation of values.
Efficient and modern healthcare system
Due to medical and medical-technical progress and demographic change, the structure, organization and financing of both statutory and private health insurance must be constantly developed.
We need more transparency and competition
and less bureaucracy in the healthcare system so that quality continues to rise and resources are used more efficiently.
The liberal professions have made a decisive contribution to the success of the German healthcare system.
They ensure patient-oriented, humane and high-quality medical care not only in metropolitan areas but also in rural regions, thus guaranteeing security of supply.
Regionalism instead of centralism has proven its worth in health policy.
The liberal professions must therefore continue to be one of the mainstays of first-class patient care.
To ensure this, we will drastically reduce bureaucratic requirements and documentation obligations to a level that is indispensable for billing and quality assurance.
Plannability, reliability and trust must characterize future financing.
In constructive dialog with those working in the healthcare sector, we will determine the necessary course corrections (for example, in the physician fee system and risk structure compensation) to ensure that our healthcare system remains viable and sustainable in the future.
We are committed to a culture of trust and responsibility in healthcare.
We want stakeholders to act as partners in a self-governing healthcare system and reject state medicine.
The self-government of physicians in particular must therefore be given the opportunity to re-establish itself as a genuine representation of the interests of its members.
Only a self-government that is accepted at the grassroots level of the medical profession can fulfill its function in the health care system.
For us, freedom of therapy, freedom to choose doctors and hospitals, and freedom of the healthcare professions are at the core of a free healthcare system.
Freelance general practitioners, specialists and dentists in private practice, pharmacists, independent health care craftsmen and providers of therapeutic products will continue to guarantee high-quality, patient-oriented care in the future.
In addition to inpatient hospital care, these structures must be preserved and adapted to changing social conditions.
We will pay particular attention to ensuring that care is provided close to home, especially in rural regions.
Medical care centers are to be licensed only under certain conditions.
It is essential that these are managed responsibly only by physicians and hospitals as sponsors.
Owner-operated pharmacies and strict limits on mail-order drug sales are indispensable supports for drug safety.
We value the great competence and performance in the nursing health professions and want to strengthen their responsibility for the patients.
We will further strengthen personal responsibility, preventive care and prevention,
exploit efficiency and cost-effectiveness potentials,
and expand individual choices and scope for decision-making.
We want insured persons and patients nationwide to have uncomplicated access to independent information and advice in the health care system.
In view of the wide range of services on offer, we want to use reliable and comprehensible criteria on performance, quality and price to contribute to greater transparency and better orientation both in the use of benefits in kind and in reimbursement tariffs.
We will also strengthen independent patient counseling
and further develop patients' rights in a separate Patient Protection Act.
We want to strengthen motivation and motivation in the health care professions and ensure attractive conditions in rural regions as well.
The aim is to ensure performance-based, quality-oriented remuneration of SHI-accredited physicians that takes into account special regional conditions, takes into account the special features of the services of the individual groups of physicians and gives physicians planning security with fixed euro prices.
It must be ensured that expenditure increases are in line with the general trend in healthcare costs.
We will create the conditions for health insurance funds and service providers to have more opportunities for customized and individual contractual arrangements.
In this way, individually tailored care concepts can be developed for the respective care requirements in the regions, which take into account the regional peculiarities as well as the differentiated requirements for contract design resulting from the different insurance structures of the health insurance funds.
For us, a collective agreement to ensure medical care in rural areas will continue to be indispensable in the future.
Family doctor-centered care that meets special quality requirements is a high priority for us.
However, maintaining a broad spectrum of freelance specialists in private practice will be just as important to us in the future.
With the hospital reforms, we have laid the foundation for a new regulatory framework.
We will continue to develop this framework, particularly with regard to regional specifics.
The existing hospital financing system has proven its worth.
We reject a nationwide uniform price.
The right of the federal states to decide independently between funding through investment lump sums and individual funding of investments is retained.
We want to further develop integrated care to strengthen networking between the various disciplines and sectors.
To tap synergy effects, we will make sector boundaries more permeable through better care models.
In particular, we will continue to expand and promote palliative care services.
For us, independent information, advice and support, safety and availability are essential requirements for the supply of medicines
as well as innovation, diversity and profitability.
We will therefore curb excesses in the mail order business,
revise the legal framework for rebate contracts in the interest of competition and consumer friendliness,
and review the multitude of sometimes contradictory instruments for pricing and setting prices to ensure that they are effective and make sense.
The CDU and CSU are strongly committed to strengthening prevention and health promotion in the German healthcare system.
Prevention is a task for society as a whole, because its expansion not only improves people's health, quality of life and performance,
but can also reduce the future financial burdens on our social systems.
That is why we want to upgrade prevention
without creating new bureaucracy.
Prevention does not need centralized control, but clear regulations of responsibilities and financing according to subsidiary principles.
Particularly at the municipal and regional level, we want to strengthen cooperation between social stakeholders, define common goals,
review existing measures for their effectiveness and efficiency, and leverage existing structures.
An important step towards strengthening personal responsibility, prevention and health promotion is the further development of bonus models, elective and deductible tariffs.
Our responsible drug policy combines prevention,
Help for addicts to quit
and combating drug-related crime with all the means available under the rule of law.
We reject the "legalization" of allegedly "soft drugs".
Our goal is to ensure the financial viability of health care
and to systematically develop statutory health insurance in the medium term, also with a view to greater intergenerational equity.
We want to limit additional burdens for the insured and use scope for relief.
Tax financing of noninsurance benefits is an important element in this.
High quality standards must continue to be guaranteed in all areas of care in the future.
In addition, there must be more transparency and genuine freedom of choice for insured persons.
We are committed to efficient private health insurance, which will be part of a free health care system in the future as full and supplementary insurance.
We want the legal possibilities for cooperation between statutory and private health insurance in offering elective and supplementary services to be used and expanded more than in the past.
We reject a state-run one-size-fits-all insurance system.
The healthcare industry is one of the largest growth sectors in Germany.
Advances in medical technology, demographic change and increasing health awareness indicate that this industry will continue to grow and create jobs in the future.
Health research helps to improve the quality of life of people of all ages with innovations, while
at the same time ensuring the financial viability of the healthcare system.
Long-term care insurance
The long-term care insurance introduced by the CDU and CSU in 1995 has proven its worth.
In the last legislative period, benefits were also increased for the first time.
As a result, it has been possible to push through more care for those affected, especially those suffering from dementia, more quality and transparency, and less bureaucracy.
The aim is to ensure a high level of care
and to prevent an increase in co-payments to the detriment of those in need of care, their relatives and social welfare agencies.
We see care as an important service to our fellow human beings.
We know that this requires time for personal contact and attention.
Long-term care insurance must continue to make a reliable contribution to covering the risk of long-term care
and provide high quality care.
Comprehensive social security is indispensable.
However, it does not release the individual from taking personal responsibility and initiative to cover the care risk and to organize care.
We want a new, more differentiated definition of the need for care.
We want more fairness in long-term care insurance.
People in need of care should be able to make the decisions that affect them themselves as far as possible.
We will tackle the resulting necessary measures at the beginning of the legislative period.
The work of nursing and geriatric care must become more attractive and contribute to the professionalization of nursing.
As part of the reform of long-term care insurance, we have therefore strengthened the profession of nurses and geriatric nurses.
Now more services can be taken on independently.
In the future, some medical activities may also be transferred to nursing staff.
We respect the achievements of family caregivers and want to strengthen care within the family.
We want to improve the quality of care and support for older people.
and improve the compatibility of professional activities and private care.
Companies should be motivated to participate in programs to reconcile care and work.
To this end, cooperation between companies and day care facilities is to be initiated and organized.
We want to qualify care support points as points of contact for relatives
We will make existing networks such as "Success Factor Family," "Local Alliances" and multi-generation houses available to companies
II. opening up opportunities - realizing an opportunity society
On the basis of our Christian view of humanity, we enable every person to have the right to the free development of his or her person.
But it also means responsibility of each individual for himself and his fellow men.
Our model of an opportunity society takes account of this balance between development and responsibility, freedom and security.
Our ideal is a value - bound open society of fair chances.
Consensus on a common foundation of values is indispensable for peaceful coexistence.
II.1 Acting in solidarity with one another
For the CDU and CSU, intergenerational cohesion is one of the key sociopolitical goals.
We can only master the great challenges of shaping a good future together.
The increased life expectancy in our country opens up new opportunities for an active life phase for the elderly.
We respect the achievements of the generations that rebuilt Germany after war and dictatorship.
They created freedom and democracy in Germany and a prosperity unimaginable for previous generations.
We welcome the diversity in which elders live their lives today.
This ultimately shapes new ideas about old age as a positive stage of life.
The ideas must become an integral part of our social policy.
We welcome the willingness of the younger generation to meet the increased professional demands in a knowledge-based society and, in
doing so, to reconcile family and career.
We support the younger generation's desire to start a family and raise children.
Due to demographic change, the younger generation is facing increased financial burdens.
In the world of work, there is a trend away from long-term employment patterns toward more flexible forms of employment.
This creates increased uncertainty for younger people in the labor market.
We will take greater account of changing life courses.
Young people need the confidence that they will not be overwhelmed during the family phase.
We reject any form of age discrimination.
We advocate an unprejudiced review of existing age limits, for example for publicly appointed experts, honorary jurors or professors.
We call on all those responsible in politics, business and society to tear down de facto age limits in people's minds and in their actions.
We want to facilitate intergenerational projects
and ensure meaningful participation, employment and further training measures for the elderly after their active working lives.
Churches, community foundations, associations, and business can do important work in creating a volunteer network of family support.
We also welcome and encourage the initiative of older people to join together in networks and volunteer agencies to share their life and professional experience.
With the Volunteer Services of All Generations, the flexible service offer, which is open to all age groups, is to be implemented nationwide step by step and networked with the local structures.
The cohesion of the generations grows from the passing on of life experience, from tolerance and above all from practical help of the generations for each other.
Multigenerational houses promote togetherness and exchange between generations and
create a neighborhood network of family-related services.
We want to expand the local cooperation of Alzheimer societies in order to remove the taboo from the topic of dementia and thus bring the affected families into the center of society.
We want to expand and promote new forms of housing, care and support.
For everyone, young and old, who is not fit and mobile, we must make the living environment barrier-free.
This concerns, for example, urban planning, access to public buildings or to public transport.
Our sustainable policies respect the rights of future generations.
In the interest of the future of our country, we need self-confident young people who show solidarity, are open to the further development of our society, and are socially and politically committed.
Youth policy for all young people in Germany is equally family policy, education policy, integration policy and social policy.
Fair opportunities for all children and young people in our country are the foundations of a future-oriented children and youth policy.
No one should be lost.
Everyone deserves a fair chance.
We will continue to promote associational and open youth work.
The diverse youth work in the youth associations, the youth rings of the open youth work, the municipal youth work and in the youth education centers is a successful model.
We don't give up on a young person just because they got off to a bad start in school or vocational training.
All young people have strengths and talents.
With a YOUTH STRENGTHEN initiative, we rely on flexible networks, alliances and a pooling of resources.
Creative solutions can only succeed through the intelligent cooperation of existing institutions, services and offers on site, in particular through cooperation with youth social work providers
as well as through self-help by those affected.
We want to strengthen the media competence of children and young people and work towards a pedagogically sensible use of new media.
Prevention work to avoid addictions of any kind is to be intensified.
We also want to promote the development of high-quality, culturally and educationally valuable entertainment media and upgrade the German Computer Game Award to this end.
Equal rights for women and men
The CDU and CSU want to realize equal rights for women and men at all stages of their lives in a society based on partnership.
Women and men should be able to develop in freedom and responsibility according to their inclinations, talents and wishes.
That is our understanding of freedom of choice.
We want to eliminate the disadvantages that still exist for women in the world of work, politics and society.
Many families today live on two incomes.
Women now provide the main income in one in five families.
We consider the principle of "equal pay for equal work" to be self-evident and reject different pay for women and men for the same work.
Business must implement this principle pragmatically.
One instrument for this is voluntary wage tests based on the Swiss model, which create transparency.
The basic prerequisite for growing pay equality is the acceptance that raising children and caring for dependents is just as much a task for men as it is for women.
Companies must align their work and career structures to this.
Collective bargaining parties must review the job descriptions of typical "women's and men's jobs" in collective agreements.
In addition, the expansion of high-quality childcare, all-day schools, day programs for relatives in need of care and outpatient services are indispensable.
We will present a comprehensive report on programs for people returning to work - especially mothers and fathers after a family phase - to
develop and offer targeted further training concepts and
encourage the collective bargaining partners to facilitate the transition to working life with new flexible working time models.
We will continue the German government's agreement with the business community on the promotion of equal opportunities, which emphatically states the promotion of women in management positions as a goal, and insist on its observance and implementation.
We demand that companies in Germany ensure a higher representation of women on the supervisory board and also on the management board.
We want more flexibility to accommodate family and business needs.
Therefore, without extending the overall entitlement, we will add to parents' entitlement to time off for children's illness a grandparents' entitlement for their grandchildren's illness.
We want to lower the access threshold of women affected by violence to support services
and offer them initial counseling by setting up a nationwide emergency telephone number.
The CDU and CSU attach great importance to the work of women's shelters and other support services for women and their children affected by violence.
II.2 Freedom of choice for families
The CDU and CSU want a family-friendly and child-friendly society in Germany.
We will make it easier for families to live the way they want to live.
Every child is welcome.
We want more young people in Germany to choose to have children.
We want to strengthen confidence and optimism and lower objective hurdles in everyday life - because the decision to have children is easier when parents have confidence in the future.
Life with children is a joy.
We want families to experience more financial justice
and mothers, fathers and children to find more time for each other.
We trust the parents to want only the best for the children and to accompany their children into life with love, attention and time.
Strong families are the best child protection.
That's why we want to support and encourage families to acquire the necessary skills to raise children to be responsible human beings.
We respect people's decisions to realize their life plan in diverse forms of coexistence.
This applies to marriage and to non-marital partnerships of women and men as well as to same-sex partnerships.
The CDU and CSU reject full legal equality of such partnerships with marriage.
Having children should not lead to discrimination.
Together with the improvement in the tax situation of families through the increase in the basic tax-free allowance,
child benefits must also be increased.
Because families with several children have a particularly hard time, we want to improve child benefits for the third child and for each additional child.
We want to further develop the parental allowance and support parents and companies by introducing a partial parental allowance:
Parents can choose whether to use a full or a half month of parental allowance.
Partial parental allowance can then be drawn for up to 28 months.
Parents work reduced hours, receive partial parental benefits for the lost income, and can take time off to spend with their newborn.
Companies are retaining their skilled workers.
Single parents and the self-employed also benefit without any cutbacks.
We don't want parents to be pushed into a lifestyle they don't want.
Rather, they should decide for themselves how to raise their children.
We are therefore providing more and better childcare services.
For children under three years of age, a demand-oriented offer will be created by 2013 with the support of the federal government by the states, municipalities and independent providers.
According to this, there is a legal entitlement to a childcare place from the first year of life.
We will make good on the promise that parents will receive a monthly childcare allowance from 2013 if they do not take up a place at a daycare center.
The childcare allowance must be designed to be unbureaucratic.
If the expansion targets for childcare facilities are achieved before 2013, we also want to introduce the childcare allowance ahead of schedule.
Early childhood is a time of imprinting that should be taken advantage of.
At the same time, from the children's point of view, it is a time of development and playful unfolding that must not be overloaded with demands.
Parents must be able to rely on educators, daycare mothers and fathers to do justice to this.
We want to promote quality in the training and further education of the pedagogical staff, in the pedagogical concept and also in the cooperation with the parents.
Our goal is to make this content practical and suitable for everyday use for childcare professionals together with the states and municipalities.
We want to agree on concrete steps between the federal government, the states and the collective bargaining partners to attract and retain well-qualified educators.
We want to make kindergarten attendance free of charge in the long term.
The prerequisite is solid and sustainable financing.
We want to further improve the conditions for the child supplement.
It must not be the case that working parents have to rely on basic benefits just because they have children.
We want to increase the funds spent by public authorities on families and children per child.
Falling numbers of children should not lead to reduced spending on family support, childcare or education.
We want to better coordinate responsibilities for individual family support measures.
Family services should be offered to parents from a single source as much as possible.
We will improve the compatibility of family and career.
What is needed are workplaces that accommodate families, not workplaces that accommodate families.
There are many ways to do this: family-related part-time, graduated part-time after parental leave, child bonus time, time accounts, telecommuting jobs, family phases for mothers and fathers to care for children, but also for those in need of care.
The rigid orientation of the working world to full-time structures, which has dominated up to now, leaves too little room to combine professional development with a family phase.
We want to provide incentives to advance the development of family-friendly working conditions with regular and comprehensive audit procedures (self-selected audit procedures).
The public sector must set an example in this regard.
The CDU and CSU want to do justice to the different circumstances and lifestyles of single parents as
well as to every child.
Single parents are in the majority not only as well educated as parents in a partnership, they want to stand on their own two feet and support their children.
Because they have to cope with everyday life with their children alone, they need support.
Parents need solidarity.
The responsibility for one's own children is - with all the help - ultimately irrevocable.
The experience of love, bonding, reliability and consideration imparts important social and societal values.
We want to support the families in this.
We will contribute to the further development of family education and educational and family counseling services, to better networking and to making them more widely known.
They should be open - to all parents and grandparents.
Cures for mothers and fathers of children must remain a health insurance benefit.
The support that people with disabilities find in their families deserves high respect.
In particular, we recognize the high level of education and care that parents of children with disabilities provide.
We want to relieve relatives of the disabled of bureaucracy
and increase the disability allowance.
The necessary solidarity with parents also includes making unmistakably clear fundamental value decisions that are important and indispensable for education.
The state has an obligation to ensure that computer games that glorify violence are not made accessible to children and young people by means of suitable legislative measures and consistent enforcement.
Children have an independent fundamental right to care and education, to support and to protection from dangers to their physical, mental and emotional development.
The Federal Constitutional Court has made this unmistakably clear.
In cases of abuse or neglect, children must be specifically helped.
We want to create an effective network of early support for these children.
At the same time, we want to align the cooperation between the health care system with obstetrics, pediatricians, midwives, child and youth welfare, kindergartens, schools, the police and the judiciary.
We will continue to advance the three-pronged strategy against child pornography on the Internet:
Prosecute perpetrators, including those who move outside the Internet, in closed forums or by other means,
close down sources at home and abroad,
and block access to sites, as has been done successfully in many countries for many years.
Germany will ensure a close exchange in the international network
and expand victim research.
We will continue to link the prevention chain through improved therapy services
and continue the action plan to protect children and young people from sexual violence and exploitation.
We want to make it clear by law in immission control and construction planning law that "children's noise" must not be a reason for neighborhood lawsuits against kindergartens, playgrounds and similar facilities.
We are committed to the idea that human beings are entitled to undivided human dignity at all stages of their lives - from the fusion of sperm and egg to their death.
Our goal is to avoid abortions due to financial hardship
and therefore to support young mothers in particular.
The introduction of grandparent leave was already a first step in this direction.
We adhere to the strict principles of the German Embryo Protection Act.
We reject the legalization of active euthanasia.
Utility considerations must not take precedence over the protection of all human life.
We strongly support advocacy for dying with dignity, such as in the hospice movement.
We want to help mothers of newborn children who are in desperate need.
By offering a "confidential" birth, we aim to prevent imminent infanticide or abandonment or clandestine deliveries with the associated dangers for mother and child.
II.3 Equitable Opportunities in the Republic of Education
Education is the key to a self-determined, solidary and responsible life.
Education is the best provision for the future.
This applies to each and every individual as well as to our society as a whole.
Well-educated people are the sources of cultural development, social cohesion as well as the economic success of our country.
Education is the crucial investment in our future.
That is why we need to expand the Federal Republic as a republic of education.
That means we want to have one of the world's best education systems.
That is why we are consistently implementing the goals and measures of the Education Summit.
We want to invest ten percent of the gross domestic product in education by 2015.
and research.
Education remains a matter for the states, as regulated in the Basic Law.
At the same time, responsibility is growing across the states and there is a growing need to agree on national goals and coordinated measures between the federal and state governments in key areas of action:
Education is a high priority for the CDU and CSU.
Good education for all requires equal opportunities right from the start.
The German language is the key to education and training.
We support targeted language support before school, mandatory language level tests for all children aged four and older, and intensive support for identified deficits as well as language programs that accompany lessons.
Good education for all needs many paths, clear goals and high-quality offerings, which are created by the structured school system.
Every degree comes with a connection.
Every family must be able to rely on their children receiving the best possible support.
We want to develop and enforce nationwide performance benchmarks for educational institutions and educational degrees.
We need a transparent and honest performance comparison between schools in Germany.
Our education system is a strong part of the European education area.
We want to make learning successes in Germany and internationally more comparable.
In this way, we strengthen our educational qualifications,
increase permeability
and facilitate mobility.
German dual vocational training degrees are often equivalent to foreign degrees.
The qualifications acquired must be recognized in order to create international transparency and facilitate mobility.
Respect for democracy and the rule of law must be reawakened again and again.
Political education is therefore indispensable.
We support the artistic subjects and offerings of the schools as an important contribution to the development of self-confident personalities.
The mission of schools and teachers goes far beyond imparting knowledge.
Young people need values and social virtues to successfully master their lives.
Parents are primarily responsible for this,
but schools are also very important.
The CDU and CSU advocate that denominational religious education be included in the canon of compulsory subjects in all states.
In addition to Protestant and Catholic religious instruction, instruction in other religions is to be offered in German, if required, with teachers trained in Germany and under state school supervision.
A good education is the best precaution against unemployment.
In Germany, our dual training system has made a decisive contribution to one of the lowest unemployment rates among young people in a European comparison.
Vocational training in schools and companies offers young people opportunities for entry and advancement.
New apprenticeships remain our primary goal, even in difficult economic times.
We want to continue the successful training pact with industry beyond 2010.
Every young person must be given the chance of an apprenticeship.
We want to adapt the tried-and-tested dual system to changing economic and technological requirements by continuously developing the apprenticeship occupations.
We focus on advancement through education and lifelong learning
- regardless of financial situation and social background.
Employees must be able to reliably plan their professional development.
We want to protect learning time accounts from company insolvencies.
Vocational training and continuing education from Germany is increasingly in demand abroad.
Education and training in Germany enjoy an excellent reputation worldwide.
We want to make Germany the world champion in the export of vocational training programs and promote marketing in a targeted manner.
Within the framework of the federal education system, we will place an emphasis on STEM subjects, i.e., mathematics, computer science, natural sciences and technology.
We will specifically counteract the below-average proportion of women in scientific professions.
We will consistently implement the Higher Education Pact and thus make our contribution to the creation of necessary additional study places.
In view of our future healthcare project, this also applies to the medical faculties.
More autonomy for universities should make research and teaching in Germany more attractive.
We want to promote competition between universities,
work toward lower dropout rates
and enhance the international attractiveness of German universities.
The reform of study structures according to the "Bologna Process" must be reviewed without bias and must not be extended schematically to all study programs.
We want to finally abolish the Higher Education Framework Act.
II.4 Right of way for integration
Germany is a country of integration.
The integration of people with a migration background is a key task for Germany.
The limitation and control of immigration that we have enforced has made a consensus on integration in Germany possible.
We can look back on a long tradition of successful integration.
Most people who have come to Germany from other countries want to be well integrated
and contribute significantly to the prosperity of our country.
Germany is a cosmopolitan and tolerant country.
We want our coexistence to be characterized by respect, mutual trust, a sense of belonging and shared responsibility.
Our Basic Law and our common values are to be respected by everyone.
For us, successful integration means: identification with our country,
equal participation and responsibility.
It can only succeed with the necessary willingness to adapt on the part of the immigrants and the willingness to accept on the part of the natives;
it needs the cooperation of all.
A successful integration process contains the opportunity to use cultural and social diversity constructively.
At the same time, it contributes to being better positioned for the requirements of the globalized world.
We want to prevent cultural and religious conflicts.
The best integration is social participation for all.
It strengthens the inner unity and cohesion of our society.
A good knowledge of German is a basic prerequisite for education and training, for integration into the workplace, for participation and social advancement.
The integration courses have become the most important instrument of language support.
We want to further increase successful participation through stronger support and encouragement.
By 2010, all children starting school should be able to speak German.
In order to fulfill their parenting responsibilities at all times, migrant parents are required to learn German.
They are responsible for ensuring that their children learn German
and for their ongoing support and development.
Early contact with children whose mother tongue is German is of great importance for the language acquisition of migrant children.
We want to strengthen the integrative power of kindergartens and schools.
Early support also helps immigrant families in particular.
To do justice to individuals and their talents, schools with many students from educationally disadvantaged families need more teachers, including those with migration experience.
We support the expansion of all-day schooling in line with demand.
Our goal is to halve the number of school dropouts by 2012
and to bring the educational level of migrant children in line with that of native children.
Participation in associations offers special opportunities for integration.
We want to take advantage of this and promote it.
The engagement provides the positive experience of social recognition.
Under the motto "Muslims in Germany - German Muslims", the German Islam Conference was established in 2006.
It is the platform for a lasting dialogue between the state and Muslims in our country.
We want to continue this successful dialogue, which does not ignore the differences between the partners and has already made a valuable contribution to better mutual understanding.
We want to make consistent use of the newly developed instrument of progress reports on integration in accordance with binding standards
and draw the necessary conclusions from the results in each case without delay.
The "National Integration Plan" has put an end to indifference, misunderstood as liberality, to emerging parallel societies and avoidable conflicts.
EU member states must retain the competence to decide on immigration under national responsibility in the future.
The EU's efforts to regulate asylum law as uniformly as possible throughout the EU would lead to a weakening of the German asylum compromise.
We therefore reject it.
The will to naturalize is the active commitment to our country and the commitment to the values of our Basic Law.
The acceptance of our citizenship - combined with the renunciation of the previous citizenship - is a strong sign of belonging to our country and to the mutual responsibility of its citizens.
It brings full civic rights and responsibilities.
It cannot replace integration and is not a means but the strongest expression of successful integration.
We reject a general right to vote in municipal elections for foreigners, because it does not open up full participation as a citizen.
Instead, we advocate that foreigners who have been living, working, and well-integrated in Germany for years take advantage of the opportunity to become our citizens.
A prerequisite for naturalization is sufficient German language skills.
With the CDU and CSU, there will be no softening of the language requirements enshrined in law in 2007.
Over the next ten years, some 300,000 young adults will decide whether to retain German citizenship or the citizenship of their parents.
We want to convince them to keep their German citizenship and to say yes to our country.
We reject a general acceptance of dual citizenship.
In order to determine whether the option model is proving its worth, we want to gather and evaluate experience in the practical application of the option right.
To the extent that legal and practical difficulties in implementing this model become apparent, we intend to address them.
So far, Germany has been far too little of a destination country for the world's best minds.
We therefore want to increase Germany's attractiveness for highly qualified people from Germany and around the world.
We want to make better use of the underutilized potential of immigrants to Germany and ethnic German repatriates.
We want to improve the recognition of professional qualifications acquired abroad
and establish a central contact point for this purpose.
At the same time, we are doing everything in our power to utilize the domestic potential in terms of qualifications and skilled workers.
We want to promote the participation of immigrant women and girls from all cultural backgrounds in public and social life.
To achieve this, we need an education and training offensive for migrant women.
Also on education about human rights, civil rights and social rights
and great attention must be paid to raising awareness of equal rights for women and men.
Women with an immigrant background play a central role in the integration of immigrant families.
Therefore, we stand by women in the integration process
and empower immigrant women who find themselves in an emergency situation.
Girls and young women must be able to participate in all that school life has to offer.
We want to improve their educational opportunities so that they can participate equally in the social life of our country.
We want to increase the labor force participation rate of women with an immigrant background.
Language offerings have already been tailored specifically for women in integration courses and made more accessible through childcare.
Today, the nearly 600,000 immigrant entrepreneurs make a major contribution to the German economy.
They have a role model function.
Through targeted consulting and qualification, we want to strengthen existing migrant businesses
and attract new start-ups.
Forced marriage is a violation of our liberal-democratic understanding of values
and a blatant violation of human rights.
In the fight against forced marriages, we will introduce a separate criminal offense for forced marriage.
The sexual exploitation of victims of human trafficking and forced prostitution must be criminalized.
II.5 Cultural Nation: Cultivating Identity - Developing Creativity
Germany is a European cultural nation.
The rich cultural heritage resulting from the diversity of the states and regions in Germany shapes our national identity.
Today, more than ever, our society depends on unleashing creativity to ensure prosperity.
We must give people the freedom and security to create an economically successful existence through their artistic creativity
and to enrich others culturally.
We are committed to the freedom of art.
The state and politics are not responsible for art, its forms of expression or content, but they
are responsible for the conditions under which art and culture can flourish.
Free and strong media are an essential element of our liberal order.
Digitization and the Internet pose fundamental challenges for culture and the media.
We want to support this innovation drive in Germany.
It must be designed in such a way that, in addition to the diversity and quality of the media, it also raises awareness of the value of cultural achievements.
We reject any direct or indirect financial involvement of political parties in media and media companies that are not clearly identifiable in terms of their party-political mission.
We have significantly increased federal spending on culture in recent years.
We stand by this, even in the international financial and economic crisis.
Promoting culture is not a subsidy, but an indispensable investment in the future of our society.
The cultural and creative industries are important location factors in our country with high growth potential.
Strengthening creative potential is of outstanding importance for Germany's competitiveness.
We will continue and further expand the Cultural and Creative Industries Initiative.
The CDU and CSU have pushed through changes to unemployment benefit I to improve social security for cultural workers, which are currently limited to three years.
If they prove successful, we will defer them
and examine the need for further improvements for the cultural sector as well.
The social insurance for artists is an important cultural policy achievement of the CDU and CSU and will be continued.
We will examine bureaucratic simplifications in the area of levy collection.
The German Federal Film Fund has strengthened our country internationally as a film location.
We stand by the continuation of this successful and transparent support for German film beyond 2012.
We will reliably adapt them to the new challenges on the international film market.
New digital technologies are contributing to innovation
and significant growth in the future.
We want to keep cinema attractive as a cultural asset.
The hallmark of public broadcasting must be quality.
Private broadcasting also has a social responsibility and must not forego quality in its programming.
The broadcasters are called upon to develop quality criteria for their programs transparently with the involvement of the bodies and to check compliance with the criteria in implementation.
It is a joint task of politicians and publishers to raise awareness of the value and relevance of newspapers and magazines in society as a cultural asset.
In the online sector, publishers must not be placed in a worse position than other so-called intermediaries of works.
If necessary, we will create a separate ancillary copyright for publishers to protect press products on the Internet.
We want greater consideration to be given to national identity and cultural diversity in Europe.
Cultural and media policy at the European level must grow from the bottom up.
We are striving for even closer cooperation between the federal and state governments in European media policy in order to be able to successfully represent German positions.
The increasing value of intellectual property for creative people must be taken into account by securing the legal position of authors in the digital age through copyright law.
The CDU and CSU are committed to a fair balance of the interests of artists, the cultural and creative industries, consumer and data protection, and technology providers.
We are committed to better safeguarding nationally valuable cultural heritage and making it more accessible.
Our cultural heritage is a treasure that we want to guard and carry forward.
This includes preserving our film heritage.
With a committed foreign cultural and educational policy, we will make an important contribution to fostering international cooperation,
promoting knowledge of the German language
and strengthening its position in the world.
Foreign cultural and educational policy opens up other countries and cultures to us.
It is intended to present a comprehensive, historically and culturally broad-based picture of Germany.
We will reliably continue our cooperation with the intermediaries of foreign cultural and educational policy - the Goethe Institutes, Deutsche Welle, the Humboldt Foundation, the German Academic Exchange Service, the schools abroad, the German Archaeological Institute and many more.
II.6 Encouraging active civil society
The CDU and CSU want society in Germany to show and keep a human face.
The voluntary commitment and civic engagement of many women and men enrich our society.
Freedom and responsibility belong together.
We want a new partnership of citizens and state institutions based on the concept of "active civil society."
We want to strengthen the initiative and self-organization of social groups and
thus bring about a new balance between self-interest and the common good.
We want to make volunteering easier, encourage citizens to volunteer, and strengthen the backs of volunteers.
We will support exemplary examples of this with the "Volunteering" project for the future.
We attach great importance to the Christian churches for the spiritual climate and human coexistence in Germany.
Religious communities convey values that exert a positive influence on our society.
With their commitment, they are part of our country.
We respect religious confessions.
For many people, they provide the meaning of their lives and thus contribute to value orientation.
We know: The presence of the Christian churches and the many organizations associated with them in the public sphere makes an indispensable contribution to consolidating the value foundations of our community, which are rooted in the Christian occidental tradition, and to passing them on to future generations.
Churches and religious communities, together with a wide variety of associations, do outstanding work, especially in the fields of social services, nursing, health care and education.
We therefore adhere to the special relationship between the state and the churches in the Basic Law, which includes the church tax.
The pastoral care of soldiers in the German Armed Forces and the theological faculties at German universities are also expressions of this proven partnership.
The high proportion of volunteers in the fire department, rescue services, aid organizations and technical relief organization represents an exceptionally high level of civic involvement.
It ensures a flexible system of efficient hazard prevention and assistance, which is also extraordinarily favorable for the citizen.
Those who work sacrificially and unpaid around the clock for the safety of their fellow human beings must therefore be supported permanently.
They are role models in our society.
Women and people with an immigrant background are already involved in the fire department and aid organizations; in view of
an increasingly aging society, they are needed more than ever.
We therefore want to do everything we can to make these services attractive and to provide long-term support for the members of these services.
We therefore advocate significantly expanding investment in equipment, training and continuing education for members of fire departments, aid organizations and rescue services.
We will eliminate disadvantages for the fire departments, rescue services, technical emergency services and civil protection through the changeover to the vehicle classes of the EU driver's license as quickly as possible.
The CDU and CSU support the great commitment and fruitful competition of ideas and initiatives in helping fellow human beings in our country.
The work of charities and private organizations,
as well as the many self-help groups, is indispensable to a humane society.
We know that in addition to government responsibility, civic engagement is irreplaceable for a cultural life in which everyone can participate.
We want to strongly support the diverse volunteer efforts for cultural offerings and development opportunities - from music to performing arts, from the search for new forms of expression to the preservation of customs.
By donating time and money, citizens are one of the most important supporters of culture in Germany.
We have further improved the framework conditions for private cultural funding through foundations, patronage and sponsorship
, thereby strengthening volunteerism.
Bureaucratic hurdles are to be further reduced.
The recommendations of the Enquete Commission "Culture in Germany" of the 15th and 16th German Bundestag should be used for this purpose.
We will ensure greater recognition for volunteerism
and relieve volunteers of bureaucracy.
We urge the recognition of volunteer work and years of volunteering in professional biographies.
We want to initiate and promote the establishment of volunteer exchanges and volunteer agencies.
We want to further develop the Ehrenamtscard as a central element of the culture of volunteering.
Services for the organizational support of youth volunteer services provided for individual associations in their umbrella organizations have so far been subject to VAT.
We will change this and eliminate unequal treatment of sports clubs in child and youth welfare law.
For volunteer-run associations with occasional pub operations, formal and reporting requirements in tax law are to be simplified.
Athletes are Germany's ambassadors to the world.
Sport unites, educates, activates, inspires and integrates.
Sport contributes to the formation of human values such as fairness, public spirit, achievement, competition, responsibility, recognition of one's own limits and respect for others.
Every third German belongs to a sports club.
The clubs are the basis of German sport.
Reliable support for clubs
and the volunteers who work there are key objectives of our sports policy.
Sport, exercise and nutrition make an important contribution to maintaining health.
Pre-school physical education and school sports are of particular importance, as is sport for seniors.
We are committed to the performance principle in sport
and to humane top-class sport, which has an important role model function.
Top-class sport exercises an important role model function for popular sport.
We will continue the tried and tested promotion of sport in the Bundeswehr, the Federal Police and customs.
Sports federations must fight doping consistently.
We will actively support this.
We will examine whether the newly introduced criminal liability for possession of doping substances in quantities that are not small is sufficient to effectively combat doping.
We are committed to new concepts for the targeted and systematic promotion of young athletes.
Sports, school and vocational education must be aligned and coordinated.
Intact sports facilities and a diverse sports infrastructure are indispensable prerequisites for lively sports activities at both the broadest and the highest levels.
We will continue federal funding for sports facilities.
We will restructure the immission control law according to the principle that sports fields and similar community facilities should not be subject to stricter limits than roads.
Civic engagement with and by immigrants to shape coexistence has an identity-building effect.
It provides the positive experience of social recognition.
We therefore want to promote it in particular.
Sport in particular is an important pioneer in this regard.
It is able to bring people together across the boundaries of languages, cultures and religions, and in doing so to convey values and norms.
Together with organized sports, progress has been made in areas such as training exercise instructors and recruiting volunteers.
Through sport, we want to achieve further improvements in the integration of people with an immigrant background in Germany.
We continue to promote sports for the disabled.
Opportunities and incentives for people with disabilities to participate in sports must be expanded.
Barrier-free access to sports facilities must be guaranteed.
Our principle in policy for people with disabilities is the participation of those affected as experts in their own right in all decisions.
The goal is to design all areas of life for people with and without disabilities.
The prerequisite for this is accessibility in all areas, from school to training to work, and from transportation to media and communications technology to urban development.
Political decisions that directly or indirectly affect people with disabilities must be measured against the contents of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
The CDU and CSU want to strengthen the so-called "Joint Service Centers" so that they can actually provide the qualified, independent advice and coordination envisaged in the law.
In this way, we ensure that people with disabilities can lead as self-determined a life as possible.
We also want to do this with integration grants
and through vocational training centers and vocational development centers.
III Keeping Germany livable
The CDU and CSU know the special value of home.
Especially in times of growing globalization and increasing rootlessness, people need support and orientation.
One's own origins, the familiar environment - all of these are more than just external circumstances.
For us, home is not just a place.
For us, home means a sense of life, culture and a commitment to one's roots.
We want Germany to remain our homeland worth living in and loving.
After all, this is precisely a primal motive of civic conservative action in politics: the love of one's homeland.
With the willingness to fulfill our duties, take responsibility and show solidarity, we want to serve our country.
The overwhelming majority of people in Germany identify with our country, with its language and culture, and with the values of the Basic Law.
Democracy and the rule of law, the social market economy, innovative strength and social security, openness to the world and a sincere interest in other countries and cultures, a willingness to help in emergencies anywhere in the world - all this and much more is reason to be proud of Germany.
Identification with one's own country strengthens courage and confidence.
III.1 Acting out of responsibility before history and our values
This year we celebrate 60 years of the founding of the Federal Republic of Germany and 20 years of peaceful revolution in the former GDR.
The Basic Law, adopted in 1949, laid the foundation for Germany's further development under democracy and the rule of law in peace, freedom and prosperity.
With the peaceful revolution of 1989, the citizens of the former GDR, by their own efforts and with confidence in freedom, democracy and the social market economy, created the conditions for the historic opportunity to overcome the division of our country.
These historical experiences and values are the basis for cohesion in our society and carry the guiding culture in Germany.
Our culture is European in history, present and future.
This European dimension will continue to gain in importance as the unification of Europe progresses.
The CDU and CSU set the course for a Germany united in peace and freedom in all of its important historical milestones - the Western alliance, the social market economy, and European unification.
We had and have the strength to do this because our policies are based on a solid foundation of values:
The Christian image of man is and remains the point of orientation for the CDU and CSU.
Man is not the measure of all things for us, because we know about his faultiness and his responsibility before God.
At the same time, the human being, whose inviolable dignity we profess, is at the center of our policy.
From these sources, we draw the confidence to lead Germany out of the difficult situation into which our country has fallen as a result of the international economic and financial market crisis.
We remember National Socialism and its horrific crimes, which brought death and suffering to the world by the millions and, above all, left an indelible reminder with the murder of six million Jews in Europe.
It is all the more important not to let this memory be forgotten, as soon there will be no more contemporary witnesses to tell of their fates.
Responsibility demands remembrance.
We are reliably continuing the federal government's tried-and-tested support for memorial sites in accordance with the concept of "Taking Responsibility, Strengthening Reappraisal, Deepening Remembrance".
The history of German division and the SED dictatorship must become central content of school lessons throughout Germany.
In this context, contemporary witnesses should increasingly be invited to talks that can clarify the repressive apparatus of the GDR.
We want all students to be able to participate in a class trip to Berlin once.
Berlin makes the shadow and light sides of German history tangible and tangible.
Museums in the former Stasi prisons are to keep the memory of the victims alive.
The CDU and CSU support the swift implementation of the Bundestag resolution to build the Humboldt Forum on the historic site and in the external form of the Berlin City Palace.
The mission of the Foundation "Flight, Expulsion, Reconciliation" is to document the fate of the German expellees in Berlin, to serve the truth, to build bridges and to promote international understanding.
The CDU and CSU maintain that the associations of German expellees can decide for themselves about their representation in the Council of the Foundation "Flight, Expulsion, Reconciliation".
For us, one thing is certain: the cultural heritage of the German expellees is an integral part of the German cultural nation and part of German and European identity.
We will reliably continue to promote this with the involvement of the expellees and their associations, for example by establishing a Sudeten German Museum in Munich.
We will safeguard Germany's position under international law when recording the birthplaces of displaced persons under civil status and registration law.
The right to one's homeland applies.
Evictions of all kinds must be internationally outlawed
and violated rights recognized.
The CDU and CSU are committed to the history of all Germans.
We see a special responsibility for the Aussiedler, who suffered long and hard from the consequences of the Second World War and Stalinism.
We stand up for the right to resettle in Germany, which is guaranteed in the Basic Law.
We adhere to the legal presumption of the general fate of Germans from the former Soviet Union as a result of the war.
We are committed to ensuring that German minorities are offered the prospect of staying in the countries in which they live.
All Germans should be able to decide for themselves whether they want to live in Germany or remain in their areas of origin.
We continue to advocate for public vows in front of the German Bundestag.
In this way, we want to raise awareness of the Bundeswehr's contribution to defending democracy and the rule of law in Germany and around the world.
The deserved recognition for the service of the soldiers finds its appropriate expression in the medal for bravery and the memorial for members of the Bundeswehr.
III.2 Completing Germany's unity
With the peaceful and non-violent revolution of 1989, the people of the former GDR exercised their right to self-determination with courage and strength.
They thus ended the forced and unfree state of over 40 years of dictatorship and socialist planned economy.
For this, the people of eastern Germany deserve respect and recognition.
We want to achieve self-sustaining economic development in the new states.
We can only create well-paid jobs with a strong economy.
and social security.
The most important challenge therefore remains to further develop economic strength in the new states.
To achieve this, we need good conditions for business start-ups,
economic growth,
the establishment of new companies,
a continuation of industrial growth
and the further expansion of regional innovation services.
Important tasks still lie ahead, especially in rural, structurally weak regions with high rates of out-migration.
Measures to combat unemployment remain one of our central tasks.
We want the New Länder to develop into the most competitive and innovative regions in the center of Europe in the coming years.
We stand by the Solidarity Pact II, which has been firmly agreed and passed into law, and will fulfill it.
We will extend the investment allowance until 2013
and continue the joint task "Regional Economic Structure" at a high level and according to uniform nationwide indicators.
The German Unity Transport Projects (VDE) are to be completed for roads by 2010.
and for rail will be fully completed by 2017.
Despite the encouraging development of unemployment figures in Germany in recent years, the share of long-term unemployed in the new federal states in particular remains high.
We want to use the opportunities offered by the minimum income to reduce unemployment.
In order to reduce the number of long-term unemployed and jobseekers who are particularly difficult to place, new approaches were tested in Saxony-Anhalt with the "Bürgerarbeit" program.
We want to push this concept further and examine its transferability to larger labor market regions.
We want to continue the programs to promote research and innovation in the new federal states.
The excellent university infrastructure must be used more for applicants from all over Germany.
In Europe, and especially in Germany, the population is declining.
However, the development is not equally strong everywhere.
Due to relatively high emigration rates and the collapse in the birth rate, the eastern German states are affected by demographic change to a greater extent than the western German states.
In order to shape demographic change, we advocate new forms of securing private and public infrastructure (inter-municipal cooperation).
In particular, we want to see greater support for an infrastructure close to families in order to show young people a perspective in less populated regions.
The statutory pension system has also proved its worth in the new Länder.
We are committed to a uniform pension system in East and West.
The popular uprising on June 17, 1953, and the peaceful revolution in the fall of 1989 are events in German history that must be a permanent and perceptible part of the culture of remembrance in the Federal Republic of Germany.
The peaceful revolution of autumn 1989, the only successful freedom revolution in German history, is of central importance in this context.
As a visible expression, the CDU and CSU are committed to the erection of a National Freedom and Unity Monument on Berlin's Schlossfreiheit.
We support the erection of a Freedom and Unity Monument in Leipzig.
The CDU and CSU are committed to permanently establishing a chair for researching and scientifically coming to terms with the GDR's regime of injustice at a Berlin university.
In 2007, on the initiative of the CDU and CSU, it was finally possible to introduce a victims' pension for more than 40,000 SED victims.
This is an important step in our efforts to recognize and compensate for injustices of the SED regime.
III.3 Strengthening rural areas and agriculture
We want urban and rural areas to work together.
The CDU and CSU therefore stand for livable rural areas
and for healthy and efficient agriculture.
The two belong inseparably together.
Rural areas have their own value.
They are strong and offer prospects.
The agricultural and food industry, which is dominated by small and medium-sized enterprises, is the backbone of viable rural areas.
It is an important industry of the future and is one of the most significant sectors of the German economy.
Their tasks have long since gone beyond the production of high-quality food.
Farmers produce renewable raw materials, maintain the landscape and engage in tourism.
Agriculture and forestry play a key role in shaping Germany's cultural landscape, the habitat of animals and plants:
More than half of Germany's land area is used for agriculture, and another third is forest.
For livable rural areas and their diversity
Germany needs strong rural areas.
The majority of Germans live and work in rural regions.
Rural areas provide millions of people with a home, work, and social and cultural cohesion.
The CDU and CSU stand for a policy that recognizes the achievements of people in rural areas and secures their opportunities for the future.
We want them to have good living, educational and working conditions, to be able to use comprehensive medical and social care and a modern infrastructure.
We will therefore continue to invest in all regions.
We will preserve the diversity of rural areas and promote their strengths and economic power.
To this end, we will in particular be using the joint tasks for the promotion of regional economic structures
and the agricultural structure.
We will continue the joint task of improving the agricultural structure
and coastal protection
and with a view to protecting the mountain regions.
Attractive rural areas need a decentralized supply of renewable energies.
Rural areas must raise their profile with targeted regional management and regional marketing.
We will support that.
We will ensure the integrated development of rural areas
and promote the continuous expansion of rural infrastructure, especially in the areas of jobs, medical care, transportation, educational opportunities and culture.
We will promote access for rural areas to intercity transport routes by providing efficient connections.
We will connect rural areas that have not yet been served with broadband technologies and rapidly expand their performance.
Just like municipal roads, water and wastewater pipes, broadband cables are now part of the public service and an important economic location factor.
Through our broadband offensive, we want to support the communities in their concepts for supplying rural areas with broadband connections.
In the future, funding must be geared even more closely to local needs and must also include proprietary cable solutions.
We will therefore continue to develop the support programs in close dialog with the communities.
For a healthy and strong agriculture and forestry sector
Supplying humanity with food and energy
and protecting the climate are among the key challenges of the 21st century.
These challenges make us aware of how valuable our domestic agriculture is.
The familiar diverse range of high-quality food would be inconceivable without the strong agricultural sector in Germany.
Fair framework conditions for farmers ensure security of supply and fair prices.
A healthy and strong agricultural sector ensures food security, preserves our cultural landscape, produces renewable raw materials and contributes to energy security.
The CDU and CSU want our farmers to be able to earn reasonable incomes
and receive the recognition they deserve for their services to the common good.
In doing so, we want to preserve the richness of the different forms of agriculture in Germany, because they shape Germany's cultural and scenic diversity.
This includes effective consumer,
nature and animal protection that ensures consumer confidence in our food production.
We will set the political framework in such a way that our agriculture and forestry - conventional and organic, family farms and joint ventures - can develop well.
We want to work together, not against each other in agriculture.
We will ensure that the time limit on the tax reduction for agricultural diesel is lifted and that the relief is permanently effective.
German agriculture needs a level playing field with other EU countries.
We will continue to press for the reduction of unnecessary bureaucracy in EU agricultural policy.
In addition, we ensure that EU directives are implemented in a competitively neutral ("1 to 1") manner.
We are committed to uniformly strict standards in Europe.
For its part, the EU must promote the recognition of consumer protection standards in global trade agreements.
environmental and animal protection.
We will continue to pursue the path of market orientation with a sense of proportion and ensure fair framework conditions for farms.
We will not budge on the input tax flat rate, the compensation for structural change to stabilize contributions to agricultural social security, and the federal subsidy for agricultural accident insurance.
The instrument of direct payments is indispensable, especially for family farms and for ensuring the comprehensive maintenance of the cultivated landscape.
Dairy farming shapes the homeland in large regions of Germany.
We will not leave dairy farmers unprotected and unprepared for the free play of market forces, but will provide targeted support for dairy farms, including through the resources of the milk fund obtained by Germany in Brussels.
For us, the focus is on strengthening competitiveness through investment promotion
and securing milk production in regions with natural disadvantages, in grassland, mountain and low mountain regions with the compensatory allowance and livestock-related grassland and pasture premiums.
Improving the structures and market position of dairies is one of the key tasks for the future of the German dairy industry.
We will ensure that the necessary development is possible in compliance with antitrust and competition law.
We will also continue to promote the expansion of cooperative ventures among milk producers in order to strengthen the producers' position vis-à-vis private dairies.
The agreed milk volume control until 2015 must be made sustainable against the background of the real development of the global economy.
We want to create the conditions under tax law to be able to cushion the future increase in price fluctuations on the markets through risk reserves.
The increased development of export markets is indispensable for the German agricultural and food industry.
We will continue the export offensive and
strengthen the position of small and medium-sized agricultural and food businesses on foreign markets with a coordinated concept and targeted measures.
The finishing and dairy industries have high priority.
We will promote investments and innovations in the agriculture and food sector that make it more efficient
and at the same time are animal and environmentally friendly.
We want an innovation and qualification offensive along the entire value chain.
This includes strengthening agricultural research
and ensuring the high level of education.
In the further development of the Common European Agricultural Policy, we rely on the European agricultural model of sustainable, multifunctional and diverse agriculture and the area-wide preservation of cultural landscapes.
We want to secure it in the EU budget after 2013
and thus also make a contribution to securing the world's food supply.
We advocate market orientation, compensation for higher European production standards, rewarding agriculture's services to society and nature, and the creation of a reliable safety net against price crashes caused by crises.
The production-independent direct payments are an indispensable instrument in this context and must be maintained at an appropriate level.
To achieve this, we need a strong first pillar and a well-funded second pillar of the EU's common agricultural policy.
Simplification of the EU Common Agricultural Policy
and regionally adapted solutions will increase its acceptance in agriculture and society.
Politicians must take citizens' concerns about green genetic engineering seriously and not take any unnecessary risks.
We will support the cultivation of renewable raw materials without jeopardizing food security.
Biomass opens up a variety of possibilities as a renewable energy source - from heat to biofuels to biogas.
We are committed to providing a reliable framework so that rural agriculture can take advantage of these opportunities.
We are sticking to the subsidy, for example through the bonus for electricity from renewable raw materials.
The use of biogenic residues will play a greater role for the energy sector in the future.
Taking current oil price developments into account, we want to make taxation reliable enough to ensure that domestic biofuel production remains competitive.
We will further strengthen the partnership between agriculture, nature conservation and environmental protection through voluntary programs.
We will be guided by the primacy of contract conservation.
We will continue to promote the conversion to organic farming
and intensify research.
We want to stem the loss of agricultural land to construction and ecological compensation land regulations.
Any intervention that takes farmland out of production must be weighed and is a last resort.
We will ensure that farmers are involved in planned projects at an early stage and that responsibility for compensation areas is left with the farmer wherever possible, that
land management for compensation areas is improved
and that the possibility for financial compensation is expanded.
We oppose patents on animals and plants.
The current European legislation on patent law must be reviewed and, if necessary, adapted.
Breeding of farm animals by crossbreeding and selection must remain patent-free.
We want a policy for agriculture and rural areas from a single source.
With this in mind, we will amend the Agriculture Act and create a modern law for the development of agriculture and rural areas.
There, we will anchor good agricultural practice
and summarize many legal regulations and subsidies for agriculture and rural areas.
III.4 Tourism in Germany - diverse and attractive
Tourism is a reliable growth engine for Germany.
The CDU and CSU want to further strengthen it with good framework conditions.
The German tourism industry is under enormous globalization and competitive pressure, to which the VAT burden also contributes.
Our goal is to make vacationing in Germany even more attractive.
We are oriented towards a socially, culturally and ecologically compatible as well as economically successful tourism.
We will promote even stronger networking between culture and tourism.
We will support the adaptation of tourism to the demographic and social challenges in our country, for example by promoting barrier-free tourism.
To strengthen regional structures, we are focusing on promoting tourism in rural areas.
In this context, it is also important to increase the accessibility of tourist destinations through a targeted and environmentally compatible expansion of the transport infrastructure.
We want to drive forward the reduction of bureaucracy for our medium-sized tourism industry.
We strive to increase the funds for foreign marketing of the tourism industry.
We support the bid of Munich, Garmisch-Partenkirchen and the Berchtesgadener Land district to host the XXII Olympic and XII Paralympic Winter Games in 2018.
We are committed to a sustainable implementation that comprehensively meets ecological requirements.
The Games are expected to provide important impetus for tourism in Germany.
III.5 Our cities - open to the world and worth living in
Cities are intersections of economic, cultural and social development.
They are experimental fields for innovation and progress as well as preferred destinations for immigration.
Social cohesion and integration are particularly important challenges for livable cities.
They must be equally open and attractive to all - young families and the elderly.
Architecture and urban planning must be committed to these goals.
What makes our cities attractive is their diverse cultural offerings.
Above all, cities must also provide space for highly qualified people in the cultural and creative industries.
They are thus entering into international competition and must see this as an opportunity.
A prerequisite for the attractiveness of cities is a high level of integration.
Education is the key to integration.
With the Pact for Germany, we are enabling municipal investments in education and thus in the future during the crisis.
We want to reliably continue federal funding for cultural lighthouse projects throughout Germany.
The cultural wealth of many cities characterizes Germany.
Livable cities need a reliable perspective for demographic change.
In order to ensure an attractive urban environment and a reliable infrastructure, we want to make urban redevelopment an important challenge with offers geared to milieus and target groups.
These include, in particular, a child- and family-friendly residential environment
and offers for barrier-free living.
In addition, there are also new forms of housing for the older generation.
Opportunities for home ownership increase attachment to one's city.
This includes making public spaces safe, livelier and usable for people.
Living and working in the city belong together.
Urban planning and infrastructure development must be developed and organized together.
Attractive cities must strengthen their importance as cultural, tourism and business locations.
We want to further promote cooperation across the borders of cities and regions.
The European integration process will further increase the importance of major cities and metropolitan areas in Europe.
Against this backdrop, federal policy must work towards ensuring the future viability and competitiveness of German cities.
and to promote the further development of the European model of the city as an organism actively shaped and lived by its citizens.
Efficient municipalities
In a world that is becoming smaller on the one hand but more confusing on the other, the need for identity and home is growing.
In our age of globalization and increasing Europeanization, self-governing municipalities are an important reference and anchor point for our society.
Local involvement and the opportunity to participate in decision-making lead to a sense of belonging in the community
and strengthen acceptance of our free democratic basic order.
Federalism and local self-government are supporting pillars of our community.
For us, one thing is clear: centralism, i.e. bundling all tasks at the federal level or in Europe, is the wrong answer to the challenges of our time.
Part of the diversity of our country is precisely that each community has different needs, strengths and weaknesses.
What is right in one region does not necessarily make sense in others.
The CDU and CSU want to preserve this innovation-promoting diversity.
In the interest of the citizens, clarity must be created regarding competencies and responsibilities so that services for the citizen are a priority.
We want to strengthen the municipalities as partners for the citizens.
The communal political tasks result from the everyday cooperation.
That is why the CDU and CSU have always been committed to the principle of subsidiarity.
We want public tasks to be performed as close to the citizens as possible and advocate
decentralized structures at national and European level.
We want to involve local communities at all levels in our ability to shape the future.
For the CDU and CSU, concern for the financial strength of municipalities is an important component of a successful policy for growth and employment.
The financial performance of municipalities has a direct impact on the everyday lives of citizens.
That is why we need crisis-proof and sustainable municipal finances.
In the future, we want the bureaucratic costs of the municipalities, but also of the entire public administration, to be measured.
The CDU and CSU are committed to the responsibility of cities, municipalities and counties to guarantee their citizens access to all goods and services necessary for a human existence.
The public sector often reaches its financial limits when it comes to fulfilling its tasks.
Therefore, in the interests of sustainability, profitable opportunities for private financing must be exploited more intensively than in the past.
However, complete privatization is not always the best solution.
We want to see an optimal distribution of tasks between state and private economic entities that exploits the advantages of fair competition but does
not come at the expense of safe, high-quality services of general interest.
Our goal is to improve the quality and efficiency of public services for all citizens.
Public-private partnerships in particular can contribute to this.
III.6 Environmental and climate protection - for the future of our planet
The preservation of creation and the protection of the natural foundations of life are core concerns of our policy.
Global climate change is already a reality today.
It is accelerating and becoming a threat to creation and the life chances of future generations.
Counteracting this development and limiting the negative effects of global warming is our goal.
Ecology is becoming increasingly important for the economy of the 21st century.
This close and mutually beneficial relationship offers Germany immense development potential.
In climate and environmental policy, the CDU and CSU stand for a cooperative style that encourages consumers and companies themselves to take responsibility for the environment and climate.
Incentives and market-based instruments are preferable to government regulations and rules.
We need an "Environmental Pact Germany" as a new form of partnership between business and government on the key issues of ecology and economy.
Our common goal is to achieve economic growth
in an intact environment now and for future generations.
Taking responsibility for climate protection
Successful climate protection requires joint action worldwide.
Our goal is to help limit the average warming of the Earth's atmosphere to a maximum of two degrees Celsius compared with the pre-industrial baseline.
We are campaigning for a binding Kyoto Plus agreement
and want to make a success of the world climate conference in Copenhagen in December 2009.
Together with the USA, we want to agree binding climate protection targets
and involve developing and emerging countries in climate protection.
We know: Climate change also calls for strategies to adapt to its likely impacts, which vary widely from region to region.
We will work to protect particularly sensitive natural areas, such as the Wadden Sea and the Alps, as well as to promote forest conversion toward more climate-resistant forests and to strengthen flood protection.
We want to invest more in sufficient water retention areas, in the protection of water resources and in the increased networking of water supplies.
We will do our part to ensure that Europe lives up to its pioneering role in climate protection by meeting these ambitious targets.
The European Union has already committed to reducing its CO2 emissions by at least 20 percent by 2020.
In addition, energy efficiency is to be increased by 20 percent by 2020 compared to 1990,
and the share of renewable energies in final energy consumption is also to be increased to 20 percent.
We see the market-oriented European emissions trading system as a target-oriented way to achieve a balance between economy and ecology.
We want to further develop emissions trading while taking into account the competitiveness of German and European industry.
At the same time, we advocate increased networking with states and trading systems outside the European Union.
Growing unilateral burdens from emissions trading must be offset elsewhere, and the proceeds must be available nationally.
In the long term, our goal is to develop emissions trading into a global system
and to include other sectors as well.
We want revenue from emissions trading to be used to provide financial support for measures to protect the climate and prevent the consequences of climate change.
We set Germany ambitious targets.
By 2020, CO2 emissions are to be reduced by 40 percent compared with 1990 levels.
The share of renewable energies in electricity generation is then to be 30 percent.
Energy efficiency is expected to double compared to 1990.
The promotion of renewable energies, a broad energy mix, and incentives for greater energy efficiency and energy conservation are our path to climate protection.
Energy-efficient construction and energy-efficient building refurbishment are particularly effective measures for reducing greenhouse gases.
We see environmental technologies as a great opportunity for Germany, the world's leading exporter.
In this context, one of our most urgent tasks for the future is to reconcile climate protection and mobility.
The goal must be more economical drive technologies that are independent of fossil fuels.
To safeguard German jobs
and achieve our ambitious climate targets,
we will promote dialog between industry, science and politics with the aim of developing a strategy for future automotive technologies.
We also focused on improved engine technology to reduce CO2 emissions.
The development of alternative fuels such as biofuels, biogas and hydrogen or innovative drive technologies can make a significant contribution to reducing CO2 emissions.
We also want to revise the biofuel strategy to make the further use of biomass more economical and sustainable.
We also want to drive forward the development of 2nd generation biofuels.
Environmental Policy - Preserving Creation and Safeguarding the Future
For the CDU and CSU, biodiversity is a core element of creation.
Natural abundance and a high biodiversity of plants, animals and microorganisms are prerequisites for clean water, pure air and fertile soils on which healthy food can be produced in sufficient quantities.
An intact nature is also a central economic factor.
It ensures value creation and employment.
The protection of the environment in our country has been a success story in recent years, to which the CDU and CSU have also contributed energetically.
We want to continue to preserve the natural wealth and biodiversity of our homeland
and our responsibility for international environmental protection.
We stand for an environmental policy with a sense of proportion.
The goal is to maintain high environmental standards
but avoid unnecessary bureaucracy.
Where others forbid, we set the framework for cooperative environmental protection that strengthens the ownership of those involved and gives it new impetus.
Only in this way can environmental protection find acceptance and support.
We stand for harmonization of environmental standards in Europe.
The polluter pays principle must be the guiding principle.
Regional deficits must be eliminated and preliminary achievements in member states with a high level of environmental protection, such as Germany, must be recognized.
We want an innovative and flexible conservation policy.
Instruments and measures must be adapted to the respective local and regional natural conditions as well as the economic, ecological and social conditions.
Cooperation with local stakeholders is an indispensable prerequisite for a successful nature conservation policy.
In this context, voluntary commitment, for example in nature conservation associations, is indispensable.
The preservation of forests is of central importance, as they are the habitat of many species and the lungs of the world at the same time.
More than ever before, we need to intensify forest protection regionally, nationally and internationally.
As part of a national strategy, we call for a federal biodiversity conservation program that is closely coordinated with state and local governments, forest owners and land users.
We are in favor of linking areas of particular ecological value in an interconnected system.
We strive for a European and worldwide system of protected areas with greater integration of the regionally diverse cultural landscapes.
We demand that the existing national strategy for the sustainable use and protection of the oceans be consistently implemented.
In this context, we also advocate a comprehensive ban on whaling.
The CDU and CSU feel a particular commitment to animal welfare.
It is important to us to advance animal welfare in farm animal husbandry in harmony with economic efficiency.
We want to enforce our high animal welfare standards throughout the EU.
We are committed to further limiting animal transport times in the EU.
To reduce animal testing, we will continue to promote the development of alternative methods.
We will also continue to be involved in international animal and species protection.
We are committed to sensible soil protection.
The reuse of land already in use must have priority over new land consumption.
To this end, the necessary framework conditions must be created, for example by setting incentives for inter-communal, regional coordination in commercial settlements.
We reject an EU directive on soil protection.
We want to further improve the quality of German waters.
To this end, we want to implement demanding water quality requirements in Europe together with our neighbors, further reduce pollutants and develop our forward-looking water protection.
Supplying the population and industry with drinking water and disposing of wastewater are tasks of general interest and are the responsibility of the cities and municipalities.
They decide how to perform their tasks in cooperation with private companies.
Germany must put a stop to the EU's liberalization tendencies.
We stand up for the preservation of municipal responsibility for drinking water supply and wastewater disposal.
We want to further develop waste management and resource management in a European context.
Our aim is to achieve a more ecologically and economically efficient
and a consumer-friendly approach to waste management.
The priority is waste prevention.
Unavoidable waste must be recycled as far as possible.
In view of the increasing legal frameworks set by the European level, comprehensive harmonization at a high level within the EU in practice and enforcement is urgently needed.
We want to ensure that waste legislation becomes clearer and that technical standards become simpler, clearer and more unambiguous.
In particular, the contents of the Packaging Ordinance must be reviewed.
A particular concern of ours is to stabilize the reusable system, which is ecologically valuable and efficient.
Two-thirds of Germans feel disturbed by street noise in their living environment.
Noise costs quality of life and harms health.
Noise abatement must be prioritized at the source.
We demand that the current noise remediation values be lowered.
We advocate for the continuation of federal funding for noise remediation beyond the Recovery Act.
We want to advance noise abatement through increased use of low-noise asphalt, traffic avoidance and modal shift, and noise barriers and walls along roads and rail lines.
Air quality is an expression of healthy living conditions.
We are committed to reducing pollutants at the source.
With a sense of proportion, we want to work above all to reduce particulate matter and nitrogen oxide emissions.
We are paying particular attention to the expansion of local public transport (ÖPNV).
It contributes to the reduction of particulate matter emissions
and ensures the functionality and quality of life of our cities.
III.7 Realizing consumer protection
The CDU and CSU are focusing on the responsible consumer.
Consumers today can choose from a very wide range of products and at the same time are challenged like never before.
We want them to be able to make the right decision for themselves in all areas of life and at all ages.
Our goal is not paternalism, but empowerment.
Our policies enable consumers to navigate an increasingly complex world of goods and services.
We rely on clear rules, meaningful labeling, information requirements, consumer education, effective law enforcement, and competitively organized markets.
We also stand for a consumer policy that protects people from unsafe and harmful products
and helps them when they are deceived.
We will continue to develop consumer research and reporting in the interest of effective policy advice.
The aim is to establish an independent council of experts on consumer issues.
Consumers should be able to obtain information easily, they should receive good advice and their interests should be well represented.
That is why we will continue to reliably support the work of Stiftung Warentest and the Federal Association of Consumer Centers.
We will continue to develop the Consumer Information Act.
In addition, we will link a central consumer telephone with a pilot function to the single public authority number 115.
We want to give the media an incentive to communicate consumer issues by awarding a prize for good consumer journalism.
We stand for the fact that the European single market also benefits consumers.
The high level of protection for German consumers must be maintained and strengthened.
We will press ahead with cooperation between EU states in the event of breaches of product safety and consumer rights, be it in the case of contaminated toys or breaches of passenger rights in cross-border air or rail traffic.
We want to retain the German GS "Tested Safety" mark
and introduce a voluntary European safety mark based on its model.
Safe food is a priority for us.
We want to improve food safety without increasing bureaucracy.
Quality and safety awareness throughout the food chain to the consumer needs to be developed even more.
We are focusing on the expansion of privately organized quality assurance systems and their interlinking with state food control.
We will further intensify cooperation between the federal, state and local governments and establish an early warning system.
_ We want to support people in eating well.
We will continue the "IN FORM for healthy nutrition and more exercise" initiative.
Within this framework, we will also develop programs for people and population groups who have so far had little access to health-promoting offerings.
Clear food labeling is important to us.
We advocate clear information on the packaging about nutritional values, ingredients and coverage of daily requirements based on uniform reference values.
We will also improve transparency in origin labeling.
This also applies to the organic seal.
Our goal is a binding national labeling of origin as distinct from the place of processing.
With more clarity in ingredient lists and designations, we want to prevent consumers from being led to believe that cheese or dairy products, for example, are not actually dairy products.
In the event of further circumvention of the underlying regulations without appropriate clear labeling, we will call for a stricter labeling requirement at European level.
We want to make sustainable consumption easy for consumers.
They should receive more information about the conditions under which the food was produced (second price tag).
In doing so, we focus primarily on voluntary seals that reflect international social and sustainability standards and the development of credible labels for environmentally and climate-friendly products.
We want consumers to be better protected against avoidable losses and incorrect financial advice.
To this end, we have already made the consultation protocol mandatory
and extended the limitation periods.
We will also create uniform regulations for all intermediaries.
They must prove their qualification and have professional liability insurance.
No product and no provider of financial products should be able to escape state financial supervision any longer.
In the future, the financial supervisory authority is also to act in the interest of consumers.
We will increase the transparency of financial products.
Customers must be able to quickly identify the essential components of an investment, all costs and commissions, the risk and the availability of financial products.
We will ensure clear labeling and concise meaningful product information.
To enable people to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the Internet, telecommunications, and e-commerce, we are committed to fair access, data security, and protection against harassment and fraud, both nationally and internationally.
We will create citizen portals
and promote secure communication by e-mail.
When introducing radio frequency identification (RFID) tags, we ensure data protection.
At the same time, we will increase awareness among citizens, especially young people, of the need to handle personal data responsibly.
We will punish criminal data trafficking.
We will increase transparency about the quality of providers in the border area of health-beauty-well-being and ensure necessary protective regulations and minimum quality standards.
Consumer protection is becoming an increasingly important field of action in the healthcare sector.
IV. Living in freedom and security
People in Germany want to live freely and securely.
Freedom and security are not mutually exclusive, but rather mutually dependent.
The CDU and CSU want Germany to remain one of the safest countries in the world.
Security is a prerequisite for freedom.
Enforcing law and order
and protecting the freedom of citizens - these goals are brought into a reasonable balance by civic politics.
Because only those who are not afraid can live in freedom.
The prevention of criminal acts, protection against threats to public safety and order
, and the investigation and punishment of crimes and misdemeanors are indispensable prerequisites for peaceful coexistence among citizens and trust in the state.
IV.1 Freedom and security for citizens
Germany's security authorities do an excellent job and enjoy a high level of trust among citizens.
We are experiencing new forms of threat today.
Terrorism and organized crime are among the greatest of these threats.
They contradict freedom and security and thus the highest values that characterize our Basic Law.
Germany is part of a global danger zone.
We have to be prepared for that.
Only in this way can the constitutional state continue to protect and preserve the freedom and security of its citizens.
The distinctions between internal and external security are blurred in light of today's threats.
We want to find ways of making the best possible use of all the potentials and means of internal and external security in order to effectively ward off threats.
In situations of particular danger, it must be possible for the Bundeswehr to be deployed internally with its specific capabilities in disaster management and in dealing with terrorist threats, in addition to the state and federal police forces, within defined limits.
Clear legal bases must be created for this.
The strict separation of police and military must be maintained.
The CDU and CSU provide the best possible security in everyday life and for security on the ground.
We want all citizens to be able to move freely on streets and squares, on buses and trains, and in train stations at any time of day or night without fear of crime.
In all public spaces, neglect, graffiti graffiti, vandalism, theft, residential burglaries and violence must be prevented through preventive urban design, better lighting, the increased use of video cameras in hot spots and preventive social management.
There must be no lawless spaces, only spaces free of fear.
CDU and CSU place trust in police and judiciary.
A "visible" police force reinforces the citizens' sense of security, especially among the elderly.
In order to achieve the best possible result in the fight against crime, violence and terror, the police must be capable of acting in terms of personnel, organization and technology, especially in the area of information technology.
Our goal as a federal government is therefore to make our contribution to a contemporary technology standard for the whole of Germany.
We want to take care of that.
We want to specifically attract even more people with an immigrant background to the police profession and the judiciary.
They are important "bridge builders".
In the course of their professional duties in the service of the general public, police officers in particular also become targets of violence.
The members of such professions deserve our protection.
Respect for their important work demands that the state's punitive approach be consistently applied in such cases.
To enable the judiciary to perform its task successfully, we want to further develop the legal framework.
We want to improve the performance of courts and prosecutors' offices and the effectiveness of criminal proceedings where necessary.
Trivializing crime is the wrong way to go.
Legal awareness suffers considerable damage if offenses are not prosecuted only because they are committed en masse.
Inhibition thresholds are thus lowered, lawbreakers are encouraged and criminal careers are fostered.
Anyone who breaks the law and thus goes against the values of our society must expect consistent prosecution and swift punishment.
We will more effectively protect citizens from recidivist offenders.
We will therefore close existing gaps in preventive detention.
Victim protection takes precedence over offender protection.
We want to significantly improve the identification of criminals through "genetic fingerprinting."
The CDU and CSU want to actively shape security, promote prosperous coexistence and strengthen social compatibility.
Our forward-looking policy focuses on shaping our free democratic constitutional state in such a way that as many people as possible feel they belong to this society.
The better this succeeds, the fewer people will slip into violence and extremism.
We will therefore strengthen services that prevent violent and criminal careers or the slide into extremism in advance.
Our social cohesion policy supports a wide range of initiatives with broad-based funding.
This is crucial for a vibrant democracy,
peaceful coexistence
and, ultimately, for the prevention of crime.
Child and juvenile delinquency is taking on increasingly brutal forms.
The perpetrators are getting younger and younger.
Child and juvenile delinquency can only be effectively combated if prevention, prosecution, enforcement and victim protection work together at an early stage.
The rule of law must remain vigilant, readjust the law if necessary, and deal decisively with young offenders.
This also includes the fact that sanctions must be quickly noticeable.
We want juvenile criminal law to provide for more differentiated sanctions in order to be able to have an even better effect on the individual offender.
The CDU and CSU are working to ensure that a "warning arrest" can be ordered in addition to a suspended juvenile sentence.
Juvenile offenders must learn early on - not only after a long criminal "career" - to live a life with a firm structure and respect for others with an overall therapeutic concept.
In order to make young people aware of their responsibility for their own actions, they should be required to make amends.
For offenders over the age of 18, we want to make the application of adult criminal law the rule and juvenile criminal law the exception until they reach the age of 21.
We advocate anchoring the ban on driving or the prevention of obtaining a driver's license as an independent sanction in juvenile criminal law and opening the scope of application to all types of offenses.
For us, one thing is certain: No stone must be left unturned, especially to protect our children with all the means permitted by the rule of law.
We want to eliminate inconsistencies in sexual criminal law
and punish child abuse as a crime again.
The Internet is not a legal vacuum.
Where justifiable in view of the low severity of offenses, self-regulation should take effect.
We want to effectively prevent infringements.
We will push for the expansion of international cooperation against cybercrime.
In Germany, we advocate greater bundling of activities in the fight against cybercrime.
The Federal Criminal Police Office (BKA), the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI) and the corresponding institutions of the federal states must be further strengthened in terms of personnel and technology.
Efforts to educate users and improve media literacy must be intensified.
The CDU and CSU are in favor of data protection with a sense of proportion.
"Black market" addresses, theft of data and even illegal account debits are the negative side effects of the legal use of customer data.
Citizens must be able to trust that their data is protected from misuse.
For us, the following applies: Whoever lives in Germany must also abide by our rules.
To avert the dangers posed by criminal foreigners and suspected terrorists, we want to consistently simplify the law on deportation.
Foreigners must already be able to be deported without parole if they are sentenced to at least one year in prison.
This should also be possible for foreign juvenile intensive offenders.
A residence title shall expire by operation of law in the event of a final conviction for intentional criminal acts for a term of imprisonment of more than three years.
A new deportation statute is to be created for behavior that is massively hostile to integration - such as education in violence or mistreatment of children under protection.
The CDU and CSU believe that a national visa inviter and warning file is urgently needed to effectively combat visa abuse.
Falsified and fraudulent visas for Germany and Europe are used by organized crime in large numbers to commit a wide range of crimes, including human trafficking and forced prostitution.
There is also a risk that terrorist groups will infiltrate perpetrators in this way.
The CDU and CSU are focusing on increased European cooperation for the security of citizens.
EUROPOL must be further developed as a center of excellence for information and coordinating support.
We will further expand cross-border police cooperation to protect the EU's external borders.
For Europe-wide search alerts and the necessary comparison of investigative data, we will advance the development of a European strategy for information exchange.
In this context, data protection interests must be reconciled with the interest in effectively combating crime.
However, data protection must not become the protection of perpetrators.
We resolutely oppose extremists of all kinds.
Defensible democracy must not be blind in any eye.
There must be no areas, neighborhoods or places in Germany where extremists are in charge.
Law and freedom must not give way to injustice and arbitrariness anywhere.
We want to ensure this.
Hysteria and prejudgement are just as wrong reactions as ignorance and trivialization.
We stand for consistent prosecution and punishment of extremist crimes.
We do not tolerate cooperation with extremists.
Rather, the protection of our fundamental law must be a democratic consensus.
The CDU and CSU continue to support the monitoring of extremist groups and organizations by the Office for the Protection of the Constitution.
The scope of right-wing extremist crimes is increasingly worrying.
Addressing the causes of right-wing extremist attitudes is a declared goal of the CDU and CSU.
Only long-term commitment and sustained prevention will prevent the spread of right-wing extremist ideas.
This includes strengthening civil society.
We will continue to support civic projects,
the work of the democratic political youth associations in the Ring Politischer Jugend (RPJ)
and exit programs against extremism, focusing on regions at risk.
We will continue to consistently promote phase-out projects.
Left-wing extremists are also declared opponents of our free democratic state and social order.
The danger of left-wing extremist crimes is underestimated by the public.
We maintain the observation of extremist structures in the party "DIE LINKE" by the Office for the Protection of the Constitution.
Vigilance is also needed against the extremism of Islamist groups, which regularly combines with anti-Semitism.
We will not allow Germany's free basic order to be undermined by Islamist ideas of order based on Sharia law.
We will ensure more consistent monitoring and sanctioning of anti-Semitic and anti-Western propaganda in Islamist newspapers, books and websites.
The public space must not be a space of violence.
The state must resolutely confront violence perpetrated by extremists, such as that which occurs every year on the occasion of May Day in Berlin.
There must be no de-escalation strategy on the part of the state in the face of violent chaos, which leads to the health of our police officers being irresponsibly put at risk.
The best prevention against extremist ideologies is the strengthening of democracy.
That is why we need to strengthen political education, school education and social education about all forms of extremism.
We will work to ensure that counter-extremism and the teaching of democratic values and a culture of debate are given further scope in the work of the centers for political education.
Law secures freedom - for a strong constitutional state
Our legal system guarantees freedom, property and social security of citizens.
The excellent work of the German judiciary creates legal certainty and thus ensures that everyone can enforce their rights.
This is how trust in our state is created.
For the German economy, this is a decisive locational advantage in global competition.
German law also serves as a role model in a global comparison.
The CDU and CSU will ensure that the German legal system is further developed and our judiciary is further strengthened in the interests of citizens, but also of companies facing global competition.
In the globalization process, law and the administration of justice are also subject to international competition.
We want to aggressively represent the values and solutions of German law throughout Europe and the world.
This is all the more true as more and more countries are taking their cue from German law.
We will continue to carefully develop the tried-and-tested German civil law system into the European single market.
We reject the adoption of non-structural legal concepts from Anglo-American law, such as class actions.
We want to guarantee comprehensive data protection.
We do not want to store unnecessary amounts of data and are fighting against the "transparent citizen".
The requirement of proportionality must always be observed.
Completing unity also means establishing legal peace with the people who have been awarded compensation claims.
These must be fulfilled without delay on the basis of the regulations adopted in the early 1990s.
The changes that have occurred as a result of the passage of time must not be to the detriment of those affected.
Deadlines need to be adjusted.
The citizen must be able to understand the law if he is to obey it.
We call for a clearer and more understandable law.
The CDU and CSU want laws and administrative notices to be written in language that citizens can understand.
We demand the consistent implementation of the principles of "better legislation" in Germany and the EU.
IV.2 Consolidating international security
The CDU and CSU stand for the worldwide recognition of human dignity, for
freedom and peace,
for friendship with our neighbors and
for loyalty to the alliance
and advocacy of Germany's interests.
We are committed to a great tradition with our foreign and security policy and have laid the foundations of Germany's successful foreign and security policy.
The Bundeswehr makes an indispensable contribution to this with its soldiers.
The values of the Basic Law, the
security of citizens, and the
interests and global responsibility of Germany and Europe must be the benchmarks of German foreign and security policy.
The great challenges of the future - shaping globalization and preventing economic crises, limiting climate change and securing energy supplies, or managing migration problems and preventing terror - cannot be mastered by any state alone.
A secure life in Germany depends on good neighborliness and stable partnerships.
It is our responsibility to safeguard this for the future.
Those who depend on partners must also act in solidarity themselves.
For this reason, Germany fulfills its alliance obligations and makes an active contribution to maintaining international peace and security within the framework of the United Nations and the OSCE, NATO and the European Union.
We will seize every opportunity to work with the new U.S. President to strengthen the transatlantic partnership.
Europe and America rely on a foundation of shared values.
The transatlantic partners can accomplish far more to solve the world's problems if they work together effectively.
We want to dismantle trade barriers as part of the transatlantic economic partnership
and create a transatlantic market in the long term.
Harmonization of import standards is of crucial importance in this regard.
Following the example of the European single market, we thus want to promote transatlantic trade and investment relations.
We want to launch a German-American initiative on energy efficiency in order to become less dependent on energy sources such as oil and gas.
In this way, we can credibly confront emerging countries and win them over to a Kyoto Plus agreement.
We are committed to NATO and will work for a new strategic concept for NATO that responds adequately to security changes.
It must forge a new consensus on the risks, threats, missions, and scope of the Alliance.
The central obligation is and remains the collective defense of the members of the Alliance - even if missions to secure peace, freedom and stability are the focus of current tasks.
NATO should remain open to new members who share the values of the Alliance and its member states and whose admission will bring greater security for all member states.
We will contribute to a common strategic culture of NATO and the EU and better cooperation between the two organizations.
In this way, we are working to ensure that NATO and the EU make more effective use of their civilian and military capabilities for crisis prevention and response on the basis of a pragmatic division of labor.
We will consistently and recognizably stand up for the values that unite Germany with its partners worldwide.
Germany must remain an influential voice for justice, freedom and human rights.
We acknowledge Germany's special responsibility towards Israel as a Jewish state.
Securing Israel's right to exist is part of Germany's reason of state.
Germany and Europe have a strong interest in peace and stability in the Middle East.
Our goal is and remains a two-state solution with an Israel in permanently secure borders and a viable Palestinian state living in peaceful neighborhood.
A good neighborly relationship with Russia is in the interest of Germany and its European partners and allies.
We want as close relations with Russia as possible.
The depth and breadth of these relations will depend in particular on whether and to what extent Russia is prepared to fulfill its obligations under the United Nations, the OSCE, the Council of Europe, and the European Energy Charter, as well as under agreements with the European Union.
We advocate reliable energy cooperation with Russia, closely coordinated within the European Union, on the basis of transparent and non-discriminatory conditions.
Under Germany's G8 presidency, the Heiligendamm Process was launched to engage the major emerging economies China, Brazil, India, Mexico and South Africa in solving global problems.
Whether security policy, climate protection, poverty reduction or the global economy: many of the challenges in these and other fields can only be mastered together with the major emerging economies.
We will always achieve better results if we involve all relevant stakeholders and thus turn common interests into shared responsibility.
That is why we want to consolidate and further expand the approach of the Heiligendamm Process.
We are committed to increasing the United Nations' ability to act, its strength and efficiency - because the United Nations is indispensable in solving global problems.
Strengthening them also requires internal reforms.
In the reform of the Security Council, we are in favor of a permanent seat for the European Union.
On the way to this goal, Germany remains ready to assume greater responsibility by assuming a permanent seat on the Security Council.
Further development of international law helps to ensure that the United Nations makes a more effective contribution to the worldwide enforcement of freedom and human rights.
We want to strengthen the states' monopoly on the use of force and advocate strict control and restriction of the activities of private security companies.
The UN Convention against Mercenarism must be renewed.
We will live up to our international responsibility and take effective and resolute action against piracy within the framework of the United Nations.
Because shipping needs safety.
We advocate the establishment of an international piracy court.
We continue to consistently pursue the goal of building peace with fewer and fewer weapons.
Making the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction more difficult
and preventing them from being passed on to terrorists is and remains the task of German security policy.
We will support any fair and international security initiative to reduce nuclear weapons and limit conventional forces.
An agreement to drastically reduce nuclear potentials raises the prospect of strengthening the nonproliferation regime
and halting the aspirations of more states to join the ranks of nuclear powers.
The International Atomic Energy Agency's verification instruments must be strengthened.
We want to avert the danger of instability and terror radiating from Afghanistan to other parts of the world - including Europe and Germany.
That is why we are making a contribution so that Afghanistan can provide for its own security and thus for ours.
This requires a willingness to provide sustained training and support for the Afghan security sector (army, police, and judiciary) and for civil reconstruction.
The creation of viable state structures is a prerequisite for a subsequent reduction and eventual termination of our military involvement.
Military security presence and civilian construction are inextricably interdependent.
Without a security presence there can be no reconstruction, and without success in reconstruction there can be no reduction in the security presence.
The "networked security" approach must also be taken into account through close coordination of the federal ministries involved in the Afghanistan engagement.
We stand by the service of our soldiers and pay high respect to their performance.
Germany needs an effective Bundeswehr.
In the concept of networked security, the Bundeswehr is an indispensable instrument both for national and alliance defense and for international crisis prevention and crisis management.
The guiding principle "citizen in uniform" is and remains the hallmark of the Bundeswehr as an army in a democracy.
Compulsory military service will also be necessary in the future in view of the new threats to our country's security.
It is an important instrument of safety precaution.
Conscription links the Bundeswehr and society.
However, we want to ensure greater fairness in military service and make conscription more attractive.
We want to maintain civilian service as a substitute service.
It has great social and youth policy significance.
For us, one thing is clear: soldiers must receive the best possible equipment, training and support in preparation for, during and after their missions.
Sufficient funding must be made available to the Bundeswehr for this purpose.
This also applies to the recruitment of qualified personnel
and to attractive framework conditions for the service.
The German defense technology industry is of great importance - both in terms of its technological performance and its highly qualified jobs.
German influence must be maintained in international and European cooperation.
The Bundeswehr must be able to defend important interests of our country and its partners, even at great geographical distances.
The Bundeswehr's human, military and financial resources are limited.
We make decisions on foreign deployments with the participation of the Bundestag in accordance with Germany's values and interests and in
light of our international alliance obligations.
Foreign deployments must be carried out in accordance with the Basic Law and international law and must
serve to preserve or restore peace and international security.
Deployments must have clearly defined, achievable goals.
The Bundeswehr must be able to make a credible contribution to achieving these goals.
The deployment must be predictable in terms of its risks.
IV.3 Strong Europe - secure future
The united Europe offers its citizens every opportunity to realize their future chances
and to lead their lives in peace and freedom.
The CDU and CSU want a strong Europe that is close to its citizens.
In this context, the Franco-German partnership is of particular importance.
The hallmark of our European policy is a partnership of equals with all member states of the European Union.
We stand for the way out of the crisis because joint European action is more successful internationally.
We stand for the intelligent safeguarding of national and European interests.
And we stand for a consolidated EU, because Europe must have borders.
We know: A strong European Union is the best prerequisite for growth, for creating and securing jobs, and for social security in our country.
The social market economy, which we want to anchor in Europe and also internationally, is the best economic and social model for achieving these goals and thus securing our future.
It is the successful and humane response to the failed systems of socialist planned economy and unbridled capitalism.
We want to guarantee competition and consumer protection in the EU single market
and eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy.
It remains a constant task in the EU to avoid bureaucracy.
To this end, we call for a fundamental bureaucracy check for European decisions.
Industry, small and medium-sized enterprises, farms, the liberal professions and the skilled trades must be relieved of unnecessary regulations.
Especially in the current crisis, there must be no additional burdens on the economy that endanger jobs.
We stand for a strong EU foreign and security policy capable of action in order to successfully represent our interests in the world of the 21st century.
It must be based on a further developed common security strategy,
strengthen the High Representative for Foreign Policy,
and expand the European Security and Defense Policy, including a mutual assistance commitment, to complement the transatlantic partnership.
We seek a long-term European Union energy policy that increases the EU's influence in global energy markets.
Europe is taking a pioneering role in climate protection, which can only be achieved together.
The EU climate protection program has been largely shaped by the CDU and CSU.
Germany will continue to make an important contribution to addressing global climate change.
There must be no unilateral burden on a few EU states and their economies.
For us, one thing is certain: a stable currency is a prerequisite for a strong economy and stable political conditions.
We stand for a Europe of budgetary discipline
and fairness in contributions
as well as independence of the European Central Bank.
We reject EU taxes.
We want a Europe that professes its Christian-Western roots and the ideas of the Enlightenment and lives from them.
We are sticking to our goal of making this understanding of values clear by including a reference to God in the EU Treaty.
The EU must respect the identity of nations with their regions and communities.
German is the most widely spoken native language and one of the three procedural languages of the EU.
We are therefore committed to strengthening the German language in Europe in order to end its de facto disadvantage in the European institutions.
We demand that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, tasks be performed as close to the people as possible.
Brussels must not interfere when tasks can be adequately or better regulated at the federal, state or local political level.
In the internal market, however, we need fewer detailed regulations and more freedom.
In future EU treaty amendments, we want to examine whether competencies can be shifted back from the European level to the nation states.
We know: The EU enlargements to date have been a success and in the interests of Germany and Europe.
After the enlargement by twelve new member states and an accession of Croatia, there must be a consolidation phase in the EU enlargement process in order to consolidate the EU's identity and institutions.
For countries with a European accession perspective, the criterion of the EU's capacity to absorb new members is just as important for the admission of new members to the European Union,
as the applicant countries' complete fulfillment of all political and economic criteria, which include, in particular, freedom of expression, equality between women and men, protection of minorities, or freedom of religion.
Turkey does not meet the requirements.
We believe that a Privileged Partnership instead of Turkey's full membership with the EU is the right solution.
For the European neighbors of the EU, which cannot or cannot yet become full members, we need our own forms of cooperation such as the "Eastern Partnership".
For non-European neighbors, we need tailored partnership agreements without accession prospects as part of the EU's neighborhood policy.
IV.4 Consistently for human rights and development cooperation
For the CDU and CSU, development policy
and the commitment to human rights are based on our Christian view of humanity and are an expression of our value-based policy.
We are committed to the indivisibility of human rights.
Our development policy is guided by three principles: responsibility for people in need and for creation,
averting global risks,
and strengthening our worldwide partnerships, from which Germany benefits in many ways.
For us, development policy is not a one-way street, but a strategic partnership.
It serves the interests of both the recipient countries and Germany.
In the age of globalization, every country is our neighbor.
This fact must be taken into account in every policy field in the future.
Development policy that combats poverty and thus reduces migration pressure,
human rights,
democracy and the rule of law,
that contributes to peace and creates stability,
which aims to protect the climate and the environment
and which flanks foreign trade, also serves Germany and its security.
Democracy, the rule of law, transparent and good governance
, and an orientation toward the model of the social market economy are the best prerequisites for development cooperation to work in the sense of helping people to help themselves.
Development is the very responsibility of the developing countries themselves.
That is why we demand and promote subsidiarity and ownership in developing countries.
In particular, we are working toward framework conditions that strengthen private-sector initiatives in developing countries.
Human rights policy and development policy belong together and must be closely coordinated.
When allocating funds in development cooperation, good governance and progress in the area of human rights must be decisive criteria.
A particular concern of ours is supporting people who are working peacefully to protect human rights around the world.
We want to further improve the international division of labor among donor countries - including in the EU.
However, this does not mean uncritically following every international trend - such as direct budget support - and abandoning tried and tested German principles of development policy.
In addition, we will increasingly ensure - not least through a consistent human resources policy - that the German voice in international development organizations is also commensurate with the weight of our financial contributions.
In the future, we will pay particular attention to the idea of sustainable development policy in all international negotiations and forums.
We want to ensure an efficient strategic approach.
To this end, we want to optimize the structures of German foreign trade that are relevant to development policy and merge them into a coherent development policy.
To this end, we will strengthen development policy as an independent policy field for coordinating Germany's activities in developing countries.
We want to make the instruments of development policy more efficient.
That is why we will make the necessary structural changes in governmental implementing organizations for development cooperation.
We will once again give greater importance to bilateral development cooperation.
Strengthening the efficiency of German development cooperation requires concentrating our measures on specific countries and sectors.
Poverty reduction remains a core concern of our development policy.
However, our development policy goals go far beyond this.
We will work toward good governance in developing countries.
This is the only way we can have a successful impact in the key sectors of our development cooperation - the economy and infrastructure, education and health, rural development, peace and security, and environmental, climate and resource protection.
We want to intensify economic and scientific cooperation with modern development policy.
This strengthens growth in developing countries.
We also want to get the German business community, and SMEs in particular, more involved in development cooperation.
Development policy is thus a policy of mutual benefit and of a mutual and fair balance of interests.
We stand by our international commitments to increase funding for official development assistance to 0.7 percent of gross national income.
However, a quantitative increase in development cooperation funding must be accompanied by an increase in the efficiency of development policy instruments.
and absorption capacity in developing countries.
We will strengthen public development cooperation and the indispensable civil society engagement of churches, non-governmental organizations and political foundations.
as well as cooperation with the German private sector.
We want to promote civil society involvement, because the initial responsibility for German development policy lies with the citizens.
We want to reinforce in the population the idea of solidarity with people in need.
