1. the opportunities of freedom
Freedom needs courage.
Our program gives courage for the future.
We have a vision: liberal civil society that draws its strength from citizens' own initiative and creativity and is not paralyzed by an anonymous state bureaucracy.
We want a liberal civil society in which citizens1 have a say in Germany's future and participate in democratic decision-making processes.
We want citizens to regain confidence and courage to work with liberals to initiate necessary changes in our society.
The standards of political action must be redefined for liberal civil society: Freedom before equality,
Generate before distributing,
Private before state,
Personal responsibility instead of faith in the state,
Equal opportunities instead of egalitarianism.
Anyone who wants more freedom and equal opportunities needs the FDP.
Liberals stand up for the rights of individuals in responsibility for a better future for our country.
We want people to decide for themselves how to live their lives.
In the future, therefore, politics must confine itself more to shaping the framework for human coexistence.
The other parties interfere too much in people's lives because they presume to know what is best for citizens.
But no one is in possession of definitive truths.
The debates of recent years have been about the opportunities and challenges of globalization,
the risks and costs of an overstretched welfare state
, and the living conditions of an aging society.
The idea of freedom must prove itself every day in concrete politics towards the people and answer their questions.
We take a realistic view of the present and derive from the positive experiences with liberal responses in the past the optimism that we will be able to successfully shape society's future.
Because even progress does not come automatically; it has to be worked out by people day by day.
To achieve this, citizens need a better political framework for innovation and growth in Germany.
We offer citizens our overall concept of free-market renewal: Work has the right of way through education and research in a liberal welfare state that citizens can trust again.
Liberalism's answers and solutions are based on freedom and responsibility,
openness to the world and tolerance,
subsidiarity and solidarity.
These are the values and principles of liberal civil society.
The problems of the present and the worries about the future are explained by the neglect of these principles.
If we act on them again, there is a prospect of improvement.
We are convinced that the pursuit of happiness by each individual also ensures the best results for the whole.
Knowing people's strengths and weaknesses, liberals strive to preserve and shape spaces of freedom that allow individuals to develop without releasing them from the duty of personal responsibility.
The task of politics is not to prescribe certain models of happiness or certain lifestyles.
The task of politics is to set the framework for people to live their lives as they wish.
Liberal policies want to create space for more joie de vivre.
It is not the state that grants freedom to citizens, but citizens grant the state the controlled right to restrict freedom.
This is not an easy program: freedom is misjudged by too many people as insecurity,
personal responsibility is denigrated as an elbow mentality.
Responsibility on the ground is misunderstood as a weakening of the state
, and the commitment to solidarity is defamed as a linguistic deception.
For liberals, freedom in responsibility is the self-evident basis of any just state order:
For liberals, freedom is not stripped of its social references.
Freedom is indivisible.
Social, political and economic freedom belong together.
In dialog with citizens, we want to promote the opportunities of freedom:
Only in an order of freedom do people turn their pursuit of personal happiness into opportunities for all, accept new challenges with confidence, try out new ways for a better future, and bring Germany back to the top in education and research.
Personal responsibility is not only a duty in civil society, but also a right against paternalism by the bureaucracy of a state-organized collective.
Liberals want the liberal welfare state, not the social-democratic welfare state of all the other parties.
It's about prosperity and life chances for every single citizen.
The central task of the state is not equality, but ensuring fairness of opportunity and performance for everyone.
Liberals fear less the inequalities caused by a policy of freedom than the poverty of all caused by a policy of equality.
In dialogue with the citizens, we show that personal responsibility does not mean renouncing solidarity.
We want to make a contribution through regulatory framework conditions so that every person can explore his or her opportunities in experienced freedom and find his or her values and forge his or her happiness on his or her own responsibility.
Furthermore, it must again become clear to people what welfare state paternalism in the West and real socialism in the East have pushed back as experience: lived, voluntary solidarity, not imposed from above, on the basis of subsidiarity, i.e. priority for individual responsibility over state collectives.
While the other parties want to dictate to people to live according to a certain image, we rely on the responsible citizen who is able to face and live up to the responsibility associated with freedom.
The foundations for this are education
and training and the teaching of values.
Education in the comprehensive sense provides the ethical foundation of civil society.
The principles of freedom give people the orientation they need in an ever-changing world to shape the necessary change and break new ground.
With the willingness to be mobile, the dynamics of freedom can unfold.
It makes progress possible as an improvement in economic and social conditions.
Our program for more freedom is a program against the fear of the risks of the future.
The greater risk today is not in changing what exists, but in not doing so.
There is no future without the willingness to change.
Change also means risk.
If you want to eliminate all risks, you also destroy all opportunities.
This is the greatest of all dangers.
2. more FDP for more jobs and prosperity
Unemployment is the unbearable fate of millions of people today.
Almost everyone now knows someone who is threatened or affected by unemployment.
Many people get a sense of what job loss means from their family and friends.
Unemployment concerns us all and can affect us all.
That is why the FDP demands: Work has right of way.
Work is more than earned income.
Work means social integration, recognition and the opportunity to lead a self-determined life in dignity and to secure the income for oneself and one's own family.
Competition is the core element of the social market economy.
As the party of the social market economy, the FDP is committed to competition in all areas.
Only where there is free and fair competition do ideas for new products, processes and services bubble up.
Only where there is competition are offerings strictly aligned with consumer preferences.
New jobs are only created quickly enough where there is competition.
Germany needs these new jobs because technological change and stronger international competition mean that jobs are being lost in the process of structural change, even in an open and market-based economy.
Germany must therefore regain its competitive strength: Companies need better framework conditions for investment.
Only if it pays off for individual companies to invest in jobs in Germany will we be able to get a grip on the unemployment problem in the long term.
For this, we need a simple and fair tax system with low tax rates.
We need more net income from gross wages - also through lower non-wage labor costs.
One of the strongest impediments to growth is the German tax system.
More than in any other nation, it stands for complicated and incomprehensible regulations with excessive burdens on tax citizens and businesses.
In terms of the tax burden for companies, Germany occupies a lonely top position in Europe.
Small and medium-sized enterprises in particular suffer from the complexity of corporate taxation.
The lack of neutrality of tax law leads to tax regulations determining the choice of legal form or financing.
Economically sensible entrepreneurial structures are prevented by tax law.
Constant legal changes - often with retroactive effects - shake the confidence of potential investors in stable framework conditions.
Incorrect tax system regulations such as minimum taxation further worsen the already difficult earnings situation of companies.
Tax citizens despair of the complexity of tax law.
The pursuit of case-by-case justice has long led to ever greater injustice and declining tax morale.
At the same time, German tax law is inefficient
and an increasingly uncertain source of financing for the state budget, because those affected react to the anti-growth and anti-performance design of German tax law:
Citizens are driven into undeclared work,
savers into capital flight,
companies delay investments or relocate them abroad straight away.
Citizens and businesses are excessively engaged in tax avoidance strategies rather than working hard to provide more services.
Germany can no longer afford such a tax law.
The FDP is the only party to present a comprehensive, coherent overall concept for reforming taxation for citizens and companies: Low, simple and fair - these are the criteria for the liberal tax concept.
Income taxation is returned to its actual task in the constitutional state of the social market economy: The state is to participate appropriately in the earning success of private individuals - in order to finance the inevitable state expenditures.
The liberal tax concept envisages that the state must abandon the comfortable policy of "tax with tax".
No tax giveaways for certain interest groups, but consistent taxation according to performance with competitive tax rates - that is what the FDP stands for.
The liberal income tax is low.
The FDP tiered rate of 15%, 25%, and 35% provides significant relief.
For companies, there are only the two tax rates of 15% and 25%.
Every taxpayer, his spouse and children are entitled to a tax-free basic allowance of 7,700 euros.
For incomes from 7,701 euros to 15,000 euros, 15% tax is payable, 25% for the income portion between 15,000 euros and 40,000 euros, and 35% for incomes above that.
The FDP graduated tariff is transparent and does not lead to jumps in the burden, because in each case only the portion exceeding the income limit is taxed at a higher rate.
Every taxpayer can calculate his tax burden without tax tables and easily determine how much he will have left from a salary increase, for example.
We want to abolish tax class V.
It reduces the incentives to work for the lower earner among married couples, the more so the further apart the spouses' incomes are.
The FDP pays particular attention to relieving the burden on families.
A married couple with two children pays taxes only from an annual income of 30,800 euros, and even from 38,600 euros if the deductions for pension expenses are utilized.
It can thus earn almost twice as much "tax-free" as under current law.
"Children cost money" - who would know that better than the families.
In the liberal tax concept, the financial burden on families is finally taken into account appropriately.
For spouses, the income limits are doubled under the graduated tariff.
The uniform basic tax-free allowance for parents and now also for children creates significant relief for all families.
Child benefits will be adjusted accordingly and increased to 200 euros.
The liberal income tax is simple.
The FDP bill for a new income tax is worded in an understandable way.
Tax exemptions, tax exceptions and incentive regulations are consistently abolished.
Tax law is thus comprehensively simplified.
In future, most taxpayers will be able to complete their tax return on a single sheet of paper and within an hour.
The liberal income tax is fair.
Fairness in tax law means that each taxpayer is taxed according to his economic capacity.
To achieve this, tax loopholes must be closed.
No taxpayer, not even one with a high income, should be able to make himself poor in the eyes of the tax office by skilful structuring.
The FDP tax concept envisages low tax rates, but these must then actually be paid.
Liberal corporate tax reform ensures that jobs stay in the country and new jobs are created.
It takes into account that entrepreneurial income is subject to particular competitive pressures.
In this context, lowering the tariff for corporations is not sufficient.
This is because more than 80% of companies in Germany are partnerships and sole traders, which would have nothing to gain from this.
It is precisely these companies that create the most jobs and apprenticeships in Germany and are in urgent need of relief.
The FDP corporate tax concept reconciles income tax and corporate tax in a simple and practicable manner.
It provides for the FDP tiered rate for all companies, with the last tier waived.
Thus, the top tax rate for entrepreneurial income is 25%, regardless of the legal form.
Add to this the municipal surcharge as a part of the liberal municipal finance reform, and the final burden is about 28%, depending on the municipal assessment rate.
The long-term goal is to introduce a uniform tax rate for all income (flat tax).
A uniform tax rate would solve a large number of the problems that exist today in the coexistence of directly progressive income tax and proportional corporate income tax, but would also guarantee the principle of taxation according to ability to pay.
This would be the ideal tax system for simple, fair and neutral taxation of legal forms.
Due to the high tax losses, this cannot be realized at present.
The FDP tax concept is clearly committed to abolishing the trade tax and provides for solid municipal replacement financing.
The trade tax unilaterally burdens German companies and worsens their competitive position.
It is particularly absurd if personal enterprises first have to prepare a trade tax balance sheet at great expense in order to be able to offset the trade tax determined in this way.
In terms of the tax system, trade tax prevents company taxation that is neutral in terms of legal form.
And in the case of municipalities, the trade tax does not allow for continuous and sound financial planning due to its highly cyclical nature.
Liberal municipal finance reform finally takes seriously the weighty desire of municipalities for a stable financial foundation.
In addition to the municipal surcharge with its own right of assessment on income and corporate income tax, it provides for an increase in the municipalities' share of sales tax from the current 2.2% to 12%.
The FDP corporate tax concept introduces a final withholding tax for capital gains - interest and dividends - at an internationally competitive level of 25%.
Distributions are tax-free for the shareholder because taxation is final at the level of the corporation.
A 25% withholding tax is introduced for interest.
Because taxation is carried out directly at the source, i.e. at the bank, there is 100% tax honesty with 0% snooping; control notifications are not necessary.
Account searches without reasonable suspicion are prohibited.
Banking secrecy can - and must - be restored.
Germany's competitiveness as a financial center will be strengthened.
In addition to lowering the tax burden in a way that is neutral in terms of legal form, the FDP's corporate tax concept contains other proposals that are immensely important for restoring competitiveness and European compatibility.
This includes modern group taxation within the EU as well as a
new transformation tax law.
Inheritance tax on business assets is to be deferred if the generation of heirs continues the business.
For each year of continuation of the business, 10% of the inheritance tax is to be waived.
This regulation applies to all companies without size limitation.
The wealth tax is finally abolished.
The dismantling of the eco-tax and the solidarity surcharge remains on the agenda.
However, the priority now is the major tax reform.
At present, there is no budgetary justification for tax cuts going beyond this.
In the case of sales tax, the FDP wants a general transition from debit to actual taxation.
This gives liquidity back to the companies.
Sales tax fraud, estimated at 20 billion per year, can be more effectively combated if input taxes are not allowed to be deducted until the invoice is paid.
The FDP tax concept is solidly calculated.
It provides for relief of between 17 and 19 billion euros, which is urgently needed as a stimulus for investment and more jobs.
Tax relief is the only way to give citizens the financial leeway they need to take more responsibility for their own social security.
In return, the FDP has already put forward savings proposals worth 12.5 billion euros in more than 400 motions during the budget deliberations for the 2005 federal budget.
Together with other structural measures, this will reduce the burden on public budgets by around EUR 35 billion.
If these suggestions are implemented consistently, this sum can be increased considerably.
The FDP is opposed to an increase in value-added tax to reform direct taxes or other indirect taxes.
The necessary reforms can and must be financed through savings in financial aid, subsidies and bureaucratic expenses.
An increase in the value-added tax would dampen consumption and growth and thus further increase unemployment.
Only through tax relief can growth be generated
- only through growth is there more employment
- only through more employment is lasting budget consolidation possible.
Simple, low and fair - these are the guidelines that guide the FDP's tax policy.
It goes hand in hand with the FDP's plans to reform the welfare state.
The Liberal Citizen's Income is the bridge to the labor market.
The FDP calls for the introduction of the Liberal Citizen's Income.
This is the solution for a simple, transparent and fair social system.
It relies on helping people to help themselves, performance and reward, protecting the weak from the lazy and resourceful, and providing incentives to work.
In the citizen's income, tax-financed social benefits are combined into one: Instead of basic income support, social assistance (excluding social assistance in special circumstances), housing benefit, unemployment benefit II or BAföG, the needy person receives the citizen's income.
In addition, if the liberal reform concepts for health and long-term care insurance are implemented, there will be tax-financed support benefits for children and people with insufficient income.
The calculation of the Citizen's Income does not only include the lump sums for subsistence, accommodation and heating,
but also lump sums for compensation for disadvantages due to inability to work or pregnancy
and for additional requirements for training
and for special, frequently occurring disabilities and illnesses.
The citizen's income is combined with the tax system to form a tax-and-transfer system of one piece: The citizen's income is offset against the tax.
As a result, high-income earners pay taxes to the tax office, while lower-income earners and people with no income receive Citizen's Income as a negative income tax.
Only one authority is responsible: the tax office.
The complex welfare state will thus be radically simplified, bureaucracy reduced and administration made more cost-efficient.
For the citizen, a simple, understandable and thus fair social system is created.
His contact persons are reduced to a minimum, multiple declarations of income and assets to various offices are eliminated.
This is an important contribution to reducing bureaucracy
and protecting data.
The person who works must receive noticeably more than the person who does not work.
If reasonable work is rejected, the basic benefit is reduced by 30%; if reasonable work is rejected again, it is reduced by a further 30%.
At the same time, additional earnings opportunities for the low income brackets are significantly improved compared to unemployment benefit II.
The citizen's income recipient who earns 600 euros is to be allowed to keep 40 cents of each euro over and above the basic tax-free amount.
The scheme should be designed in such a way that the recipient of the Citizen's Income always has a financial incentive to strive for a higher income.
This makes work worthwhile again, even in the low-wage sector, where pay oriented to productivity would not even secure the subsistence level.
Thus, the citizen's income is the decisive reform step to combat unemployment in the low-wage sector.
It has an activating effect by providing a smooth and rewarding transition to employment.
Half of all unemployed people have little or no qualifications.
For them, the citizen's income builds bridges to new employment.
At the same time, it creates transparency and is an important contribution to reducing bureaucracy.
As a first step toward the liberal citizen's income, the FDP wants to immediately improve the additional income possibilities for ALG II:
The FDP demands that, in addition to the basic tax-free allowance, 40% of additional earnings from gainful employment of up to 600 euros per month should remain exempt from deductions.
Secondly, any form of private pension provision must be protected in a similar way to the state-subsidized Riester pension.
The FDP demands that ALG II recipients no longer have to liquidate their life insurances and other private forms of old-age provision, but that these are treated on an equal footing with Riester pensions as exempt assets for old-age provision.
As long as the Liberal Citizen's Income has not been implemented, we demand that the regulations for marginal employment (mini-jobs) be extended to cover incomes of up to 600 euros.
This opens up the opportunity for many people to flexibly enter the labor market,
strengthens the low-wage sector
and reduces the rate of undeclared work.
The backbone of the German economy is the Mittelstand.
Good economic policy must be policy for the middle class.
After all, 99% of companies in Germany are SMEs.
These account for three-quarters of all jobs subject to social insurance contributions and over 80% of apprenticeships.
New jobs and apprenticeships are being created, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises.
The FDP is calling for an equal treatment law in favor of German SMEs that eliminates all legal discrimination against small and medium-sized companies compared to large companies in the interest of equal competition.
The best policy for SMEs as a job engine is a good regulatory policy.
That is why all subsidies and all competition-distorting regulations must be put to the test.
The number of statistics required must be significantly reduced.
In the case of survey, reporting and audit procedures that lead to the passing on of bureaucracy to companies, the time intervals should be increased, the threshold values should be raised according to size categories and the additional costs of medium-sized companies should be reimbursed compared to large companies.
We want to do more to combat the use of illegal workers.
In the interest of legal jobs, existing law must be consistently applied and enforced.
Of course, this also applies to the existing protection regulations on the way to a European Single Market.
We call for suitable measures to be taken to improve the willingness and ability to start a business.
Better teaching of economic and, in particular, entrepreneurial activities is needed in schools.
The programs for financial support of start-ups must be streamlined and de-bureaucratized.
Business founders shall be granted temporary exemption from temporarily waivable provisions of trade, administrative, labor, social, construction and insolvency law.
The German chamber system, which is based on the principle of compulsory membership, has been under discussion for years.
This chamber privilege needs to be justified again and again to politicians and the business community.
Even independent of the issue of compulsory membership, there is considerable need for reform in the chambers.
This applies, for example, to the demarcation of its tasks in the area of conflict between the public sector and private providers, its internal organization, its decision-making processes and its financial management.
The tourism sector is one of the most important service and growth industries with numerous jobs and apprenticeships.
The FDP will comprehensively improve the framework conditions for the medium-sized tourism industry.
Distortions of competition due to tax disadvantages, e.g. for the environmentally friendly means of transport coach, and disadvantages for the German hotel and catering industry due to different application of the reduced VAT rate in the member states of the European Union must be eliminated.
In addition to further liberalization of store opening hours and curfews in outdoor catering, we want to clear up rigidities in labor law that stand in the way of creating new jobs in the tourism industry.
In particular, individual restrictive provisions of the Youth Employment Protection Act must be made more flexible.
Social security is only possible with real reforms.
The social security systems are no longer efficient for all to see.
For this reason, and in order to reduce the far too high additional wage costs, which have the effect of a gigantic special tax on jobs in international competition, we want a fundamental, reliable reorganization of the social security systems.
We reject half-hearted repairs that only delay the increase in contributions but do not prevent it in the long term.
Citizens must be able to adapt to the changes and close gaps in provision through private provision.
The FDP proposes a change in the system for covering the risk of illness: private health insurance coverage with social security for all.
Every citizen is obliged to ensure a minimum level of benefits, the so-called standard benefits, in the event of illness.
He can fulfill the obligation to insure himself with an insurer of his choice.
He is free to design his insurance coverage as it suits his needs, e.g. with a high or low deductible, with different deductibles, with a very extensive catalog of benefits, with a completely free choice of doctors or the acceptance of certain restrictions.
Every citizen is entitled to be insured to the extent of the standard benefits at birth and when changing insurance, regardless of his or her state of health, without risk surcharges.
To ensure affordable coverage for all, every health insurance company must offer a flat rate with mandatory contracting that does not differentiate by age, gender, risk, or any other criteria.
Social equalization is no longer carried out in an uncoordinated manner and with partly unfair effects in the statutory health insurance system, but via the tax and transfer system based on uniform criteria of ability to pay and need.
A corresponding lump sum as part of the liberal citizen's income ensures that citizens who have little or no financial means can also take out health insurance.
Lump sums for children and costs related to pregnancy and maternity are also financed by taxpayers.
We are thus committed to a free, private insurance model based on the principles of competition among healthcare and insurance providers and social responsibility.
Functioning competition arises from patients' freedom of choice, private-law organization of the statutory health insurance funds, freedom of tariffs and flexible contract structures.
Sustainability is achieved by building up age-related provisions, which must not be lost if the insurer is changed.
Only in this way is it possible to change health insurers freely.
The FDP believes in freedom of choice instead of compulsory insurance,
a social market economy instead of a bureaucratic state economy,
Personal responsibility instead of paternalism.
For social long-term care insurance, we also call for a system change with a smooth transition to a sustainable and generation-appropriate long-term care insurance system.
In nursing care, too, the FDP's motto is: away from compulsory insurance and toward compulsory insurance.
Every citizen, with free choice of insurance and tariff, must cover a given level of benefits.
In addition, everyone should be motivated to expand their insurance coverage according to preference.
It must be possible to change insurance.
The FDP proposal for a smooth transition to a funded long-term care insurance system is linked to the build-up of age-related provisions.
In this way, the costs that an aging society will face can be absorbed.
At the same time, in contrast to the pay-as-you-go system, these costs are not shifted to future generations.
In a funded long-term care insurance system, there is also no longer any connection between the level of earned income and the individual insurance contribution.
This move away from wage-based financing of long-term care insurance makes it possible to finally break out of the vicious circle of high unemployment and rising contributions or record deficits - already amounting to 823 million euros in 2004.
Social compensation should be shifted from the insurance system to where it is more accurate: the tax and transfer system.
The contribution for the legally obligatory scope of insurance is included in the citizen's income model of the FDP as a lump sum.
As part of a fundamental reform, we want benefits to be made more dynamic, which means adjusting them to the general price level and cost trends in the care sector, taking greater account of the special care needs of dementia patients, and strengthening care in the home environment.
Only by dynamizing the benefits will it be possible to estimate the extent of additional individual provision - social long-term care insurance is and remains a partial insurance.
However, an expansion of services is only possible if funding is clarified at the same time.
We propose to allow the person in need of care and his or her relatives more freedom in the choice of care services.
In this way, greater account can be taken of individual nursing needs.
The FDP is also calling for a reduction in bureaucracy in the care sector.
The aim of all the measures to be taken here must be to give caregivers more time for the care and social support of the person in need of care and to ensure greater transparency about the quality of care services.
The FDP wants to keep the pension contribution rate at 19% in the long term and rejects the Red-Green plan to levy 22% pension contributions in the future.
Only the FDP's concept corresponds to a pension policy that is fair to all generations and economically compatible, because it does not burden the working and younger generations with excessive contributions.
The pay-as-you-go statutory pension insurance system will then only be able to provide basic security in the future due to the rising number of pensioners and the length of time they receive their pensions, while the number of contributors will decline at the same time.
The basic security provided by statutory pension insurance must therefore be supplemented to a greater extent than is currently the case by private and occupational pension schemes to secure living standards.
To promote individual retirement provision, we propose the introduction of an individual, inheritable retirement provision account in which company and private retirement provision are combined.
Then only one subsidy application must be submitted for all pension products.
At the same time, the retirement savings account can be taken along by the employee when changing jobs.
It thus increases the flexibility of old-age provision and meets the needs of modern working biographies.
As a criterion for the eligibility of old-age provision, instead of the current complicated criteria, a practicable purpose for old-age provision should suffice, namely payment from the age of 60 and nominal value guarantee of the paid-in contributions.
Employees should be able to claim deferred compensation for the benefit of their individual retirement savings account beyond 2008.
In the future, child-rearing benefits are to be promoted more strongly in individual pension plans than in statutory pensions.
In line with rising life expectancy, working life must be better utilized.
That is why the FDP wants to lower the age at which people enter the workforce: through twelve years of schooling up to the Abitur, through the suspension of compulsory military service, through more flexible school enrollment and shorter training periods.
In addition, incentives for early retirement that burden social security systems must be abolished.
We call for all insured persons to be able to retire at the age of 60 with correspondingly higher deductions.
Those capable of working should be able to earn an unlimited amount of additional income.
From 45 years of average contributions, the pension is reached without deduction, regardless of age.
The proposed reforms also have implications for the shadow economy.
As long as the gap between gross and net income continues to widen, the incentive for undeclared work will remain high.
The introduction of a citizen's income and an effective reduction in taxes and duties will tackle the problem of undeclared work at its roots.
Another important contribution to reducing non-wage labor costs is the reform of statutory accident insurance.
More work needs more competition.
More work is only possible with a market economy and competition.
The FDP therefore advocates the fight against monopolistic structures and a policy of market opening.
We want reforms in the goods and services markets.
Competition is the key driver of dynamic economic development and thus of innovation and investment.
We need further liberalization and more competition in the so-called network industries (telecommunications, postal services, railroads, energy, water)
as well as the completion of the European Single Market also in the services markets.
In particular, the successful market opening of the telecommunications sector has shown that competition and a market economy, in contrast to state monopolies, lead to better quality services, ensure falling prices, accelerate innovations and create new future-oriented jobs.
That is why the FDP is calling for the immediate abolition of the mail monopoly.
If the Energy Industry Act that has come into force does not sufficiently guarantee competition on the electricity and gas markets, the possibility of unbundling the energy sector must be considered.
As the world's leading exporter, Germany benefits from larger and more open markets.
We must meet necessary adjustment processes with reforms in the tax system, social security and the labor market.
We reject minimum wages in whatever form they are set.
They do not solve the labor market problems, but exacerbate them.
Jobs are relocated abroad or migrate to undeclared work.
Minimum wages tend to lead to higher prices and thus weaken purchasing power.
As a result, this means further demand shortfalls, which in turn prevent the creation of new jobs.
We advocate further liberalization of store opening hours.
The federal states must be allowed to regulate store closing times on working days on their own responsibility and to release store opening hours.
The labor market must become a market again.
More work needs the courage to go against the influence of blocking lobbyists and vested interests.
The FDP wants to break up the collective bargaining cartel and enable company alliances for work.
We rely on employee self-determination in the companies
instead of external control by trade union officials.
Their power has grown steadily.
Together with the employers' associations, they secure their associational power with regional collective agreements.
Close-to-operating, customized solutions are often enough prevented.
This costs jobs in Germany.
We believe in cooperation between employees and management based on partnership.
In many cases, this has had a constructive effect on the ability to adapt corporate policy to the requirements of competition and thus safeguard jobs.
What is good for operations and job retention is best known by the employees themselves.
The FDP wants competition between centralized contracts of officials and decentralized local solutions.
If 75% of all employees in a company or the works council vote in favor of a deviation from collectively agreed regulations, this deviation must be possible - and without the functionaries being able to prevent such a company agreement.
The legal opening of the regional collective agreement, the legalization of company alliances for work and the abolition of the declaration of general applicability would finally subject collective agreements to competition.
In Germany, protection against arbitrary termination is governed by the German Civil Code.
The special protection against dismissal that goes beyond this is an obstacle to recruitment and at the same time fails to fulfill its social protection function, since it only leads to a large number of labor court proceedings, which as a rule do not save the job but end up in severance settlements anyway.
Small companies in particular shy away from new hires because they fear the complicated employment protection legislation.
The Dismissal Protection Act should therefore only apply to companies with more than 50 employees and should not come into effect until four years after the employment relationship has begun.
Employees must be given more leeway as to what form of protection against dismissal they want.
Employees and employers are to be able to agree on a severance payment or the financing of a further training measure instead of protection against dismissal in the event of termination for operational reasons.
We want company co-determination that is friendly to small and medium-sized enterprises.
The expansion by Red-Green brought additional bureaucracy, additional organizational effort and thus additional costs of at least 1.3 billion euros for German companies.
International investors are deterred.
Small and medium-sized enterprises are overburdened.
Their advantages - short, flexible decision-making channels - were eliminated by the excessive legalization of relations between management, workforce and works council.
We believe that it only makes sense to establish a works council in companies with 20 or more employees (currently five employees).
For the works council election to be valid, a quorum of more than 50% of the employees entitled to vote must be met.
The number of members on the works council is to be reduced.
The exemption of works council members only starts in companies with more than 500 employees (today 200 employees) with one exempted works council member.
Co-determination in corporate groups also needs to be reformed.
We advocate that the employees in the companies exclusively determine their own representatives in the supervisory bodies.
That is why the trade union privilege in the Codetermination Act must be dropped.
The legal obligation to appoint a trade union official as a member of the supervisory board is an inappropriate external determination of the employees in the company.
Parity co-determination in large companies is increasingly proving to be a disadvantage for Germany as a business location.
Today, almost all important management board decisions have to be made by consensus with the union representatives on the supervisory board.
This constellation systematically harbors the danger that corporate goals will be subordinated too strongly to trade union interests.
One-third parity, as already exists in most corporations with fewer than 2,000 employees, must replace parity co-determination.
In order to increase the efficiency and diligence of the Supervisory Board's work, the size of the Supervisory Boards is to be limited to a maximum of twelve members, and the number of Supervisory Board mandates per person is to be limited to five mandates.
Shareholders, as the owners of the companies, must be given more freedom to shape and influence the fate of the company.
Furthermore, a former Chairman of the Executive Board shall not be eligible for election as Chairman of the Supervisory Board for three years after leaving the Executive Board.
Overall, the work of the Supervisory Boards needs to be professionalized for more effective control of the Executive Board.
A code of honor for works councils should be developed in line with the principles of corporate governance for supervisory boards and management boards.
We want to give the works council meeting the right to demand disclosure of the expenses paid to individual works council members.
The mediation and counseling of job seekers is to be fundamentally reformed according to the ideas of the FDP.
We want the Federal Employment Agency to be dissolved.
In 2004, the Federal Agency had just an 18% share of successful job placements - with 90,000 employees and a budget of 57.96 billion euros (twice the national budget of Switzerland).
It must be replaced by an efficient and citizen-oriented employment service.
The tasks of the Federal Employment Agency are therefore taken over by a performance- and customer-oriented insurance agency that pays wage replacement benefits, a small labor market agency for supraregional and international tasks, and the job centers run by local authorities.
The regional directorates (formerly state employment offices) will be abolished, as will the system of self-government.
Responsibility for active labor market policy must be transferred to the job centers to avoid duplicate government placement structures.
The federal government's responsibility is ensured by means of a financial contribution stipulated in the Basic Law.
To reduce non-wage labor costs, unemployment insurance, as a pure risk insurance, should be exempted from all non-insurance benefits.
Job creation measures, further training or early retirement programs may no longer be financed by contributions.
The outsourcing amount must be abolished.
Then the contribution rate can drop by two percentage points.
The employer's contribution to unemployment insurance must be paid to the employee.
The latter should then be able to determine for themselves the extent to which they wish to insure themselves against the risk of unemployment.
To this end, there must be elective tariffs in unemployment insurance.
Unemployment benefits should be targeted to provide clear economic incentives for returning to work and for personal responsibility.
For this reason, the entitlement period for unemployment benefits in the basic tariff is set at twelve months.
The time has come for a radical reduction in bureaucracy.
Germany is drowning in bureaucracy, with laws, ordinances and administrative regulations regulating everything down to the last detail.
More than 90,000 individual regulations ensure that the overview is lacking in many situations.
According to estimates by the Institute for SME Research, this results in bureaucratic costs of around 46 billion euros per year for the economy, which are also passed on to citizens via products and services.
Thus, bureaucracy not only causes costs for the economy, but also directly for the citizens.
The FDP calls for new laws to be reviewed as a matter of principle to see whether they can be limited in time and given an expiration date.
In the case of laws without a time limit, it must be determined after five years whether their continued existence is necessary.
New federal statutory ordinances and administrative regulations are generally to be limited to five years and thus provided with an expiration date.
A law rectification bill must be submitted annually to repeal parts or all of existing laws and legal ordinances that are no longer necessary.
Even during the legislative process, laws and ordinances must be checked in advance to ensure that they are as simple and citizen-friendly as possible to implement.
In a bureaucracy cost TÜV, the administrative burdens for companies and consumers resulting from new laws and regulations are determined.
Thus, right from the start, a bureaucratic cost assessment will lead to certain regulations not being adopted in the first place.
We want to keep permit requirements to a minimum.
In principle, the notification procedure is to be given preference over the approval procedure.
If an authority does not issue a decision on an application within a certain period of time, the application is considered approved.
The Planning Acceleration Act must be introduced as quickly as possible for the whole of Germany.
This means that important infrastructure projects in particular can be implemented more quickly.
We want state opening clauses that make it possible to temporarily suspend federal regulations in construction, collective bargaining and labor law in order to create model regions.
We want a fast, efficient and transparent administration that puts communication between the state and its citizens on a new, partnership-based level.
Via e-government portals, citizens at every administrative level must be able to carry out as many administrative processes as possible easily on the Internet.
Eastern Germany continues to need solidarity-based assistance.
The FDP is committed to the reconstruction of the East and to all-German solidarity.
We stand by the constitutional mandate to open up equal opportunities for life throughout Germany and want to ensure that all Germany's citizens have a future through a growth-oriented economic policy.
What is needed is a coherent and fundamental reform concept such as the one presented by the FDP in this program.
Mass unemployment can only be effectively combated through a fundamental improvement in the tax framework, a noticeable reduction in non-wage labor costs, greater flexibility in labor and collective bargaining law, and comprehensive deregulation and debureaucratization.
In addition to the necessary improvement of the overall economic situation, an overall concept for the reorientation of Reconstruction East must also take sufficient account of the specific location factors and the existing competitive advantages of eastern Germany.
To ensure that these come to fruition and lead to sustainable economic growth and thus job creation, we call on the federal government and the new Länder to take the following measures:
Model regions should be created in eastern Germany in particular.
Funding policy must be reorganized:
away from the "watering can principle" and toward the targeted allocation of funds.
Funding is to be concentrated on commercial investments and, in particular, on business-related research and development.
In the context of infrastructure development and expansion, the German Unity transport projects must remain a priority.
We stand by the Solidarity Pact II that has been agreed.
However, we will ensure that the funds are used primarily for investments.
Sustainable spending cuts are the task of sound budgetary policy.
The FDP is committed to consistent consolidation of public budgets at all levels of government.
Today's debt is tomorrow's tax increases.
They place a burden on future generations.
Restoring budgets cannot be about revenue enhancement through tax increases.
In more than 400 motions on the 2005 federal budget, the FDP parliamentary group has made savings proposals totaling 12.5 billion euros.
This shows that the record level of new debt can be stopped through sustained consolidation and reform, and that the federal budget can meet the requirements of both the Basic Law and the Maastricht Treaty.
Instead of softening the Maastricht criteria, we want to enshrine them in the Basic Law.
By returning the state to its core tasks, we want to reduce the state's far too high ratio of 47% today to below 40% in the long term.
The privatization of federal holdings must be consistently pursued.
Even after the permanent sell-off by the Red-Green federal government, the federal government still holds stakes in 421 companies, according to the latest report on shareholdings (2004).
Priority should be given to privatizing companies that compete with the private sector.
Publicly owned properties must also be reduced.
Furthermore, political influence in the banking sector must be reduced.
This increases the opportunities for Germany as a banking location.
The proceeds of privatization are to be allocated primarily to the repayment of existing debt.
The FDP demands a general linear subsidy reduction of 20%.
The German government's current subsidy report (2003) shows subsidies amounting to EUR 58.7 billion.
According to other definitions of the term subsidy, these government payments amount to around EUR 150 billion.
This must be remedied by a Subsidy Limitation Act:
In the future, subsidies may only be granted on a degressive basis and for a limited period of time.
A new edition can only be considered after parliamentary approval.
We want to end coal subsidies.
More than 50% of the demand for hard coal is covered by imports.
This is the cheaper alternative.
The extraction of domestic hard coal is about three times as expensive.
Each job in the coal industry is subsidized to the tune of around 60,000 euros.
Immediately after assuming government responsibility, we want to hold a coal conference with stakeholders to define the conditions for phasing out subsidies.
In connection with the dismantling of coal subsidies, we are campaigning for an amendment to the Federal Mining Act.
In particular, approval procedures must also take into account the concerns of citizens who are affected by mining damage that occurs.
The rights of surface owners must be strengthened.
Only a broad energy mix can secure the supply.
Global energy demand is rising significantly.
Particularly against the background of the ambitious international and national climate protection targets supported by the FDP, the agreed departure from nuclear energy is the wrong way to go.
For as long as the central question remains unanswered as to how nuclear energy can be dispensed with in the long term without placing an additional burden on the atmosphere through the increased use of fossil fuels, the intended phase-out of nuclear energy cannot be justified.
It is already clear today that even beyond the arbitrarily shortened operating life of the 18 existing nuclear power plants in Germany to 32 years, we need this option of power generation as an important component of the energy mix.
The continued use of nuclear energy cannot be viewed in isolation from issues of waste disposal, reactor safety, climate problems and long-term security of supply.
It therefore remains necessary to keep the option open for the future use of nuclear energy and, in particular, to continue research and development also in the field of nuclear fusion.
In general, nuclear power plant lifetimes should not be decided on the basis of political ideology, but primarily according to the requirements of safety engineering, climate protection and business management.
The use of renewable energies must be further promoted because they are future technologies for a sustainable energy supply.
For reasons of climate protection and a reduction in dependence on other energy sources, renewable energies must play an important role in the future energy mix.
At the national level, a sustainable overall concept for the promotion of renewable energies must be presented for new plants to be built.
The technical advancement of storage technology opens up a great future opportunity for renewables by making them base-load capable.
Until a use of renewable energies based purely on energy storage can be realized, the Renewable Energies Act must be replaced by a model of market-based promotion through quantity control.
The market and competition must also take hold again in the energy sector.
Instead of regulation and state paternalism, the opening and deregulation of the energy markets must be accelerated in the interest of economic efficiency gains, customer orientation and diversity of players.
This requires a political framework that safeguards and strengthens competition.
The current selective limitation of the promotion of renewable energies to the electricity sector completely ignores the potential of the heating market.
The share of renewable energies in the heating market is accordingly marginal, although the heating market is particularly attractive for the use of renewable energies due to its decentralized structure.
Moreover, heat can be stored comparatively well or in relatively inexpensive processes compared to electric power.
By linking measures to use renewable energies in the building sector and measures to improve energy efficiency with the modern instruments of climate policy, namely emissions certificate trading, it is ensured that as much CO2 as possible is avoided per euro invested.
People are increasingly asking whether a climate catastrophe is imminent and how politicians are responding to this.
For us, the answer lies in a joint, international approach to climate protection.
Looking beyond 2012, we are calling for a 30% reduction in CO2 emissions across Europe by 2020 compared with 1990 levels.
At the European level, efforts must be made to ensure fair burden sharing.
To achieve the climate protection targets, we advocate the use of all flexible market-based instruments of the Kyoto Protocol (e.g. emissions trading) as well as the use of CO2 sinks (e.g. afforestation).
This can open up great potential for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
At the same time, the use of these instruments brings considerable cost reduction potential for climate protection - also in Germany.
Because it is possible to save significantly more greenhouse gas emissions per euro invested in sunny countries via photovoltaic systems, for example, than in Germany, this would make sense in terms of climate policy.
We also advocate opening up the possibility for domestic investors to carry out joint-implementation projects in their own countries with sectors not participating in emissions trading.
This would make ecological and economic sense, because for every euro invested, for example in the refurbishment of old buildings, considerably more greenhouse gas emissions could be saved than by optimizing the German industrial plant fleet, which is already efficient by international standards.
The farmer must become an entrepreneur again.
The domestic food and agricultural industries provide a significant number of jobs and apprenticeships in Germany.
As an entrepreneurial agriculture, agriculture is a successful, innovative and performance-oriented industry.
It is of central importance for Germany as a prosperous business and research location.
The FDP wants to significantly improve the framework conditions for Germany as an agricultural and food location with its several million jobs and stop and correct ideological misguided developments, such as the so-called agricultural turnaround.
Contrary to the target of 20% organic farming by 2010, organic farming is currently practiced on about 4.1% of the agricultural land.
The market share of organic products in retail is even only 2.6%.
The agricultural turnaround has thus failed.
We counter this planned economy with the image of the entrepreneurial farmer.
Farmers need to be freed from bureaucratic restraints and market regulations and made entrepreneurs again.
They must have the chance to earn the essential part of their income on the market, regardless of whether they want to realize this with so-called conventional cultivation or organic farming.
In the future, European agricultural policy must be more strongly oriented to the principles of the social market economy and sustainability.
The property rights of agricultural entrepreneurs must be strengthened.
Under the FDP's new agricultural concept, support for agriculture will gradually be made product-independent.
The various subsidies will be combined into a single area-based subsidy:
In the future, farmers are to receive a cultural landscape premium for their services in maintaining and preserving our cultural landscape.
In return, the previous bureaucratic market regulations will gradually be abolished.
We need a breath of fresh air in agricultural and consumer policy:
more social market economy instead of state intervention,
individual responsibility instead of patronizing consumers and companies,
less bureaucracy instead of more and more regulations,
market opening instead of isolation
and professionalism instead of ideology.
In addition to statutory consumer protection, we are increasingly relying on our own initiative, competition and market liberalization.
The course taken by the federal government of one-sided political control of consumption must be ended.
It leads to the paternalism of consumers and additional bureaucratization of economic life.
Companies will be burdened with further costs as a result.
The FDP rejects dirigiste intervention by the state in market activities, such as advertising bans.
Voluntary commitments by industry are to be welcomed.
A prerequisite for effective consumer protection is that a wide range of information is available.
Excessive bureaucracy paralyzes the entrepreneurial farmer.
That is why there is no way around a radical reduction in bureaucracy.
The EU agricultural reform, which was transposed into national law this year, must be reviewed and corrected with the aim of achieving significant simplification.
We want to stop and correct the many national special paths in consumer, animal and environmental protection.
All additional requirements that go beyond a 1:1 implementation of EU law will be put to the test.
While the destruction of forests continues in various regions of the world, the forest area and the wood supply in Germany have increased continuously in recent years.
Germany's private and corporate forests, which have been sustainably managed over many generations with a broad distribution of ownership, provide important services in nature conservation and climate protection.
The FDP is committed to increasing the use of wood as a renewable resource.
We support the Charter for Timber and will eliminate unnecessary regulations that inhibit competition and simplify permitting procedures.
As a result, around 60,000 medium-sized companies in the timber industry with around 600,000 jobs in Germany will be safeguarded and new jobs can be created.
We explicitly recognize the successful achievements of hunters in maintaining flora and fauna.
We are building on the successful animal protection policy pursued by the Liberals in previous legislative periods.
In the necessary reorganization of European chemicals legislation, we want to push through a reduction in the number of animal tests by increasing the use of alternative methods.
We want to cut funding for public relations work, subsidies to promote model and demonstration projects, the federal organic farming program, etc.
Cuts in the organic budget alone could save far more than 100 million euros, without any disadvantages for environmental, animal and consumer protection or for organic farmers.
Freedom needs mobility.
Mobility is a basic need in our society and indispensable for freedom and prosperity.
At the same time, it is the prerequisite for individual quality of life and economic growth.
In a constantly changing and increasingly networked world, mobility has become an indispensable guiding principle.
We oppose the imposition of constraints on the choice of transport and prohibitive increases in the cost of transport.
We want fair competitive conditions between the modes of transport, which are interlinked with their specific advantages to form an overall system.
An efficient transport infrastructure is the backbone of our economy and of Germany as a logistics location.
For years, however, far too little has been invested.
The task of the state is to provide the transport routes.
In addition, it must create the necessary regulatory framework for competition.
Planning, construction and operation of the transport infrastructure, however, can be done better and more efficiently by the private sector.
Where true privatization is not possible, the FDP wants efficiency gains through more public-private partnership models, i.e., cooperation between the public and private sectors.
Our infrastructure policy is based on the realities of the transport market, not on pipe dreams:
roads are and will remain the main mode of transport, currently accounting for over 90% of passenger traffic and over 70% of freight traffic.
This must be taken into account when distributing investment funds.
In the case of rail, we need to return to the strategy and instruments of rail reform.
We want a competitive rail transport industry.
The prerequisite for this is the separation of network and operations at Deutsche Bahn.
This is the basis for the privatization of DB's transport divisions.
As a stock corporation, the network will initially remain majority-owned by the federal government and will be positioned as an active, neutral, European train path marketer.
Waterways and airports must no longer be hampered by arbitrary expansion stops, but need secure legal foundations for their development with appropriate consideration of environmental protection concerns.
Specifically, the Liberals want a Waterways Expansion Act in which a demand plan for maintenance, new construction and expansion measures is drawn up.
Safe planning conditions in aviation will be ensured by a nationwide airport concept and a new Aircraft Noise Act, in which in particular a consistent ban on residential construction in the vicinity of airports will be anchored for preventive conflict avoidance.
The FDP rejects permanent subsidies to airports or airlines.
The maritime industry is of central importance to an export nation like Germany.
We will achieve more ships under the German flag by improving local conditions; the
principle of tonnage taxation will remain.
We want to improve coastal protection by establishing a national coast guard.
The reform of local public transport (ÖPNV) is an important concern for us.
We are committed to the necessity of subsidizing public transport.
However, it must be ensured that these grants are used efficiently.
The prerequisite for this is the clear separation of the political task-bearer and the local transport service provider, the consistent implementation of the purchaser principle and the reorganization of financing in a local public transport law.
Tender competition must become the norm in the allocation of funding.
The batch sizes must be selected in such a way that medium-sized suppliers can also benefit.
At the same time, the privatization of public transport companies must be pushed forward.
In Europe, the FDP will ensure that German interests are brought to bear earlier and more forcefully than before.
Distortions of competition to the detriment of German companies must be eliminated through uniform European regulations.
We want to strengthen Germany as a logistics location; this includes reducing the competitive disadvantages for the German road haulage industry (enforcement of the mineral oil tax credit procedure) and for German inland shipping (implementation of the Planco recommendations).
3. more FDP for more education and innovation
Education is primarily the development of the personality of the growing person.
It is intended to promote his talents, abilities and skills and to enable him to participate in professional life and society.
The civil right to education wants the optimal promotion of every talent at all stages of life.
In international competition, Germany only has a chance of creating well-paid jobs in the long term if we develop new ideas, transfer them into technological practice and turn them into competitive products.
Germany can remain a high-wage country with its good natural location conditions and with citizens who are willing to perform:
High wages are accompanied by high productivity through innovation.
Only then can our high level of income, health services, social security and general prosperity be maintained.
The prerequisites for this are an outstanding education system from early childhood education through schools, vocational training and universities to adult education and lifelong learning,
excellent conditions for science and research,
consistent inclusion of the skills and potential of women in business, science and politics,
and a great capacity for innovation in society.
Only through innovation for technical and business-organizational progress can new sectors of the economy develop in which new, competitive jobs can be created in the long term.
However, this also includes a policy that wins citizens over to the new through regulatory frameworks and openness to progress, responds to people's concerns and helps to reduce fears.
The opposite of this is hostility to progress and restrictive legislation.
Both have massively hampered the development of high-growth fields of the future, such as biotechnology, genetic engineering and medical technology.
This is one reason why Germany's great growth potential in such future fields has been so poorly exploited for well-paid and competitive jobs.
Bright minds are our country's most important resource.
Education and science must return to the forefront.
Our educational institutions must foster curiosity and creativity, encourage motivation and initiative, strengthen team spirit and impart a positive understanding of the basic conditions of the market economy and the opportunities offered by modern technologies.
Only with well-trained people can we move Germany forward again.
We want to improve the quality of the German education system by having individual educational institutions compete to provide the best education.
This only works if they are given more autonomy, more creative freedom.
They need the right of self-government, greater staff autonomy, and pedagogical and financial autonomy.
Uniform quality standards and control by independent agencies, which are run as foundations or limited liability companies, guarantee the high level of training.
The agencies verify and certify the quality of the services.
The educational institutions undergo a transparent evaluation process at regular intervals.
This must apply to schools as well as colleges.
The elementary sector of education must be strengthened with priority.
Early childhood education is the decisive factor for equal opportunities at the start.
Fair opportunities are a basic prerequisite for giving children from all social backgrounds a better future.
Every child must be able to follow lessons when entering elementary school.
Compulsory language tests must already take place at the beginning of the fourth year of life in order to reduce deficits by the time children start school.
In order to make all children ready for school, a mandatory offer should be made in the year before they start school.
With playful but goal-oriented methods appropriate to the children, the aim is to promote language and numerical comprehension, and to develop the children's social skills, musicality and creativity.
Furthermore, language deficits should be compensated for, especially in the case of children with a migration background, in order to maintain equal opportunities.
In the "start class", however, special talents are also to be recognized and promoted.
To ensure pedagogical standards in kindergarten, a reform of educator training and a high-quality continuing education program are needed.
The FDP demands the earliest possible entry of a child into school education from the completed fifth year of life.
Children's willingness to learn and thirst for knowledge must be stimulated and utilized as early as possible in a supportive school
Elementary school must be significantly strengthened.
Foreign language lessons should become a fixed part of the curriculum from the first grade onwards.
Math and science instruction needs more emphasis.
Technology and business must be included in the curriculum of all types of schools.
The teaching of media skills must also be on the timetable as early as possible.
We want a comprehensive range of all-day schools with their own pedagogical concept.
Remedial teaching, support of parents through homework supervision, development of creative and motor skills of children and adolescents are central tasks.
In doing so, the schools are to cooperate with suitable clubs, associations, private initiatives and institutions.
The standard period of schooling up to the Abitur must be shortened to twelve years in all German states.
Germany's universities need autonomy and better funding to get back to the international top.
Autonomy and far better resources are needed: for personnel decisions, organizational structures, and budgets for teaching and research, including the translation of good ideas into competitive products.
In this way, the universities can also develop their own independent profile in research and teaching in order to offer students a more attractive education and training program
able to compete for top positions in research.
Institutions of higher education must also have the freedom to charge tuition fees to enhance their instructional offerings.
If students pay for education, they can demand good performance.
We want to abolish the Central Allocation Office for Study Places (ZVS) so that students can choose their university themselves and thus gain real power to demand.
If the universities also have the right to select their students themselves and if it is financially rewarded when a university has many students, competition will finally get underway in the higher education sector and the quality of teaching will increase.
It goes without saying that no one should be prevented from studying for financial reasons.
Students must have the option of paying tuition "downstream" - after graduation, depending on their own economic means - regardless of their parents' income.
In addition, a scholarship and loan system must be established.
Basic subsistence support for students must also not be called into question.
It is guaranteed by the Liberal Citizen's Income.
The path to higher education must be open to every young person who is suitable for it.
Germany needs equal value for academic and vocational education.
We will vigorously tackle the reform of vocational training and the removal of barriers to training.
The way to achieve this goal is to make our vocational training system more flexible and deregulate it while maintaining the high quality of dual training.
Companies must be given more leeway in setting training priorities.
Where possible, training is to be provided in stages and vocational training of only two years is also to be offered.
This consistent modularization gives young people the opportunity to acquire only partial qualifications and have them confirmed in a training passport.
Further qualification steps are possible within the framework of continuing professional development.
Each level opens up a path to professional life.
Modularization of the entire education system is also important to achieve a better balance between education and family responsibilities.
In our aging society, the potential and knowledge of adults must be used, refreshed and renewed in a very special way.
Further training, retraining, post-qualification and re-qualification after family phases, but also general further training to stabilize motivation and key qualifications are becoming increasingly important.
Good continuing education is so important for well-paid and secure jobs that it must be offered on a market for continuing education that must be open to all companies, without privileges for continuing education companies affiliated with unions or employer associations.
New financing instruments, such as education savings, education vouchers or learning accounts, must be developed.
Freedom needs research.
Germany is still a good research location with excellent scientists.
But other nations have caught up and our country has fallen behind due to wrong political decisions and low funding of universities and research institutions.
Innovations require a social environment that not only promotes them, but also accepts them.
Research is always a departure into the unknown.
We stand for the freedom of research in the service of mankind.
People who have cancer, Parkinson's disease, diabetes or multiple sclerosis have high expectations of medical research.
Health research and, in particular, molecular medicine must be given greater support.
This applies in particular to embryonic stem cell research, which is required by an ethic of healing.
Unlike in neighboring European countries such as France or the United Kingdom, German researchers must limit themselves to stem cells, which will not enable therapeutic use.
Our researchers are hindered in their freedom by the legislation of Red-Green, supported by parts of the Union.
Every second stem cell researcher is already considering moving abroad.
Without a change in German stem cell legislation, we will miss opportunities for our country and for thousands of patients.
Therefore, the FDP demands the deletion of the cut-off date in the Stem Cell Import Act and a stop to the criminalization of German scientists working with embryonic stem cells abroad.
We want to permit therapeutic cloning, which can be used to grow cells for heart muscle, liver or kidneys, for example, under strict conditions.
To this end, the Embryo Protection Act must be amended.
Germany was once the "pharmacy of the world".
In the meantime, much of the pharmaceutical research has migrated abroad.
We must improve the framework conditions for pharmaceutical research in Germany.
European directives must not be made additionally stricter by national legislation.
This imposes locational disadvantages on research-based companies.
We see great opportunities for Germany in medical technology.
"Health - Made in Germany" could become a new buzzword.
Without green genetic engineering, we will not be able to participate in the further breeding of our crops.
Resistance to harmful organisms, improvements in the ingredients of cultivated plants for use as renewable raw materials, cost-effective drug production in plants are concrete benefits for humans and the environment.
We want to amend the Genetic Engineering Act to enable the creation of value from research results and further research in Germany.
The FDP rejects research bans for projects that have already been approved.
We will not be able to meet the growing demand for energy without a holistic approach to energy research that starts with ambitious basic research (e.g., fusion research with Wendelstein 7-X in Germany and ITER in Europe), promotes cutting-edge research for modern power plant technologies (e.g., efficiency enhancement and CO2 capture), and strengthens nuclear safety research.
Energy research must not be geared to ideologies, but to energy efficiency and the economical use of scarce resources.
Without nanotechnology, we will not have advanced materials, paints and coatings that reduce costs, perform better and consume fewer resources.
Similarly, biotechnology and nanotechnology can help us to manufacture drugs individually and deliver them in tiny doses to the source of disease with pinpoint accuracy and without side effects.
The nano-competence networks must be strengthened and given an international orientation.
The promotion of nanotechnology must focus primarily on product development.
Information technology is a cross-cutting technology that serves as a research and competitive accelerator.
It is therefore important to promote them and to use newer developments in which Germany is a leader, such as radio frequency identification or broadband technology, for the benefit of business and consumers.
Data protection must be maintained in the process.
Germany is increasingly developing into a service society.
The service sector now accounts for a good 70% of gross value added.
Research in this area is underfunded.
It must be strengthened and developed as an independent discipline.
By international comparison, Germany spends too little on research and development (R&D).
By 2010, 3% of the gross domestic product is to be invested in R&D.
Today, it is only 2.5%; many billions are missing.
In leading research nations, in addition to the actual project funding, the universities are provided with a so-called "overhead" by the third-party funders to finance the technical facilities of the research institutes on a pro-rata basis.
This must also be possible in Germany.
We must succeed in making Germany so attractive as a location for science that we can attract top researchers from abroad and retain our scientists.
We advocate a collective agreement for science that takes into account the special conditions in science and research.
Top scientists will only work in Germany if they find excellent conditions at universities and research institutions.
In addition to reliable funding, this includes relief from administrative tasks, but also the security of being able to quickly and unbureaucratically convert research results into products, apply them, patent them and publish them.
We want to usher in a new "Decade of Research, Creation and Innovation" starting in 2006.
We do not focus on short-term show effects, but on long-term, consistent, interdepartmental support for science and research.
Research and development will be core topics of a federal government with FDP participation.
The FDP stands for more intergenerational justice.
Future generations also have a right to fair life opportunities in environmental, economic, financial and social terms.
Politics must once again be more long-term in nature.
It must therefore not be oriented to the duration of election periods, but needs perspectives of decades.
We support an interdepartmental and indicator-based National Sustainability Strategy so that intergenerational justice is not only demanded in Sunday speeches but also verifiably translated into real policies.
The German Bundestag must be actively involved in the further development of the strategy.
To this end, the institutional parliamentary anchoring of work on sustainable development must be continued.
The scope for action and the international networking of a corresponding body must be improved.
We also call for regular official generational balance sheets for Germany.
This is intended to create a better awareness of the legitimate concerns of future generations and to provide policymakers with a benchmark for the impact of political measures.
In the generational balance sheet, benefits for future generations - such as spending on education, infrastructure and social security - are shown on the credit side, while burdens such as government debt, pension burdens and obligations under intergenerational agreements are shown on the debit side.
In legislation, any law that results in present or future government or social security expenditures must be subjected to an intergenerational impact assessment.
This should be based as far as possible on the criteria and structures of generational accounting.
Nature is one of the prerequisites of our life.
A key question is which human impacts on nature are tolerable and which must be prevented.
Nature conservation measures must be scientifically justified and seriously tested for their effectiveness.
Nature conservation that is committed to people wants to promote the experience of nature and avoid the exclusion of people.
Nature conservation must not be misused as a cover for paternalism.
Wherever species and nature conservation requires the maintenance of cultural landscapes, contract conservation is most appropriate.
Nature conservation is a responsibility of society as a whole, which must be financed through tax revenues and not demanded from landowners without compensation.
The FDP advocates binding environmental standards throughout Europe.
We are against a sprawling and pointless European eco-bureaucracy imposed on the member states.
The principle of subsidiarity must also be consistently observed in the area of environmental policy.
We stand for an environmental policy that focuses on people.
To achieve the best results, however, environmental protection also requires modern market-based methods.
The FDP will reconcile the market and the environment.
Protecting the environment is one of the indispensable goals of a social market economy.
Order in freedom is the best contribution to the economical use of scarce resources.
An economic system that destroys its natural foundations of life is not sustainable.
Freedom in a destroyed environment - such freedom leads itself ad absurdum.
The ecological dimension is therefore always a value and future component of a liberal market economy:
ecology is long-term economics.
This is why long-term thinking is required of policymakers, especially in the area of environmental precaution.
People need natural resources - intact nature and biodiversity, environmentally compatible and at the same time secure energy for the future, and a policy that takes climate change seriously.
The FDP supports the aim of the draft European REACH regulation to improve safety for people and the environment when handling chemicals and
at the same time to maintain and promote the competitiveness and innovative capacity of the European chemical industry.
Despite changes in detail, the draft regulation is still not capable of efficiently achieving its own goals.
Information and testing requirements should be based on exposures and risks and not - as in the draft regulation - on quantities.
In this way, a high level of protection for human health and the environment can be achieved without red tape.
In the form of waste separation currently practiced by consumers in Germany, fewer recyclables are used than would be possible and sensible.
Recent project studies have shown that more recyclable materials can be recovered via joint collection of waste (gray and yellow garbage cans) and mechanical separation of mixtures of packaging and residual waste by automated equipment than is currently done by means of separate collection.
Separate collection of biowaste, paper, cardboard, cardboard and glass, as well as particularly problematic waste, is still necessary.
We want to relieve citizens of unnecessary sorting work as well as financially.
The Packaging Ordinance must be completely revised.
The bureaucratic and expensive regulation by the compulsory deposit is rejected by the FDP.
A modern environmental policy is convinced that it is governmental presumption to tell people what to do and what not to do in all areas.
We need to break away from old ideologies.
Postulates that have solidified into dogmas over the decades must be reviewed over and over again.
If we want to achieve something for the protection of the environment, we have to replace production and living methods whose threatening consequences become clear to us.
For this, however, we need technologies for the renewal and improvement of all production possibilities, in short, maximum performance capability.
The FDP advocates the responsible use of green genetic engineering in agriculture.
The potentials of green genetic engineering are manifold.
They affect many areas of life and offer benefits for consumers, the environment and agriculture:
reducing environmental pollution,
improving food,
optimizing renewable raw materials.
We will correct the genetic engineering law in an innovation-friendly way.
This applies primarily to the impractical regulations for liability and the unintentional placing on the market of genetically modified plants.
The FDP is committed to improving the framework conditions for the research, development and use of renewable raw materials.
Close cooperation between science and industry should be sought.
The development of renewable raw materials for industrial applications with the aid of green genetic engineering must be developed into a funding priority.
The targets agreed within the framework of the European Union for the share of renewable energies in total fuel consumption must be met in Germany.
4. more FDP for more civil rights, trust and participation
Fundamental rights ensure individual self-determination and social autonomy.
They are realized through sensible legislation, civic self-government and social participation.
Liberals want a state that draws its strength from the trust of its citizens.
For liberals, the state is not the guardian of citizens, but their instrument for securing an open civil society.
The task of the liberal rule of law is clear.
It must protect the freedom and property of citizens, no more and no less.
Liberals do not want the state to give up these protective functions, but they do want state activity to have limits.
Breaches of the law must be dealt with appropriately and firmly.
But it would be the victory of the enemies of freedom if liberal civil society were to abandon its libertarianism in the face of them.
The foundation of liberal civil society is the rule of law.
Liberal civil society thrives on relationships of trust.
For individual freedom also means the willingness to assume co-responsibility for others, by the individual citizen, by the voluntary cooperation of citizens, by assuming honorary offices within and outside politics.
Responsibility is the ethical foundation of liberal civil society.
Liberal civil society demands and promotes the assumption of responsibility by the individual.
The free economic activity of citizens must not be subjected to complete surveillance by the state.
We will therefore restore banking secrecy.
Its de facto abolition on April 1, 2005 is a state snooping authorization:
Authorities can find out about anyone's bank account at any time.
In addition to the name of the account holder, they also find out his or her date of birth, all account numbers, securities accounts, and opening and closing dates.
This deep intervention does not even require judicial authorization or approval from the head of the authority.
An initial suspicion of a criminal offense is also not required.
Neither the authorities that may query accounts nor the purpose of the query is defined.
This places all citizens under general suspicion of tax evasion and means mass, automated controls.
The rule of law, however, must rely on the presumption of innocence and limit itself to reasoned reviews.
We reject the tax identification number that is to be assigned to every newborn.
The number is to have lifelong validity and enable the tax offices to effortlessly compare their data with that of the registration offices and other agencies.
This is reminiscent of the personal identification number in the former GDR and the "Social Security Number" in the USA, which gives the authorities there almost unrestricted control options.
Not only the state is targeting citizens' data, but also private individuals.
The FDP will therefore continue to develop data protection, especially in the non-public sector:
the level of protection will be improved by extending and specifying the requirement for consent, data protection violations will be clearly punished, and data protection-compliant technology will be promoted.
Video surveillance, including by private individuals (e.g. at gas stations or in stores), urgently requires a legal basis.
For example, the storage period must be limited.
The state may not force the private monitor to release recordings in disregard of the regulations that apply to state video surveillance.
The consumer must not become a "transparent customer" who can be located and identified everywhere.
Data protection regulations must keep pace with the development of new surveillance technologies, such as radio frequency identification (RFID).
For us, one thing is clear: individuals must be able to decide independently to whom they disclose which personal data and for what purpose.
The same applies to the electronic health card.
It must not create the "transparent patient."
Which health data is recorded, which is deleted, and who has access to it is up to the patient to decide.
Clear legal limits must be set on genetic testing by employers or insurance companies.
No one may be discriminated against on the basis of their genetic makeup.
Citizens and the media need access to information so that they can help prevent power-related rigidities in the state and society through control and criticism.
Only with the FDP in the Bundesrat has it been possible to take a first important step by passing a federal law on freedom of information.
We do not want suspicion-independent mass data retention.
Automatic license plate recognition on German roads without any specific reason should be rejected.
The total collection of all movement data does not lead to more efficient searches, but only to a further step in the direction of the surveillance state.
The FDP is also opposed to blanket video surveillance.
It never replaces the work of dedicated police officers.
Telecommunications providers must not be required to monitor their customers' communications for the state.
It is the responsibility of the state to provide judicial protection for citizens.
We need a functioning judiciary to ensure freedom, legal peace and legal protection in society - also vis-à-vis the state.
Modernizing the judiciary is therefore an important task in order to maintain the quality and efficiency of the rule of law and at the same time relieve the courts.
The FDP rejects a restriction of legal protection for citizens through the introduction of a functional two-tier system.
Judgments that are not enforced weaken the rule of law.
For non-sovereign tasks related to enforcement, we are open to private and cost-effective task fulfillment.
It makes sense to designate the bailiff as a freelance organ of the administration of justice.
Justice has to do with people.
It must not just be about the perpetrators; in criminal proceedings, the victims of crime must also be entitled to fair treatment.
Strengthening their situation in legal, factual and psychological terms is the concern of the FDP.
In particular, victims must be placed in such a way that they can participate in the process in a self-determined manner.
We want fewer, but better laws.
More and more legal regulations do not create justice by themselves.
A hallmark of the Red-Green federal government was fast-track legislation as a public relations tool.
However, the quick law usually turns into a bad law.
Liberals first ask whether legislation is needed at all and carefully weigh its consequences in legal, economic, environmental, and sociopolitical terms.
Temporary entry into force and regular legal adjustments prevent unnecessary bureaucracy.
For the citizen to recognize a legal system as right and just, it must also be possible to enforce it and thus provide protection against crime and criminality.
The state must therefore have the appropriate means to fight crime and prosecute offenders.
Legislators must strike the right balance between freedom and security.
The rule of law may not do everything in the fight against crime.
Internal security can only be defended by the rule of law, not against it.
We are committed to the consistent application of existing law,
optimum equipment for the police and security authorities, uniform digital radio in Germany
and improvements to the organizational structures of the authorities and
international cooperation.
These are the responses of the rule of law to threats to homeland security.
DNA analysis has become an effective tool for solving serious crimes.
We want this instrument to be used responsibly.
We maintain the judge's prerogative for DNA collection.
The Liberals reject the legal equation of DNA analysis or the data patterns obtained from it with the classic "fingerprint".
The collection of DNA from humans and the storage, processing or transfer of DNA samples for the purposes of criminal prosecution may continue to be carried out only in the case of criminal offenses of considerable significance.
The fundamental right to informational self-determination covers every form of personal data.
Biometric data also require protection, especially against manipulation and surreptitious reading.
Passports with a digital/digitized photo are a suitable contribution to greater security.
The inclusion of further biometric data is not necessary, nor is central storage
The FDP rejects the EU passenger data agreement with the USA.
It allows airlines on transatlantic flights to share up to 34 pieces of personal data with U.S. authorities.
The European Parliament rejected the agreement because of fundamental data protection concerns.
The renegotiations must comply with the requirements of the EU Data Protection Directive, define the purpose of data collection and deletion after the end of the stay, and achieve transparency for passengers.
In its ruling of March 3, 2004, the German Federal Constitutional Court rightly set high standards for the so-called "grand eavesdropping attack", i.e. the secret eavesdropping on conversations in a home, if it is to be constitutional.
The ruling shows how profound this attack on civil rights is.
We opposed the "Act Implementing the Ruling of the Federal Constitutional Court of March 3, 2004 (Acoustic Surveillance of Residential Areas)" of June 2005, partly because it does not do justice to the Federal Constitutional Court's call for a total ban on surveillance in the core area of private life.
We also call for a fundamental review of all state surveillance measures against the background of the case law of the Federal Constitutional Court.
We want to use the increasing number of telephone conversations intercepted by the state over the years as an opportunity to reform the structure of telephone surveillance with the aim of reducing interceptions to the necessary level.
We therefore call for the legal requirements for ordering telephone surveillance and its duration to be specified.
The catalog of offenses that can justify telephone surveillance must be critically reviewed.
Notification of those affected must be ensured in the same way as parliamentary control.
Data exchange, which appears necessary for combating international terrorism, is already possible today on a basis regulated by the rule of law.
The FDP rejects the regular deployment of the Bundeswehr within Germany.
With its national defense, the Bundeswehr performs a valuable service for our country.
For this purpose, it has at its disposal means directed against other armies.
The Bundeswehr can already be deployed domestically in the event of a disaster, such as the Oder flood, by way of administrative assistance.
But it must not become a permanent auxiliary police force.
Instead, the responsible police and security authorities must be better equipped with personnel and material resources.
We reject the Aviation Security Act.
Our criticism is primarily directed against the authorization of the Federal Minister of Defense to order the shooting down of an aircraft on mere suspicion of a terrorist offense.
Politicians have no right to legally weigh the lives of innocent people against each other.
Liberal civil society needs cohesion and shared responsibility.
Freedom does not mean social isolation and lack of commitment.
For liberals, all communities in which people take responsibility for one another are valuable.
Liberal civil society is a participatory society because it does not consist of prescribed communities, but because citizens organize themselves on their own initiative in voluntary associations.
Marriage and family are supporting communities of responsibility in civil society, which are rightly under the special protection of the Basic Law.
The family requires special support in order to eliminate the previous disadvantages.
Family policy benefits are not social welfare, but an investment in our future.
Today, other forms of cohabitation are emerging alongside marriage.
For liberals, all communities in which people take responsibility for each other are valuable.
Communities of responsibility must not be discriminated against;
legal disadvantages for new communities of responsibility must be abolished.
This includes ensuring that children are protected and better supported in all these communities of responsibility.
The way children are treated today determines the character of tomorrow's society.
We want to create the social space in which women and men can realize a desire to have children.
True freedom of choice requires that the state create family- and child-friendly conditions and compensate for unfair disadvantages.
No one should have to apologize for having children or being childless - whether wanted or unwanted.
We want to contribute to a social climate that encourages more people to want children as part of their lives.
Family coexistence, education and the growing up of children must not be nationalized.
State intervention in the family itself requires special justification.
Liberals do not want all-around education of children by state institutions.
The question of the relationship between the family, education and the state strikes at the heart of the free democratic basic order.
However, this also means that first and foremost, parents must fulfill their responsibility in education.
The FDP wants flexibility in the labor market and in working life for a better reconciliation of family and working life.
The decision to start a family often comes too late.
Career paths make it difficult for women and men to decide to have children.
Readiness to return to work is not sufficiently supported.
We are committed to improving the quality and flexibility of the education and care offered to children and to making half-day kindergarten places free of charge.
For mothers and fathers who decide to work, there should also be an offer in day nurseries and kindergartens during vacation periods.
In the medium term, a nationwide legal entitlement to a childcare place for children as early as the age of three is to be created.
It is no longer justifiable that during the most important and effective stage of education, early childhood, education should be burdened with costs to parents.
A half-day kindergarten - or KITA place - should therefore gradually become free of charge for parents from the age of four.
The family must be strengthened again.
Children are the future of our society.
More than that, they are the future of one's life.
We should not see them primarily as an economic factor or as a poverty risk.
Children are not only part of a family.
We must also recognize them as individuals in their own right, with their own rights and responsibilities.
That's why we want not only a strong family policy, but also a targeted children's and youth policy.
This must incorporate the specific interests and needs of children and young people into all policy areas, especially through their participation.
In the discussion of family policy today, the focus is often on the burdens of raising children.
Thus, it is a sad reality that children can increase the risk of poverty for parents and that it is difficult to reconcile work and family life.
Demographic changes have a long lead time.
The number of children in Germany has been declining for years.
Since the early 1970s, each generation of children has been one-third smaller than their parents.
The FDP has proposed a new tax concept - with a full basic tax-free allowance of 7,700 euros for each child as well as for each adult.
A married couple with two children pays taxes only from an annual income of 30,800 euros, and even from 38,600 euros if the deductions for pension expenses are utilized.
With regard to child benefits and tax-free allowances, we are reducing the unequal support for families with higher and lower incomes.
For families with lower incomes, the FDP wants to raise child benefits to 200 euros per child per month.
Of course, single parents also benefit from this.
We want to abolish tax class V.
It reduces the incentives to work for the lower earners among married couples, the further apart the spouses' incomes are.
As a rule, it is married women who are subjectively demotivated to return to work because of the low monthly net salary due to tax category V.
In view of the equal rights of women and men and the growing shortage of skilled workers in the labor market, this is a wrong economic steering signal.
Another plus point for people who employ a childminder or domestic help or a carer for relatives in need of help because of their gainful employment:
Expenses for this must be tax-deductible up to the amount of 12,000 euros as special expenses.
This recognizes private households as employers:
an attractive way out of mass undeclared work.
The state must take social realities into account and take into account citizens' current life plans.
Women and men want social, professional and family participation.
More and more people are looking for ways to balance family and career.
Not only mothers, but increasingly also fathers are looking to combine a career with a fulfilling private life.
The prerequisite for this is, among other things, legal regulations for a sustainable family cohabitation.
Therefore, the FDP will reform and fundamentally simplify the maintenance law in a socially and responsibly responsible way.
Minor children and children in school education have unconditional priority over all other dependants.
Maintenance claims of divorced and non-marital parents raising their children must be approximated.
In order to finally better reconcile the private and professional interests of parents, the FDP calls for the deregulation and flexibilization of the German labor market.
In this context, a restriction to traditional rigid part-time solutions is not sufficient.
Parents must also be able to choose to maintain flexible full employment - simultaneously or alternately with family-only phases.
Therefore, creative models with regard to the place of work (teleworking, etc.) and working hours (working time accounts, etc.) must be facilitated and promoted.
The question, either child or career, must not arise.
Family and career must be compatible.
The key to this is to expand childcare options in line with demand.
These must be offered as early as the end of maternity leave (eight weeks after birth).
The range of childcare places must also be expanded to include all-day options with midday meals, and opening hours must be made more flexible.
However, care does not mean custody, but rather support for the child.
Even kindergarten has an educational mission.
A quality offensive must ensure that, oriented to the well-being of the child, competencies such as language skills, motivation to learn and self-confidence are taught.
We support the introduction of more all-day schools in various forms as an offering for students in all types of schools.
For us, all-day school is not only about education policy, but also about women's and youth policy.
We want to enable women and men to reconcile work and family life without having to worry about caring for their children.
The all-day school is intended to promote the talents of children and young people and to compensate for deficits.
All-day programs must be developed in cooperation with school authorities, parents, students, clubs, associations, institutions and local businesses to meet the needs of the schools.
With this in mind, supplemental offerings are intended to create complementary educational opportunities and possibilities.
Family-friendliness must be recognized as a location factor and strengthened in a targeted manner.
Exemplary communities show how the offers for families in care, school, traffic, living environment, youth welfare, clubs, etc. can be improved in cooperation with all local actors.
This serves a favorable population and ultimately economic structure.
We are committed to a family-friendly HR policy.
In forward-looking companies, there are already so-called "work-life programs" for a successful work-life balance.
In concrete terms, this involves, for example, company kindergartens, occupancy rights for employees' children in childcare facilities, advisory and placement services, return-to-work programs after family phases, flexible working models, etc.
However, changing the framework conditions for families begins in people's minds.
German society must become more child- and family-friendly.
This is a long-term process over which policymakers have only limited influence.
But we will contribute to this by refraining from emotionalized debates, ideologically motivated viewpoints and black-and-white painting.
The FDP is committed to improving the possibilities for adoption for married couples and registered civil partnerships.
Thus, it must be possible for the age gap between adoptive parents and child to exceed 35 years in the future.
In addition, occupation of adoptive parents and care of children by third parties should not be an obstacle to adoption.
For those willing to adopt, family and career must also be compatible, as economic security for the family is often not possible in any other way.
The best interests of the child must be the focus of the adoption process.
We want a society that enables every woman to shape her life with equal opportunities in all areas.
Liberal women's policy builds on women's qualifications, strengths and willingness to perform.
The actual equality of women and men requires a social change in the female and male understanding of roles and the greater appreciation and integration of female potential in the economy and society.
Women are better qualified than ever before and bring special perspectives, knowledge and experience that society should not do without.
In order to improve the opportunities of women in our society, the state and politics are not required to pursue a sectoral policy in the sense of social policy, but a cross-sectional policy in the sense of so-called gender mainstreaming.
Central fields of action for the FDP are: Education policy (e.g. dismantling role stereotypes, influencing career choice behavior), labor market and economic policy (women- and family-friendly personnel policy, making work more flexible, pay equity between the sexes, abolition of tax class V) and family policy (e.g. expansion of childcare facilities, financial relief for single parents, tax deductibility of household help).
The inviolability of human dignity applies to people of all ages.
Every community thrives on people's skills and experiences.
We need the energy and strength of youth as well as the experience and knowledge of older generations.
Already today, 23% of people in Germany are older than 60.
By 2050, projections indicate that more than one-third of our population will be 60 and older.
Never before have there been so many older people who can experience their third phase of life in such an active, committed and healthy way and who also want to shape this life on their own responsibility.
The FDP sees itself as a citizens' party for all generations.
The FDP therefore also understands senior citizens' policy not as an isolated subject area, but as a cross-sectional task that permeates all policy areas.
Together with the elderly, we want to contribute to a new image of seniors in our society and use the great resources that lie in the knowledge and life experiences of older citizens.
It is already a matter of course for many older people to get actively involved in looking after their grandchildren, supporting the education of young people or helping the younger generation in other ways.
These self-reliant achievements need to be recognized more.
No state measure can replace a functioning coexistence of the generations.
Older people want to achieve something.
And with increasing medical progress, performance will also grow above today's retirement age.
Companies, but also entire national economies, which are already phasing out numerous 50-year-olds from the labor force, are losing their future viability in the demographic change.
Early retirement is unsuitable as an instrument for combating unemployment and must therefore be ended.
Other countries provide evidence: Where the labor force participation of women and older people is higher, unemployment is lower.
We also want to review the statutory age limits for professional activities and abolish them if necessary.
Older people today are more vital and mentally agile than decades ago.
Many of them are ready to take on a voluntary responsibility in society.
This trend will continue.
We want to create new incentives to tap the existing potential for volunteer work, including by allowing social and insurance coverage in cases where people work exclusively in this capacity during their deployment period.
If we harness the potential of older people while removing barriers to the young's drive for change and willingness to take risks, our society will be much more agile and competitive.
For all people, even for the more active elderly of tomorrow, the time will come when they will be dependent on the support of others.
Liberals have a vision that this support will primarily take place in self-organized social networks.
People want to grow old in their own homes.
Family and partnership, shared apartments with older and younger friends, outpatient services - all of these are better than care in inpatient nursing facilities.
Liberals protect self-determination and human dignity during serious illness and at the end of life.
The right to draw up a living will in the event of incapacity to make decisions and express opinions is guaranteed under constitutional law.
It arises from the right to free development of the personality, the right to physical integrity and the right to self-determination contained in both fundamental rights.
The FDP therefore demands:
-Patient living wills must be written and can be revoked informally at any time.
-The will laid down in the living will is binding on everyone.
-Therapy wishes, therapy limitations and therapy prohibitions are possible at any time during the course of the illness.
-If a written advance directive is available, it should be possible to discontinue or limit therapy without recourse to the guardianship court.
In the event of presumed patient will and in the event of disagreement between physician, guardian and relatives, the guardianship court must always be consulted.
Outside of irreversible illness leading to death, a decision by the guardianship court is not required in a consensual case.
In addition, palliative care that accompanies the dying and reduces suffering must be expanded throughout Germany, primarily in outpatient structures.
Volunteer work in hospices also needs a reliable framework.
For an open and tolerant coexistence.
The FDP is committed to the principle that discrimination on the grounds of race, ethnic origin, gender, religion, ideology, disability, age and sexual identity has no place in an enlightened society.
Therefore, for us, the fight against discrimination, e.g. against gays and lesbians, is an indispensable part of our civil rights policy.
The remaining disadvantages of registered civil partnerships must be eliminated.
Those who have equal duties must also have equal rights.
In addition, freedom of movement in the EU area must also be ensured for registered partners if one of the partners is a national of a non-EU country.
We stand firmly against discrimination and intolerance.
Disadvantages must be eliminated and the rights of minorities strengthened.
We want the same rights - and also the same opportunities - for all people.
However, we reject the German government's current draft bill for an anti-discrimination law.
It goes far beyond the European requirements.
It leads to more state paternalism, imposes considerable additional bureaucratic and financial burdens on German business, and is a profound encroachment on contractual freedom.
We therefore call for a 1:1 implementation of the EU directives.
The FDP is particularly committed to the fight against discrimination and for the strengthening of minority rights.
It is precisely the rights of minorities that show how much a society actually protects the freedom of all citizens.
This also applies, for example, to people with disabilities.
For us, disability policy is therefore also not a sectoral policy, but a civil rights policy.
People with disabilities need conditions for a free and self-determined life without discrimination.
The focus of a liberal disability policy is the person with his or her handicap, not the handicap.
Therefore, it must not only be made for disabled people, it must be made with disabled people and essentially shaped by them.
Disabled people and their relatives in particular want more scope to shape their lives.
People with disabilities must be provided with clear rights and fair opportunities.
At every stage of life and in every life situation, they must be given the chance to live their lives the way they want and are able to.
This applies to all forms of disability.
Individual groups of disabled people who do not have a lobby or who are less able to articulate themselves must not be disadvantaged.
Liberal policies must ensure fair compensation for disadvantages.
Germany is and will remain a country of immigration.
We call for a factual discussion on the state of integration policy in Germany.
The immigration debate of recent years has focused too much on the issue of new immigration.
However, it must not be neglected that several million foreigners and ethnic German immigrants live in Germany, some of whom are by no means well integrated into our society.
It turns out that integration does not happen by itself.
And where integration fails, so-called parallel societies emerge, which often meet each other with skepticism or even rejection.
The new legal entitlement to an integration course under the Immigration Act only applies to new foreign immigrants from third countries, provided their stay is permanent.
People from third countries who have already lived in Germany for a longer period of time and citizens of the European Union are not entitled to participate in courses.
We therefore call for a concept that specifically addresses the problem of integrating this immigrant group, which has been living here for a long time, and improves the services offered.
However, we also expect immigrants to be willing to take up integration offers and, in particular, to learn the German language.
We are also calling for an old-case regulation for young people who have been living in Germany for a long time and are well integrated, for example by attending school in Germany.
The FDP is committed to cultural coexistence based on universal values.
They are enshrined in the fundamental rights of our constitution.
The only thing is that integration problems must be openly named and addressed.
Ghettoization, lack of German language skills, criminality and religious intolerance cannot be overlooked.
Religious freedom must not be misused as a pretext for violence and oppression of women, forced marriage or for hate preaching.
We are against any tolerance of intolerance.
Forced marriages are unacceptable.
Forced marriage is a violation of human rights and must be clearly publicly outlawed as such.
Neither for patriarchal-traditional nor for religious reasons is it acceptable that forced marriages take place in Germany or elsewhere.
This issue must no longer be downplayed or kept quiet.
This also applies to the murders committed in this context, which are trivialized as so-called "honor killings."
The FDP is committed to allowing everyone to live according to his or her religion.
But: democracy, the rule of law, fundamental and human rights, the separation of state and religion, and a good knowledge of the German language are the foundations of our society, which no one is allowed to invalidate, not even by referring to their cultural or traditional convictions.
Liberal civil society relies on citizen participation.
We want to dare more democracy.
We want to move away from the party state toward citizen democracy.
The growing distance between politics and citizens can only be bridged by greater participation of citizens in what happens in society and the state.
For this reason, the FDP consistently advocates more opportunities for citizens' referendums, citizens' petitions and citizens' surveys at the state and federal level as well.
More direct democracy should not replace representative democracy, but enrich it.
Decisions that are of fundamental importance to our people must also be made by the people.
This applies, for example, to the referendum on a European constitution.
The parties must be required to publicly disclose any media holdings in detail and to make the economic results transparent and controllable.
In the interest of a clear separation of powers and the control function of independent media, the so-called fourth estate, media participation by political parties should be prohibited as a matter of principle.
The FDP has long called for a fundamental reform of parliamentary compensation.
An independent commission of experts, appointed by the Federal President, is to set the binding level of allowances.
This invalidates the accusation of self-service and strengthens the reputation of the Bundestag.
The commission is also to make proposals for reforming the pension scheme for members of parliament.
Citizens are aware of the need for adequate pay for their elected representatives.
But they rightly reject undue privilege.
In particular, the overprovision of politicians after leaving office is criticized.
Personal responsibility must therefore take the place of the pension entitlement under civil service law.
We want to put a stop to the increasingly rampant corporatism.
The entanglements between organized interest groups and politics undermine the rights of parliament and damage the interests of citizens.
They leverage competition and prioritize the interests of associations, dominant social groups, powerful informal networks of relationships.
The consensus rounds of politics with interest groups and unions have become a consensus trap for our country.
Germany needs a liberating blow.
We will make a renewed attempt to reform German federalism after the Bundestag elections.
The reform must consistently follow the principle of subsidiarity:
What citizens can decide for themselves, politics should not be allowed to decide.
In the federal structure, the municipality takes precedence over the states and the federal government.
Each level of government needs its own clear competencies so that citizens can see who decides what.
The trend toward centralizing decisions in Berlin must be reversed so that the states once again make more of their own decisions and a productive competitive federalism gets underway.
We need a redistribution and separation of tasks between the levels of government.
The exclusive legislative competence of the federal and state governments must be the rule, while concurrent legislation must become the exception.
The high proportion of laws requiring approval must be reduced.
Mixed financing and mixed taxes must be abolished in a new financial constitution.
Each level of government needs its own secure sources of revenue.
It must be visible to citizens who levies what tax and who spends what.
With more transparency of the respective decision makers, the responsibility of the decision makers towards the citizens also increases.
To safeguard citizens' rights, we need a decision-making administration that is committed to the law and the rule of law.
As one of the pillars of the rule of law, the enforcement of law and justice in the exercise of sovereign powers requires a professional civil service focused on core areas.
We want a modern, sustainable, high-performing and efficient public service.
To achieve this, government tasks must be scaled back and the administration modernized.
The human resources system in the public service must continue to be developed in the interests of employers and employers and in the interests of employees, so that employees are deployed in roles that match their skills and so that they receive the pay that corresponds to their performance.
The FDP will take up the work that has been started for a reorganization of the civil service law and in particular for a progressive payment of the civil service.
The reorganization of collective bargaining law initiated by the federal and local government collective bargaining parties through performance orientation and simplification will also be continued.
The Bundeswehr is an essential instrument of liberal peace policy.
Despite serious structural weaknesses and equipment gaps, it has proven itself many times over through its dedication and commitment.
The repeated attempts at reform in recent years fall short.
The Bundeswehr must be transformed into a force that is capable of meeting the needs of its allies.
Equipment and armaments must be modernized comprehensively and without delay to protect our soldiers and increase the effectiveness of the Bundeswehr in action.
All armaments programs should be put to the test.
Today, highly qualified military experts are needed, not conscripts who cannot and should not participate in foreign missions.
We therefore advocate the rapid suspension of compulsory military service.
It can no longer be justified in terms of security policy.
In addition, military service and service equity have declined dramatically.
According to the new Bundeswehr structure, only around 17% of the men in a year group will be subject to compulsory military service and only 41% in total will have to perform compulsory service.
Moreover, compulsory military service is such a profound encroachment on the individual freedom of young citizens that it may only be demanded if the security of the state really demands it.
In line with the requirements determined by the missions, we call for a reduction in the size of the Bundeswehr to a maximum of 240,000 soldiers.
Since alternative service will be eliminated along with compulsory military service, it is important to still maintain the level of social services that civilian servicemen provide today.
For this purpose, it is necessary to adapt the structures of the social services already today to the time without civilian service.
Solutions must be found to create more regular gainful employment at current civilian service employment sites.
In addition, existing potential for volunteer work must be tapped with new incentives.
Civic engagement is an expression of a liberal civil society.
A civil society needs active and volunteering citizens.
Like hardly any other area of life, sport stands for joie de vivre, performance and fairness.
At the same time, these are also liberal goals and values.
Liberal sports policy supports top-level sports as well as popular sports, sports for the disabled and school sports.
We are committed to ensuring that the 2006 World Cup is held safely.
This requires optimal staffing, technical and financial resources for the security authorities.
On the other hand, we reject disproportionate restrictions on visitors' rights to freedom.
The FDP stands for a vigorous fight against the sports scourge of doping.
The existing legal possibilities must be fully exploited and the agencies involved in the fight against doping must be adequately equipped.
The areas of sport and health need to be better linked.
The importance of sport for prevention and rehabilitation must be used consistently.
We want to extend the value of sport to other areas of society, such as education, social affairs, integration and youth work.
Art and culture are an expression of liberal civil society.
Art and culture are the foundations of society.
They serve to communicate with each other and are a source of identity and creativity.
Art and culture reflect the state of a society and drive its development.
The promotion of art and culture is a central concern of the FDP.
We are committed to a significant upgrade of culture.
We therefore support the inclusion of culture as a state objective in the Basic Law.
In addition to the fundamental responsibility of the states and municipalities, the federal government bears responsibility in important areas of culture:
foreign cultural and educational policy, cultural promotion in the capital and the new states, support for nationally significant institutions and participation in the Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation are examples of important tasks of the federal government that complement the commitment of the states.
In addition, the federal government has legislative powers that must be used to create favorable conditions for culture.
In the promotion of culture, the principle of cooperative federalism, the shared responsibility of different political levels, has proven to be useful.
Nevertheless, we believe that a more extensive delineation of legislative responsibilities between the federal government and the states would be useful.
The goal of these efforts must be to finally realize the overdue and logical merger of the two major cultural foundations of the federal and state governments.
Culture needs strong representation within the federal cabinet, vis-à-vis the public and the European level.
Therefore, the FDP advocates that the responsibility for culture and media be upgraded and given cabinet rank in the future.
We acknowledge the state's obligation to protect and promote culture.
The preservation and further development of the cultural heritage, including the German language, and the promotion of innovative projects are two sides of the same coin.
Reliable state support for culture is also the basis for the indispensable commitment of civil society.
With a genuine reform of foundation law, we want to make it easier to set up foundations and create additional incentives for donations.
Promoting cultural education, especially for children and young people, is a fundamental obligation of the state.
It imparts cultural skills and values and produces independent and responsible personalities.
Promoting cultural education is one of the most important investments in the future of all.
The federal government's cultural funding in Berlin finally needs a clear concept.
Transparency and objectivity in the allocation of state funding are essential for the responsible use of taxpayers' money and the promotion of culture outside the state.
The federal government's memorial concept must be further developed.
In particular, there is a great need to catch up on the preservation and development of authentic sites of SED injustice.
The reappraisal of the SED unjust state, in particular by the office of the Federal Commissioner for the Records of the State Security Service of the former GDR and the Foundation for Reappraisal of the SED Dictatorship, must be continued consistently.
We are committed to artists' social insurance as an important instrument for promoting culture and providing social security for artists.
The necessary reform of the artists' social insurance fund must strike a fair balance between the interests of the insured and those of the users who are currently overly burdened.
Cultural relations and education policy must once again become the third pillar of German foreign policy.
The financial resources, which were cut back sharply under the Red-Green government, must be brought back into line with this important role.
To restore and preserve the unity of the German language, the FDP is calling for a moratorium on the spelling reform.
Until the Council for German Orthography has subjected all areas of the reform to close scrutiny and revision, the reform must not go into effect.
The chaos created by the decisions of the Conference of Ministers of Culture emphatically proves that the state and politics simply have no business in certain areas of life - and this undoubtedly includes language and spelling - and must refrain from any "language control" in the future.
Liberal media policy promotes technical progress and media diversity.
We want to accelerate the process of digitization.
Barriers to investment must be removed so that the innovative spirit of the economy can flourish.
The legal framework must be adapted to technical developments.
Rapid changes in telecommunications, broadcasting, telemedia and the increasing convergence of the media make a uniform legal framework necessary.
The protection of consumers, especially children and young people, must be ensured, but must not become an obstacle to technical and economic development.
Dangers of abuse on the Internet must be countered primarily through stronger international cooperation and technical protective measures.
National solo efforts, on the other hand, are usually ineffective because they do not do justice to the structure of the World Wide Web.
The digital world needs strong copyright law, because only effective protection of intellectual property through copyright law creates the necessary incentives for creative activity and for investment in its commercial exploitation.
The modernization of copyright law must continue.
What is needed above all is a further improvement in legal protection against the illegal use of protected works, a modern revision of the copyright levy system, and an appropriate facilitation of the use of archive holdings in new types of use.
The FDP is clearly committed to the dual broadcasting system in Germany.
Public broadcasting needs comprehensive reform.
Freedom from advertising, a clear definition of the programming mandate and ensuring that broadcasting fees are used sparingly are the key objectives here.
In the interest of effective control and sensible regulation, we call for uniform supervision of all broadcasters along the lines of the British OFCOM.
Germany must be strengthened as a film location.
We need innovative models that, in addition to government funding instruments, offer private investors in particular incentives to invest in the film industry and Germany as a film location (e.g., "sale-and-lease-back").
5. more FDP for more international cooperation and security
German foreign policy needs a conceptual framework again.
Reliability and predictability, European embeddedness and transatlantic partnership were the cornerstones of German foreign policy for decades.
The great success of liberal foreign policy lay precisely in the ability to reconcile one's own interests with those of others and to represent them jointly.
The FDP stood and stands for a policy of Germany's integration in Europe,
predictability,
peaceableness and responsibility for peace in the world.
Without this policy, the unqualified international approval of German unity in October 1990 would not have been possible.
In the fall of 1998, the German government abandoned this safe path:
it pursued axis-building in opposition to the transatlantic alliance.
It divided Europe into old and new, large and small.
We want to return to a German foreign policy that is guided by values and interests, integrated at the European level and multilaterally oriented.
We stand for a return to transatlantic cooperation based on trust.
We will make Germany once again the partner and advocate of the small member states of the EU, without neglecting the necessary cooperation of the larger partners, especially the Franco-German friendship.
This role was the recipe for success of liberal German foreign policy.
The FDP will build on these successes.
The EU - dynamic economic area in the globalized world.
The common Europe reconciled the continent's peoples after World War II, helped end the Cold War and made German unity possible.
Individual freedom, democracy and the rule of law, a social market economy and free trade, openness to the world and modernity are the foundations of the European house.
Performance orientation, high educational standards and open markets have made economic success possible.
Social security, equal opportunities and tolerance enable citizens to participate broadly in this prosperity.
The FDP wants a strong, politically integrated EU that is capable of action and speaks with one voice in the world.
We want the EU to become a dynamic economic area in the globalized world.
For us Liberals, the long-term goal remains a federal Europe.
However, further political integration must not lead to an uncontrolled expansion of the EU's competences.
Instead, the EU must focus on its strengths and better fulfill its core tasks:
-a common foreign and security policy
-the creation of growth and jobs through the completion of the single market, a stable common currency, further liberalization of world trade and the promotion of research and innovation
-the development into a common area of freedom, security and justice
Europe needs more democracy.
While the European Council has experienced an increase in power in the past, the European Parliament is still denied co-decision on some important issues.
We want to strengthen the European Parliament and endow it with all the classic powers of the legislative body, in particular the right of legislative initiative and full budgetary sovereignty on the expenditure side.
Liberal European policy calls for a clear allocation of responsibilities to either the European or the national level.
What can be done better at the lower level should be solved there.
Where the EU has clear competences, the member states must respect them and implement and support decisions once they have been taken in the spirit of European unification.
If it finally emerges that the Constitutional Treaty in its present form no longer has a chance of ratification, a "second attempt" should have a better chance of success if the existing text is stripped of the complicated parts of treaty law - especially those relating to Community policies - and reduced to a lean, comprehensible text that concentrates on the constitutional core.
A referendum should then also be held on this in Germany.
The FDP stands for a Europe that is oriented towards its citizens.
The principle of subsidiarity must be given full effect:
State decisions must be made as close to the citizen as possible.
The higher decision-making level may only regulate what the lower level cannot regulate better.
We advocate that Brussels should legally be allowed to act only if it eliminates distortions in the single market.
The FDP opposes all attempts at a creeping expansion of legislative competence.
All EU subsidies must be based on the principle of state co-financing.
The European Single Market, with 450 million consumers, is the foundation of our prosperity and competitiveness.
Europe is the decisive sales market for the German economy.
We are committed to further expanding freedom for employees and entrepreneurs, competition and the social market economy.
A stable, single currency is a prerequisite for economic growth in Europe.
A stable currency needs budgetary discipline.
We therefore continue to advocate that the objective of monetary stability be included in the canon of objectives of a future constitutional treaty.
Debt, especially in the large member states, must be reduced and inflation kept low.
This is the basis for the EU's economic success.
The EU must continually recapture its economic competitiveness in the global environment.
To do this, it must move away from subsidies, reallocate financial resources and invest more in research and development.
The share of EU spending on education, research, development of future technologies must already be increased to 3% of gross domestic product in the financial perspective for 2007 to 2013.
Here, too, the subsidiarity principle applies: the EU budget should only provide funding if national measures cannot achieve the funding objective.
The FDP explicitly recognizes the principle of solidarity within the EU.
What is needed, however, is a balanced distribution of the burden.
The financial relief promised by the German government for Germany as the largest net contributor has failed to materialize.
We want the consequences of European policies on future generations to be given greater consideration.
This requires the introduction of a generational balance sheet at the European level that clearly shows burdens and benefits between generations.
We call for bold steps to further develop the Common European Foreign, Security and Defense Policy.
In the face of new security challenges, instability in the Western Balkans, ongoing conflicts in the Middle East and the escalation of the crisis in Iraq, more joint EU action in foreign policy is urgently needed.
Strengthening Europe's ability to act in foreign policy requires a joint External Action Service to provide the EU's external political representation and coordinate development cooperation with poorer countries,
a pool of civilian leaders who can be deployed in crisis areas for reconstruction, a police or gendarmerie force for stabilization in crisis regions,
and, in the long term, European armed forces under unified supreme command.
For the time being, the EU faces the major task of remaining capable of acting even with 25 members.
Under no circumstances should the enlargement of the EU call into question the deepening of integration.
The accession of further states is only possible if they prove to be ready for accession and the EU proves to be receptive.
The European success story will only continue if strict and transparent requirements are placed on the control of these conditions.
We are committed to an effective and coherent EU neighborhood policy.
The creation of an area of shared values based on free trade, economic integration and intensive cultural relations can extend peace, security and stability to the EU's neighborhood.
The concrete design of the neighborhood policy must take into account the different problem situations of the neighboring countries as well as the prospects of their relations with the EU.
Negotiations with Romania and Bulgaria have been concluded and completed with the signing of the accession treaties.
It is now critical that these two states actually meet membership requirements upon accession.
It is in the interest of the member states of the entire EU to support them in this to the best of their ability and, in particular, to accompany the implementation of the outstanding reforms in the areas of justice, police, administration, anti-corruption, environmental protection and competition by being ready to help and cooperate, but also by exerting the necessary pressure.
For Turkey, it is even more important that alternatives to full membership be considered in advance in the negotiations that began in October 2005 and will last for more than a decade.
The accession negotiations with Turkey must therefore be conducted in an open-ended manner.
Only towards the end of the negotiation process will it be possible to assess whether Turkey has fully implemented the "acquis communautaire" and whether the EU is in a position to accept another large country as a member.
For it cannot be assumed that Turkey will be in a position to fully apply the "acquis communautaire" and accept the associated renunciation of sovereignty by the end of the next decade, nor can it be assumed that by then the EU will have regained the necessary absorptive power and capacity to cope with the absorption of this large and heterogeneous country without the risk of overexpansion and excessive demands.
The states of the Western Balkans are part of Europe and thus in principle have the perspective of membership in the EU.
A long-term pre-accession strategy is needed as a crucial prerequisite for lasting peace and stabilization in the Balkans.
The EU must continue to support stabilization and the development of democratic and market-economy structures through its presence in Macedonia, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Kosovo with police units and troops.
The FDP advocates an EU trusteeship mandate in Kosovo.
The basic rule is that political stability and the emergence of liberal civil societies must be achieved before concrete steps toward accession can be taken.
We want to improve cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs policy in the EU.
International terrorism and crime can only be countered through strengthened European capabilities for action.
In principle, there must be majority decisions in the Council of Ministers in this area.
The establishment of the European border police to secure the EU's external borders must be pushed ahead quickly.
To compensate for the abolition of the previous border controls, the Schengen mechanism must take effect, which provides for a comprehensive exchange of data, uniform visa regulations and functioning controls in the area previously close to the border.
We demand that the new member states be supported in building up the technical and personnel requirements for securing the Schengen area and that the control of the handling of data be improved.
Liberal foreign policy focuses on values and new perspectives.
Liberals stand for openness to the world and tolerance, for transparency and reliability in international relations, for the opening of markets and free and peaceful exchange between peoples and cultures in a world that continues to grow together, for competition between systems and political approaches to solutions.
With the fight against international terrorism, the world's demographic development, new geopolitical challenges, and the worldwide spread of HIV/AIDS, liberal foreign policy also has its sights set on new and underestimated global problems and is looking for conceptual solutions.
Germany's transatlantic partnership with the U.S. has been a fundamental constant of German foreign policy since 1945.
This deep connection, shaped by common roots, values and interests as well as the historical experience of the postwar period, must be independent of the respective governments.
On the basis of our decades of successful foreign policy work, we will do everything in our power to restore order to the transatlantic relationship, characterized by mutual understanding and trust, so that differing views and divergent interests can be discussed openly without jeopardizing the transatlantic relationship as a whole, which is vital for Germany.
We want to strengthen the United Nations through reform.
The inability of international politics to avoid the Iraq war and to achieve the goal of UN resolutions by peaceful means meant a serious setback for the United Nations, the transatlantic relationship and European integration.
For us, the systems of cooperative security - the OSCE in the European framework and the United Nations in the global framework - are always the right place for the settlement of serious international conflicts.
We seek to strengthen the United Nations and the Security Council's legitimacy and ability to act.
We advocate a joint European permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council.
A permanent German seat is only the second-best solution until the demand for a European seat becomes a reality.
In this case, Germany must also hold the German seat on the Security Council in trust for the other EU partners.
The actions of the Red-Green government have damaged Germany's reputation.
The FDP is and remains ready to join other democracies in taking on the international tasks that we can and are expected to take on.
It is about achieving states of structural stability in regions that are still critical today, fighting hunger and disease, enforcing principles of good governance, securing economic rights and individual freedoms, and protecting human rights.
In the future, reform of the United Nations must make intervention possible when a state is unable or unwilling to protect its citizens from violence and human rights abuses.
The fight against international terrorism cannot be won by military means alone.
It requires close, coordinated and, above all, multilateral cooperation with partners worldwide.
Threats and military sanctions - with UN legitimacy - must be a last resort.
The focus must be on promoting freedom, development and prosperity, democracy and a market economy, the rule of law and human rights, and dialogue among cultures and religions throughout the world.
This is the only way to remove the breeding ground for terrorism in the long term.
The threat of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction also requires a joint response by the international community under the authoritative supremacy of recognized international institutions, such as the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Existing conventions with strict inspection mechanisms, such as the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and the Chemical Weapons Convention, must be strictly implemented.
Their inspection mechanisms need to be tightened.
The Biological Weapons Convention must be accompanied by an appropriate supplementary agreement, if possible with the support of the United States.
To strengthen the credibility of nonproliferation efforts, we will press U.S. allies to withdraw their tactical nuclear weapons still stationed in Germany.
We want a close political, security, cultural and not least economic partnership with Russia.
Germany will work to further improve cooperation between the EU, NATO and Russia.
German-Russian relations must be further developed in many areas.
A great potential for improvement lies in the closer linking of civil societies and the steady further development of our economic relations.
We want Russia to develop and open up further.
The FDP condemns further restrictions on freedom of the press, freedom of expression and
democratic structures.
In the Chechen conflict, we call on all forces involved, especially the Russian government, to seek a political solution that is accepted and actively supported by the Chechen population.
The FDP wants to further develop German-Chinese relations in many areas.
In addition to the expansion of economic relations, we will place special emphasis on scientific and student exchanges, tourism and cultural relations.
However, religious and ethnic minorities as well as opposition members are still subject to state discrimination and persecution, the death penalty is carried out more often than in any other country in the world, the Tibetans' striving for cultural autonomy is violently suppressed, and the UN Covenant on Political Rights has not been ratified.
The FDP rejects a lifting of the EU arms embargo against China as long as the human rights situation has not improved decisively and the tensions with Taiwan have not ended.
In recent years, Germany's Asia policy has focused too one-sidedly on China.
The potential for good relations with India in particular, but also with Malaysia, Thailand, Pakistan, Vietnam, Indonesia and many other countries in the region is far from being exploited.
This applies to the economy, but also to science and culture.
Our traditionally close ally and trading partner Japan, will also require greater attention again in the future.
It is of strategic importance for German foreign policy to improve its position in Asia in the long term.
The Middle East remains one of the most fragile and dangerous conflict regions in the world, with the still unresolved conflict between Israel and the Palestinians, the difficult new beginning in Iraq, but also due to the fact that Arab countries in the region are among the main countries of origin of Islamist terrorists.
The key to bringing peace to the region and defusing the various lines of conflict lies in strengthening freedom, democracy and human rights
and ensuring the prosperous economic development of all countries in the region.
Mutual recognition of the borders, sovereignty and viability of the participating states in freedom and security remains indispensable.
We see globalization first and foremost as an opportunity.
Those who close their minds to globalization are destroying these opportunities.
Segregation leads to immense losses in prosperity.
Globalization has opened up enormous opportunities for Germany in particular.
The German economy - extremely dependent on exports - is benefiting more than almost any other from the opening of markets worldwide.
Mass unemployment and the loss of social security are not the result of globalization, but the consequence of national tasks that have remained unfinished for decades.
Globalization has only made these deficits more visible in our country in recent years.
We want to eliminate these deficits and take advantage of the opportunities offered by globalization and change.
You can't ban the wind of change, but you can build windmills.
We are committed to further liberalization of world trade.
The unhindered exchange of goods between North and South, but also between the countries of the South, is a prerequisite for economic growth and the reduction of poverty.
This reduces the gap between the so-called rich North and the poor South and the conflict potential of the strong wealth gap.
Europe and the U.S. must work together to strengthen the World Trade Organization (WTO) and drive forward the reforms needed there.
A Euro-American free trade area (Transatlantic Free Trade Area, TAFTA) can be an instrument for further intensifying economic relations.
The persistent poverty in many parts of the world is a scandal, violates human dignity and deprives people of life opportunities.
In order to be able to fight poverty effectively, German development policy must be realigned.
The FDP focuses on quality, not quantity.
The basis of all development is the freedom of the individual, respect for human rights, a market economy and the rule of law.
Only governments that truly take responsibility for their citizens and the development of their country deserve our help.
Moreover, scarce resources should be reserved for the poorest of the poor.
Societies such as China and India have the necessary know-how and capital to fight poverty on their own.
This also means reorienting support to China, India and other emerging economies on the basis of economic cooperation.
For us, emergency and disaster relief is and remains an inviolable basic humanitarian mission.
A new development policy for Africa must support ownership by African countries and institutions, use resources in a much more targeted way to strengthen rule-of-law structures, and, in particular, help the African Union become the effective crisis-solving mechanism in Africa.
The fight against HIV/AIDS is an absolute priority for us.
HIV/AIDS, with more than 43 million people currently infected, is one of the greatest threats to world development.
This enormous number of sick and infected people and the associated costs overwhelm developing countries.
The industrialized countries will have to make much greater efforts than they have in the past.
Liberal security policy is peace policy.
Liberal security policy is value-oriented interest policy based on the universality of human rights and their worldwide validity, acceptance and enforcement, as well as the security policy starting point and threat situation.
The culture of restraint and the use of diplomatic options remain the very first choice.
The use of military means must only be ultima ratio to help people.
For the foreseeable future, Germany and Europe are no longer exposed to the danger of a major military attack in the conventional area.
Nevertheless, there are security risks that continue to require international cooperation to counter.
They require both the continuation of NATO
and the strengthening of the EU through increasing integration within the framework of the Common Foreign and Security Policy, including the European Security and Defense Policy.
The current security forces in Germany and Europe are not yet able to cope with the changed new threat scenarios in terms of structure, personnel, training and equipment.
The smooth transition from external to internal threats necessitates a change in the organization and command structures of all security forces.
For effective military crisis response and convincing crisis management, the Bundeswehr must be further restructured.
Compulsory military service can no longer be justified and must be suspended.
We need forces that are well-trained, modernly equipped, fully operational and rapidly deployable.
Only the volunteer army can ensure this.
The performance of police duties in peacekeeping missions abroad urgently needs improvement in terms of structure and operational bases.
Liberal security policy advocates that NATO remain the most important military alliance for Europe and North America in order to be able to respond appropriately to global threats while preserving the UN's monopoly on the use of force.
The FDP wants an equal security partnership in the Atlantic Alliance.
To this end, European security and defense policy must be expanded
and the Bundeswehr strengthened.
NATO must be the central transatlantic body for discussion, decision-making and action.
6. Germany needs more FDP
The FDP's goal is a change of policy for Germany.
We are not only concerned with replacing the red-green federal government.
The change of government is a means to an end.
We want to give Germany a new direction with our policies:
With a policy of economic reason and social open-mindedness.
With a policy that puts people at the center of action.
Only a strong FDP can prevent a majority of the political left or a grand coalition.
Germany is facing a turning point.
It is no longer about handing out debt-financed benefits, but about generating wealth.
As a voter, you are faced with a decision:
Do you want to continue to rely on yesterday's reflexes and attitudes or do you want to put outdated positions and goals to the test.
The FDP has the courage to go big.
We will question entrenched positions and examine their impact on creating new jobs and securing existing ones.
Because for the FDP, work has the right of way!
The FDP does not need any new ideologies or value experiments.
We have our values: freedom to take responsibility for oneself and for the whole.
We will help to solve the existing problems.
Because today it's all about the key task again: work and growth.
This is also the basis for all social justice
and ecological progress.
Because social is what creates work.
With our 2005 Germany program, we show that we can do better.
The FDP stands for recovery instead of stagnation.
The FDP stands for jobs instead of unemployment.
The FDP stands for a change in policy instead of taking steps and "carrying on as before".
The FDP is the force of reason.
The FDP offers an independent path.
This independence is based on our own liberal programmatic claim and course.
We will not make ourselves dependent on the changeable and fickle course of other parties, but step by step state our goals and ideas for Germany's development opportunities.
The "Deutschlandprogramm 2005" makes it clear what the FDP is focusing on.
We believe in free self-determination instead of paternalism.
We are focusing on growth instead of more and more redistribution.
We rely on a social market economy instead of a bureaucratic state economy.
We rely on the rights of citizens instead of ever more state surveillance.
We focus on the best education because we want to make individuals strong in global competition.
We focus on research friendliness instead of research abandonment.
We are committed to a modern, cosmopolitan and high-performing Germany.
We rely on the power of people.
We rely on the people who want to make a difference.
We are betting on a new beginning for Germany!
Our European neighbors have shown us the way: open societies that recognize the opportunities and not only see the risks, that embrace changing realities and new technologies, have a clear advantage in the age of the global economy.
This is about prosperity and life chances for all people.
It is about nothing more and nothing less than the individual pursuit of happiness.
We Free Democrats have the answers to the questions of our time.
The FDP has a coherent, solid and convincing program for policy change.
We are ideally equipped for the new start for Germany.
Take the chance.
Vote for the FDP.
