CHAPTER 1
Defense of democracy in Germany
1.1 No democracy without popular sovereignty
We want to reform Germany and build on the principles and roots that have led to its decades-long social and economic success,
economic
and social success.
The rule of law must be restored
and the state must resume its actual core tasks, in particular ensuring internal security.
The Schengen, Maastricht and Lisbon Treaties unlawfully interfered with the inviolable sovereignty of the people.
A state that gives up the border regime and thus sovereignty over its territory dissolves.
It loses its statehood.
In Germany, too, we oppose centralism, uniformity and uniformity.
Because we stand firmly for subsidiarity and federalism.
Strong, independent federal states, regions and municipalities in a sovereign Germany correspond to the ideal of free peoples and diverse cultural identities.
Unity in diversity instead of self-sacrifice in the collective is for us the origin and goal of German self-determination.
We want to preserve the sovereign, democratic national state!
The AfD stands for the freedom and self-determination of European nations.
This means that all nations have the right to organize themselves into sovereign states.
As such, they can enter into links under international law and pursue common interests as a community of states.
In Europe, this was successfully achieved through the European Economic Community.
The attempt to create a "union of states" via the Treaties of Maastricht (1992) and Lisbon (2008), as the Federal Constitutional Court calls this unprecedented construction, must be considered a failure.
Instead, the EU, which claims to become a continental state, restricts the existing, democratic nation states in their function or destroys them permanently.
There is neither a European nation that would be constitutive for such a project, nor is it recognizable that such a nation will emerge in the foreseeable future.
Cultures, languages and national identities have emerged through centuries of historical development.
For their members, they represent indispensable spaces of identification that can be effectively shaped only in national states with democratic constitutions.
Only here can popular sovereignty be lived, the mother and heart of democracy.
1.2 Returning the European Union to a Confederation of Sovereign States
The existing "Lisbon Europe" is therefore to be reduced to an organization of states that
define their interests and the performance of their tasks on the basis of international treaties.
Non-recoverable renunciations of sovereignty by the states must not be associated with such a construction.
Similar to today's provision in the Treaty on European Union (TEU) in Art. 50, each state reserves the right to withdraw.
Unless such a concept can be negotiated amicably with the EU's current partners, Germany will be forced to follow Britain's example and withdraw from the existing EU.
The creation of new supranational agreements remains reserved and is only made possible due to nation-state sovereignty.
1.3 The People Must Become Sovereign Again
The secret sovereign in Germany is a small, powerful political oligarchy that has formed within the existing political parties.
It is responsible for the undesirable developments of recent decades.
A political class has emerged whose primary interest is its power, status and material well-being.
This oligarchy holds the levers of state power, political education and informational and media influence over the population.
The constant violations of the principles of German statehood culminate in the refugee policy of the federal government of CDU/CSU and SPD.
The people's representatives have allowed themselves to be deprived of the constitutionally guaranteed parliamentary prerogative for all important decisions in the state
and have accepted without complaint the unlawful and unconstitutional decisions on immigration made over their heads.
Only the people of the Federal Republic of Germany can end this illegal state of affairs by means of direct democracy.
1.4 Referendums based on the Swiss model
We want to give the people the right to keep a close eye on the members of parliament and to change or reject laws passed by parliament.
This would quickly stem the tide of often nonsensical bills and force parliaments to work more carefully.
This would ensure a moderating influence on decisions made by MPs in their own interests - such as allowances, parliamentary group and party funding and the financing of "party-affiliated" foundations.
The people should also be given the opportunity to introduce their own legislative initiatives and pass them by referendum.
The AfD is calling for referendums based on the Swiss model for Germany as well.
The Basic Law may not be amended and no significant international treaty may be concluded without the consent of the people.
German citizens are the paymasters of Europe.
Contrary to all earlier assurances, we are liable for the annually growing debts of other EU countries.
This is a fateful political breach of promise that will cause great existential hardship for citizens living today and several generations to come.
The German people should therefore vote, following the British example, on whether Germany should remain in the Eurozone and, if necessary, in the EU!
In contrast to the CDU and its chancellor, we consider the German people to be just as mature as the Swiss, the British, the French, the Italians and the Dutch.
Contrary to assertions to the contrary, citizens are more far-sighted and public-spirited when it comes to deciding the fate of the nation than power- and interest-driven professional politicians.
This is the lesson of reunification, of the rejection of the "EU Constitutional Treaty" by the French and Dutch people, and of the decision of the British to withdraw from the Lisbon Union.
We believe that Germany's multifaceted political problems require courageous decisions on the course to be taken.
We are convinced that the fundamental crises of currency, energy supply and migration, as well as the confrontation with Islam, cannot be dealt with sustainably by the government or the Bundestag alone.
This cannot and must not happen without direct citizen participation.
For the AfD, the introduction of referendums based on the Swiss model is therefore non-negotiable content of any coalition agreements.
1.5 Ensuring the separation of powers
Numerous laws have eroded the separation of powers in Germany over the years
and led to an overflowing state power:
Former politicians on judges' chairs, deputies who are at the same time chancellor, prime minister or minister and insofar control themselves, as well as party-political networks created by forbidden office patronage can no longer be tolerated.
The judiciary must be depoliticized.
1.6 Separation of office and mandate and the fight against office patronage
Chancellors, prime ministers, ministers and parliamentary state secretaries may no longer be members of parliament at the same time.
We want to abolish the functions of "political officials" in the state administration from ministerial directors to police chiefs.
The employees of the public administration shall be independent and loyal.
Civil servant and judge positions are to be filled exclusively on the basis of qualification and professional performance (Art. 33 Para. 2 GG).
The "party book economy" must be ended.
Patronage of office should be punished.
1.7 Limit the power of the parties
Parties should participate in the political system (Article 21 (1) of the Basic Law), but not dominate it.
The omnipotence of the parties and their exploitation of the state endanger our democracy.
This omnipotence is also the cause of the widespread disenchantment with politics and the freedom-restricting "political correctness" as well as the dictates of opinion in all public discourse.
The loyalty of deputies is to party executives rather than to the citizens on whose behalf they are primarily required to act.
1.8 Direct Election of the Federal President
Currently, the Federal President is proposed and elected in the Federal Assembly.
The selection of the candidate takes place behind closed doors by agreement of the parties.
This cronyism damages the dignity of the office and diminishes the acceptance of the head of state by the people.
We therefore want to have the Federal President elected directly by the people.
To this end, Article 54 of the Basic Law must be amended accordingly.
1.9 Bringing Party Financing into Line with Constitutional Law
Party financing has provided the established parties with steadily increasing financial resources since 1954.
The "partial state financing" of approximately 160 million euros annually is far exceeded by covert party financing, which now amounts to more than 600 million euros.
For example, we consider the "staff allowance" of 20,000 euros per month available to each member of the Bundestag to be significantly excessive.
No scientific advice is given here, but an army of party soldiers is paid.
The AfD wants to reorganize and significantly reduce state funding for political parties.
Contrary to current practice, all party funding should be subject to unrestricted control by the courts of auditors.
A restrictive and corruption-avoiding reorganization of donation regulations is also indispensable.
Furthermore, German political parties should finally be prohibited from holding stakes in companies, especially media companies, and from accepting corporate donations.
1.10 Free list election and free mandate
Over time, Germany's political class has exploited and adapted electoral law and procedures ever more perfectly to
minimize the influence of the people on candidate selection.
The voter is presented with rigid party electoral lists to tick off.
The party executives de facto determine the composition of parliament via the "safe list places".
With a democratic design of the electoral system, the AfD wants to give the voters back the decision on the personnel composition of the parliaments.
We advocate the " free list election", with the possibility of cumulating, panashing and deleting candidates.
Furthermore, we want a significant reduction in Germany's approximately 2,500 parliamentarians along with the associated administrative apparatus.
One member of the Bundestag represents about 128,000 residents; in the U.S., the ratio is 1:600,000.
We want to see the nearly 700-member Bundestag reduced to fewer than 500.
1.11 Against Professional Politicians: Limiting the Term of Office
The unbroken tendency toward professional politicking has fostered the monopolization of power and steadily widened the unmistakable gap between voters and the elected.
The result is nepotism, a felt system, structures that promote corruption, and lobbying.
In order to establish our ideal of the citizen deputy, we demand a mandate time limit for deputies to four and for the Federal Chancellor to two legislative periods.
1.12 Curb lobbying
We want members of the Bundestag to devote their full working capacity to parliamentary work.
The man-dat must not suffer from paid secondary activities.
The excessive lobbying in Brussels and Berlin must be curbed.
We want to significantly tighten the regulations on sideline activities for parliamentarians and against bribery of members of parliament.
We have already imposed appropriate rules on our own deputies via our Articles of Association.
Furthermore, we advocate a lobbyist law with concrete rights, duties and sanctions for elected officials and lobbyists that corresponds to exemplary regulations in other democracies.
1.13 Private pension provision for parliamentarians
Members of the Bundestag currently pay no pension contributions and after just a few years already receive a pension that a middle-income employee cannot even achieve after 45 years of contributions.
The AfD wants to fundamentally reform the costly pension model for members of parliament, which places an excessive burden on the taxpayer, and convert it to a system of private pension provision.
1.14 Introduction of a criminal offense of tax waste
While tax evasion, even of comparatively small amounts, is consistently prosecuted and punished in Germany, tax waste, which is far more detrimental to the common good, remains unpunished.
Horrendous construction cost overruns, nonsensical procurement measures and wasteful prestige projects by public officials and heads of public authorities remain largely unpunished under the current legal situation.
The AfD therefore calls for the introduction of a new criminal offense of budgetary embezzlement.
The regulation is intended to strengthen the rights of taxpayers
and to enable the punishment of gross cases of tax waste by public servants and, in particular, prominent public officials.
1.15 Civil liberties legal system
The principles of equality before the law
and civil freedom of contract are among Europe's great civilizational achievements.
For most of human history, it was the unquestioned norm that people were unequal by birth or status and limited in their legal self-determination, up to the extreme of lawlessness in the form of serfdom or slavery.
Only the Christian and humanistic culture of the European peoples brought forth the aforementioned principles and realized them in a centuries-long process.
In recent decades, there has been an alarming shift away from these fundamental European values.
This regression in civilization must be countered.
The Alternative for Germany advocates equality before the law.
That is why we reject so-called "quota regulations".
Article 3 of the Basic Law states: "Men and women have equal rights.
The state promotes the actual implementation of equal rights for women and men and works towards the elimination of existing disadvantages.
No one may be discriminated against or given preferential treatment because of his or her gender."
These sentences have a clear and good sense.
The right not to be discriminated against by the state on the basis of one's gender is an individual human right.
It comes to each person in the same way.
Some jurists argue incorrectly that Article 3 of the Basic Law allows the state to favor or disadvantage individuals "by proxy" for their respective genders in order to "equalize" the genders presented as collectives.
However, in a free state governed by the rule of law, it can never be a legitimate goal of state action to impose an equally arbitrary "gender quota" in arbitrarily defined areas of society.
Similarly, legally mandated unequal treatment cannot be a means of achieving equality.
Laws that mandate such are unconstitutional and must be rejected.
The AfD will campaign for its repeal in the German Bundestag.
1.15.1 Preserving contractual freedom
The Alternative for Germany advocates the preservation or restoration of civil self-determination in civil law transactions.
That is why we reject so-called "anti-discrimination laws".
The central value of a liberal civil law system is the freedom to conclude contracts, i.e. the freedom of each individual to decide for himself whether or not he wishes to enter into legal relations with another citizen.
Under the influence of the European Union, this fundamental principle of private autonomy is being destroyed step by step in German legislation.
In a free basic order, the state is subject to the duty of equal treatment in its dealings with the citizen, but the citizen himself is free to shape his private legal relationships.
Abolishing this separation between state and society damages the liberal nature of the legal order and opens the door to an ultimately totalitarian order of rule.
The AfD will campaign in the German Bundestag against this development and for the preservation of a liberal private legal system.
CHAPTER 2
The EURO Has Failed: Currency, Monetary and Fiscal Policy
2.1 Continued membership in the euro zone is unaffordable for Germany
The business basis of the euro was: no liability for the debts of other countries and no national debt above 60 percent of the respective gross domestic product.
These rules have been destroyed.
That is why Germany must abandon the transfer union and leave the euro area.
2.2 Ending the ECB's Policy of Expropriating Savers and Pensioners
The ECB should be a second Bundesbank.
Instead, it pursues a monetary policy of uneconomic interest rates (zero interest rate policy).
This destroys all funded pension systems, from occupational pensions to state-sponsored pension systems, private life insurance and private savings.
Since Governor Draghi took office, there has been a shortfall of around 500 billion euros for Germans' retirement provision.
The AfD calls for the enforcement of the treaty ban on government financing and a return of the ECB's powers to monetary policy in the narrower, classical sense.
All measures taken by the ECB to manipulate the free capital market must be stopped.
A policy of artificially induced zero and negative interest rates leads to the destruction of the central bond markets.
The exchange rate devaluation caused by ECB policy and the price explosion on the stock and real estate markets are destroying the purchasing power of income that is not rising so quickly,
of which employees in particular
and pensioners are affected.
While the Bundesbank has bought government bonds only once in 50 years, this is the daily "business model" for the ECB.
By the end of 2016, it had purchased government and private bonds for more than two trillion euros.
Such "rotation of the money printing machine" is prohibited under the European treaties.
The euro is a misconstruction for an economic area with completely different performing economies.
After eighteen years of tension-building, the single currency can only be maintained by permanent and largely German assumption of liability.
This is no basis for the prosperous development of the economies of the euro countries.
The result is permanently high unemployment in southern Europe.
Youth unemployment is over 40 percent in Spain and Greece, over 35 percent in Italy and over 25 percent in France.
"Lost generations" are developing.
The peoples of Europe will not accept this development without complaint and will rightly revolt against the political elites.
The suprastate bailout policy violates applicable law, including the ECB's prohibition of state financing and the prohibition of liability for the debts of other member states (Articles 123 and 125 TFEU).
The bailout policy breaks all assurances given to voters since the 1990s that "Germany will never be allowed to assume liability for foreign debt."
We reject arbitrary "rescue measures" in favor of individual banks and companies or even an "EU economic government".
These are interventions in the market economy that are in breach of contract
and in the democratic decision-making structures of the nation states involved.
The AfD is aware that reversing a wrong decision made almost 20 years ago will be difficult financially.
However, such costs will be lower than those of remaining in the Eurosystem, as its further development in terms of external liability and interest rate losses is unpredictable and therefore cannot be limited.
2.3 Preservation of cash
Our cash is in danger.
With the support of the German government, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank, its creeping abolition is being prepared.
The AfD calls for the permanent preservation of unrestricted cash use as an important civil liberty right.
The abolition of cash would limit the role of money as an inviolable and fee-free store of value.
Abolishing cash makes it possible to expropriate account holders in the event of a crisis.
Cash is a natural bulwark against a further lowering of interest rates into negative territory.
A cash ban would mean that payment transactions could only take place electronically.
This gives the state and banks total control over all money flows and economic activities,
over every financial act of citizens, and possibly even over their whereabouts.
The transparent bank customer would become the transparent human being - full surveillance right into private, even intimate areas of life.
Such control options are not compatible with a free constitutional state.
2.4 No German Liability for Foreign Banks
The AfD demands that German banks limit any liabilities to the national level and, as in the past, be able to create their own composite solutions that take into account the different profiles of the banking groups.
We oppose any attempts at European communitarization of liability risks, especially from banking transactions.
The "banking union" would be a further step toward the liability and transfer union rejected by the AfD.
We advocate restoring national sovereignty over banking and financial services; this sector of the economy is vital to the smooth functioning of our national economy.
The cross-border liability of German banks for all other EU banks must remain excluded.
As an immediate measure, even before a "D-Exit", the AfD therefore calls on the German government and the Deutsche Bundesbank to end the politically tolerated overuse of the "Target-2" clearing account.
At present, the Bundesbank has outstanding claims of more than €800 billion against the ECB, the recovery of which is uncertain due to the lack of deposited collateral.
Until the exit from the euro, these endangered Target 2 claims of the Bundesbank are to be melted down, closed out annually on cut-off dates or backed by collateral.
Alternatively, the Bundesbank is instructed to reduce these claims by purchasing real assets in the debtor countries.
2.5 Your money is safe with us: protecting citizens against a euro crisis
Germany must also be able to act in the event of a sudden monetary crisis.
We therefore want to make timely provisions for the reintroduction of a new national currency ("Deutsche Mark").
In the event of a worsening of the financial crisis, we want to take the precaution of launching a legislative package of measures now.
The Bundesbank's gold stored abroad must be transferred to Germany in full and without delay.
When the Deutsche Mark is reintroduced, Germany may need the gold as a temporary cover option.
CHAPTER 3
Foreign and security policy: asserting German interests
3.1 Foreign policy must be aligned with German interests
As one of the world's major economic nations, Germany is interested in maintaining good relations with all states
and promoting peaceful coexistence among peoples.
The AfD is committed to the values of the United Nations Charter and international law.
We advocate a foreign policy geared to German interests.
Germany needs a national security strategy that is adapted to the problem situation.
As a shaping power within the international community, our country can contribute to crisis prevention and the peaceful resolution of conflicts.
The future of Europe does not lie in the EU in its present state,
nor in its further centralization, but in a Europe of sovereign states working together in partnership.
The AfD advocates reforming the United Nations in such a way that it takes account of the changed weightings in the world.
We seek a permanent seat for Germany in the Security Council as well as the abolition of the enemy state clause in the United Nations Charter directed against Germany.
The AfD calls for strict adherence to the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of states, including by non-state actors.
The AfD is committed to expanding the OSCE's role in stabilizing crisis regions in Europe and its periphery.
International Islamic terrorism is a serious threat to the international community.
Its emergence and spread must be combated by all legal means available.
3.2 The relationship with important states is changing
The USA is Germany's most important ally.
The guiding principle of an interest-driven German foreign and security policy is the equality of both partners.
The increasing U.S. focus on the Pacific and East Asian regions requires an autonomous German security strategy.
In line with long-standing U.S. demands for equitable burden sharing and European aspirations for a greater say in NATO, it is only logical and in Germany's interest to strengthen European influence in NATO.
NATO must once again become a purely defensive alliance.
National defense is to be ensured by the European states largely on their own.
The AfD rejects the creation of an EU army or the use of German armed forces for foreign interests.
For the AfD, an easing of tensions in relations with Russia is a prerequisite for lasting peace in Europe.
It is in Germany's interest to integrate Russia into an overall security structure without disregarding its own interests and those of our allies.
The AfD advocates an end to the sanctions policy.
On the contrary, economic cooperation with Russia should be deepened.
Relations with Turkey, on the other hand, are shaken and need to be reshaped.
Culturally, Turkey does not belong to Europe.
Current political developments are a cause for concern and show that Turkey has distanced itself even further from Europe and the Western community of values.
Turkey's membership in NATO must be terminated, the German Armed Forces must be withdrawn from Incirlik, and all direct and indirect financial assistance to Turkey under international, multilateral and bilateral agreements must be stopped immediately.
The AfD also rejects Turkey's accession to the EU and calls for an immediate end to all accession negotiations.
3.3 Germany must defend itself
The AfD calls for the return of the armed forces to operational readiness.
Their tasks are derived from the Basic Law and the threat situation.
At present, the Bundeswehr does not meet this requirement either structurally, in terms of personnel or materially.
Given the current threat to Europe and the geopolitical realignment of the U.S., this is dangerous and therefore unacceptable.
The German armed forces must be reformed in such a way that their operational readiness is ensured even during missions of the highest intensity.
To achieve this, extensive structural, personnel and material changes are essential.
The conscript army has served the Federal Republic of Germany well for more than five decades.
The justification for compulsory military service is the threat situation, which will not change in the foreseeable future.
Universal conscription roots the armed forces in society.
Rebuilding homeland security forces or a Swiss-style militia system with a short presence requirement could be suitable for this purpose.
The AfD calls for the reinstatement of compulsory military service.
3.4 The AfD calls for a national security strategy
The AfD advocates a holistic approach to protecting the state, the economy and citizens.
This includes both military
and civilian components.
Knowledge and technology theft must be prevented.
In the age of hybrid threats and "cyber attacks" by state and non-state actors, as well as terrorism, civil-military cooperation is becoming increasingly important.
All of the country's utilities and administration depend on resilient infrastructure.
The state and citizens must be protected against violent actors already in the country, legally or illegally.
This can be achieved through new decentralized structures with central coordination
and readily available rapid response forces.
The AfD calls for a national security strategy with an annual debate on German security policy in the Bundestag and a corresponding government declaration by the Chancellor.
We consider the Schengen Agreement to have failed, as there is no effective control of the external borders.
Therefore, a German border guard must be re-established that is capable of protecting the state borders,
while ensuring the free movement of people and goods.
3.5 Germany should build on its economic strengths
The AfD demands that German economic interests be represented to the same extent that other countries represent their own interests.
Promoting foreign trade must be a high priority at government level.
The AfD demands non-discriminatory access to foreign import and export markets for German companies.
This includes access to raw materials and freedom of trade routes.
Maintaining reliable trade rules and developing them further in line with our country's interests is the core task of German foreign trade policy.
We also call for the takeover of German companies by foreign companies to be monitored more closely from the point of view of German economic interests and, if necessary, prevented.
This is particularly true if state-controlled foreign companies are involved or if there is a risk of an outflow of important technologies.
The selling off of knowledge that has been built up in our country over generations must be stopped.
The presumption of supranational courts must end.
If German companies abroad are threatened with fines of economic dimensions, we will intervene at the political level against such targeted destruction of German companies.
The interests of our citizens in health and consumer protection, animal welfare or nature conservation must be represented in a globalized world.
To achieve this, we need high standards of protection and a clear approach to different standards.
We want multilateral trade agreements within the framework of the World Trade Organization (WTO).
Bilateral trade agreements should only be concluded if multilateral trade negotiations are not feasible.
Investment protection treaties should only be concluded if they also protect German companies against uncertain legal relationships.
All agreements must be negotiated in transparent procedures.
The AfD rejects CETA, TISA and TTIP for the reasons outlined above.
Where markets fail in free trade, trade policy should intervene to correct the situation.
With a strategic trade policy, we safeguard the interests of our citizens and protect their jobs in global competition.
The AfD calls for the bundling of foreign trade promotion in the Federal Ministry of Economics.
3.6 Development Policy: Stability as a Security and Economic Interest
After 50 years of development policy, the result is sobering.
For example, Africa today accounts for only about two percent of world trade despite (or because of) all the aid it receives.
Rapid population growth is undoing the results of development policy.
The AfD calls for a fundamental change of strategy in development policy.
At the same time, German and European development aid policy should be aware that the dimension of the African problem (1.2 billion inhabitants in 2015; 2.4 billion inhabitants in 2050) is so enormous that even an optimized development aid policy cannot help the continent sustainably from the outside.
The AfD advocates a broader approach to development policy, which also includes German security and development cooperation.
and economic interests.
Partner countries and projects must be selected taking into account potential for success, sustainability and the possible own contribution.
Help should primarily be help for self-help.
If countries are enabled to develop on their own, this reduces the incentive to emigrate to Europe and Germany in particular.
Mass immigration increases the instability of Germany and Europe without solving the problems in the crisis regions.
Developing countries must be more equitably integrated into the international trading system with facilitation for their exports to developed countries and adequate protection for building their own economic development.
Market-economy structures are to be promoted in all areas.
This means extensive involvement of the private sector in development projects.
Instead of financial transfers, we call for opening our markets to products from developing countries.
At the same time, we want to help German entrepreneurs invest in these countries
and support entrepreneurs there in professionalizing their activities.
CHAPTER 4
Internal security
The terrorist attack on the Christmas market at Berlin's Memorial Church was the low point for the time being in a whole series of events that show that our security is in a bad way.
Terror and crime are not natural phenomena that must be accepted without criticism.
They are man-made and have causes that can be addressed.
That's exactly what we want to do.
4.1 Effectively combating crime against foreigners
The considerable proportion of foreigners, especially in violent and drug-related crime, is currently met with only half-hearted measures under immigration law.
In particular, foreign criminals can very often invoke obstacles to deportation and are thus spared deportation.
We therefore demand:Easier deportation, in particular the reintroduction of mandatory deportation even for minor crimes
Expulsion already imposed by the criminal courts
Enabling criminals who cannot be deported to be housed abroad on the basis of bilateral agreements with suitable countries.
The naturalization of criminals can be reliably prevented by:Preventing the acquisition of German citizenship by mere birth in Germany, because this can automatically turn members of criminal clans into German citizens, among other things
Abolition of the enforceable right to naturalization  Tightening of the grounds for exclusion from naturalization in the case of criminality
Naturalization should be revoked in the following cases: in the event of serious criminality within ten years of naturalization
for participation in terrorist organizations (e.g. IS)
in the case of membership of criminal clans, even if the revocation of naturalization leads to statelessness
To this end, Article 16 (1) of the Basic Law must be amended accordingly.
4.2 Enforcement abroad
In order to relieve the burden on German prisons, but also to increase the deterrent effect of the penal system, agreements should be concluded with foreign states, as close to home as possible, to establish prisons for foreign offenders which meet the requirements of the ECHR, are under German management and apply German law, and to which access for official purposes is possible at all times, as is the visit of relatives and lawyers.
4.3 Juvenile criminal law
The security situation is worsening dramatically, especially in urban areas.
A special role is played by young offenders, who are currently confronted with a virtually toothless legal system.
Experience shows that educational success in this segment can only be achieved by immediately imprisoning the perpetrators of serious offenses.
We therefore call for a corresponding amendment of the relevant laws, in particular the law on detention.
Because of the increasingly early onset of criminal development, the age of criminal responsibility must be lowered to twelve years and adult criminal law must be applied when the age of majority is reached.
4.4 Reform of the police
Despite the great personal commitment of police officers at the federal and state levels, public safety is not adequately guaranteed: Staff shortages, structural inadequacies, inadequate equipment and armament meet with poor pay and, in some cases, outrageously miserable social security.
Moreover, the federal and state governments compete with each other by offering widely differing working conditions, and they chase away each other's best civil servants.
This must finally come to an end.
The AfD therefore demands: Restructuring of the federal police forces under unified leadership
Transfer of the riot police of the federal states to the federal police
Revival of the deployment of conscripts in border service
Equal pay nationwide through a separate pay scale for police, soldiers and emergency services with additional remuneration commensurate with the risk to health or life in each case
Paid overtime and special assignments
Uniform federal uniforms
Standardized, state-of-the-art and situation-adapted weaponry and equipment (e.g. bodycam, Taser)
Uniform federal service regulations Restoration of free medical care with private medical treatment
Assumption of disability and employer's liability insurance by the employer
Widows' and orphans' pensions in the amount of the pension entitlements of the final office in the event of death due to a qualifying occupational accident
4.5 Better tracing capabilities
The police authorities are to be able to use video surveillance with facial recognition software in public places and buildings with a high crime rate in order to improve search options.
In the search for unknown perpetrators, it should be permitted to have existing DNA trace material also examined for physical and biogeographical characteristics of the person sought, in order to enable targeted search measures.
4.6 Combating organized crime
Organized crime (OC) must be combated on a sustained basis.
This includes making better use of profits from crime and, consequently, making better use of the legal instruments of forfeiture and confiscation that already exist.
The majority of perpetrators in the field of organized crime are foreigners.
Designating them must be simplified.
For this reason, the OC affiliation should be introduced as a reason for deportation for this group of persons if there is a corresponding suspicion.
4.7 Improve the safety of citizens
At the suggestion of the EU Commission, the EU Parliament amended the EU Firearms Directive in response to the terrorist attacks in Paris in November 2015.
This will result in a further tightening of gun laws.
Those most affected by the tightening of an already restrictive gun law are legal gun owners, sport shooters, hunters and gun collectors.
It does not cover the illegal weapons used for terrorist attacks.
We reject the implementation of the EU Firearms Directive.
Make it easier for law-abiding citizens to obtain a firearms license.
At the same time, we demand an increase in the minimum sentence for "dangerous bodily injury by means of a dangerous tool" (Section 224 (1) No. 2 of the Criminal Code, i.e. when a knife or similar object is used, to imprisonment for one year (instead of the previous six months or three in less serious cases).
4.8 Abolish warning associations
Enforcement of the law is the responsibility of the state.
The latter has a monopoly on the use of force and must ensure that the law is applied correctly.
The AfD wants to put a legal stop to the warning industry, which abuses copyright law to collect millions from innocent citizens on the Internet every year.
4.9 Statutory prohibition of reimbursement of pre-litigation collection costs
Collection agencies regularly charge debtors horrendous costs for taking over the very work of debtor management and pre-court debt collection from creditors.
With the exception of the legal professions, this is to be prevented.
Under the German Civil Code (BGB), the principle applies that the respective creditor of a receivable must manage it himself and, if necessary, also collect it: Dunning is part of the original business area of a commercial enterprise.
The costs incurred by the involvement of a debt collection agency are therefore generally not attributable to the debtor.
In principle, the creditor is responsible for the management of receivables at his own expense.
Nevertheless, in practice debtors continue to be charged completely exorbitant costs for debt collection services, also for intimidation purposes, taking advantage of regulatory loopholes in case law.
The AfD calls for a legal regulation that the collection of debts as an original task of every creditor may under no circumstances be imposed on the debtor by involving third parties, in particular collection agencies.
This shall not apply only insofar as the involvement of a lawyer is indispensably necessary, in particular for the preparation of a judicial recovery.
Its fees are already regulated by law in the Lawyers' Fees Act (Rechtsanwaltsvergütungsgesetz).
CHAPTER 5
Asylum needs borders: Immigration and asylum
5.1 The demographic problems of Europe and Africa
While the European population is aging and shrinking, it is exploding in Africa and in the Arab-Muslim countries of the Middle East.
In Africa, each woman has an average of 4.5 children.
At the same time, child mortality is falling sharply thanks to international aid.
In contrast, the birth rate in Europe is 1.6 and in Germany 1.4.
This means that in the period up to 2050, the population of Africa, including all Arab countries, will grow from 1.2 billion people today to 2.4 billion.
The approximately 590 million people currently living in Europe will decrease in number to about 540 million over the same period, one third of whom will be over 60 years old.
In relation to prosperous Europe, Africa represents a poorhouse of the world.
Both causes - Africa's population growth and the prosperity gap with Europe - are creating a migratory pressure that has the dimensions of a mass migration.
Social geographic experts have long been able to quantify these migratory pressures.
In the Arab region, 23 percent of the population is estimated to be willing to emigrate, and in sub-Saharan Africa about 37 percent.
In absolute numbers, this currently amounts to around 350 million people willing to migrate, predominantly young men.
By 2050, their number will increase to around 950 million.
An increasing number of so-called "failed states" and a lack of birth control are contributing to this almost unsolvable situation.
Against this problem background, it is obvious that migratory movements from Africa to Europe on the scale to be expected could destabilize our continent within a few years.
Blanket immigration quotas for a portion of the population willing to emigrate are ethically unjustifiable, because they simultaneously reject the vast majority.
Political demands in this regard are therefore pseudohumanitarian and self-defeating.
Individual protection and asylum guarantees were created in 1949 for persecuted individuals.
They promise the impossible under today's conditions of mass, globalized migration.
They cannot be sustained.
The AfD's goal is self-preservation, not self-destruction of our state and people.
The future of Germany and Europe must be secured for the long term.
We want to leave our descendants a country that is still recognizable as our Germany.
5.2 Immigration must take place according to our rules
Immigration cannot solve the problems of the social security systems that have arisen in Germany as a result of the decline in the birth rate and will become more acute in the future.
Rather, existing problems are exacerbated by the current nature and scale of immigration.
The borders must be closed immediately to put an immediate end to the unregulated mass immigration into our country and its social systems by mainly professionally unqualified asylum seekers.
Successful adaptation of all these people, including a considerable proportion of illiterates, is impossible.
We need minus immigration in this regard for several years.
Priority over immigration is given to family and population policy measures, in particular an "activating family policy,"
but also to reducing the outflow of qualified workers from Germany.
We want to decide for ourselves who comes to us and only allow qualified immigration on an as-needed basis.
The right to determine the quality and quantity of immigration is an outstanding feature of state sovereignty; this must also apply to Germany.
Only those who can prove their identity should be allowed to apply for asylum.
All rejected asylum seekers are to be returned to their countries of origin.
The federal government should become responsible for this in order to ensure uniform administrative practice and overcome the refusal of non-cooperative states.
We also call for a minimum annual deportation quota.
If countries of origin refuse to allow their citizens to re-enter the country, pressure must be exerted on these countries, for example by cutting off development aid.
In the alternative, migrants must be transferred to third countries that are willing to receive them.
5.3 Turkey does not belong in the EU
We strictly reject Turkey's accession to the EU, as well as visa facilitation or even visa-free travel for Turkish citizens.
Privileges for Turkish nationals based on long-outdated treaties - e.g. health co-insurance for parents in the social security agreement or their preferential treatment under aliens law according to the so-called Association Council Decision 1/80 - must be ended.
The whole corresponding agreement of the EU with Turkey from 1963 should be cancelled.
5.4 No further immigration into the social systems
The high level of German social benefits attracts numerous poverty-stricken immigrants from other EU states as well as from third countries.
Here, the freedom of movement in the EU and the right of asylum are abused in order to gain access to the social system.
We want to put a stop to this abuse: social benefits should only be granted to foreigners from EU member states if they have been employed in Germany for four years and have been able to fully cover their living expenses themselves.
Social and health benefits for asylum seekers must not have an incentive effect and must be limited to what is absolutely necessary.
The principle of "benefits in kind before cash benefits" must apply.
5.5 Refuge in the region of origin instead of unchecked mass migration to Germany
The mass abuse of the basic right to asylum must be ended by amending the Basic Law.
For the same reason, the outdated Geneva Convention on Refugees and other supra- and international agreements need to be renegotiated - with the aim of adapting them to the threat posed to Europe by population explosions and migration flows of the globalized present and future.
We demand national sovereignty in any form of immigration.
We reject the "Common European Asylum System" (CEAS).
European cooperation is to focus essentially on securing Europe's external border.
Applications for asylum must therefore be made outside Europe.
Wherever European law conflicts with these premises, it must be amended or repealed.
The AfD is committed to avoiding economic causes of flight, even if this could initially bring disadvantages for the Western economy.
By sufficiently increasing the UNHCR's funding for refugee centers in regions close to their homes and cultures, people who have already fled are to be offered a safe place to stay.
The European border management agency Frontex and the German Armed Forces must end their smuggling assistance services in the Mediterranean
and return all refugee boats to their places of departure instead of ferrying the passengers to Europe.
Where this is not legally or factually possible, they should be transferred to non-European reception centers without exception, following the Australian model.
We demand strict controls at the German border crossings as well as the guarding of the green border by integrated security systems, which can also include fences.
5.6 Enable secure identification of asylum seekers
The AfD calls for the creation of the legal and technical prerequisites to enable all authorities across the countries to be convinced beyond doubt within a very short time whether a person is already registered elsewhere under different personal data.
5.7 No family reunification in our social systems
The recognition rate for asylum seekers has risen since 2014 from below 30 percent to currently almost 70 percent, even though very few come from war zones and all enter via safe third countries.
In these cases, there is no entitlement to protection either under Article 16a of the Basic Law or under applicable international law.
The opposing daily recognition practice in Germany takes place although the reform of the Basic Law was supposed to prevent this kind of immigration.
This practice must be stopped immediately.
In order to hold those responsible for the mass immigration tolerated from September 2015 accountable, we will demand the establishment of a committee of inquiry in the Bundestag.
Each recognized asylum seeker is followed by one to four family members.
The majority of these people will almost certainly live permanently on welfare benefits.
We reject any family reunification for refugees, as the German social systems cannot bear these burdens.
If the reason for flight in the country of origin of recognized refugees ceases to exist, their residence permit usually ends.
You must return.
In particular, protection against civil war is designed to be purely temporary and must not lead to immigration through the back door.
If these measures do not lead to at least zero immigration, a law must define an absolute load limit beyond which no more asylum seekers will be admitted to protect Germany.
The astronomical costs of mass immigration must be reported transparently and without gaps across all levels of government and placed under democratic control in an overarching "refugee budget."
5.8 Costs for unaccompanied minor aliens explode
Unaccompanied aliens (UMA) who are allegedly minors abuse the law on aliens and asylum.
Almost all of them are male, and between 50 percent and 80 percent of those claiming to be minors are adults.
Their crime rate is disproportionately high, and the state is defenseless.
They serve as so-called anchor children for the subsequent reunification of their families. In
2015, 67,000 of these foreigners classified as minors were newly registered in Germany, and in 2016 again over 50,000.
With costs averaging 60,000 to 80,000 euros per UMA per year, annual costs for this group of people alone are already estimated at six to ten billion euros.
We want to put an end to these abuses and demand mandatory age examinations in cases of doubt,
the exclusion of family reunification
and the transition to the asylum procedure upon reaching the age of majority without exception.
5.9 Adaptation is the task of the immigrant, not of "society
Every migrant or immigrant to whom we grant a permanent right to stay has a duty to adapt to his or her new homeland and the German Leitkultur, not the other way around.
German citizenship by naturalization may only be obtained by those about whose permanently successful assimilation and loyalty to their new homeland there are no doubts.
There must be no lowering of educational and vocational requirements to make it easier for immigrants to adapt to the level of education here and to gain access to the labor market.
We want to remove the principle of place of birth (acquisition of German citizenship solely by birth in Germany, even if neither parent is German) from the law and return to the principle of descent as it applied until the year 2000.
Dual citizenship should be limited to well-founded special cases.
Membership in foreign terrorist organizations leads to the loss of German citizenship.
CHAPTER 6
Islam in Conflict with the Free Democratic Basic Order
ISLAM IN CONFLICT WITH THE FREE DEMOCRATIC BASIC ORDER
Islam does not belong to Germany.
In the spread of Islam and the presence of more than 5 million Muslims, whose numbers are constantly growing, the AfD sees a great danger for our state, our society and our system of values.
Former Chancellor Schmidt correctly recognized this fact in his political balance sheet and formulated it as early as 2008: "Anyone who wants to increase the numbers of Muslims in Germany accepts an increasing threat to our internal peace."
An Islam that does not respect our legal system or even fights it and lays claim to rule as the only valid religion is not compatible with Germany's free democratic basic order.
Many Muslims live law-abiding (and integrated) lives and are valued members of our society.
However, the AfD wants to prevent the spread of isolated Islamic parallel societies in which Muslim "justices of the peace" apply Sharia law and undermine the state's monopoly on law enforcement and jurisdiction.
The AfD fully recognizes the freedom of faith, conscience and confession.
However, it demands that the exercise of religion (in accordance with Article 140 of the Basic Law in conjunction with Article 136 (1) of the Weimar Constitution) be restricted by state laws, human rights and our values.
State law stands above religious commandments and traditions in the secular state.
Criticism of Islam, including religious satire (and caricatures), are lawful within the framework of general laws.
They are a consequence of the fundamental right of freedom of expression and artistic freedom.
The AfD opposes the defamation of rational criticism of religion as "Islamophobia" or "racism.
We urge everyone to replace such polemics with intellectual discourse.
Associations hostile to the constitution, which are to be banned under Article 9 (2) of the Basic Law, are to be prohibited from building and operating mosques because of the concrete danger that imams will spread teachings there that contribute to a political-religious radicalization of Muslims directed against our legal system.
We want to prevent Muslims from radicalizing themselves to the point of violent Salafism and terror.
The financing of the construction and operation of mosques by Islamic states or foreign donors or their intermediaries is also to be prevented.
Islamic states want to spread Islam in Germany and increase their power by building and operating mosques.
They are waging and supporting a culture war.
Thus, the dependence of the approximately 900 Ditib mosques and their imams on Turkey's state "Office for Religious Affairs" (Diyanet) is unacceptable.
Through Ditib, authoritarian Turkey exerts strong influence on many citizens of Turkish origin living in Germany.
It thereby hinders their adaptation to our society and endangers their loyalty to our state.
The AfD rejects the minaret as an Islamic sign of rule, as well as the muezzin call, according to which there is no God but the Islamic Allah.
This is religious imperialism.
Minarets and the call of the muezzin are at odds with the tolerant coexistence of religions practiced by Christian churches, Jewish communities and other religious communities in the modern age.
Imams must commit themselves unreservedly to our Basic Law.
The sermons in mosques in Germany should be held in German.
Imams who agitate against the Basic Law are banned from preaching
and are deported if the legal requirements are met.
The chairs of Islamic theology at German universities should be abolished and the positions transferred to Islamic Studies, which is neutral in terms of confession.
The AfD rejects granting Islamic organizations the status of a corporation under public law because they do not meet the legal requirements - sufficient representation, guarantee of duration, and respect for liberal state-church law.
The recognition of religious freedom, the ideological neutrality of the state and the equal value of religions, which is required by state church law, are alien to Islam.
The AfD demands a general ban on full-face veils in public and in public service.
Burqas and niqabs erect a barrier between the wearer and her environment by covering her face, thus making it more difficult for her to live together in society.
A ban is also lawful according to a 2014 ruling by the European Court of Human Rights.
No headscarves are to be worn in the public sector, and in educational institutions neither by teachers nor by schoolgirls, following the French model.
The headscarf as a religious-political sign of the subordination of Muslim women to men contradicts the equal rights of women and men guaranteed in the Basic Law as well as the free development of the personality.
The AfD regards the 2015 ruling by the Federal Constitutional Court that a general ban on headscarves for female Muslim teachers is unconstitutional as an obstacle to a successful integration policy.
The AfD demands that a civil marriage (before any religious wedding) be declared legally binding again.
Religious marriage ceremonies cannot replace this requirement under state law for the recognition of a marriage.
The ban on religious pre-wedding ceremonies, such as those performed by imams, is to be reinstated and the deletion of sections 67 and 67a in the 2009 Personal Status Act is to be reversed.
Only in this way can we counteract imam marriage, which allows polygamy, child marriage and intermarriage, often bypassing civil marriage and under duress.
Marriages contracted abroad in accordance with Sharia family law, which violate our laws and our moral standards, should not be legally recognized in Germany.
CHAPTER 7
Welcoming culture for children: family support and population development
The dramatic increase in marriage and childlessness and the disappearance of normal medium-sized families - long since accepted by the established parties as having no alternative - are causing our traditional population to shrink by more than 250,000 people a year, with a strong upward trend.
The AfD is bucking this trend toward self-abolition
and wants to make Germany's society more family- and child-friendly from the ground up.
We do not want to leave the land of our fathers and mothers to anyone who squanders or plunders this heritage, but to our descendants, to whom we have exemplified and passed on our values.
Stable families are the center and foundation of any self-sustaining society, where prosperity and social peace prevail and values are passed on.
Germany needs a paradigm shift toward a national population policy.
Family policy should therefore set the standard for all related policy areas, especially social, tax and education policy.
7.1 Do not abolish Germany
The preservation of its own people is the primary task of politics and every government.
In Germany's current demographic situation, this can only succeed with an activating family policy.
Without a balanced birth rate, social peace is endangered insofar as it is based on our social, pension and health care systems.
Therefore, measures to increase the birth rate of the native population in the medium term are indispensable to stabilize our social security systems.
A child-friendly society
and the preservation of the state's population must therefore be included in the Basic Law as a state objective.
7.2 Strengthen marriage and family
The AfD wants to preserve and strengthen the model of marriage and traditional family with children, which is protected and proven by the Basic Law.
Through education and assistance, we want to encourage and enable young people to start and maintain a family.
We want to remove unnecessary barriers so that stable marriages and families are created and remain.
We want to start early by making recognized rules on partnership and family, household management, life protection and child rearing an integral part of the curricula and textbooks of all general education schools.
7.3 Promote marital solidarity and stability
The reform of family law (1977) meant that even criminal offenses and serious misconduct against the spouse have no effect in many cases when assessing financial claims after separation and divorce.
Such case law is not conducive to encouraging marital solidarity among partners and undermines the stability of existing marriages.
Serious misconduct against marital solidarity must be considered again in the divorce consequences.
7.4 Welcoming children
Unborn children also have a right to life.
Far too often, this right is subordinated to self-realization or social fears for the future.
The AfD wants to prevent such fears by providing concrete assistance to families in all circumstances, and in particular to facilitate and promote the life-saving resort of adoption.
Even before that, however, society must instill respect for life and a positive image of marriage and parenthood in families, schools and the media.
Pregnancy conflict counseling must indeed serve to protect life.
As a condition imposed by the Federal Constitutional Court, the effectiveness of the counseling voucher scheme must be reviewed on a regular basis.
If necessary, effective protection of life must be ensured through legislative corrections.
An abortion must be reported.
Failure to do so should result in a noticeable penalty.
Abortion statistics are thereby intended to reflect the true number of abortions.
We reject all efforts to declare the killing of the unborn a human right.
7.5 Welcome culture for children
A welcoming culture for children should also be reflected in concrete measures with which we want to relieve the financial burden on families with below-average incomes in particular and thus encourage them to have children:
Partial waivers for a marriage start loan are intended to motivate married couples to start planning a family sooner.
Travel costs and co-payments for medically necessary doctor's visits for needy families with children and expectant parents are to be covered by the state.
Services for participation (school bus, school equipment, school trips,...) should become more accessible.
We want to generously promote recognized voluntary services (FSJ, FÖJ, BFD, IJFD, etc.), which make a valuable contribution to the practical education of young people, so that they are also accessible to children whose parents have a low income.
Parents should be entitled to unemployment benefit I for a longer period of time and their new employment should be supported by reintegration assistance to the employer.
We want to waive the BaFöG repayment for students with a good degree who become parents during their studies or shortly thereafter.
Young people in training are to receive compensation for the second-home tax levied by municipalities.
Families raising children make just as important a contribution to stabilizing social security systems as active contributors.
Therefore, the AfD wants to establish tax and contribution equity for families through a comprehensive equalization of benefits.
This includes family splitting, which is intended to provide noticeable relief for families by means of appropriate tax allowances per family member.
7.6 Strengthening parental care - creating real freedom of choice
Children under the age of three feel most comfortable when they are cared for by their own parents.
It must once again be possible for a family with young children to live on one salary, so that parents are free to choose between working or taking a break from work.
The state must provide the same financial support for parental care as it does for daycare centers and child minders.
Parents who care for their infants themselves directly experience their children's development, provide heart education, and thus maintain their children's physical and mental health.
In this respect, they make an important contribution to society and deserve recognition for this.
Following the care break, it must be possible for them to resume their careers without major hurdles.
7.7 Children Need Both Parents: Parenting Alone Is Not an Ideal Case
The number of traditional families in Germany has been declining for many years - the number of so-called "single parents", on the other hand, has increased sharply in recent years.
For single parents and children, this living situation means an above-average risk of living in relative poverty.
Despite alarming findings about the effects on child development, almost all parties are in favor of unconditional support for single parents.
There is no differentiation as to whether this life situation has come about by fate, through self-inflicted fault or on the basis of one's own decisions.
The decision to live as a single parent is a private matter -
however, the solidarity community is liable for any resulting neediness.
The AfD wants to help single parents lead independent lives.
However, it is opposed to any financial support for organizations that promote "single-parent families" as a normal, progressive or even desirable way of life.
The benefit of special support from the solidarity community should be granted only to those single parents who do not push the other parent out of sharing in the educational responsibility and practical educational performance.
7.8 Strengthening fathers
So far, no party has adopted a targeted policy for men and fathers.
In the case of many separated couples, many fathers suffer under family law provisions, wishing, for example, that they could have more contact with their children.
We therefore want to stand up for the rights of fathers.
7.9 For a clear family image - gender ideology is anti-constitutional
Gender ideology marginalizes natural differences between the sexes and challenges gender identity.
It wants to abolish the classic family as a life model and role model.
This is in clear contradiction to the Basic Law, which protects marriage and the family (as classically understood) as the institution that supports the state,
because only this can produce the people of the state as the bearers of sovereignty.
Gender ideology contradicts both the scientific findings of biology and developmental psychology and the practical everyday life experience of many generations.
We therefore reject efforts on a national and international level to implement this ideology through instruments such as gender studies, quota regulations e.g. for women, propa- ganda campaigns such as "Equal Pay Day" or "gender-neutral language".
The AfD wants federal and state family policy to be oriented toward the image of the family consisting of father, mother and children.
We reject all attempts to extend the meaning of the word "family" in Article 6 (1) of the Basic Law to other communities and in this way to deprive the family of special state protection.
The "Federal Ministry for Families, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth" is to be transformed into a "Federal Ministry for Family and Population Development", which coordinates and promotes population development according to scientific criteria.
7.9.1 Gender ideology out of schools - stop early sexualization
A one-sided emphasis on homosexuality and transsexuality in the classroom, as practiced by the so-called "sexual pedagogy of diversity", represents an inadmissible interference in the natural development of our children and in the parental right to education guaranteed by the Basic Law.
As a result, children and adolescents are made insecure about their sexual identity, overburdened and have their feelings of shame violated - often by people not connected to the school and usually against the will of their parents.
The AfD clearly opposes all attempts to eliminate the proven, traditional family image through state-sponsored re-education programs in kindergartens and schools.
Our children must not become the plaything of the sexual inclinations of a loud minority.
The ideological experiment of early sexualization must be stopped immediately.
7.9.2 Stop wasting taxes on "gender research
Gender research" is not a serious science, but follows the ideological pretense that natural sex (sex) and social sex (gender) are completely independent of each other.
The ultimate goal is the abolition of natural gender polarity.
The federal and state governments may no longer provide funding for " gender research" or fill "gender professorships."
Existing funding lines are to be terminated, and the "equality officers" at universities who are committed to the "gender ideology" are to be abolished.
CHAPTER 8
Education and school: courage to differentiate
We are committed to comprehensive education, which is necessary for the development of the personality and for the exercise of civic rights and duties.
The policies of the established parties, which strive for a leveling uniform school and accept a loss of quality in the process, threaten the future opportunities of young people and
thus also the competitiveness of our economy.
The educational standards of the various types of schools must be aligned with the requirements of secondary educational institutions so that the transition from school to vocational training or university can take place without too much disappointment.
We call for a move away from gossipy competency orientation and a return to teaching subject knowledge as the central concern of schools.
The so-called "new learning culture," which replaces classroom-led instruction with self-directed, competency-based learning, has led to massive reductions in student achievement.
In almost all of Germany's federal states, education politicians and school supervisors have allowed themselves to be turned into stooges of the testing industry in the wake of the "PISA" furor.
One reform follows the other with a continuous lowering of the level.
The AfD rejects the influence of international corporations, foundations and other lobby groups on our education system
and thus on Germany's future viability.
We will not support the economization and globalization of the German education system.
8.1 Maintaining a multi-tier school system
The creeping abolition of different types of schools and the development towards a leveling uniform school must be stopped.
Efficient teaching and learning is only possible if the differences in performance between students in a school type remain limited.
Educational equity requires differentiation, not egalitarianism.
We therefore advocate a school system that is differentiated according to talent and that does justice to the different abilities of students.
Educational standards in all types of schools must be aligned with the highest level in Germany.
Admission requirements for the Gymnasium must be based solely on performance criteria that are binding throughout the state.
The Abitur must once again become proof of the ability to study, and the Hauptschulabschluss or Realschulabschluss must enable qualified vocational training.
8.2 Strengthening vocational training: Master craftsman instead of master
Dual training in companies and vocational schools is a successful model.
However, the pursuit of ever higher rates of high school graduates and university graduates as well as inadequate knowledge on the part of secondary school leavers are endangering the next generation of trainees in the training occupations.
Numerous apprenticeships cannot be filled for lack of sufficiently qualified applicants, and a quarter of apprentices drop out.
The dropout rates for students are similar.
We want to strengthen the vocational education and training system that is valued worldwide.
The value and benefits of vocational education must be more widely appreciated.
8.3 No ideologically motivated inclusion: Preserve special education schools
The United Nations requirement to guarantee disabled children participation in the education system has already been met in Germany.
Children with special needs receive comprehensive support in the special school that the regular school cannot provide.
The AfD therefore advocates the preservation of remedial and special schools.
8.4 Consequences of mass immigration: not on the backs of students
The aim of schooling for asylum seekers of school age must be to prepare them for life after their return to their country of origin and to bridge the time until their return in a meaningful way.
Native students must not be impeded in their learning progress.
8.5 Bologna has failed: reintroduce Diplom and Magister degrees
The EU-wide harmonization of study programs (Bologna Process) has led to an over-schooling of studies, over-regulation and bureaucracy.
Academic freedom was curtailed, and it became more difficult to change places of study.
With the high number of 18,044 degree programs (as of 2015/16) that have been created as a result of the compulsion to profile, the comparability of degrees is significantly more difficult.
Employers criticize the low qualifications of bachelor's degree graduates.
The AfD wants to reintroduce the tried and tested Diplom and Magister degree programs.
Modularization of studies and accreditation agencies should be abolished.
The right to award doctorates must be reserved for universities.
German must be preserved as a language of teaching and scholarship.
8.6 Strengthen the autonomy of universities: Preserve freedom of research and teaching
Germany must remain a country of cutting-edge research.
We want to introduce higher basic funding for universities in order to reduce their dependence on third-party funding.
Universities should have the right to select applicants through entrance examinations.
The compulsion toward leveling created by planned economy targets for student numbers, student success, and other quotas must be ended.
8.7 No ideological influence at school: the neutrality of the school must be preserved
The classroom must not be a place of political indoctrination.
German schools often do not promote the formation of one's own opinion, but rather the uncritical adoption of ideological guidelines.
However, the guiding principle of school education must be the independent thinking citizen.
8.8 No Confessional Islamic Instruction in German Schools
Islamic instruction in German schools currently does not serve integration, but promotes persistence in attitudes that prevent true integration.
Integration does not mean that Germany adapts to Muslims.
Integration means that Muslims adapt to Germany.
Since the Islamic communities in Germany do not have a church-like structure, they cannot be granted the privilege of "confessional" religious instruction at state schools.
8.9 No special rights for Muslims in our schools
Muslim students must participate in physical education, swimming lessons, and class trips just like all other students.
Only in this way can we counteract the formation of parallel societies and open up opportunities for students to participate, so that adaptation is successful.
8.10 No Koran lessons by anti-constitutional mosque associations
The Koran schools in Germany are mostly run by mosque associations.
Many of these associations are hostile to our free democratic basic order.
We therefore call for a nationwide review of all mosque associations and, if there is any suspicion of unconstitutionality, a ban on teaching the Koran as an immediate measure.
CHAPTER 9
Culture and media
9.1 German Leitkultur instead of "Multiculturalism
The AfD is committed to the German Leitkultur.
This is based on the values of Christianity, antiquity, humanism and the Enlightenment.
It includes not only the German language, but also our customs and traditions, intellectual and cultural history.
Our liberal constitutional state, our appreciation of education, art and science, and the social market economy as an expression of human creativity and creative power are closely linked to this.
The ideology of "multiculturalism" endangers all these cultural achievements.
Culture can only be understood as something interrelated to societies as a whole.
"Multi-culture" is non-culture or parallelism of cultures and thus an expression of parallel societies, which always lead to internal political conflicts and to the inability of states to function.
The civil societies of functioning states are therefore called upon to protect their cultures and develop them independently.
Of course, this also applies to German cultural identity.
The cultural struggle already taking place in Europe between the Occident and Islam as a doctrine of salvation and bearer of cultural traditions and legal precepts that cannot be integrated can only be averted by a bundle of defensive and restrictive measures that prevent further destruction of European values of coexistence among enlightened citizens.
The AfD will not allow Germany to lose its cultural face out of misunderstood tolerance.
9.2 The German language as the center of our identity
The national language is the heart of a cultural nation.
As a central element of German identity, the AfD wants to enshrine the German language as the state language in the Basic Law.
In German schools, German must not be allowed to take a back seat to immigrant languages.
At the EU level, we want to ensure that German is put on an equal footing with English and French, even in everyday practice, while the EU is still in existence.
The AfD is concerned about how the German language is increasingly being replaced by English in science and business and wants to counteract this with targeted support measures.
We firmly reject "politically correct" language requirements because they run counter to natural language development
and restrict freedom of expression.
9.3 Eliminate ideology-ridden cultural policy requirements of the state
Nowhere is ideological influence on the part of the state as strong as in cultural policy.
The AfD wants to align cultural policy with professional quality criteria and economic reason instead of political guidelines.
Accordingly, the influence of the parties on cultural life must be reduced,
non-profit private cultural foundations and civic cultural initiatives should be strengthened.
The current narrowing of the German culture of remembrance to the National Socialist era must be broken up in favor of a broader view of history that also includes the positive identity-forming aspects of German history.
9.4 Commitment to the cultural sovereignty of the states - no "politically correct" art and culture!
The AfD is committed to the cultural sovereignty of the federal states.
We want to replace federal and EU cultural funding programs that are tied to ideological targets with funding lines that serve the preservation of cultural heritage or its worthy continuation.
There should be no government incentives for "politically correct" art and culture.
9.5 Media: For a contemporary media policy: Abolish broadcasting fees
The current public broadcasting system is financed by compulsory contributions, is far too expensive with an annual budget of over nine billion euros,
and is dominated by politics in a way that seems unworthy of a democracy.
The AfD is committed to fundamentally reforming the institutions.
The broadcasting fee must be abolished so that in the future every citizen can freely decide for himself whether he wants to receive and pay for the public service.
The new citizens' radio station should be a lean medium,
which focuses on objective reporting
and cultural
and educational content.
The offer is mostly encrypted/password-protected so that only voluntary payers have access.
In order to reduce the influence of politics - regardless of its orientation - the social representatives in the control bodies in particular should be determined by the citizens through free and democratic elections.
9.6 Preserving the Internet as a Place for Free Expression of Opinion
The Internet as a medium of communication, information and free expression of opinion must not be subject to any restrictions or censorship apart from the prosecution of criminal offenses.
CHAPTER 10
Taxes and Finance, Economy and Labor
Our tax system is the most complex in the world.
Simplification has been promised by the established parties for a long time, but never realized.
Globalization and the euro crisis require a fundamental rethink.
Demographic developments are putting social security systems at risk.
Unmanaged migration dramatically exacerbates these problems.
The claim that it contributes to solving problems contradicts all the facts.
Such a statement has exclusively propagandistic character.
It is time for a fundamental reform, which is already laid out in the AfD's basic program: Reduction of the tax and contribution ratio
Reforming the tax systems
the payment of church representatives such as bishops etc. from general tax revenues should be abolished
Reducing bureaucracy
SME-friendly economic policy
The AfD does not consider supporting the pension and social systems through government debt.
This would not be a sustainable policy.
The debt brake enshrined in the Basic Law also prohibits such a policy.
The priority is to reduce subsidies and cut unnecessary government spending.
The AfD calls on all democratically legitimized parties to participate in a major tax and social reform process in the next legislative period.
10.1 Taxes
The AfD opposes an expansion of the tax burden and calls for a 7 percent reduction in the value-added tax and the introduction of a general tax brake (for taxes, contributions and fees) for the benefit of citizens.
This must be enshrined in the Basic Law.
This is intended to prevent taxes and duties from being increased at will in the future.
The upper limit should correspond at most to the current tax ratio and not exceed 40 percent of GDP in the medium term.
Such a policy is necessary because both government financing and the prosperity of citizens depend primarily on a thriving economy.
In addition to innovative research and well-trained people, the economic process needs financial framework conditions that enable self-financing for the technological infrastructure of the future and ensure international competitiveness, also in terms of the tax burden.
The AfD wants a tax reform worthy of the name that has been promised for decades in quite a few election campaigns by different parties to become reality.
The past has shown that "tinkering" with the existing tax system only makes it more complex and by no means fairer.
We are prepared to work together with all democratic parties, collective bargaining parties, associations and scientific institutions to launch a future-oriented tax system that naturally also takes into account the necessary social concerns.
The AfD's guiding principles are: simple,
transparent
and fair.
The progressive increase of the tax is replaced by tax brackets.
Indexation of rates, allowances and exemptions, lump sums and flat rates must avoid the creeping (surreptitious) tax increase.
Relief for low and middle incomes.
The basic exemption amount will be raised to the garnishment-free income and the levels will be chosen in such a way that low and average earners will be relieved.
Spousal splitting is supplemented by a socially just family splitting system in which family income is distributed among all family members before the tariff is applied.
Creation of fair corporate taxation.
Profits are taxable where they are earned.
The AfD is in favor of abolishing the inheritance tax as a tax on assets and against reactivating the wealth tax.
Intact families think and live in generational contexts.
The transfer of assets - including and especially those tied up in companies - is a private matter and must not be exposed to state intervention.
10.2 Budget policy
The primary fiscal objective of the Alternative for Germany is balanced budgets.
Government expenditures are to be covered by revenues.
Increasing levies or taking on debt to cover expenditures must be limited to the strict requirements of a debt brake.
Citizens have a right to a reliable state framework that guarantees them sustainable life planning.
To avoid inheritance burdens for later generations, the repayment of existing debts must be regulated by binding legislation.
The AfD wants to finance overall social tasks via the federal budget.
This is required by justice
and the demand for transparent budget management.
Consequently, side budgets and the transfer of burdens on society as a whole to the social security funds, for example, in order to shore up the federal budget should be rejected.
The Alternative for Germany demands the mandatory introduction of commercial accounting for all state budgets.
The annual consumption of the value of all assets subject to such a tax, as reflected therein in the future, shall be earned and retained in the budgets.
Budgets are balanced only if these asset losses are monetized, as is already required for all municipal budgets.
In the future, this commercial approach must also be applied to all pension entitlements acquired by public-sector employees vis-à-vis public-sector employers.
10.3 Social working environment
The AfD is in favor of a statutory minimum wage,
as it strengthens the comparatively weak position of low-wage earners vis-à-vis the interests of employers in the current circumstances.
In particular, the minimum wage allows for an existence beyond the poverty line and the financing of an old-age pension, albeit a very modest one, which would otherwise have to be borne by society by way of state support.
Minimum wages thus also prevent the privatization of profits while socializing the costs of poverty.
The increasing share of precarious employment has a negative impact on prosperity.
This results in negative effects for demographics.
In addition, building up one's own retirement provision suffers.
The AfD is therefore also calling for a statutory cap of 15 percent on employees with temporary or work contracts in companies.
Temporary work must be treated as equivalent to permanent employment after a six-month period of employment.
Temporary employment contracts may only be extended once.
They may only be concluded under specified conditions.
10.4 Unemployment and qualification for the long-term unemployed
Unemployment, especially permanent unemployment, has not yet been sustainably reduced.
Today's integration and qualification measures often fail to meet the needs of the labor market.
Therefore, many vacancies cannot be filled.
We therefore call for needs-based qualification for the unemployed.
This must be done in close coordination with small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, which employ 80 percent of Germany's workforce.
The AfD also advocates the creation of an offer for citizen work.
Civic work is the performance of community service by the long-term unemployed that is not in competition with the labor market.
Citizen work is to comprise approx. 30 hours per week and be paid on a social security basis.
The long-term unemployed are thus given the opportunity to engage in meaningful activities and society receives value for the support services.
The long-term unemployed can thus be reintroduced to the primary labor market.
Those who perform civic work should not have to disclose their financial circumstances.
10.5 No manipulation of the unemployment rate
The Federal Employment Agency calculates an unemployment rate on behalf of the federal government, suggesting to voters that unemployment is steadily falling.
This is achieved in a manipulative way by applying a large number of detailed rules, leaving hundreds of thousands of unemployed people out of the equation.
The AfD demands that the unemployment rate be calculated on the basis of actual unemployment figures in order to make the real conditions on the labor market visible.
10.6 Economic Policy for Germany: Prosperity for All!
For the AfD, fundamental elements for a prosperous economy are the personal responsibility of economic subjects with the counterpart liability for their own actions, the guarantee of private property and the market price as a steering mechanism for economic decisions.
Other important elements are ensuring competition in the markets and preventing dominant positions,
as well as an incorruptible, efficient legal system that guarantees legal certainty and legal peace
and, last but not least, protects citizens against encroachments by the state.
This is the regulatory framework that was built in the postwar period and remained untouched for a long time.
We want to work to strengthen it again where necessary and to continue to maintain it overall.
Many of the individual regulations that go beyond this should be reviewed and, if necessary, abolished.
The AfD starts from the premise that the economy is there for the people and not the people for the economy.
Prosperity is measured in material terms, but also has social and immaterial aspects: Freedom,
Self-determination,
Participation.
We also see our economic and tax policy as part of social policy.
The goal is to create adequate jobs for all citizens available to the labor market.
To this end, we are planning the following measures:Streamlining the state and making it more efficient
Reduction of subsidies, time limit on new subsidies
Simplification of the tax system as described above
Review and reduce regulations and bureaucracy in order to reduce the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises in particular.
Reduce the government ratioIntroduce a tax/levy cap and reduce government consumption
Clearly prioritize which government tasks are important and phase out unimportant ones.
Strengthening the knowledge/technology-based economyOrienting school education and the research landscape more towards STEM subjects
Promoting the implementation of scientific findings in products
Promoting entrepreneurial spirit
Tax conditions for research and development
and the resulting business start-ups
Maintaining and promoting high-tech companies in Germany.
Promote domestic investmentInvest funds saved by reducing subsidies in infrastructure
, make energy prices calculable,
reduce subsidies for renewable energies
10.7 Secured deposits in the event of bank insolvencies
The AfD demands that customers have the right to accounts that financial institutions must hold in special assets.
These assets are protected in the event of bank insolvency.
Shares are already held as special assets (trust assets) at financial institutions.
10.8 Entitlement to participation in digital life and the digital economy
The AfD is calling for the conditions to be created so that households and small and medium-sized enterprises - regardless of whether they are in urban areas or rural regions - can be connected to fast broadband networks within two years.
Government support programs are designed to alleviate financial burdens.
All households and small and medium-sized enterprises should thus be able to connect to the broadband infrastructure, regardless of their location.
The connection of the last "mile", from the installed basic infrastructure to the home or business connection, must become a secure option for private households and small and medium-sized enterprises.
CHAPTER 11
Social policy
11.1 Social policy and immigration
Our country is facing major social challenges.
The high level of child poverty and the threat of poverty in old age must be combated.
A large number of unemployed people must be brought into employment.
The infrastructure of our country is run down in parts without this being reflected in public budgets.
Stabilizing social systems requires special efforts in the face of a shrinking and aging population.
Our limited resources are therefore not available for an irresponsible immigration policy of the kind that no other European country can afford.
Both the euro rescue policy
and the ECB's low interest rate policy are making this necessary reform policy more difficult for Germany.
This is another reason why the course for the euro and Europe must be set completely anew.
Our welfare state can only be maintained if the required financial solidarity is provided within a clearly defined and limited community.
A dissolution of the nation state inevitably leads to a threat to our accustomed welfare state achievements.
11.2 Eliminating family disadvantage and combating child poverty
The tax burden on families is too high.
Although the Federal Constitutional Court has called for the subsistence minima of children and parents to be effectively tax-exempt, the legislature has not adequately complied.
The AfD advocates sustainable tax relief for families through the introduction of family splitting, which distributes family income mathematically among family members before taxation.
In the course of this, the tax disadvantages of children and parents from separation and divorce families must also be eliminated.
The acquisition of residential property by families should be facilitated, for example, by interest-free loans, grants and waivers of real estate transfer tax.
The AfD also advocates better consideration of parents' benefits in pension insurance.
Today's children are tomorrow's potential contributors.
Those who raise children and make pension contributions therefore make a double contribution to safeguarding pensions.
Child-raising periods must therefore result in a pension increase for parents commensurate with this benefit.
11.3 Basic information on the pension
Giving people in our country security again in their working lives and in old age is a particular concern of the Alternative for Germany.
Only sufficient provision in old age can prevent poverty in old age.
The AfD's ambition is therefore to shape the statutory pension insurance system in such a way that it is efficient and able to sustainably meet the challenges of the future.
The particular demographic challenge of the coming decades will require - at least temporarily - greater co-financing from tax revenues.
Notwithstanding such assistance outside the contributory financing of state pensions, the two pillars of occupational pensions and purely private old-age provision must be strengthened by legislation.
This requires tax exemption of the accumulated contributions combined with downstream income taxation.
The ECB's interest rate policy is lethal for an effective design of such systems.
This is another reason why Germany must leave the eurozone unless changes are put into practice without delay.
11.4 Pension and working life
The AfD calls for pensions to be granted in the future upon reaching a working life of up to 45 years, instead of being dependent on age as is currently the case.
As is well known, the number of pensioners will already rise disproportionately in relation to the number of contributors in the near future.
The younger generations of contributors will not be able to shoulder this financial obligation alone.
It will therefore be necessary to substantially increase government transfers from general tax revenues to the pension insurance system in order to keep working people's contributions within tolerable limits.
For this reason, too, the current migration policy must be ended immediately.
The annual billions currently mobilized there, with an upward trend for the future, must be redirected into stabilizing the old-age security of the German population.
Recipients of old-age pensions should be able to pursue paid employment without any restriction on their pension benefits.
It should be possible to exempt these incomes from employee and employer contributions to pension insurance.
11.5 Pension and noninsurance benefits
The AfD advocates that benefits from state pension insurance funds that cannot be justified by standards of social distributive justice within the entire solidarity community ("genuine" non-insurance benefits) either be outsourced or financed via state transfer payments.
In 2015 alone, tens of billions of euros in non-insurance benefits were paid out of the pension insurance budget.
11.6 Avoiding double taxation of the state pension
The AfD is committed to reviewing whether the double taxation of pensions, which was recognized as unlawful by the Federal Constitutional Court in the course of the introduction of deferred pension taxation, is actually avoided by the current legislative regulation.
11.7 Basic security in old age: Those who have worked must have more later on
People who have been in employment subject to social security contributions for decades, but who have not been able to build up a pension entitlement that exceeds the level of basic income support, for example due to low pay or interrupted employment histories, are currently treated in the same way as people who have never been in employment subject to social security contributions.
That is unfair.
The AfD therefore wants to ensure that pension entitlements acquired through work and other creditable periods, such as child-rearing periods, are taken into account with an appropriate surcharge on basic benefits.
11.8 Fairness in unemployment benefits
Since the 2005 reform of social legislation (Hartz reform), no account has been taken of whether and, if so, how long the person concerned was previously in employment subject to social insurance contributions when determining the amount of entitlement to unemployment benefit II and - with the exception of minor graduation - the period for which unemployment benefit I is drawn.
After a regular period of twelve months, formerly long-term employed persons receive unemployment benefit II in the same amount and for the same duration as unemployed persons who have never paid unemployment insurance contributions before.
This represents a disrespect to long-time contributors.
The AfD therefore advocates a staggered longer period of entitlement to unemployment benefit I depending on the duration of previous employment.
The deductible in the calculation of unemployment benefit II is to be increased without penalty.
This is an imperative of justice in order to treat different employment biographies in unemployment in a differentiated manner.
11.9 Parity Financing of Health and Long-Term Care Insurance
The AfD advocates that the employer's contribution to health and long-term care insurance be restored to the same level as the employee's contribution.
Shifting the risks of health care cost increases onto employees alone, as recent federal governments have done, is unsystematic.
CHAPTER 12
Our healthcare system is in danger
Health policy in Germany is facing major challenges in view of demographic developments.
Ensuring medical care for all citizens in urban and rural areas is one of the cornerstones of the modern welfare state.
We are committed to providing efficient, comprehensive medical care for all citizens, as close to their homes as possible - in both the outpatient and inpatient sectors.
12.1 Health financing - eliminating fundamental problems
The financing of our health care system is threatened by general political undesirable developments:
the costs for migrants, refugees and asylum seekers to be borne by the health insurance funds are getting out of hand
, and the misguided interest rate policy of the European Central Bank means that the funded private health insurance funds can no longer build up sufficient reserves.
12.2 Ensuring medical care in rural areas
Physician seats are unevenly distributed between urban and rural areas.
Establishments in rural areas are often not attractive.
We want to help make it more attractive for doctors to settle in rural areas again.
The municipalities and counties as well as the federal states are also called upon to create incentives.
We want to ensure that rural regions also have good medical care and that more doctors settle there again.
12.3 Counteracting the "nursing shortage
A shortage of qualified nursing staff is developing in all full-service medical facilities ("nursing shortage").
One main cause is that personnel costs are inadequately reflected in the hospitals' "DRG flat rate system."
The hospital charges therefore only partially reflect the collectively agreed increases in remuneration.
Because of this coverage gap, many hospitals are forced to cut staff positions, especially in nursing.
This leads to an unacceptable deterioration of working conditions
and disadvantages for patients.
The high pressure to perform and the sometimes inadequate remuneration play a role as causes for the lack of young professionals.
The acceptance and attractiveness of the nursing profession must be increased in order to counter the existing and foreseeably increasing shortage of qualified nursing staff.
The AfD calls for a binding, cross-state minimum staffing ratio for nursing staff, which must also be taken into account in hospital charges.
12.4 Ensuring inpatient care through investment
We want to improve the economic situation of hospitals by reducing investment backlogs
and thus also increase the chances of retaining hospitals under municipal ownership that are close to home.
The economically strained situation of most hospitals is further exacerbated by the lack of investment funding from the federal states.
For years, only about half of the approximately 5.5 billion euros needed to maintain hospitals have been allocated.
The resulting need to finance investment funds from the treatment flat rates is further exacerbating the financial situation of many hospitals.
As a result, more than a few municipalities felt compelled to sell hospitals to private operators.
Since the introduction of DRGs in 2002, there has been an unmistakable wave of privatization.
We support the diversity of providers in the hospital sector and firmly reject a development toward the formation of monopolies.
12.5 Relieve hospital emergency departments
Hospital outpatient departments are to be relieved by the establishment of portal practices.
Due to sometimes long waiting times in the outpatient sector, the emergency departments of hospitals are being flooded with an increasing number of non-critical treatment cases.
We therefore advocate the establishment of portal practices from the private practice sector at the hospital, as already practiced in some German states.
12.6 Optimize outpatient care through a family doctor system
The nationwide offer of a family doctor system is intended to better coordinate outpatient treatments and avoid duplicate examinations.
The cost awareness and personal responsibility of the citizen should be strengthened.
The free choice of physician must be ensured.
12.7 Train doctors and therapists predominantly in Germany
Health is always also a question of trust.
With doctors, therapists or nurses who have language deficits, no basis of trust can develop.
Thus, employing foreign personnel, who often have language deficits, cannot be a solution to the shortage of health care personnel.
In particular, physicians involved in patient care must have good language skills (language level C1).
Their professional qualifications must fully comply with the German standard.
Physicians and therapists working in health care professions should, if possible, be trained in Germany or have good German language skills.
12.8 Terminate the German-Turkish Social Security Agreement
The German-Turkish Social Security Agreement of 1964 regulates the legal status of Turkish or German citizens in the other country.
In health insurance, this leads to a widely unknown, unambiguous preferential treatment of Turkish nationals compared to German nationals.
This concerns in particular the extension of family insurance, which is not provided for in our social security law.
The concept of family is not based on German regulations, but on Turkish ones.
Since, under Turkish law, parents are part of the family, parents of Turkish employees living in Turkey are also insured.
The German-Turkish social security agreement disadvantages domestic insured persons.
That is why we want to cancel it and renegotiate it on the basis of European social security agreements.
12.9 Health card and e-health law
Medical treatment data must enjoy the highest possible protection due to its high sensitivity.
In a further stage of development, the electronic health card (eGK), which has so far only stored data on insured persons, is to be a key to a central database in which, in addition to diagnostic documents and examination results, all information on the patient from all treating physicians (patient files) will be compiled.
The AfD opposes the creation of such a central database to store sensitive health data.
However, we support the storage of an emergency record, including a medication plan and living will, directly on the card.
For the storage and exchange of further health data, we propose, in addition to the exchange of data in practice associations, the creation of an electronic health passport in which the data are not stored centrally but directly on the medium.
In all cases, this may only be done on a voluntary basis.
12.10 Alternative medicine as a complement to traditional medicine
The term "alternative" treatments covers a wide variety of treatment methods.
Provided that quality standards to be defined are adhered to, these can be a useful supplement to conventional medicine.
In any case, a holistic view and treatment of the patient is necessary to counteract the increase of chronic diseases and therapy resistance.
Alternative treatment methods can be complementary to acute medical treatment methods in certain areas.
12.11 Freelance midwives
The profession of the freelance midwife, who accompanies an expectant mother from the beginning of pregnancy to delivery and often beyond, is coming under very strong pressure due to the significant increase in liability premiums in recent years, because many freelance midwives can hardly or no longer cope with these expenses.
An "extinction" of the profession in the near future is foreseeable.
The personal and individual care of pregnant women by a trusted midwife is a great relief and help for many women, not only during the birth, but also in the birth preparation and aftercare for mother and child.
We would therefore like to contribute to financial relief for the profession of freelance midwives, which could be achieved, for example, through cross-subsidization in liability insurance.
12.12 No release of cannabis
A further release of drugs or addictive substances is not only cost-intensive in consequence, but also medically harmful.
Substitutes such as THC are already available for cannabis.
It is to be feared that drug abuse and the associated social problems will increase as a result of the release of cannabis.
The AfD therefore rejects the release of cannabis.
CHAPTER 13
Ending hostility to technology: energy and climate
13.1 Climate change
The trace gas carbon dioxide (CO2) is not a pollutant, but an indispensable prerequisite for all life.
The statements of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) that climate change is mainly man-made are not scientifically proven.
They are based solely on computational models that cannot accurately describe either past or present climate.
Even before industrialization, there were warm and cold periods that cannot be explained by the associated CO2 concentration in the air.
By joining the Paris Agreement and the Climate Protection Plan 2050 issued by the German government, Germany has committed itself to making far-reaching interventions in our economy and society for the so-called "decarbonization".
We want to end the project of decarbonization via the "Great Transformation" and repeal the German government's Climate Protection Plan 2050.
The Paris climate agreement of Dec. 12, 2015, must be terminated.
Germany should withdraw from all governmental and private "climate protection" organizations and withdraw all support from them.
13.2 Energy policy
Germany has electricity prices that inevitably continue to rise with every addition of further wind and solar power plants and grid expansion.
Green electricity generated with state planned economy had a market value of 3.3 billion euros in 2015.
Together with the EEG subsidies, this green electricity cost consumers 27.5 billion euros (source: BMWi).
These subsidies flow to the profiteers of the energy transition and burden each four-person household with 25,000 euros each by 2025.
Thus, a redistribution from the bottom to the top is taking place.
The additional economic costs of the planned energy turnaround in the electricity sector alone will amount to several trillion euros by 2050.
The natural, technical and economic and therefore foreseeable problems of the energy transition, such as further rising prices, endangered grid stability, increasing risk of power outages and lack of large-scale storage facilities, remain unsolved.
The constant tightening of regulations and laws in the heating sector, such as the Energy Saving Ordinance (EnEV) and the Renewable Energies Heat Act (EEWärmeG) on insulation and heating, leads to sharply rising construction and deconstruction costs
and correspondingly high rents, which hit the lower income groups particularly hard.
The German government's goal is to reduce CO2 emissions by 80 to 95 percent by 2050.
The mobility and heating sectors are also to become emission-free by switching to green electricity.
This requires an expansion of wind turbines on a scale and at a speed that overwhelms the economy and citizens.
We therefore do not want to decommission the existing nuclear power plants before the end of their useful lives.
Germany will also not be able to do without the use of modern gas and coal-fired power plants in the foreseeable future.
In detail, we demand:The EEG must be abolished without replacement.
As long as the EEG has not yet been abolished: no renewable energy plants should be built in forests and protected areas
no priority areas for wind turbines should be designated without the consent of the citizens concerned
the minimum distance between wind turbines and residential buildings should be 10 times the total height
The service life of safe nuclear power plants must be based on their technical service life.
The recyclable nuclear power plant residues must be stored in a retrievable manner for recycling.
To maintain nuclear competence, extensive participation in international research projects must be ensured.
The EnEV and the EEWärmeG must be abolished.
Like any technology, electromobility must develop on a market basis.
13.3 Land of tinkerers and thinkers: promoting technology
As a country poor in raw materials, only technological leadership can keep us prosperous in the long term.
Unfortunately, the educational level of the upcoming generations in the STEM subjects (mathematics, information technology, natural sciences and technology) is declining.
A general hostility to technology is ubiquitously voiced by those with concerns far removed from STEM.
In order to improve the understanding and decision-making ability for scientific and technical contexts and processes, the devaluation of the content of STEM subjects in schools must be stopped.
Specifically, we demand:To secure the economic base, STEM subjects must be promoted more strongly at all levels in schools, educational and research institutions.
This requires not only financial resources but also a sustained campaign for the importance and prospects of such training programs.
Foster a social climate for open, unencumbered discussion of new technologies and developments.
In addition to the justified discussion of risks associated with new technologies, greater focus must also be placed on the opportunities.
This applies in particular to the enactment of legal regulations on technologies.
Key technologies that are relevant for Germany must be identified and developed as a priority through substantial funding models.
In order to stop the loss of scientific and technical competence and not to lose international ground in other fields of technology, ideology-free research in general must be significantly expanded.
To this end, existing funding lines must be expanded and new funding programs launched up to the scale of demonstration plants.
Obstacles that make it difficult to found a company must be identified and suitable measures to promote start-ups must be adopted.
Protection against industrial espionage must be improved in particular by government measures to increase IT security and the security of data networks.
CHAPTER 14
Maintain and expand transport routes, increase housing construction, develop rural areas
14.1 Traffic
The rail infrastructure must remain in the hands of the federal government.
The truck toll must be levied according to the actual roadway load caused by heavy axle loads, and the number of axles and their axle load must be recorded for each vehicle.
Every euro of the truck toll must flow additionally into the infrastructure.
The AfD rejects an ideologically guided transport policy that favors or discriminates against certain means of transport, e.g. diesel vehicles.
That is why we also oppose blanket speed limits and unsuccessful environmental zones.
Low emission zones have not been shown to reduce particulate matter emissions.
They should therefore be abolished.
Our country's infrastructure has been neglected for decades and is in a state of disrepair in many parts.
The AfD therefore wants to launch a nationwide "infrastructure stimulus package" (KPI).
The aim of the KPI is to rehabilitate and expand railways, roads, waterways, bridges
and public buildings such as schools, kindergartens,
theaters and museums.
In detail, we demand Preservation of the substance and elimination of bottlenecks in the road and rail network,
an economic stimulus program for infrastructure,
No public-private partnership (PPP) for public infrastructure projects,
Creation of a transport concept for long-distance freight transport, taking into account modern logistics concepts,
Inclusion of all modes of transport in a new federal transport plan,
No car toll
and amendment of the truck toll,
Abolition of environmental zones,
No nationwide speed limit on highways,
a national airport concept.
14.2 Housing
Housing is scarce and expensive in major German cities.
New construction activity cannot keep pace under the present conditions.
Planned economic interventions such as the "Mietpreisbremse" (rent brake) delay the actual problem instead of solving it.
In the long term, the desired effect of the rent brake will be reversed, because it will make private investment in housing construction less profitable and thus also slow down the urgently needed construction of new apartments.
Measures that significantly increase the housing stock are more effective and sustainable.
These include: The designation of new and the optimization of existing building areas, the acceleration of the creation of building rights and a reduction in costs through the elimination of unnecessary regulations, for example on thermal insulation and bureaucracy.
To promote ownership, land should be made available by the public sector and cooperative housing should be encouraged.
Tenants whose income is not sufficient to pay the rent must continue to be supported by housing subsidies.
Tenants and owners of residential property are to be relieved by the reduction of the property tax.
In detail we demand: Housing construction must be strengthened through suitable framework conditions
More building land must be made available
Building standards must be simplified and bureaucracy must be reduced
State requirements must be streamlined
Land and real estate transfer tax should be reduced
14.3 Strengthening rural areas
We support the strengthening of rural infrastructure.
The people living there have a right to adequate infrastructure, even if the population density is low.
This will additionally alleviate the ongoing migration pressure from rural areas to metropolitan areas.
To this end, the connection to the high-speed data network and the connection to the supra-local road and rail network are to be improved.
CHAPTER 15
Environmental, nature and animal protection, consumer protection and agriculture
15.1 Water supply belongs in public hands
The AfD is in favor of small-scale water supply by municipalities and special-purpose associations.
Ownership of water resources, conveyance systems, water treatment, and the distribution network must remain in public hands and thus in the hands of citizens.
The AfD firmly rejects an EU-wide liberalization and commercialization of the water market.
There must be no general privatization of water or waterworks, as suggested by EU directives.
Wells of private property owners who obtain their drinking water from this are excluded from this.
15.2 Stop expansion of wind energy
Wind energy is an energy policy aberration, economically absurd and ecologically counterproductive.
We reject the further expansion of wind energy, because it brings more harm than good.
Wind turbines are now only to be permitted as an exception at sites where no adverse effects on humans, animals or the landscape are to be expected.
For years, recognized studies have shown the devastating effects of wind turbines on protected birds and bats.
The harmful effects on human health due to shadow impact and noise emission are also serious.
The widespread destruction of our landscapes is the result of wind farms as well as additional power lines.
Local people are to be involved in the site selection process through referendums.
15.3 Improve noise protection
Noise causes stress and makes people ill.
Noise is the environmental problem perceived most strongly by large sections of the population.
The efforts made so far to prevent noise and, in particular, to remediate noise are not sufficient.
The AfD therefore advocates a targeted investment program for noise protection.
15.4 Consumer protection
Consumer protection is one of the key policy areas for the AfD.
It is a cross-sectional task and encompasses consumer-friendly economic policy as well as parts of social, legal, environmental and health policy.
Since consumer protection policy today is to a large extent EU-driven, the AfD wants to bring responsibility for consumer protection back to Germany.
We therefore advocate the renationalization of consumer protection.
The AfD advocates increased product testing by strengthening trade inspectorates
and calls for transparent food labeling with consumer-friendly, accurate information on origin, ingredients and quality.
We want to strengthen consumer organizations by providing them with sufficient endowment capital to maintain their independence.
The open borders of the internal market have led to a sharp increase in unsafe and dangerous products.
Manufacturers and importers can largely self-certify the safety of their products.
This development must be countered by better staffing and equipment for trade inspections and product testing, especially for foodstuffs, children's toys and electrical appliances.
15.5 Animal welfare: prohibit cruel slaughter of animals
The AfD is committed to compassionate and dignified treatment of all animals.
This refers to the husbandry, transport and slaughter.
Animal welfare laws must apply equally to all.
The AfD rejects the trade, advertising and import of meat from cruel slaughtering (slaughtering).
We demand a deletion of § 4a para. 2 No. 2 TierSchG without replacement.
Countries such as Sweden, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Poland, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Denmark are role models for us in this respect.
15.6 Strengthening of rural agriculture
The AfD stands for the promotion of family farms and cooperatives.
We take a critical view of globalization in the agricultural sector.
Bureaucracy
and overregulation by the EU, federal government and federal states.
We oppose the negative effects of global price dumping at the expense of the environment, people and animals.
Our family farms must once again be enabled to secure the social standard of their families from their income
and to make investments for the continued existence of their farm.
We want to strengthen regional food production and direct marketing by farms.
Obstructive regulations must be removed.
Regional production and marketing structures save resources,
guarantee local jobs
and make the country attractive.
In this area, too, we call for legislative powers to be returned from the EU to the state level.
15.6.2 Preserving old cultivars
Old cultivars belong to the collective property of all people.
Nevertheless, high fees have to be paid for the registration of ancient varieties if they are to be marketed.
This clause in the Seed Marketing Act protects large corporations from competition from small farms.
Permission to propagate old cultivars without a license will broaden the range of varieties available to end users.
The AfD calls for the lifting of all trade restrictions on old crop varieties.
15.6.3 Improve framework conditions for allotment gardens and small livestock farms
Those who produce food themselves know its value.
Food garden owners and small animal farmers gain fresh food, preserve genetic diversity,
and contribute to crisis preparedness.
In order to continue to provide this access to broad sections of the population, the AfD wants to strengthen the legal security of allotment gardens and small livestock farms
and dismantle regulations.
15.6.4 For a German agriculture free of genetic engineering
The AfD is committed to GMO-free food produced in German agriculture.
The strictly controlled use of genetic engineering in research and science remains permitted.
