Social and Democratic.
Tackle. For Germany. SPD Government Program 2009 2013 Adopted at the Extraordinary Federal Party Congress in Berlin on June 14, 2009.
I. A new decade 1. Time for decisions
On September 27, 2009, it will be decided who will govern Germany for the next four years.
Who people confide in.
Who they trust to lead our country safely through the crisis.
That it fights for jobs and strengthens the forces of growth.
That it has a clear compass, holds its course in turbulent times and provides security.
But much more is decided.
It will be decided what happens after the crisis in our country.
Whether this will lead to a move towards more democracy
and new common ground.
Whether a sense of responsibility and reason will regain the upper hand.
Whether we learn the right lessons from the global financial and economic crisis and set rules and limits to market forces.
Whether we create a sustainable Germany that strikes a balance between economic, social and environmental goals.
It will determine whether we want to be a society of solidarity in which the strong bear greater burdens and the weak are given real opportunities to become strong.
And whether the many people who have come to us will find a good home in our country with their children.
Many say: This crisis was an industrial accident.
Let's fix it, then it will be business as usual.''
This view is wrong!
Because this crisis is more than just a normal economic slump.
It is the result of an ideology that focuses on maximum profit and not on people.
And that's why our response must be more than a stimulus package.
We conclude: The market-radical age has failed.
We are at a turning point in time.
Answering the distribution questions in a social democratic sense strengthens our democracy
and our social market economy.
We Social Democrats want social democracy.
And that also means the welfare state and the social market economy in Germany, in Europe and worldwide.
The economy is there for the people and not vice versa.
We Social Democrats invite all people to join us on the path of renewal.
Because that's what it's all about: Powerful renewal for our country!
Our government program is an offer to the whole of society.
It is aimed at all those who want to make our country better, fairer and more humane.
To all who are committed to the principles of fairness and solidarity.
To all citizens, we say: We know how hard you work for yourselves and your families.
We make you a fair offer: more support for families and for better kindergartens and schools,
a simpler tax system.
We want older people to be able to participate in public and political life without restriction and to contribute their life experience.
We know that some need help.
We do not leave anyone alone.
We want all people to be able to lead a self-determined life, to
have a fairly paid job
and to be able to advance through education.
We know that there are many long-term thinking entrepreneurs and managers for whom performance and responsibility go hand in hand.
We want to work with them to ensure that the economy serves people.
Help make our education system better.
And let's work together to renew the economy and create sustainable jobs.
We are being presented with a historic opportunity that comes perhaps only once in a generation.
We can re-found the idea of the social market economy.
And we want to take advantage of this opportunity.
We Social Democrats have shown over the past ten years in government that we have the courage to take responsibility.
We have not dodged difficult decisions.
Since 1998, we have courageously opened the windows and changed the country for the better:
- Germany has proven itself as a peace power in Europe and the world.
- Germany has become more modern and more open to the world - the stale atmosphere of the Kohl years has been overcome. -
Germany is an international pioneer in the fight against climate change
and has decided to phase out nuclear energy.
- Germany has made its social security systems fit for the future through courageous reforms.
We have not done everything right during this time and have not yet achieved some things.
But our compass is intact, the direction is right.
Now we're taking another run at it.
Anniversary Year 2009: Remembering and Looking Forward
This year we remember and we look forward.
Twenty years ago, courageous men and women in eastern Germany made the unification of our country possible through their peaceful resistance.
Much has been achieved in recent years, and much remains to be done.
We want to complete social unity and take the steps resolutely.
60 years ago, after the terrible terror of the Nazis and the war that started from Germany and devastated Europe, our country was also rebuilt.
With the Basic Law, we have a democratic constitution that is a living, demanding and humane foundation for our coexistence.
The Basic Law determines the principles of our coexistence.
No one is allowed to get behind that.
It doesn't get any clearer or better than that:
- Human dignity is inviolable.
- The freedom of the person is inviolable.
- All people are equal before the law.
- Men and women have equal rights.
- Everyone has the right to express his or her opinion freely.
- Property is an obligation.
- We are a democratic and social federal state.
We want a country and a society that live by the rules of the Basic Law and that give respect to these rules where it proves necessary.
2 Ownership obligates: The Social Market Economy
We face daunting tasks.
Irresponsible and in some cases unscrupulous actions on the international financial markets have plunged the world into a severe economic crisis.
Germany, as one of the most important industrialized countries, is not spared.
Millions of workers around the world and countless companies are now having to pay for what others have left behind in their heedless pursuit of profits.
The task of policymakers is to manage the consequences and prevent a repeat of this crisis.
Security and justice: acting in the crisis
With the rescue package for the financial market, we secured the supply of credit to the German economy and prevented a collapse.
At the same time, Frank-Walter Steinmeier has taken the initiative for a protective umbrella for jobs.
- Creating security.
At our initiative, the German government has guaranteed private savings deposits.
No one has to worry about their savings.
- Setting impulses.
With the two economic stimulus programs totaling more than 80 billion euros, we are providing a strong impetus for growth that will be felt above all in the municipalities
and secure jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises.
- Securing jobs.
We fight for every job.
The extension of the short-time allowance has secured hundreds of thousands of jobs in Germany.
We promote the qualification of employees.
Qualify instead of dismiss - that is our principle.
We will massively expand the offerings for continuing education.
Qualified workers have a better future.
- Supporting the unemployed.
We care for those who lose their jobs.
We want them to get back to work as soon as possible.
We therefore need more mediators at the employment agencies and job centers - and better mediation.
Qualification opportunities for job seekers must be deployed swiftly and in a targeted manner.
Where companies are unable to prevent job cuts despite their best efforts, transfer companies help.
They are the social partnership way for employees to reorient themselves on the labor market.
We will therefore ensure that employees in transfer companies receive intensive support and training.
All support instruments of labor market policy must be open to them.
- Sharing the burden fairly.
The burden of the crisis must not be placed unilaterally on citizens.
We need solidarity-based burden sharing that allows those responsible for the crisis and the wealthy to share in the financial burden.
- Enforce new rules.
The financial markets need new rules.
Greed must be stopped.
We have pushed through initial rules in the national framework
and are now also achieving progress in the international framework after many years of efforts by social democratic finance ministers.
But there will be a long way to go before the primacy of politics is established.
Now it is proving that we Social Democrats and Social Democrats have always placed our faith in Germany's industrial base and, unlike parts of the CDU/CSU and the FDP, have never questioned its character as an industrialized country.
The fact that we have focused on innovation and the consistent modernization of our economy is now proving its worth.
Now it is proving that we have made the German labor market more crisis-proof through reforms.
But: Politics must not only repair, politics must act with foresight, recognize the causes of the crises and eliminate them.
Market radicalism has failed worldwide, and with it the policies of significant sections of the CDU/CSU and FDP.
Restart of the Social Market Economy
The hunt for ever higher returns, the short-term orientation in parts of the economy, the immoderateness in personal remuneration has been declared normal for many years.
There should be no limits to greed.
Market radicalism has declared this malaise to be the basic condition of economic activity.
Any attempt to impose rules, transparency and control was denounced as false interference in the free play of forces.
We rely on the democratic state, which is capable of acting and sets clear rules for the social market economy.
A reboot of the social market economy must be a response to the unleashed capitalism of the 21st century.
For us, the social market economy means more than just regulatory policy.
We base a genuine new start on ten fundamental principles:
1. markets must be embedded in a strong and solidarity-based society.
Our economy needs a society of equal rights and equal opportunities.
The productive interaction of state, market and society, involving employers, employees and trade unions, is the basis of the social market economy.
Today, it is clear that co-determination in companies and enterprises is an indispensable, stable success factor.
2. an effective state that offers citizens security and guarantees strong public services.
It is the primary task of the state to create the basis for individual opportunities and social prosperity through good education.
An efficient public service is the prerequisite for a reliable public infrastructure and public services.
For this, the state needs reliable revenues and consolidated finances. 3.
3. fair participation of employees in society's prosperity and a fair distribution of income and wealth for social and economic reasons.
4. the principle of "investment instead of speculation".
Article 14 of our Basic Law states: "Property obliges".
Therefore, rules are needed to ensure that capital is used "productively" and serves the interests of the common good.
Through strategic and ecological industrial policy, the state has opportunities to create incentives for capital to flow into sustainable, ecologically compatible growth areas. 5.
5 Public investment in the future plays a central role in combining economic and social innovation with social justice.
Germany is a strong export nation and should remain so.
But equally important is the purchasing power within.
We need a balance of export strength and domestic market.
7. a culture of long-termism and sustainability.
A social market economy does not stand in the way of a dynamic economy and free enterprise.
But one of its essential tasks is to set the framework and incentives for market participants in such a way that economically, socially and environmentally sustainable behavior pays off more than non-sustainable behavior.
8. fair competition for better ideas and products.
Where there is competition for low wages and poorer working conditions, everyone loses in the end.
We need a new phase of cooperation instead of just competition. 9.
9. the guarantee of social civil rights through solidarity-based social insurance,
a tuition-free education system
and a minimum wage for work.
We also want to enforce these basic principles of a social market economy at the European and international level.
Some of this has been called into question in the recent past.
But "turning point" means that today is about nothing more and nothing less than a new start for the social market economy in Germany, in Europe and internationally.
Such a new start requires overcoming an often market-radical narrow view of the economy.
This is not only the task of politics.
We Social Democrats want to engage in a social debate with trade unions and employers, with academia and associations, about how we envision a social market economy in the 21st century.
This also includes making economic policy advice more practice-oriented, pragmatic and international.
3. Germany is strong Our country is strong.
We are strong also in change.
We have mastered difficult challenges over the past decades and together we have brought our country up to date time and again.
We are able to do this because we provide security with the welfare state and organize solidarity in the country.
Because we give the market moral goals and fair rules.
And because we are a lively and active social society in which many people get involved and lend a hand.
In view of the historic depth and severity of the financial market and economic crisis, we will have to examine in the fall, on the basis of the economic data valid at that time, which of our proposed measures can be implemented immediately and which can only be implemented in the course of the legislative period.
Progress is our goal.
progress to achieve and sustain a high level of prosperity for all.
Socially just, fairly distributed,
sustainable and ecologically responsible.
Germany needs new common ground.
We contribute to this with our policies.
Commonality is a key driver of social progress in our country.
This succeeds when everyone contributes and the rules apply to everyone.
No one should shirk responsibility.
Our Germany should be a country where fairness applies.
4. our goals Frank-Walter Steinmeier: a social democratic chancellor.
Frank-Walter Steinmeier is to be Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany.
The fourth social democratic in our history.
Three Social Democratic chancellors before him helped shape the republic, taking responsibility and demonstrating courage in difficult times.
They have served the country well and moved it forward.
With his Ostpolitik, Willy Brandt laid the foundation for overcoming the confrontation between the blocs.
He dared more democracy.
Helmut Schmidt steered our country through difficult times with a clear course and sensibly linked the economic and the social.
Gerhard Schröder saved our country from the Iraq war, initiated the phase-out of nuclear energy and the energy turnaround, and put Germany on the right track with a determined reform policy.
We need a social democratic chancellor again in the coming years.
A chancellor who leads with clear convictions and not just moderates.
A chancellor who has the courage to make decisions.
Prosperity for all at a high level permanently
- We will succeed if we guarantee the performance of our country
and make good work for all the central political goal.
The potentials are there.
In companies and among skilled workers. - We will succeed if
- We will succeed if the coming decade is the decade of investment in education and training.
and research.
- We will succeed if our policies are guided by the principle of sustainability.
We are also jointly responsible for future generations.
Work, education and sustainability: these are the drivers of progress in the coming period.
We are a democratic and social constitutional state and want to remain so.
To achieve this, a social welfare state capable of taking action is indispensable.
It is sustainable and superior to other models that seek to privatize coverage in old age, in the event of illness or in the event of long-term care.
The social market economy is our way.
Focused on prosperity, committed to social welfare, indispensable, not only in our country but also in Europe and worldwide.
Social partnership is the joint responsibility of entrepreneurs and trade unions.
It makes a decisive contribution to social and internal peace in Germany.
The social society is the field in which citizens take on responsibility particularly intensively and actively participate.
The social city is the place to live.
Home, starting point for a mobile life, place where quality of life is experienced and learned.
This is our Germany.
A country that peacefully assumes its place and responsibility in Europe and the world.
The new decade presents us with many tasks.
But eight goals are central to us:
everyone should have a job, fairly paid.
Because work plays such a central role, full employment remains a goal that a social market economy does not abandon, because it gives its citizens the prospect of personal development and prosperity even in difficult times.
For this, we need successful companies
and strong workforces.
All young people should have a high school diploma and educational qualifications.
Fair educational opportunities for all are the basis for social justice in general.
Education is a human right.
No child should be left behind by society.
Climate change challenges us all.
Sustainable living and economic activity is no mere utopia, but the prerequisite for future generations to be able to live well in the future.
We want to achieve the climate goals and advance the comprehensive ecological modernization of the infrastructure, buildings, capital stock in our country.
Germany is to become the world's think tank on climate protection - and this will create new jobs.
We want to strengthen families.
They are the most important social unit in our society.
We want to shape the conditions in such a way that cohesion between the generations is sustainable.
Families need reliable structures.
They should be socially secure, parents should be able to combine work and family.
The children must be protected.
We want to significantly improve the situation of single parents.
We want to further promote equality between men and women in all areas of society.
This includes equal participation in living wage work and career advancement opportunities, as well as equal pay for work of equal value, and the sharing of family responsibilities on a partnership basis.
Equality must lead to equal treatment and actual equality.
Integration is a central task for the future viability of our country.
Their success is decided in the cities and communities.
We want and need to reach out to children and young people in particular.
They need special support so that equal opportunities are possible in kindergarten, at school and at work.
In the first global century, Germany cannot and will not act alone, but as an important part of Europe.
This Europe should not only be economically strong, but also have a clear social order.
Internationally, Europe stands for peace, cooperation and a fair balance of different interests.
We do not need to reinvent our economic and social model.
The social economic order as the economic order of a social democracy has proven its worth.
The social market economy is the success model of our prosperity and our democracy.
It has made Germany strong and it can continue to do so in the future.
In the 60 years of our Federal Republic, social democracy and the trade unions have played a decisive role in shaping it.
But it must now be restarted.
It needs fresh impetus and decisive action.
II. our policy 1. maintain and secure prosperity
The global crisis has also hit the German economy hard.
With two extensive economic stimulus programs, we have built bridges to support our economy.
and our labor market well through the crisis and give ourselves the opportunity to start the next upswing stronger and more crisis-proof than before.
With this policy, we are building on the reforms of the two Social Democratic-led federal governments, which helped make Germany the most competitive country in the entire European Union today.
The talk of the "sick man of Europe" is long gone.
Now we are back in a top position internationally.
We want Germany to be a country of high prosperity in the long term.
The sources of prosperity are above all qualifications, ideas, knowledge, creativity, well-trained specialists and curiosity about new things.
Germany is a frontrunner in key technology fields.
We want to maintain and expand this position.
For us, economic competence, especially in and after the crisis, means keeping an eye on the economic big picture.
We want an economy that stands on two stable pillars:
an innovative, productive export sector
and a strong domestic market.
That is why we are pursuing an economic policy that strikes a new balance between the key economic objectives:
more targeted public investment
and a reduction in public debt.
International competitiveness
and strong domestic demand through equitable income distribution.
Growth
and environmental sustainability.
That is why a good education
and research policy,
a policy that ensures efficient infrastructure
and enforces the rules for fair competition, is the best and most successful economic policy in the long term.
What we want: New rules for the financial markets
- Rules for banks.
Financial service providers must return to their serving function for society and the real economy and assume more responsibility for risks.
In the future, there must be no more off-balance sheet transactions.
Improving the equity base of companies is one of the goals of our capital market policy, especially in times of crisis.
We continue to reject short-term and speculative investments at the expense of sites and jobs and are
taking internationally coordinated initiatives for transparency and control.
Assets must be able to be valued in such a way that they do not have a procyclical effect and thus exacerbate the crisis if the market changes significantly.
- Regulation of hedge funds and private equity funds.
Both types of funds operate with high risks and therefore need to be more strictly regulated.
We call for registration and complete monitoring of hedge funds and private equity at the European and international level,
an improvement in transparency,
and higher capital requirements, including for lending to the funds.
We want rules against excessive corporate debt by funds.
Banks may only transact with registered funds.
It must be possible to prevent harmful short selling, which is used primarily by hedge funds.
- More independent rating agencies.
We want to break away from the dependence and dominance of a few American rating agencies.
This can best be done at the European level.
We advocate effective registration and clear rules to prevent conflicts of interest and transparency in and by credit rating agencies.
We want to reduce the importance of rating agencies as part of the necessary reorganization of financial market regulation.
- Strong financial market supervision.
Stable financial markets are a public good.
There must be strong financial market supervision capable of action at national, European and international level:
no market, no product, no actor, no territory and no state must remain unsupervised in the future.
In Germany, the Bundesbank and the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) must cooperate better
and have more rights of examination and intervention.
We want to strengthen and qualitatively tighten financial market supervision in the Federal Republic.
This means that special business risks must be backed by higher capital requirements.
Liquidity provisioning by financial institutions needs to be improved and become an increased subject of regulation.
In addition, we need earlier bans on distributions and payments to parent companies:
the banking supervisory authority must be able to impose distribution bans earlier when a crisis is looming.
In this way, we also protect domestic investors from the hasty withdrawal of funds from institutions in the Federal Republic.
At European level, we support the revision of the Capital Requirements Directive, which is relevant for all European countries, with stricter rules for securitization transactions and a uniform definition of core capital requirements.
We want compensation structures to be made the subject of supervision in financial market regulation.
- Limitation of manager salaries.
Responsible bank managers need incentive and compensation systems that are geared toward greater sustainability rather than quick returns.
Salary excesses and golden handshakes for incompetent managers must not be co-financed by the general public.
The grand coalition has already launched some measures; however, these are not enough.
We want only half of executive board compensation and severance payments above one million euros to be tax deductible.
In the future, performance-related compensation components such as bonus payments are to have multi-year reference periods and are only to be paid out at the end of this multi-year period.
The transfer of former members of the Executive Board to the Supervisory Board of a listed stock corporation shall only be possible after two years, unless the
election is based on a proposal by shareholders holding at least one quarter of the voting rights.
- Combating tax evasion.
We want a fair distribution of opportunities and burdens.
This includes consistently combating tax evasion and the shifting of funds to tax havens.
Conservatives and market liberals were up to no trick to filibuster our legislative initiative.
We will consistently continue on the path of combating tax evasion, because tax evasion harms us all and prevents a fair distribution of the burden.
We are in favor of a law to combat tax evasion, on the basis of which the tax authorities' investigative capabilities vis-à-vis internationally active tax evaders will be strengthened.
We also continue to rely on a clever combination of pressure on uncooperative tax havens
and targeted cooperation with countries willing to cooperate.
We have already made good progress here.
The threat of the "black list" of the OECD shows effect!
More and more countries around the world are focusing on transparency and the exchange of information.
As a government, we will be vigilant to ensure that these announcements are followed by action.
- TÜV for financial products.
We will also strengthen consumer protection and establish a financial MOT.
Consumers have often been unintentionally pressured into buying financial products that did not suit their particular circumstances.
To protect consumers, we rely on increased responsibility and liability of intermediaries and advisors of financial products.
Furthermore, risks and effects of financial products must be documented and reviewed.
This is where the protective effect of a "financial MOT" can be most effective.
- Stock exchange turnover tax.
To curb short-term speculation, we initially want to introduce a stock exchange turnover tax modeled on the British stamp duty.
At the same time, we advocate that such a tax be introduced throughout Europe
and levied on further financial transactions.
Fair competition as a guiding principle of regulatory policy
- Effective competition and antitrust policy.
We promote responsible entrepreneurship through fair competition.
Entrepreneurial freedom and social responsibility are inseparable in a social market economy.
We will ensure that the principle of competition is not violated when companies merge.
- Support for quality competition in public procurement law.
We support competition for the quality of products and services.
However, it must not be at the expense of working conditions and wages.
We will use the opportunities offered by the new public procurement law to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises and companies that comply with collective agreements
Priority for corporate management geared to long-term success
- Corporate responsibility to the common good.
We will stipulate in the Stock Corporation Act that companies have a duty not only to shareholders but also to employees and the common good.
- Voting rights for shareholders after holding period.
Influencing companies should not be done in the short-term profit interest.
Full voting rights for shareholders at general meetings should therefore be linked to a minimum holding period of one year.
- Expand employee share ownership.
With the new regulation of employee share ownership, we have taken an important step in Germany toward giving employees a share in the economic success of entrepreneurs.
In times of crisis, where employees temporarily forgo income in order to stabilize their companies, they must also be given a stake in the company with all rights in return.
- Better training for managers.
For decades, questions of corporate management were viewed exclusively from the perspective of market logic.
This also had an impact on the training of managers.
Up to now, studies have been primarily concerned with teaching analytical and quantitative techniques and still far too little with developing a sense of responsibility and social competence.
Those who demand responsible companies need responsible managers.
In the future, this must already be reflected in training.
- Support voluntary initiatives by industry.
Politics, business and civil society can only lay the foundations for sustainable economic growth together.
Companies and banks that act responsibly in the sense of corporate social responsibility will deliver better results, higher quality and have confident, motivated employees in the long term.
- Balance sheets and accounting for the long term and sustainability.
For us, companies are not only committed to the financial profit of their owners (''shareholder value'').
Investors and the public need reliable information on companies' performance in the areas of climate protection, social responsibility and the quality of corporate governance.
Targeted and meaningful reporting systems on these indicators are a basis for long-term and sustainable capital markets.
- "Good work" as an assessment yardstick.
We will enforce that companies participate in the process of creating a human potential index, which makes the quality of their jobs comparable from the point of view of "good work".
As a result, rating agencies and banks can use the quality of work in a company as a further criterion in company valuation.
The Human Potential Index is therefore an important supplement to the DGB Good Work Index.
Sustainable growth and stability An economic policy that looks at the big picture.
- Active economic policy.
In an exceptional economic situation, the government must take decisive and targeted countermeasures with a countercyclical fiscal policy, i.e. with additional government spending over a limited period of time.
It can at least partially absorb the lack of private demand, thus building a bridge to the next upswing.
- New debt rule.
Debt in the long run is a serious problem for the future viability of our country.
We stand for the fact that the debt, which is now necessary for economic stabilization, will be consistently reduced again in good times.
However, debt reduction must not be allowed to prevent necessary investments.
As a general rule, successful fiscal consolidation requires stable revenues and economic growth.
We are in favor of a cyclically appropriate debt rule that limits the deficit of the federal and state governments.
The rule provides for greater leeway in economic downturns and special crisis situations;
however, deficits must be made up again in better economic times.
- Preservation of the industrial base.
Germany will continue to need a strong industry as the basis of a knowledge-intensive and competitive economy.
In the crisis, the state can and must contribute with active industrial policy to maintaining and modernizing the industrial base and the jobs associated with it.
- Innovative services.
A large majority of employees work in the service sector.
Strong industry and innovative services are not mutually exclusive, but rather mutually dependent.
- Strategic and ecological industrial policy of the future.
A strategically oriented industrial policy can do more than just preserve substance:
Of central importance to us is the expansion of promising lead markets such as climate and environmental technology, health technologies and the creative industries.
This is where our economy has the greatest opportunities for growth.
Social democratic economic policy has shown that intelligent state instruments are indispensable for opening up new markets:
Our policy to promote renewable energies is being copied around the world.
Strategic industrial policy dovetails the promotion of research, infrastructure development, incentives for private demand, regulations, and the targeted use of public buyer power.
Ecological industrial policy does not only concern "green products", but is understood by us as a cross-sectional task - with the aim of saving resources through more efficient technologies.
Creating new work in the markets of the future
- Full employment.
Even if the economic crisis is setting us back, a central goal of social democratic policy remains that all people should be able to earn their own living through fairly paid work.
New jobs are being created primarily in the fields of social need.
Climate protection, the growing international division of labor and an aging society are generating demand for new products and services.
- Work and the environment.
We need to transform our industrial society, be much more efficient with resources and switch to renewable raw materials.
To achieve this, we want to better position our economy in a changing international division of labor and keep it competitive:
As a global provider of 21st century environmental technologies and services.
- Working "people for people".
New work is also created where people provide services for people: Care, education, nursing.
The healthcare sector already employs one in ten of the workforce.
With rising life expectancy and higher female labor force participation, demand for personnel-intensive services continues to rise.
In order to exploit this employment potential, we also want to provide greater support to private households as clients and employers.
- Creative work.
The creative industries have been making an increasingly strong contribution to economic and employment growth for years.
We want to facilitate business start-ups and access to start-up capital as well as microcredits.
In the digital world, we need a balance between user-friendliness
and the fair remuneration of creative work.
We are striving for better social security for the self-employed and employees in the creative industries.
More impetus for research and innovation
- Intensification of research spending.
Our knowledge and inventiveness are the basis of our prosperity.
We want to increase overall economic research and development spending to 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2015.
- Tax credits for research.
To achieve this goal, we will use new financial policy leeway to supplement existing forms of project funding with tax incentives for corporate research efforts in the form of a tax credit for small and medium-sized enterprises.
Medium-sized companies and entrepreneurship
- The social market economy needs strong entrepreneurs.
Without the ideas and initiatives, but also without the social responsibility of entrepreneurs, a dynamic and social market economy would be inconceivable.
We want to maintain a strong SME sector in Germany.
- Promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises.
We want to ensure secure access to capital for SMEs.
Promoting small and medium-sized enterprises also involves providing greater support for the cooperative sector.
- New start-up culture.
We will create new contact points for start-ups throughout the country in the form of a one-stop store, make it
easier for them to access venture capital
and develop, implement and expand targeted advisory services, especially for older founders and women.
- Less bureaucracy.
We are committed to further simplifying administrative procedures by, among other things, further reducing information and statistical obligations
and enabling documentation requirements to be fulfilled electronically.
- Strengthen the High-Tech Start-up Fund model and extend it to other areas.
The state should be able to act as a co-investor together with private capital providers in the strategic areas of energy, transport and social services.
- Support for the craft sector.
The skilled trades are a central pillar of our economy.
Since the beginning of 2009, there have been even better opportunities for private households to deduct crafts services from their taxes.
We are continuing our program for energy-efficient building refurbishment.
Future-oriented expansion of infrastructure and networks Safeguarding services of general interest
- Public services.
The state has a democratic responsibility to ensure that all citizens have access to services of general interest.
Municipal companies and facilities ensure high-quality public goods and an efficient infrastructure.
We therefore advocate fair competition rules for public companies in national and European law.
In the EU, we advocate leaving it up to the EU member states and their local authorities to decide which services of general interest are provided and how.
- Fair competition and reasonable prices.
For the liberalized network industries such as energy, telecommunications and postal services, as well as for municipal services, we want to create a stable and reliable legal framework that protects consumers,
stimulates and rewards investment
, and secures and creates high-quality jobs.
- Securing funding.
We want to further develop the financing instruments for transport infrastructure.
The state does not have to provide everything itself, but it must ensure access to public goods.
Where private parties are involved, we ask not only about the short-term benefits to public finances, but also about the impact on future policy-making options.
- "Networks of the future".
Large investments will be required for the power grids of the future, especially if renewable energies will account for a larger share of the power supply in the future.
We want regulation of energy networks that actually incentivizes investment.
We advocate the establishment of a Deutsche Netz AG.
We can also imagine government involvement in this.
- Expansion of the broadband network.
We will drive forward the broadband initiative
and ensure that all citizens and businesses have access to a high-performance broadband connection.
At the same time, as many households as possible are to be connected to the particularly high-performance fiber-optic technology.
Responsible consumers in the social market economy
- Empower and protect consumers.
People should be able to trust that food is healthy, appliances are safe and phones are not cost traps, and that financial investments deliver what they promise.
- Demand is a decisive factor.
In a market economy, consumers also decide on the success or failure of companies and thus on the future viability of an economy and the social and ecological quality of a society.
Consumers have opportunities to exert influence, and it is important to make use of them.
Consumer policy enables the state, business and civil society to work together.
The goals of our consumer policy are information, transparency and safety.
- Consumer information.
Consumers want to be informed.
They should be given more rights to do this and be able to compare products quickly and easily and make an informed purchasing decision.
That is why we want traffic light labeling for nutritional values in food and clear statements about the content, properties and origin of products. -
Enforcing consumer rights.
We want to strengthen consumers and support them so that they get their rights.
For this, we need strong consumer organizations.
In addition to their existing tasks, we want to commission consumer organizations as "market watchdogs" to inform and warn consumers and support them in asserting their rights.
- Freedom of choice in matters of genetic engineering.
The vast majority of consumers reject genetic engineering in food.
In order to create transparency throughout the European Single Market, we advocate the extension of labeling for genetically modified feed and food to products derived from animals fed on genetically modified crops.
We want to promote the "without genetic engineering" label pushed through by the SPD with a uniform label.
We will work toward a change in European law that will enable the mandatory establishment of GMO-free regions.
- Food labeling.
When it comes to food labeling, it is crucial that the nutritional information of the food is quickly and easily identifiable so that consumers can compare products and make an informed purchasing decision.
Traffic light labeling is also an important measure of precautionary health policy.
2. Germany as a pioneer for sustainable energy policy and mobility
At the beginning of the 21st century, we are facing a double structural challenge: On the one hand, the global financial crisis, the end and effects of which for the real economy are far from foreseeable.
On the other hand, the climate and environmental crisis, the management of which is no less urgent.
The two crises must not be played off against each other.
Instead, politics and society must achieve comprehensive and sustainable renewal.
In response to these crises, we need a clear political concept that opens up new fields of real, future-oriented value creation.
At the heart of our modern and sustainable economic policy are work, the
environment
and innovation.
Growing populations and rapidly increasing industrialization worldwide are leading to a further drastic increase in demand for raw materials.
This creates a double challenge: an ecological one and an economic one.
How do we keep our economy competitive
and how do we make it less dependent on raw materials, which are only available in limited quantities on earth and whose prices will rise?
How do we prevent the destruction of the natural foundations of life through the overuse of our environment associated with industrialization?
The SPD's answer is a conscious shift to a sustainable economy.
To shape change, we need a new idea of progress.
Today, environmental policy is no longer conducted solely from the perspective of protection.
At the same time, it is an engine for innovation and economic success.
This is, among other things, a success of our policy.
We have never seen work and the environment as opposites, but always as two sides of the same coin.
The introduction of environmental standards, the promotion of new forms of energy production, and also the phasing out of nuclear energy were all part of a strategy to renew Germany and protect our environment.
Our ambitious climate protection policy will lead to a net total of 500,000 additional jobs by 2020.
By 2030, the figure could be as high as 800,000 jobs.
We want to exploit this potential.
Our concept is that of ecological industrial policy.
It makes the German economy less dependent on price developments on the raw material markets.
It strengthens strategic industries of the future
and prepares the German economy for the lead markets of the future such as energy, resource efficiency and mobility.
It promotes innovation, initiates technological leaps and ensures that technologies are applied and brought to market more quickly.
Ecological industrial policy adjusts the industrial structure of our economy to the dwindling resources and increasingly converts the material basis of our industry in important areas to sustainable technologies and renewable raw materials.
In this way, new growth, new value creation, new products and new employment can be created.
What we want: Lead project "Away from oil". - Away from oil.
We combine economy and ecology into a coherent concept for the transformation of our industrial society.
We express this in a central flagship project, "Away from Oil.
Germany is to become independent of oil imports in the medium term.
- Expansion of renewable energies.
We will consistently continue the expansion of renewable energies.
By 2020, we want to have converted at least 35 percent of electricity generation to renewable energies, and by 2030 the share should already be 50 percent.
The internationally agreed target of reducing CO2 emissions in industrialized countries by 80 95 percent by 2050 compared with 1990 can only be achieved if: we invest now in modernizing our coal and gas-fired power plants to emit less CO2;
we further reduce emissions budgets within the framework of the EU and international agreements; the
share of renewable energies continues to rise beyond 2030;
and the priority already given to feeding electricity into the grid is maintained.
- The car of the future made in Germany.
Germany's economic strength is due not least to its engineering expertise in the automotive sector.
The car of the future will have to take account of the fact that oil is becoming scarcer.
We want it to be developed in Germany and used across the board.
Advancing climate protection - The energy mix of the future: Clean, secure and affordable
- Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
Our goal is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Germany by at least 40 percent by 2020 compared to 1990 levels.
- Climate protection fund.
We will establish a special climate protection innovation fund that will provide comprehensive risk capital for innovative climate protection technologies.
- Energy-saving offensive.
The most important energy in the energy mix of the future is that which is not consumed.
We need an energy-saving offensive.
We will introduce a high-efficiency law with the goal of saving 11 percent of current electricity demand by 2020.
We will raise the requirements of the Energy Saving Ordinance for new buildings by 30 percent
and we will introduce the demand-oriented energy requirement certificate for all buildings on a mandatory basis.
We will increase the rate of building renovation to 2 - 3 percent per year and, to this end, increase the subsidies from the CO2 building renovation program to 2 billion euros per year.
We will link energy tax privileges for the manufacturing sector to the introduction of energy management systems.
- Promoting Top Runners.
The basis for the implementation of an ecological consumer policy is the definition of criteria for environmentally friendly products and services.
The "top runners", i.e. the best products available on the market, must be identified.
The benchmarks developed in this way form the basis for the use of consumer policy instruments.
- Energy consulting.
In view of the many hitherto unused energy-saving or efficiency measures, we will push ahead with energy advice for consumers.
- More investment in energy efficiency.
By 2020, we want to double energy productivity compared with 1990.
We will introduce a Climate Protection Investment Act that creates clear and reliable incentives in tax law for investments in energy efficiency and renewable energies.
We will use the proceeds from the auctioning of emission allowances for climate and environmental protection measures.
We will include existing buildings in the obligation to use renewable energies in the case of renovation measures that are due anyway,
and at the same time provide further financial support for the use of renewable energies.
- National Renewable Energies Action Plan.
Renewable energies are one of the most important lead markets.
Technological advancement and application in one's own country are two sides of the same coin.
We will present a National Renewable Energy Action Plan that will help accelerate the expansion of renewable energies in the electricity supply, heating and transport sectors.
We want to strengthen the priority of renewable energies in these areas.
We will also leverage our technological leadership in the use of wind energy at sea.
We are aiming for an installed capacity of around 1,500 - 2,000 MW by 2013.
In photovoltaics, we want to achieve near-grid parity by the end of 2013:
Electricity from a new plant in Germany will then only cost as much as electricity from the wall socket.
By 2010, seamless and comprehensive certification systems will be established to ensure the sustainable cultivation of crops for bioenergy production.
- International dissemination of renewable energies.
We will work to ensure that the newly established Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) quickly becomes a central player in the global spread of renewables.
- Implement nuclear phase-out, ensure safety.
The use of nuclear energy poses too great a risk.
Last but not least, the question of the final disposal of nuclear waste remains unresolved to this day.
The phase-out regulated in the Atomic Energy Act is enforced.
We are phasing out nuclear energy completely by 2021.
Until the phase-out, the highest possible safety standards apply in all plants, with the obligation for continuous upgrading.
Extending operating lives would delay urgently needed investments in new technologies.
- Solution to final storage.
We maintain that no political preliminary decision must be made in favor of the Gorleben site for the final disposal of highly radioactive waste.
Instead, we need a selection and comparison process that is open-ended and geared to international standards in order to find the best possible location in Germany.
This has so far been prevented by the CDU, CSU and FDP.
- Involvement of the nuclear industry.
The necessary cleanup of the nuclear waste repositories in the former Asse II and Morsleben salt mines is causing high costs that should not be borne by the general public.
We will create the conditions for additional and appropriate participation by the energy companies in the nuclear industry.
In the case of the Asse II repository, this explicitly includes the possibility of complete retrieval of the nuclear waste and its safe disposal.
- Efficient use of fossil fuels.
The use of coal and gas cannot be dispensed with in the foreseeable future.
We will ensure that the German and European climate protection targets are achieved
and, at the same time, that German and European energy companies are given long-term planning security.
Emissions trading is the central instrument for enabling new investments in state-of-the-art, efficient fossil-fuel power plants.
We will adapt the licensing law to replace old inefficient coal and gas-fired power plants with new, more efficient power plants
and to ensure a decentralized flexible energy supply.
We intend to further develop carbon capture technology in Germany - including through European Union-funded demonstration projects.
Reuse is to take precedence over final disposal, and companies must ensure the long-term safety of storage facilities based on the highest environmental standards.
Cogeneration is the most efficient form of energy production.
We will massively expand it to at least a 25 percent share of total electricity supply by 2020.
For new power plants, we will give priority to environmentally friendly cogeneration.
We will ensure that citizens are fully involved in the approval process.
- The future of hard coal.
German coal mining has made a major contribution to the country's development and prosperity.
It has since been reduced to a low pedestal.
But it is sustainable.
We therefore want the review clause for the German coal industry to be made effective in good time before 2012, thus preventing the de facto phasing out of hard coal mining.
- Energy research of the future.
We will expand energy research.
As part of the 6th Energy Research Program, we will focus on energy efficiency, renewable energies and storage technologies.
Transport and mobility
- Mobility must remain affordable.
Mobility enables personal development and social participation.
It is a prerequisite for participation in working life, education, culture and social life as a whole.
Mobility must therefore not become a luxury good.
At the same time, transport policy also makes an important contribution when it comes to achieving our climate protection targets.
The fundamental goal of our modern transportation policy is to make socially and economically necessary mobility environmentally friendly and affordable.
- Modern infrastructure.
Mobility is also a lead market.
A well-developed transport system is an essential prerequisite for growth and employment.
Germany is the most important logistics location in Europe.
Investments in our infrastructure are therefore investments in our future.
We will continue them at a high level in the future.
We place a particular focus on the expansion of environmentally friendly modes of transport, especially rail.
We will eliminate bottlenecks in road traffic with targeted investments.
At the same time, we will press ahead with noise abatement.
- Optimal use of existing traffic routes.
We invest in modern traffic control technologies.
By 2015, all highly congested highway routes are to be fully equipped with modern traffic control and traffic management systems to make better use of existing capacity on our highways and avoid congestion.
We will accelerate the introduction of the standardized European Train Control System (ETCS) to make rail more competitive in cross-border traffic. -
New technologies promote a move away from oil.
To secure mobility in the long term, we need a technological leap forward in innovation.
The car will continue to play a central role in the future.
On the one hand, efficiency in the use of fossil fuels must be further increased, e.g. through hybrid technologies.
With a "National Electromobility Development Plan," we want to drive forward the market launch of battery-electric drive technologies.
At the same time, we are continuing our efforts to launch hydrogen and fuel cell technology on the market as part of the Clean Energy Partnership.
Germany is to become a pioneer when it comes to "getting away from oil".
- For a strong and citizen-friendly railroad.
We want to shift more traffic from road to rail.
In order to further increase the attractiveness of rail transport, we are focusing on an efficient rail network, attractive, barrier-free stations, good frequency of the various services and a customer-friendly, easy-to-understand fare system.
The railroads must be strong, competitive and customer-friendly.
We reject the idea of breaking up Deutsche Bahn AG.
Deutsche Bahn is to remain an integrated group in the future.
We will ensure adequate funding for the railroads in the coming legislative period.
That is why capital privatization does not take place, even partially.
- Safe and environmentally friendly mobility.
We want to make urban transportation safer, more environmentally friendly and more socially responsible by introducing new technologies and expanding public transportation.
We will treat public transport, cycling and pedestrians equally in our communities, making mobility safer for all.
- Fair distance allowance.
We want to implement greater consideration of social and environmental aspects in the commuting allowance with the aim of ensuring that all commuters are treated equally and receive the same reimbursement per kilometer, regardless of income.
3. secure good work
Work is the foundation of our prosperity.
We are the party of labor.
We have principles that correspond to the central importance of work:
- Those who work hard must get something out of it.
Performance must be rewarded this demand is right for all employees.
- Those who make an effort must be able to use it to improve their lives and must not face insurmountable hurdles.
Our society's promise of advancement holds true.
- No one must be left by the wayside.
We stand up for each other in solidarity and help those who cannot make a living with work alone.
We Social Democrats want everyone to have a job.
That's why we've improved job placement.
But good job placement also needs a growing economy and demand for labor.
We want to help make more jobs available.
There are two scenarios for the labor market of the new decade: Either we have sufficient skilled workers and low unemployment.
Or we complain about a shortage of skilled workers and, at the same time, high unemployment figures.
The development can be shaped by us.
We want a completed vocational training or high school diploma for everyone.
Our goal remains full employment.
Our goal is Good Work.
It must be fairly paid,
must not make you ill,
must provide opportunities for further training
and family-friendly.
What we want: Defending and strengthening workers' rights
- Preservation of employee rights.
Employees have social rights.
This is fundamental to a social market economy.
Protection against termination
and the right to elect works councils are indispensable employee rights for the SPD.
We protect these rights.
We need strong trade unions.
- Temporary employment: We will provide better legal protection for temporary employment relationships.
In addition to a wage floor, this also includes strengthening the principle of "equal pay for equal work".
After an appropriate training period in the same company, the principle of "equal pay" shall apply without restriction.
We want to limit intragroup lending.
- Internships must not become a dead end.
That is why we want better legal protection for interns against exploitation as cheap or even free labor.
- Employee data protection.
Numerous attacks in recent years have made it clear that we need our own employee data protection law that safeguards the rights of employees.
Such a project serves to bundle previously scattered regulations and to supplement them where new technologies create a need.
- Whistleblower protection.
Employees are often the only ones who perceive violations of the law in the company, which may even pose risks to third parties.
We therefore want employees to be protected from employer sanctions if they point out grievances.
- Labor Contract Code.
We consider a Labor Contract Code to be welcome if it is drafted by consensus of the social partners
and completely and comprehensibly bundles the existing regulations without reducing employee rights.
- Protection of employees in the event of insolvency.
The economic crisis will continue to lead to an increase in corporate insolvencies in 2010.
We must therefore protect employees in insolvency proceedings as much as possible.
It must be made clear by law that, in the event of insolvency, wages for work already performed may not be improperly withdrawn.
Fair wages and income
- Ensure collective bargaining autonomy and compliance.
We will defend the autonomy of collective bargaining in Germany and Europe.
It is a foundation for good work.
We want tariff compliance to become a central criterion in the awarding of public contracts.
And we support initiatives against social dumping in the European and international arena.
Good work must not be jeopardized by a globalizing labor market.
- Minimum wages.
In the grand coalition, against the reluctance of the CDU/CSU, we pushed through an expansion of the Employee Posting Act and a revision of the Minimum Working Conditions Act to protect more sectors against dumping wages.
We are consistently pursuing this path.
We will enable generally binding collectively agreed minimum wages in as many sectors as possible.
And we will promote minimum working conditions wherever the social partners are no longer able to do so on their own.
Our goal is a general statutory minimum wage that marks a lowest limit below which wages may not fall.
A minimum wage commission is to set it.
We assume that a minimum wage of 7.50 euros is currently a sensible benchmark.
- Bonus for work.
We want to tackle a fundamental reorganization of the lower income bracket.
A statutory minimum wage will play the central role in this.
Taxes and social security contributions are coordinated with other government transfer payments in such a way as to strengthen full-time work that provides a living wage and is subject to social security contributions.
We want to structure income supplements in such a way that no one, because he or she has children, slips into basic security for jobseekers.
To this end, we want to further develop the child allowance in conjunction with the housing allowance in order to support working parents.
We want to create a right to choose between child allowance and housing benefit on the one hand and basic income support on the other.
- Strengthen employment subject to social security contributions.
We want to curb the expansion of insecure employment.
Good work means that employment subject to social security contributions is the rule.
We want to reintroduce the limit of 15 hours per week for so-called mini-jobs.
Equal opportunities equal pay for work of equal value
- Equal wages.
Fair wages are unfortunately also still a question of gender.
We will ensure that the wage gap between men and women closes.
The minimum wage helps because many women still work in structurally low-paying fields.
We also want to set up an office that can initiate wage measurements at companies.
At the same time, works councils are to be given the right to demand a statistical diagnosis from the employer as to whether wages in the company are fair.
In addition, we want to anchor in the General Equal Treatment Act the possibility of the works council cooperating with this body.
This effectively extends the individual rights of the women concerned that already exist today in the event of a violation of the prohibition of discrimination.
In addition, when awarding public contracts, only companies that treat women and men equally in terms of pay should be considered.
- More women in management and supervisory positions.
We will use binding regulations to ensure that women and men have equal opportunities for advancement in companies
and that the proportion of women in management positions is significantly increased.
Following foreign examples, we want to introduce a 40 percent quota for women on the supervisory boards of companies.
- Advice on choosing a career and field of study.
We want to break down the gendered choice of careers and fields of study.
This requires close cooperation between schools, vocational and academic counseling, and parents' homes.
- Part-time employment out of the impasse.
With the Part-Time and Fixed-Term Employment Act, we have a legal entitlement to part-time employment
and opportunities to participate in vocational training.
Nevertheless, the qualification and career opportunities of part-time employees are often still inadequate and the pay is not livelihood-securing.
Women are particularly affected.
We will take measures to improve the legal conditions for (re-)starting full-time employment
and offer more opportunities to participate in vocational qualification.
Training and opportunity for career advancement
- Right to catch up on schooling for all.
We will not tolerate up to 80,000 students leaving school each year without a diploma.
Each and everyone gets a second or third chance.
That is why we want the right to be able to catch up on school at any time with support.
We will ensure that students are prepared for vocational training with timely career guidance and career entry support while still at school.
- Strong dual system.
We will strengthen the dual system and modernize apprenticeships.
We want more training opportunities that combine in-company training with academic studies.
- Vocational training for all.
Vocational training is still the most important basis for starting a career.
Even if we manage to get 40 percent of a year's intake into higher education, 60 percent will still be looking for traditional vocational training.
Against this backdrop, we will continue to develop the training pact and aim to further increase the training place commitments of industry.
We provide apprenticeships for the less qualified applicants as well.
With the apprenticeship bonus, we also help those who have been looking in vain for an apprenticeship for some time.
We want to give works councils the right of co-determination to push through more training places in their companies.
We want a vocational training guarantee for all those who are older than 20 and have neither a vocational qualification nor a high school diploma.
They should be given a chance in extra-company training programs where they can qualify in occupations with labor demand.
In addition, we will enable young workers without training to catch up on their training in their company, if possible without loss of income.
We want to reorganize the transition from school to working life and turn waiting loops into clear paths from school to training.
- Easier access to higher education.
We want a permeable education system.
That is why we want to create the opportunity for vocational school students to also obtain a technical college entrance qualification.
In addition, we want to increase the opportunities for integrated university studies and vocational training.
In addition, we want to specifically open up access to colleges and universities for technicians, master craftsmen and other professionals with training.
To this end, it should also be possible to receive BAföG after the age of 30.
- Securing the demand for skilled workers.
We want further education with a system and legal entitlements.
At 43 percent, participation in continuing education in Germany is too low.
We want to increase this to at least half by 2015.
Low-skilled workers in particular should be able to participate more in continuing education.
We want to keep the labor market open for foreign academics, graduates of German schools abroad and foreign students.
We will also work hard to improve the qualifications of migrants, including language support and recognition of their foreign qualifications.
We want a recognition law on the basis of which everyone knows after six months at the latest which of their degrees acquired abroad will also be recognized in our country.
Employment insurance and lifetime work account
- The long-term account a new model of work.
Employees want to be in control of their time.
We are creating the legal means to do this.
We have laid the foundations for this with insolvency protection and the transferability of credit balances from long-term accounts.
We want employees to be able to save up credit balances and withdraw them flexibly over the course of their working lives for further training, raising children or caring for dependents.
These aspects can be regulated by the collective bargaining partners through industry-specific working time accounts.
Together with the already established rights to part-time work in general and to part-time work when raising children, we enable a flexible approach to working time that is appropriate for every phase of life.
From this, a new model of work can develop that combines flexibility and security requirements.
- Unemployment insurance becomes labor insurance.
We want to develop unemployment insurance into an employment insurance system that not only ends unemployment quickly, but helps prevent it.
To this end, we will establish a legal right to a free review of individual qualification needs for every employee nationwide.
This offer is to be provided close to home by the employment agency in cooperation with regional continuing education networks.
This qualification consulting can also be used by self-employed persons.
With the new employment insurance, we want to help make long-term accounts for continuing education more attractive in companies.
A publicly funded portion is to be paid into each long-term account, but it can only be used for qualification purposes.
Placement in work
- Best placement in work.
We want Germany to have the best employment service in the world.
Anyone who becomes unemployed needs to know that the best possible support and placement services are open to him or her.
Combating long-term unemployment remains a key task.
We will increase the number of employment mediators in times of economic crisis to ensure that the placement service for each individual remains at a high level precisely when personal support needs are greatest.
- On-site support.
We will create a successor regulation for the labor pools of the Federal Employment Agency and municipalities that conforms to the constitution as quickly as possible.
Collaboration of placement expertise and local knowledge has proven effective.
- Improve funding instruments.
We will continue to improve the toolbox of employment services.
In particular, we want to better promote business start-ups from unemployment.
We will also focus on the integration of immigrants, who need even better support in integrating into the labor market.
New prospects have been opened up for the long-term unemployed with particular placement obstacles.
The Kommunal-Kombi for regions with particularly entrenched long-term unemployment will be further expanded.
- Needs-based standard rates.
People in unemployment should not be allowed to slip into poverty.
There will continue to be a regular review of the standard rates of unemployment benefit II and, if necessary, an increase in line with requirements.
- Schonvermögen.
Retirement planning is important.
Assets used for private pension provision are not counted towards unemployment benefit II.
The prerequisite is that a monthly pension is irrevocably guaranteed from the start of retirement.
For a new culture of work - people- and family-friendly work
- Humane working conditions to maintain employability.
Work takes up a large part of one's life time.
Work must therefore be designed in such a way that it is in harmony with the life cycle of the individual.
Employees must have the opportunity to work until retirement.
A new culture of work is therefore necessary in human and economic terms.
We will increasingly promote modern working conditions:
Companies can learn from each other.
Model projects with social partners, companies and research are to help develop and identify good solutions for specific sectors.
- Humane working hours.
Work must also be organized in a way that is compatible with health.
This is especially true for shift and weekend work.
In cooperation with social partners, companies and research, model projects are to be further developed to enable older people to work longer in good health.
- Forward-looking personnel development planning.
Workforces in companies are getting older.
This is why forward-looking personnel development planning can improve both the skill level of the workforce and age- and age-appropriate working conditions.
- Occupational health management.
In addition to the already existing tax deductibility of employer expenses for employees, consideration should be given to whether progress can be made in this area through support or grant schemes.
Workers' health literacy must be promoted.
- Vocational rehabilitation.
We want to further modernize occupational rehabilitation and, in particular, strengthen occupational reintegration management and give rehabilitation priority over disability pensions as far as possible.
- Reconciling work and family life.
In addition to the family policy initiatives, such as the expansion of daycare and the legal entitlement to a childcare place, which we have pushed through, we also want to press ahead with the expansion of company kindergartens.
We must pay particular attention to those who are in the so-called "rush hour of life" and who, between the ages of 25 and 40, must simultaneously manage a professional career, start a family and possibly care for relatives.
Therefore, an entitlement to part-time work must also be made possible on a temporary basis with a minimum duration of 2 years.
We want to introduce up to ten days of paid leave for unexpected care situations.
The development of an infrastructure for families close to home must be taken into account accordingly in social space planning.
- Time sovereignty.
Work is half the life.
We want employees to be able to manage their working hours in a more determined manner.
Flexibilization of working time can and should be an advantage for employees.
This can be achieved through the targeted use of long-term accounts, which employees can use to save up time off.
In addition, families must have time sovereignty,
but also for voluntary work, culture, sports clubs, etc.
We want to create the necessary framework conditions to give works councils the right to take initiative.
and to give the collective bargaining parties more leeway in these matters.
Co-determination in companies and enterprises as a core element of the social market economy
- Preservation and strengthening of the German co-determination model.
These times in particular show that entrepreneurs and employees can only overcome the crisis together.
That is why co-determination in Germany and Europe is and remains just as important a cornerstone of the social market economy as collective bargaining autonomy.
And we will continue to ensure that the German co-determination model has a future in the European negotiations, for example on the Seat Relocation Directive and the European Private Company.
The possibility of forming European Works Councils is a good opportunity to further advance co-determination in Europe.
- Expansion of business subject to co-determination.
In the area of corporate co-determination, a statutory minimum catalog of transactions requiring approval must be defined.
Hostile takeovers must no longer be a co-determination-free zone.
- Reduce codetermination-free zone.
We want to put an end to the circumvention of co-determination through outsourcing to de facto controlled subsidiaries, through the choice of legal form (such as foundations and mutual insurance associations), and through foreign companies with administrative headquarters in Germany.
- Expand participation rights.
We have created the legal basis for works councils to enforce appropriate qualifications in the event of technical innovations.
In the future, we also want to expand co-determination in general on issues relating to training and continuing education in the company.
Co-determination in the use of temporary work must be strengthened
and temporary workers must be taken into account in the thresholds under works constitution law.
Works councils also need more rights when it comes to further training,
also to negotiate a social plan in the event of a transfer of operations.
And we want to strengthen the rights of works councils in promoting women in the workplace.
- Works council elections 2010 Initiative to establish works councils.
Only one in 17 companies with 5 to 50 employees has a works council.
In many cases, a works council is desired by employees but blocked by the company.
The next SPD-led federal government will launch a campaign to establish works councils in the run-up to the 2010 works council elections.
We want the possibilities offered by the Works Constitution Act to be used as fully as possible.
4. education is a human right
Education is a human right.
Everyone has an equal right to a good education as a foundation for a fulfilling life and as a ticket to good, skilled work.
This is true regardless of origin, regardless of the parents' income.
Education as a human right is the prerequisite for true equality of opportunity.
As long as there are hurdles for disadvantaged people in our education system, opportunities will remain unfairly distributed.
Lifelong learning is irreplaceable for the personal development of every human being.
It provides orientation for finding one's way in an increasingly complex world and participating in social life.
General, vocational, political and cultural education provides people with basic orientations and competencies.
This enables them to play an active role in shaping political and social change in our society.
We advocate close cooperation between schools and adult education centers and other non-school educational institutions, as well as cultural institutions such as libraries, museums, theaters and cinemas.
The human right to education does not end with adulthood.
Those who didn't make it in the first attempt and want to try again deserve the right to a second and third chance.
Education must always be possible throughout life, even after the working phase.
We are committed to education as a public good and see the state and politics as having a responsibility to organize more education for all from the beginning and throughout life.
We can only realize the human right to education together.
Education is a community task, because the entire society benefits from the education of the individual.
Good education for all is a prerequisite for progress and the future prosperity of the country.
Teachers in all educational sectors achieve a great deal - their commitment deserves greater recognition.
Together with parents, they lay the foundation of our future.
Children and parents do not ask which political level is responsible for their education.
Children need qualified and motivated teachers, good teaching equipment and renovated classrooms.
The necessary quality leap in education will only succeed if the federal, state and local governments act together and all links in the education chain interlock.
We want to create the conditions in the Basic Law for such cooperation to be possible.
What we want: We need a new consensus on education and common goals
- All students need to graduate.
Our first and most important goal will be to drastically reduce the number of school dropouts.
We no longer want to accept the fact that 80,000 students are left without a diploma every year.
By means of clear target agreements, we want to achieve a reduction in this figure of at least 10 percent per year.
- More money for education.
Education must be worth more to our society.
Our goal: by 2015, at least 7 percent of GDP for education
and 3 percent for research and development.
We pushed through this goal at the 2008 Education Summit.
- Solidarity contribution for education.
Especially in times of crisis, it is essential that we invest enough money in education to emerge stronger from the crisis.
And it is precisely in the crisis that it is important to distribute these costs fairly.
That is why we will introduce an education surcharge on very high incomes.
- Education and occupation.
We will need more well-qualified specialists in the future.
Our goal is for all young people to have a vocational qualification or high school diploma.
We want to strengthen the dual system and give more employees regular access to continuing vocational training (see chapter entitled "Securing good jobs").
- Integration.
Community and a sense of belonging come from shared education and upbringing.
Exclusion is not a solution - this applies to children with disabilities, those with learning difficulties, and those who receive inadequate support at home.
- End the discrimination of immigrant children.
Germany is a country of immigration.
A quarter of all children have at least one parent who immigrated from another country.
Many of these children are still at a significant disadvantage in our education system.
They too have a right to equal educational opportunities, to recognition of their special abilities such as multilingualism and their cultural experiences.
Strong education funding for more equity in education
- BAföG: Tradition obliges.
Social democracy introduced BAföG at the beginning of the 1970s because it is an important condition for equal opportunities in education.
We are building on this tradition.
- BAföG for students.
Pupils from low-income families are to receive financial support on their way to the Abitur from the time they enter the gymnasiale Oberstufe.
- BAföG for students.
We will expand the student BAföG so that studying is also possible in later phases of the working life.
This includes the fact that part-time courses of study and master's courses of study leading to further education can also be funded.
This also includes raising the age limit for receiving BAföG.
- Meister-BAföG.
We will combine the rules of the Meister-BAföG and the BAföG in an adult continuing education act.
- BAföG must be enough to live on.
That is why we will regularly adjust it to the cost of living.
Good education for all from the start
- Care from one.
We have ensured that from 2013 there will be a legal right to care for every child from their first birthday.
We want to make this a right to all-day care.
- Better quality and freedom from fees.
Improving the quality of early childhood education is at the forefront of all our efforts, because it's all about the individual child.
We need a better staffing ratio in crèches, day care centers and in day care, which is regulated uniformly throughout Germany in SGB VIII.
In further steps, the aim is to achieve complete freedom from charges.
The federal government will contribute to the funds required for this.
We expect the states to do the same, insofar as this is not yet being done adequately.
- Upgrading educational work.
Educators do important work, they bear great responsibility.
The SPD will therefore ensure better training and continuing education for educators and
thus improve the conditions for more appropriate pay.
- Binding cooperation between daycare centers and schools.
We want all children to start school with good opportunities.
That is why we want to strengthen school preparation in the daycare center.
Mandatory language support must be a focus of preschool education so that all children enter first grade well prepared.
Learning together, supporting all children, leaving no child behind
- More permeability.
Our goal is a socially just, high-performing and permeable school system that leaves no child or young person behind.
We want students to be able to learn together for longer.
We will combine this with better individual support.
The SPD will continue to push for the expansion of integrative forms of schooling.
In the long term, we want to overcome the segregated school system.
- Expand all-day schools.
With the all-day school program, we in the red-green government have achieved a breakthrough in education policy.
Our goal is to expand the range of all-day schools nationwide.
All children should be able to participate in a healthy lunch in both all-day schools and daycare centers.
- Social work at every school with a need.
Schools that provide special integration services must receive more support.
Each special needs school shall have at least one school social worker.
- Inclusive education.
We will advocate that, as far as possible, all children with disabilities attend school together with children without disabilities.
- Vocational orientation at all schools.
We want to firmly anchor work and career orientation in schools.
Together with comprehensive counseling and career preparation, it should be a mandatory offering in all general education schools.
To achieve this, schools and companies must be better integrated.
Open universities
- No tuition.
A course of study must not fail because of money.
We stand for tuition-free undergraduate studies up to and including the master's degree.
- Money follows students.
The state remains responsible for the universities.
We will establish an equitable distribution of burdens
and shift higher education funding to a competitive incentive system based on the principle that "money follows students.
In this way, we want to achieve positive competition among the states for those willing to study.
- More study places.
We remain committed to the goal of increasing the number of study places.
We will implement the Higher Education Pact in a consistent and verifiable manner.
- Good teaching and counseling.
In addition to the quantitative expansion of study places, we also set ourselves the goal of improving teaching at universities.
The SPD demands that the increased need for student counseling as a result of the study structure reform be safeguarded
and that universities be adequately equipped to help students achieve their study goals.
- Facilitate access.
We want more skilled workers to be able to study without a high school diploma and will further open up access to universities for this group of people.
For us, qualified vocational training is on a par with a general education qualification. -
Regulating admission centrally.
We will regulate university admissions on a nationwide basis.
All universities must be involved in the central service procedure.
In this way, all capacities can be utilized and students can study according to their inclination.
- Teaching social responsibility.
Universities must not only be places of knowledge transfer.
We are committed to ensuring that not only content is passed on there, but that the sense of social responsibility is strengthened.
- Democratic university.
We stand for strong, open and democratic universities.
We stand by university autonomy and university self-government.
We want to strengthen democracy within the university:
All status groups must be fairly involved in decisions and committees.
- More women in leadership positions.
We want more women to take up leadership positions in universities and research institutions.
That is why we will conclude concrete target agreements with financial sanction options in the event of non-compliance.
- Women professors program.
We want to increase the proportion of women among scientific staff to 40 percent by 2020.
To this end, we are planning a program for female professors and an investment program for daycare centers and crèches at universities.
Science Policy
- Continue Excellence Initiative.
The Excellence Initiative is a social democratic success project that has significantly enhanced Germany's standing as a center of science and research.
We will continue it beyond 2011.
- International science location.
We want to further develop the internationalization of teaching and research so that more top researchers from abroad come to us and stay in our country.
Immigration law and earning opportunities are key factors in this.
We have to shape it in such a way that the best minds come and do their work with us.
Courses of study and degrees must be internationally comparable.
- Promote young scientists.
We want to sustainably expand the junior professorship.
We will launch a support program for mid-level academics as well as attractive recruitment and retrieval programs.
- Facilitate scientific cooperation.
In order to facilitate the formation of clusters and research networks, we want to simplify the integration of universities and research institutions and make scientific structures more flexible.
- Better support for research institutions,
We will continue and further develop the Pact for Research.
5. an effective state financed on the basis of solidarity
To enable important investments, especially in education, families, research, infrastructure, culture or security, the state depends on solid and stable revenues.
Social democrats in government stand for a fair distribution of the overall tax burden according to performance.
For us, this means that strong shoulders have to carry more than weak ones.
Because they can carry more than weak.
Our tax policy follows the principle of combining economic dynamism with social justice.
We have made important progress in the area of corporate taxation.
We will resolutely oppose any further tax-cutting race.
We want to continue to put a stop to profit shifting, tax structuring and excessive debt financing by global corporations.
Those who earn their profits in Germany should pay their taxes in this country.
Those who do not do this harm everyone who has to finance the services of the state with their taxes.
That is why we fight international tax fraud
and harmful tax competition.
Those who enjoy advantages due to high incomes and assets must make a greater solidarity contribution, especially to the financing of childcare and education.
It is socially just and economically sensible for wealthy people to make a tax contribution to the financing of the community that is commensurate with their ability to pay.
What we want: Introduce wage tax bonus
- Consistent simplification.
We want millions of taxpayers to no longer have to bother with their tax returns.
- 300 euros income tax bonus.
We are offering all 30 million wage taxpayers the opportunity to waive their annual income tax return in the future by sending a postcard to the tax office.
To make it worthwhile for taxpayers, married couples receive an income tax bonus of 600 euros per year and singles 300 euros.
The bonus relieves the burden on everyone who wants to use it and simplifies the tax process.
- Millions of taxpayers benefit.
The offer is aimed at all 30 million payroll taxpayers and will be worthwhile for many.
Two million employees alone do not currently file a wage tax return because they are afraid of the effort involved, because they do not expect a refund or because the tax law is simply too complicated for them.
In addition, there are all those who only expect a small refund or would like to save themselves the effort of preparing an income tax return in the future.
- Maximum transparency and simplification.
Wage tax is determined in accordance with the applicable law, i.e. also taking into account the employee lump sum or the relief amount for single parents.
The employer collects them as before.
When it is paid in full, in future there will be the alternative of a postcard to the tax office instead of the time-consuming "income tax assessment procedure".
- Predictable and fair.
Everyone who accepts the offer knows immediately how much his relief will be.
This option is particularly attractive for low-income employees, as the wage tax bonus compensates for the social security burdens in the (almost tax-free) low-wage range.
- The tax offices also benefit.
The tax offices will be significantly relieved, because less work will be done there.
This frees up capacities that we can use for consistent prosecution of tax evasion.
- Only made possible by the final withholding tax.
As a result of the final withholding tax, capital gains are already taxed at the source.
Therefore, this income no longer has to be recognized for tax purposes.
Only the final withholding tax makes it possible to offer the wage tax bonus to very many employees.
Fair taxes
- Relief for normal earners.
Responsible budgetary and fiscal policy must accept that there is no scope for across-the-board tax cuts in the foreseeable future.
We therefore want to extend the relief to low and middle income earners.
and families.
- Reduction of the input tax rate to 10 percent.
By lowering the entry tax rate from the previous 14 percent to 10 percent, we are providing targeted relief for lower and middle incomes.
We want to structure the tariff progression in such a way that there is relief up to a taxable income of 52,882 euros (married couples 105,764 euros).
This will benefit more than 24.6 million people compared with the 2010 rate.
- Gender-equitable tax system.
Our income tax law cements the old role patterns with spousal splitting and tax bracket V.
The introduction of the so-called "factor method" is a first step towards a fairer distribution of the tax burden between spouses.
The advantage of spousal splitting is greater the higher the income and the income differences between the spouses.
We want to change the marital splitting system so that both partners have incentives to work,
the tax burden is distributed fairly between spouses and
the splitting advantage is capped at high incomes.
We will invest freed-up funds in the upbringing and education of children. -
Fair basic child allowance.
We will increase the child allowance from the current EUR 3,864 by a further EUR 200 per child from January 1, 2010, thus guaranteeing constitutional family taxation.
In the medium term, we also want to redesign the family benefit system so that the effect is the same for all families, regardless of whether they have more or less income.
To achieve this, we are striving to transform the child allowance into a basic child allowance that provides equal support for all children.
While the child allowance has a greater effect the higher the income, the basic child allowance ensures the same relief for everyone.
- Tax fairness through deduction from tax liability.
Top earners benefit in a special way from subsidies that are structured as a deduction from the tax base.
The higher the income, the higher the relief.
We therefore want to focus tax incentives more strongly on deductions from tax liabilities that result in equal relief for everyone.
Solidarity-based burden sharing in and after the economic crisis
- Solidarity-based burden sharing.
Coping with the financial and economic crisis is placing enormous burdens on our community.
Public budgets are burdened by additional expenditures and reduced revenues.
While the causes of the crisis lie primarily in the irresponsible actions of financial managers and the wealthy have benefited from this misconduct, the general public has to bear the costs.
In order to achieve at least a partial equalization of the burdens, we are bundling important measures into a solidarity-based equalization of burdens.
- Raising the top tax rate as an "education soli.
We are taking seriously the goal of the 2008 Education Summit to increase social spending on education and research to 10 percent of gross domestic product by 2015 and to make our country more sustainable in the field of education.
In order to be able to achieve this goal, we propose a surcharge as an "education soli" in the taxation of the highest incomes.
The top tax rate will be raised to 47 percent from a taxable income of 125,000 euros (married couples 250,000 euros).
- Stock exchange turnover tax.
To curb short-term speculation, we want to introduce a stock exchange turnover tax modeled on the British stamp duty of 0.5 percent (standard rate) to 1.5 percent (special cases) of the market value on stock exchange securities transactions with a turnover of EUR 1,000 or more.
At the same time, we are working to ensure that such a tax is introduced across Europe and levied on further financial transactions.
- Combating tax evasion and closing tax loopholes.
In Germany, many billions of euros are slipped past the tax authorities every year and shifted to tax havens.
The states involved must be made to adhere to the international standards of information exchange in the taxation procedure.
If this willingness to cooperate does not exist and if the taxpayer himself also does not fulfill his duties to cooperate, it must be possible to impose sanctions, such as limiting the recognition of business expenses/advertising costs.
Only with appropriate sanctions can the lawful enforcement of the tax claim be restored.
In future, anyone who evades taxes will also have to pay a significantly higher interest rate than the current six percent.
These measures are expected to significantly reduce the previous volume of tax losses.
- Combating sales tax fraud and organized crime.
Similar to international tax evasion, billions of euros are withheld from the taxpayer community each year in sales tax fraud, often through fraudulent "carousel transactions.
This criminal energy must be decisively countered and the search and audit pressure on sales tax fraudsters must be increased.
6. welfare state progress and future
The welfare state is organized solidarity: it is
based on people standing up for one another - the strong for the weak, the young for the old, the healthy for the sick and those in need of care, the working for those seeking work:
The community for those in need of help.
It extends liberal civil rights to include social rights:
the major risks of life are covered on the basis of prior contributions social security is thus not a handout or dependent on arbitrary decisions, but there is a legal entitlement based on prior consideration.
To ensure that social security systems can continue to fulfill these tasks in the future, we must adapt them to changing conditions.
The preventive welfare state is our model of organized solidarity.
We want to see a modernization of social insurance that also responds to changes in the world of work.
What we want: All for all. The principle of citizen social insurance
Citizens' social insurance as a guiding principle.
Our social security system no longer meets the needs of a society with a longer life span and a changed working society.
The restructuring of social security toward citizens' social insurance is our guiding principle far beyond one legislative period.
At the end of the process, there should be a welfare state that includes all citizens in solidarity when it comes to health and care coverage, and all working people in solidarity when it comes to old-age security and unemployment coverage.
This idea presupposes a comprehensive social consensus for a citizen-oriented welfare state.
In the coming legislative period, we will take further steps in this direction.
Solidarity pension scheme
- Stabilization of the existing pension system.
There is no better alternative to the pay-as-you-go statutory pension, supplemented by occupational and private pension schemes.
The importance of the statutory old-age pension becomes particularly clear in times of financial crisis.
In order not to overburden any generation in an increasingly aging society, the changes in pension law were unavoidable.
This also includes gradually raising the retirement age to 67 by 2029.
However, we also know that people are exposed to different burdens during their employment phase and that the labor force participation of older workers needs to be further improved.
We also want to better meet people's individual needs in the transition between the working and retirement phases and
prevent poverty in old age.
For us, it is clear that pensions must continue to be paid in return for the contributions paid during employment.
- Maintaining employability.
The central prerequisite of old-age provision is that people should be able to remain in working life for as long as possible under good conditions.
We therefore want to use every opportunity to change the world of work in such a way that all employees can participate healthily in working life for as long as possible and
that working conditions that are mentally and physically stressful are largely avoided.
- Good work" for pensions that secure a person's livelihood.
The prerequisites for poverty-proof pensions are living wages
and an employment biography for men and women that is as unbroken as possible.
That is why we are committed to minimum wages across the board.
We will create an entitlement to subsidized employment subject to social insurance contributions for significantly underperforming long-term unemployed persons over the age of 60 in order to give this group the opportunity to participate in work and acquire pension entitlements.
- Closing gaps in insurance biographies.
Low wages and unemployment have led to gaps in insurance biographies in the past.
We therefore want to reduce the risk that people who have been working for many years will have to rely on basic benefits in old age.
In order to better evaluate low pension entitlements for low-income earners, we will again extend the instrument of pensions based on minimum income for long-term insured persons for contribution periods until the end of 2010.
Periods of long-term unemployment will be valued more highly to a limited extent if fewer than 30 earning points are available at the time of retirement.
- Old-age provision in the second and third pillars.
The expansion of occupational pensions as the second pillar and of subsidized private pensions ("Riester pension") as the third pillar is a success of social democratic policies.
We want to improve coverage through these additional pillars.
In the future, the risk of disability is also to be covered on a mandatory basis and on the same terms.
- Uniform pension system in East and West .
In the coming legislative period, we will push through a uniform pension system in the east and west.
Promoting flexible transition from working life to old-age pension
- More flexibility in transition.
In the future, we want to give employees more flexibility in the transition from working life to retirement.
- Subsidized partial retirement.
We will extend the partial retirement program sponsored by the German Federal Employment Agency until 2015 if a company fills a vacant position with a trainee or training graduate.
In addition, we want to better meet individual and company needs within the framework of partial retirement.
- Partial pension.
We want to make it possible to claim an old-age pension as a partial pension while working part-time from the age of 60.
- Additional contributions.
Greater flexibility is also possible within the framework of pension insurance without burdening pension insurance with costs:
To this end, both the insured and the companies and collective bargaining funds are to be given the option of buying off the deductions with additional contributions to pension insurance in the event of earlier retirement, or of acquiring supplements to the pension and thus increasing protection in old age or in the event of reduced earning capacity.
Expansion of pension insurance
- Inclusion of solo self-employed workers.
The world of work has changed.
In today's employment biographies, transitions from dependent employment to self-employment or freelance work are more frequent than was the case in the past.
That is why we want to develop the pension insurance system into an employment insurance system in the long term.
As a first step, we want to include all solo self-employed persons, unless they have a pension plan comparable to the statutory pension insurance in a professional pension fund.
Citizen insurance for health and care
- More health for all.
Equal health opportunities and solidarity-based coverage of the general life risks of illness and care for all people are essential prerequisites for freedom and for equal participation in society.
This contributes to a dignified life, a good quality of life, social prosperity, economic prosperity and thus social peace.
For us, improving and maintaining the health of all citizens is the task and responsibility of public services.
- Involving all citizens.
With compulsory insurance for all, a fair equalization of the differently distributed social risks and the risks of illness (risk structure equalization) and the introduction of tax financing, we have taken important steps toward a solidarity-based health care system for all citizens.
We want to continue on this path.
- Solidarity-based financing.
We want to use all incomes to finance health care and therefore increase the tax share for statutory health insurance.
Within the framework of the Health Fund, we want to further develop the new risk equalization system that takes into account different disease risks (''morbidity-oriented risk structure equalization'') and include private health insurance.
And we will ensure that the contribution to statutory health insurance, including the previous special contribution of 0.9 contribution rate points, is once again borne equally by employees and employers.
We will introduce risk equalization between statutory and private long-term care insurance.
If all citizens participate on equal terms, the financing of long-term care insurance, including the necessary additional nursing and care staff, will be secured in the longer term without any increase in contributions.
Good care for all
- Good supply in all regions.
We do not want two-tier medicine in the future, but rather good care to which all citizens in all regions have the same access.
In order to ensure uniform care and reduce overuse and underuse, we need further steps to make contracting more flexible.
Collective and individual contracts together ensure sufficient nationwide coverage.
To make the fee system transparent and fair and to avoid discrimination against those with statutory health insurance, we want a uniform fee schedule for outpatient medical care.
- Opening up hospitals to outpatient care.
We want to further open up hospitals to outpatient care.
We want to pay the same for the same services regardless of where or for whom they are provided.
This must not lead to distortions as a result of the different financing arrangements for outpatient and inpatient care. -
Building on successful reforms.
With the healthcare reform of 2007, we laid the foundations for a modern, efficient and fair healthcare system.
and a fair distribution of contribution funds.
Despite necessary compromises, we have ensured that co-payments have not been extended
and that all people will continue to have access to the necessary medical care based on the latest medical knowledge.
- Participating in medical progress.
Our goal is and remains that all people should be able to participate in medical progress.
In view of this progress and the associated society of longer life, we must ensure that contributors' money goes exactly where it is needed.
Only the responsible use of the available resources by all players will ensure a good future for our healthcare system.
We will align further reforms, in particular of the institutions of the healthcare system, with this.
- Medical care close to home.
In a society of longer life, the participation of all must also be ensured in the health care system.
This includes outpatient care close to home by general practitioners and specialists in private practice,
ensuring the free choice of doctors,
and strengthening the cooperation of general practitioners and specialists working in outpatient care with hospitals and nursing facilities.
Ensuring quality Strengthening patients
- Future of the Health Professions.
The healthcare professions also need to change.
It is left to the free choice of physicians whether they want to work independently or as employees, in private practice or in a medical care center.
Medical and non-physician medical professions need to collaborate more than they have in the past so that everyone in the health care system can contribute their expertise in the best possible way.
Flat hierarchies, relief of doctors from bureaucratic tasks by specialized assistants and more technological support, more competencies for nursing professions are the way of the future.
A very special challenge arises from demographic change:
for all health care professions, geriatrics and palliative care must become an important focus in training, research and work.
We want to take gender into account in the healthcare system through gender-specific research and care.
- Expansion of integrated care.
Every patient must be assured that all parties involved in their treatment are working together reliably and pursuing coordinated treatment strategies.
To this end, we want to expand integrated care and ensure its financing.
The same applies to the care of chronically ill people through guideline-supported and evidence-based treatment programs.
- Neutral benefit assessment of services.
Expanding the cost-benefit assessment of new drugs and therapies, as well as the provision of patient-friendly information by neutral institutions, will help strengthen the economic efficiency of the healthcare system.
- Strengthening prevention.
A preventive health policy includes the prevention of diseases, the
realization of health-promoting living, housing and working conditions,
and the equalization of social differences in health opportunities and life expectancy.
With a Prevention Act, we want to strengthen primary prevention and define health targets as a framework for action.
It must start with social living environments (urban neighborhood, workplace, school, etc.).
The federal, state and local governments, the social insurance institutions and private health insurance must be included in the responsibility for financing.
Work intensification and insecure employment can make people ill: not least, therefore, the commitment to good work is an important contribution to a preventive health policy.
- Patients' rights.
An efficient health policy that is geared to the needs of the people requires better and more transparent patient rights.
This also includes bringing together the hitherto fragmented and non-transparent rights of patients in one law,
and strengthening them in particular with regard to error prevention and risk management, as well as regulation in the event of damage occurring.
In addition, we will place the independent patient advice centers on a permanently secure financial footing.
- Healthcare as a growth sector.
The social healthcare industry is one of the strongest employment sectors in Germany.
The growth potential is enormous.
Investments in health are investments in the future.
Humane care
- Quality of care.
With the 2008 care reform, we significantly improved the services for people in need of care, especially those suffering from dementia, and their relatives
and laid the foundations for greater care quality and transparency.
Outpatient care in particular will be strengthened by the new opportunities for family members to take over care while being released from work for a limited period and receiving full social security (care leave).
The new one-stop care advice service in the care support centers also makes a contribution to this.
- New definition of need for care.
With the further development of the definition of the need for long-term care, we will gear the assistance provided by long-term care insurance more precisely to the individual needs of those in need of care.
We want to move away from "minute care" to care that perceives the person as a whole and aligns the need for help with the degree of restriction of independence.
- Services close to home.
Together with the states and municipalities, local assistance must be further developed in the coming years so that people in need of care and their relatives have access to support services close to home everywhere and home care can be strengthened.
- Exemption claim.
We want to introduce a paid leave entitlement from work of up to 10 days for close relatives so that they have the time they need to organize care in the event of an acute need for care.
7. strengthen families Enable equal opportunities for every child
In the family, the principle of solidarity applies:
everyone stands up for the other.
Families also deserve this solidarity from society.
We need to give young couples security and freedom so that the desire to have children can be realized.
Families need a child-friendly environment: at work, at home, in the city.
They need a good support infrastructure to ease the burden of everyday life and the certainty that they will not be left alone with their task.
Family is the place where marriage and partnership are lived, where spouses and partners agree on how to divide gainful employment and childcare, and where equality becomes concrete.
We have done a lot to achieve this in recent years:
parental allowance, legal entitlement to a childcare place from the first birthday and all-day schools give more families more freedom to make decisions
and to manage tasks in partnership.
That is why we want to make our tax system gender-equal so that it does not represent a hurdle for women to become gainfully employed and does not stand in the way of their professional emancipation.
Single parents have to do more every day than others to organize their daily lives.
In this task, they deserve the special support of society.
No child should grow up in poverty.
Unfortunately, this is not yet a reality.
The best protection against child poverty is a living wage employment of the parents.
To combat child poverty, we want intensive coordination of child, youth, social and education policy instruments across political levels.
We want a child- and family-friendly society.
What we want: Families need more time, financial support and better infrastructure
- Better child care.
We have succeeded in ensuring that every child has a legal right to care from their first birthday from 2013.
This legal entitlement is to be expanded into an entitlement to all-day care.
We want an improvement in the quality of childcare.
- Parent-child centers as a regular offer and in every location.
We want to expand daycare centers to parent-child centers.
They provide comprehensive help and advice for parents.
- National Children's Conference.
In order to make rapid progress on all issues relating to the expansion of childcare, we want to set up a National Children's Conference.
- Improve parental allowance and partner months.
We want to further develop parental allowance and the partner months in such a way that the division of labor in the family as partners is promoted even more than before.
We want mothers and fathers to be able to claim parental allowance and parental leave at the same time.
To this end, we want to increase the number of partner months from two to four (''12+4 model'')
and extend the simultaneous entitlement to part-time employment and parental allowance from seven to sixteen months.
- Targeted support for single parents.
Parents who raise their children alone cope with special burdens and bear an increased risk of poverty with their children.
In addition to expanding childcare in line with demand, we want to help them with targeted measures.
This includes specialized support in the employment agencies, which is better networked than before with child and youth welfare and other support systems.
We will help low-income families to make use of personal and household-related services.
- Advance maintenance payments.
The situation of single parents has been precarious for years.
That is why we will make the conditions for the advance on maintenance payments flexible and thus improve the situation of single parents and their children.
The federal, state and local authorities will agree measures to ensure that advance payments are consistently reclaimed from debtors in future.
Equal opportunities for all children and young people: Action plan against poverty
- Action plan against child poverty.
To combat poverty among children and young people, we need a coordinated policy between the federal, state and local governments.
The main causes of poverty are unemployment or insufficient earned income of parents.
In addition to material poverty, unequal educational opportunities are a threat,
health impairments
and social exclusion affect the development of children and young people.
That is why we will implement a coordinated action plan against child and youth poverty, combining measures from all policy areas into an integrated strategy.
Particularly important are: - Good work for the parents.
Placement in good work and qualification, a statutory minimum wage, better reconciliation of family and career, and further development of child allowance and housing benefit are crucial in protecting families from poverty.
- Equal educational opportunities.
Every child must be supported from the very beginning, regardless of his or her social background.
Together with the states and local authorities, we are committed to integrative forms of schooling and the expansion of all-day schools.
And we want to give young people the right to catch up on their schooling.
We stand for free education from kindergarten to university.
- Basic security for children.
We have achieved a great deal with the school starter package, the one-off child bonus and the introduction and increase in the standard rate for basic benefits for 6 to 13 year-olds.
We want to improve independent, needs-based child rule rates by determining needs more precisely.
Children and youth policy
- Children's rights in the Basic Law.
To give children a stronger voice in our society, we want to include children's rights in the Basic Law.
- An independent youth policy.
Adolescence is a special phase of orientation and the formation of one's own personality.
The demands on today's young generation have increased due to social, economic and demographic changes.
We want to address the special needs of young people with a strong youth policy.
- Promoting voluntary engagement.
Youth Volunteer Services are a special form of civic engagement and an educational year.
We will strengthen youth volunteer services.
In the medium term, we want to offer a place to all young people who want to complete a voluntary ecological year or a voluntary social year.
We reject a general compulsory service for young women and men.
- Growing up healthy.
We are committed to ensuring that all children and young people can grow up healthy.
That is why we will expand health promotion and prevention into an independent pillar of the health care system.
With a prevention law that places a special focus on young people, we will promote the systematic networking of the local health care system with child and youth welfare services.
- Children and young people as "critical consumers".
We will focus more on children and young people as consumers:
They need special protection - from dangerous products and dubious suppliers.
For a healthy diet, they need flawless food, they need safe products and guidance on "critical consumption.
8. the social society in change
In troubled times, the need for cohesion grows.
Market radicalism has widened the social gap, and the centrifugal forces in society have increased.
We need a new commonality.
And we need to rethink how we organize cohesion and provide public goods.
It is in the cities and communities that it is decided whether we live together as good neighbors, whether all citizens can participate and contribute.
Especially in the big cities, we need to get people out of the economic, social and cultural margins.
Our goal is a society where people can be different without fear, where everyone is free and equal, with equal opportunities and possibilities.
We need acceptance, a culture of recognition.
We combat all forms of discrimination, whether on the grounds of ethnic origin, gender, religion and belief, disability, age or sexual identity.
Germany is a country of immigration.
Immigrants have helped make our country successful.
Now is the time to create a modern, united Germany with their children and grandchildren.
Our society is changing.
Families live together in a wide variety of ways.
More and more young women and men want to combine gainful employment and family work as partners.
Society has a duty to make this way of life possible for them.
The welfare state needs organized solidarity and people who stand up for one another in clubs, associations, initiatives, foundations and voluntary services.
Older people in particular are showing a growing willingness to work for the common good, to take responsibility for the whole.
For us, civic engagement is indispensable when it comes to activating and nurturing values for freedom, justice, solidarity, personal responsibility and participation in our society.
We continue to rely on the diversity of involvement in associations, charities, churches, self-help groups, foundations, voluntary services, networks and other organizations in honorary positions.
We want to continue our successful work for the expansion of a civil society based on solidarity by developing infrastructure and framework conditions.
What we want: Germany needs immigration Immigration needs integration
- Culture of recognition.
Germany is a country of immigration.
We Social Democrats are committed to ensuring that people with different backgrounds can build a common future in our country.
For this, we need a culture of recognition that does not deny cultural diversity but understands cultural differences as a possibility of new commonality.
We want to strengthen immigrants in their courage to find their home in Germany
and encourage them in their efforts to participate in the common culture in our country.
For this, language acquisition is the first and most important prerequisite.
But that alone is not enough.
But this also includes the public promotion of migration cultures and, in particular, the area of intercultural education.
- Integration through participation.
Integration means equal participation in social, economic, cultural and political life.
To achieve this, we need better support and equal opportunities, especially in the education system.
We want to use special support programs and model projects to help improve the position of migrants in working life.
- Intercultural qualification of public administration.
We want to open up public institutions and the administration interculturally and increase the proportion of migrant employees in the public sector.
- Acquisition of German citizenship.
We make it easier for people who were born in our country or have lived with us for a long time to acquire German citizenship.
Dual citizenship we accept people should identify with the country of their origin and with Germany.
- Germany must become more attractive for skilled workers.
We must and want to become more attractive to immigrants.
We want to better enable and manage skilled immigration.
At the same time, we want to integrate people who are already in the country into the labor market.
- Recognize degrees from countries of origin.
Many immigrants are well educated, but have to experience that their qualifications are not recognized in Germany.
To give them more opportunities to put their skills to use in the future, we plan to improve the recognition of qualifications from countries of origin.
- Avoiding chain toleration.
The Red-Green Immigration Act did not abolish toleration altogether, but it was the first step towards a secure humanitarian residence for tolerated persons.
The regulations on humanitarian residence were supplemented with the successful right to stay regulation in 2007.
We advocate the abolition of chain tolerations if the residence cannot be terminated for humanitarian reasons, a residence title should be issued.
- Spousal reunification.
We want to make it easier for foreign spouses to join Germans and foreigners.
- Humane refugee policy.
For the people who have fled their homelands to Germany, we must make consistent use of the humanitarian leeway.
Refugees must also be given adequate access to social services.
We want to introduce an extended right of return for victims of forced marriage.
Equality
- Equal opportunities, equal pay.
Equal wages must be paid for work of equal value.
We will use binding regulations and targets to ensure that women and men have equal opportunities for advancement in companies
and the proportion of women in management positions is significantly increased.
Following foreign examples, we want to introduce a quota of at least 40 percent women on the supervisory boards of companies.
- Better opportunities to reconcile work and family life.
We will continue to expand childcare and all-day schooling.
Parental allowance is a successful project; we will continue to develop it. -
Combating violence.
We will not tolerate violence against women, the violation of their human dignity, exploitation and trafficking in women - they destroy coexistence and domestic peace.
- Equality of registered civil partnerships.
We will put registered same-sex partnerships on an equal footing with marriage and abolish existing disadvantages.
- Gender equality policy as a cross-sectional task.
In addition to the active advancement of women, we will make gender equality policy a cross-cutting task.
In all policy areas, we will review every measure to ensure that it advances gender equality.
We will secure permanent funding for the GenderKompetenzZentrum.
- Respect for homosexuals, bisexuals and transgender people.
We will promote respect for homosexuals, bisexuals and transgender people and reduce prejudice in society.
Participation and inclusion of people with disabilities
- Participation and inclusion in all areas of life.
All people with disabilities must actively participate in our society on an equal footing and be included just as they are (inclusion).
The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is a reason for us to consistently continue the reforms of rehabilitation, participation and equality and to
further develop anti-discrimination law at European and national level.
We want to achieve that, as far as possible, all people with disabilities can learn, work, live and reside the way they want to.
To achieve this, we need an overall concept for participation and inclusion of people with disabilities, those in need of care, and the elderly that is not limited to care but is oriented toward the civil and human rights of people with disabilities.
Integration assistance should be further developed with the support of a participation council so that services follow people and not the other way around.
- National action plan.
This will be part of a National Action Plan, which will initially bundle measures to implement the UN Convention for a period of 2010 2020.
Everyone is called upon in this process: the national, federal and local levels, business and trade unions, associations, self-help groups, civil society and - last but not least - the people affected themselves.
The goal to which all will contribute is the guiding principle of the convention: an inclusive society!
- Together from the start - overcoming divisions.
Participation from the outset means enabling shared living and learning for all, from daycare to vocational training and university studies.
Together with the states, we want to achieve a paradigm shift toward shared education.
Parallel to the efforts of the federal states in the pre-school and school sector
the federal government will support integrative vocational training and continuing education,
further expand the transition of people with disabilities into the general labor market
and social benefits to the integration goal.
- Participation in working life.
We will continue to improve the employment situation of people with disabilities.
This includes better enforcing the obligation to employ severely disabled persons and persons with multiple disabilities.
We will call for company integration management to be better supported by all social service providers.
We will continue along the path we have taken with "Supported Employment" and integration companies, so that even more people with severe disabilities are given realistic and lasting prospects on the general labor market.
- Accessibility.
For us, accessibility is a comprehensive principle in the design of public space, means of communication and social services.
In particular, we want binding targets for housing, local and long-distance public transport, the Internet and healthcare.
The development of easy-to-use products (universal design) advances the economy and society as a whole.
- Personal budget.
We want more disabled people to be able to claim the services they need in the form of a cash budget with the greatest possible self-determination.
To this end, we will promote and expand it in all areas and improve the opportunities for using suitable budget assistance.
- Improve participation rights.
We want the services for participation to follow the person and not vice versa.
We want to continue the standardization of the law for people with disabilities that began with SGB IX for all service providers, including social assistance and care.
We will examine how responsibilities can be simplified so that disabled people receive services from a single source.
The rehabilitation providers are to be obliged to cooperate at all levels in the interest of the beneficiaries.
We will strengthen the right to choose.
The prerequisites for self-determined living according to the motto "At home instead of in a home" must be created by more outpatient services and residential offers.
Aids and services for disabled people are provided according to their needs and in line with technical progress.
We want to introduce a participation allowance in the long term.
- Strengthen associations.
The motto "Nothing about us without us" is our standard.
We will maintain the autonomy of the associations' rights of action.
and further promote the use of target agreements with the establishment of corresponding competence centers
and the associations in the development of the participation plans and the participation council.
Civil society in solidarity
- Better promote volunteerism.
Volunteering in associations and initiatives is the foundation of a civil society based on solidarity.
Welfare organizations in particular are indispensable providers for this.
But volunteerism must not be and become a stopgap for a lack of government resources.
We will continue to improve the framework conditions and financial support for volunteers.
- Churches and religious communities.
A civil society based on solidarity is inconceivable without the commitment of churches and religious communities.
For us, they are also important partners on the path to a humane society and in ethical discourse.
- Sport brings people together.
Sport is an important part of our culture.
It serves health, conveys tolerance and fairness, connects people and helps to overcome social differences.
That is why we support amateur and competitive sports and their clubs.
We pay special attention to sports for children and young people,
but also for people with disabilities.
We are consistently committed to clean sport and therefore fight against any kind of doping.
We want to include sport in the Basic Law.
- Use subsidized work.
We will make greater use of the opportunities offered by active labor market policy for socially useful tasks in the communities, e.g., in sports and culture.
- Local social networks.
Involving regulated volunteer services, we will consolidate and systematize local social networks for the elderly, the old, the disabled.
We want to strengthen youth voluntary services and be able to offer every young person a place in the medium term.
We reject general compulsory service for young women and men.
Participation in an aging society
- Active participation.
We want more participation and co-determination for older people in society and in politics.
We will promote intergenerational volunteer services
and advocate the establishment of senior citizens' advisory councils.
- Years gained are opportunities gained.
We want to promote and expand intergenerational solidarity in order to foster the cohesion of society.
- Shared responsibility in our society is also important for social participation and the life satisfaction of the individual.
In order for the guiding principle of shared responsibility to be realized, we are committed to ensuring that older people in our society are addressed and involved much more strongly as active and competent citizens.
- Lifelong learning connects the generations.
We are committed to ensuring that old and young have access to education and further training.
- Age-appropriate housing and living.
We will adapt urban development, housing and social infrastructure more closely to the needs of an aging society.
We support the coexistence of several generations under one roof.
We promote the conversion of housing for the elderly and people with disabilities.
The principle of accessibility must apply to new investments in public infrastructure (e.g. train stations).
Strong and social communities
- Actionable Communities.
We want livable cities, communities and counties that offer citizens a safe home and an efficient infrastructure.
That is why we are strengthening the municipalities and making them capable partners of the federal, state and European governments.
We remain the municipal party that ensures good funding for municipalities, safeguards services of general interest and expands local opportunities for action.
We have strengthened the trade tax and want to maintain it as an important source of revenue for local authorities.
If the federal government imposes new tasks on the municipalities, it must also provide them with the finances.
We will also work with the federal states to ensure that local authorities in extreme budgetary difficulties are once again given the opportunity to shape their own budgets.
- Cooperation between all levels.
We want the levels of government to work together to enable all people to participate in social, economic and cultural life.
Cooperation and equal living conditions are prerequisites for a secure future and a high quality of life.
- Equivalent living conditions.
We adhere to the goal of "equal living conditions in all parts of Germany and Europe.
We are therefore committed to solidarity between all parts of Germany.
Every region, every district, every city needs a perspective.
We want to help ensure that structurally weak regions, whether urban or rural, are promoted in their strengths and supported in coping with structural change.
We will continue to ensure basic services in rural areas in the future.
We are developing new ways to ensure that sparsely populated regions in the east and west continue to be equipped with good schools and a functioning social and medical infrastructure.
Young families must also have a future in the countryside.
Social city
- Social City Program.
To overcome social differences and tensions, we will continue to develop the "Social City" program for better social, economic and cultural integration and extend it to other cities.
- Urban redevelopment east and west.
We will continue the programs for urban redevelopment in the east and west and
support the upgrading of city and district centers in a separate program.
- Ensuring affordable housing.
We have topped up the housing allowance and extended it to include heating costs.
Rising energy prices must not lead to people no longer being able to afford housing or having to move as a result.
We will continue to provide targeted support to low-income households when housing costs rise.
Incidental rental costs must remain affordable for all.
This is possible if we succeed in reducing energy consumption.
Here, better building insulation is the most efficient way.
However, the modernization of apartments must not lead to an explosion of rents.
Today, it is possible to raise the rent permanently due to modernization measures.
We want to change that.
In the future, only the real costs are to be allocated.
General rent increases due to modernization are thus excluded.
Public and cooperative housing companies are an important guarantor of moderate rents.
We are committed to the public service mission of these companies and involve them in social district development.
- City of short distances.
We want housing, jobs, shopping and recreation to be easily accessible in close proximity.
For this purpose, too, we want to further strengthen public transport, bicycle and pedestrian traffic.
9 Completing the Social Unity
Twenty years ago, the citizens of East Germany brought about the fall of the Berlin Wall.
The people in both parts of the country have shown great solidarity over the past two decades.
The country has grown together.
Those who can vote for the first time in 2009 have never consciously experienced divided Germany in person.
The modernization of eastern Germany is now well advanced without, however, catching up with western Germany.
We have achieved a great deal in rebuilding the East.
But much remains to be done.
At the same time, eastern Germany is in many cases also a pioneer and role model for the west, for example in childcare
and the use of renewable energies.
To complete social unity, we need more employment subject to social insurance contributions,
equal wages in East and West,
a uniform minimum wage
and a uniform pension system.
A key prerequisite is to strengthen the economic power in the east.
That is why we are focusing on an investment and innovation policy geared to the potential of eastern Germany and committed to the principle of "strengthening strengths".
Eastern Germany has the potential to strengthen its pioneering role for a modern and ecological industrial policy
and to develop further as a leading region for promising future fields.
These include: Renewable energies, health industry, chemistry, information and communication technologies, new materials, bio- and nanotechnology, optical technologies, microelectronics and also tourism.
What we want: Expanding economic potential
- Solidarity Pact II.
The Solidarity Pact II is and remains the most important legal basis for the reconstruction of the East.
It must apply without restriction until 2019.
- Research and development.
We need increased investment in sustainable areas with a priority for innovation in education,
science, research
and business, as well as for good infrastructure.
In the area of research and innovation, eastern Germany is still some way from the level of the western German states.
For this reason, the opportunities offered by the Higher Education Pact must be exploited for the universities in eastern Germany
and to support the industry-related R&D activities of companies and research institutions.
We will use the new Pact for Research and Innovation to attract new research institutes to the new states.
- Investment promotion.
Investment support must be continued.
To this end, the Joint Task for the Improvement of Regional Economic Structures (GA RW) must be continued and the Joint Task for Agricultural Structures and Coastal Protection (GAK) must be further developed.
The investment allowance is another economic development instrument that will remain in place until at least 2013.
- Exploiting the potential of rural areas.
We will further develop prospects for rural areas in the fields of industry and agriculture as well as tourism.
Labor and social affairs
- Keeping skilled workers in the region.
Well-trained specialists are the most important potential for a strong East.
We want to offer young people incentives not to migrate to other regions.
Equal wages and a good infrastructure make an important contribution to this.
- Good work and fair wages.
We are committed to strengthening employment subject to social insurance contributions.
We demand equal wages for equal work in East and West and
will enforce a uniform area-wide minimum wage as the lowest stop line.
- Uniform pension system in East and West.
In the coming legislative period, we will implement a uniform pension system in the East and West.
10. living safely in germany
Security means quality of life, it means moving freely without fear of violence and crime.
Safety is a public good.
This good must be guaranteed to everyone in their daily lives.
No matter how high his income is and in which part of town he lives.
To create security for all, it is not enough to fight crime;
we must also eliminate its causes.
There is a correlation between poverty, lack of opportunity and crime.
Those who deny it and only demand higher penalties achieve the opposite of security.
Safety requires mutual acceptance.
This is the only way we can be different in Germany without fear.
The market-radical thinking of recent decades has made the climate harsher and competition more intense.
We need a new solidarity and cooperation.
Security and justice belong together.
Justice needs a strong judiciary and also means:
equality before the law.
Law and justice apply to all.
That is why we must also fight white-collar crime resolutely.
The fight against terrorism is important.
Nevertheless, human dignity and fundamental rights must not be violated in the process.
We do not want a climate of surveillance and lack of freedom.
In the Federal Republic of Germany, we have a good tradition of not deploying the Bundeswehr inside the country
and not mixing police work with intelligence work.
We want to hold on to this tradition because it protects the freedom of citizens.
What we want More safety in everyday life
- Live in safety.
Fear of crime affects the quality of life and the free development of the personality.
With a present police force and clever urban planning measures, we want to increase people's sense of security.
Local safety partnerships also serve this purpose.
We reject vigilante groups.
We consistently combat vandalism.
Video surveillance of public crime hotspots is a police tactical tool, but it does not replace policing.
- Security as a public good.
Safety must not become a commodity.
It is the responsibility of the state to ensure the safety of its citizens.
We need good equipment in schools, police, justice and youth welfare.
We reject the privatization of state security tasks. -
Consistently against crime and violence,
but also tough on their causes.
Unequal life chances, lack of prospects, lack of education, social disadvantage are causes of crime.
Young people from immigrant families are often particularly affected by this.
A good education
and integration policy is therefore also a security policy.
We outlaw all forms of violence
and focus on preventive measures against youth violence.
This includes the increased use of street workers and school social workers.
We will continue to develop the national action plan to combat violence against women.
- Making access to weapons more difficult.
We have continuously tightened gun laws since 2002.
Today, Germany has one of the most restrictive gun laws in the world.
But it has become painfully clear that unauthorized persons still obtain weapons too easily.
We want to see fewer weapons in private hands and make access to them much more difficult.
We will tighten controls on sport shooters and hunters who store weapons privately, increase the requirements for private storage and give the regulatory authorities more opportunities to monitor compliance with these regulations.
- Combating drug-related crime.
We pursue a three-part approach to drug-related crime:
preventive toward potential users
- repressive toward suppliers -
therapeutic toward addicts.
- Punish juvenile delinquency quickly.
If juveniles commit a crime, the sanction must follow "on the heels" of the crime.
Juvenile criminal proceedings must be opened quickly and any sentence imposed must be enforced promptly.
Only then will the juveniles understand the connection between the crime and the punishment and can the educational effect of juvenile criminal law become effective.
We reject mere incarceration on the basis of adult criminal law.
- Victim protection.
We have continuously improved the position of crime victims in criminal proceedings.
They now have more rights of their own in the process and are better protected as witnesses.
- Brand violence in families.
Domestic violence is neither a taboo subject nor a "private matter", but a criminal wrong.
We therefore want to see consistent implementation of the Protection Against Violence Act.
We will continue to develop the national action plan to combat violence against women.
- Protect children.
We are fighting sexual violence against children and child pornography with the help of criminal law and also on the Internet.
If necessary, children must also be protected from their parents.
Family courts have been given more legal options to intervene more quickly, effectively, and sustainably when children are at risk.
Now it's a matter of putting these improvements into practice.
Combating white-collar and organized crime
- Equal rights for all.
Our laws must be followed and enforced in all parts of society.
White-collar crime and tax evasion are not trivial offenses.
That is why we have significantly increased the maximum limits for fines.
We need specialized prosecutor's offices and better staffing and equipment for the judiciary to create "equality of arms" with the accused and their top defenders.
The civil liability of managers vis-à-vis their companies must be more consistently enforced and tightened.
- Combating corruption.
We are creating a registry for corruption cases and other manifestations of white-collar crime.
This is intended to exclude conspicuous companies or persons from the award of public contracts.
We also contribute to the fight against corruption with modern disciplinary and secondary employment law.
- Prosecution of organized crime.
We consistently pursue organized crime such as racketeering, drug and human trafficking, and product and brand piracy.
Fighting terrorism Protecting civil rights
- Effective Counterterrorism.
The SPD has continuously improved the conditions for effective counterterrorism in all areas of government:
the security authorities have been given the necessary legal powers.
We have better staffed them and ensured that they remain technically up to date.
We have also improved coordination among authorities nationally, Europe-wide and internationally.
- Protecting citizens' rights.
To protect citizens' civil liberties, we have clearly limited the powers of the security authorities and made them subject to strict conditions.
We will regularly review our laws involving encroachments on fundamental rights in the fight against international terrorism for proportionality and necessity.
- Clear distinction between internal and external security.
We maintain the clear separation of police and intelligence services in line with the separation requirement.
We reject the use of the Bundeswehr in internal security operations.
Justice needs a strong judiciary
- Efficient judiciary.
We need a strong judiciary to fight crime,
protect civil rights
, and enforce justice in all segments of society.
Sufficient personnel, responsible salaries and modern equipment ensure the efficiency of the judiciary.
- Those who are right must also receive justice.
Access to justice must not depend on one's wallet.
This is a requirement of the social constitutional state.
We therefore advocate the preservation of legal aid and counseling assistance.
- No privatization of the judiciary.
With us, there will be no selling off of sovereign tasks.
There are many things that the state can do better and more cheaply than the private sector.
We therefore reject privatization of, for example, the penal system, land registry offices, bailiff services and commercial registers.
Data protection in government and business
- Data protection secures personal freedom and self-determination.
We do not want a transparent citizen, which is why the prerequisites for government data collection and the uses of the data must be clearly regulated by law and strictly limited.
We reject a preventive state that also collects and monitors the data of bystanders in its search for sources of danger.
- Improve consumer data protection.
Companies are collecting more and more personal data from their customers and employees.
They increasingly endanger the right of citizens to decide for themselves who knows what about them.
We have tightened the legal regulations on the transfer of customer data
and will ensure strict compliance with these provisions.
- Regulating employee data protection by law.
No employee should be spied on and spied on by his or her employer.
The data scandals in many companies have shown that we need a special employee data protection law.
11. a responsible approach to the environment and nature
Our natural resources are a public good that must be protected from overuse.
Nature conservation in Germany, in Europe and in the world must continue to be significantly strengthened in the coming years.
This is an ethical responsibility.
However, it is not only nature that will benefit, but also the economy:
the protection and sustainable use of biodiversity generates major economic and business benefits.
Nature conservation and environmental protection are also preventive health policies.
Socially weaker population groups are more affected by noise and air pollution than others.
It is therefore also an imperative of social justice to ensure improvements here.
More environmental protection also benefits employees at their workplace because they benefit in terms of health from environmentally friendly, innovative production processes or improved technologies.
Consumers have a key role to play here:
Responsible and informed consumers play a growing role in the social market economy and civil society based on solidarity.
What we want: Environment and nature conservation
- Efficient use of resources.
We will take further measures to increase the efficient use of materials on the one hand
and reuse and recycling on the other.
We will also base the promotion of new products on their recyclability and the willingness of producers to recycle.
In doing so, we rely not only on regulatory measures but also on voluntary commitments.
By 2020, we will double resource efficiency compared to 1990.
- Environmental Code.
The implementation of an environmental code and a forest law that guarantees the sustainable protection of our forests, which was not possible with the CDU/CSU in the federal government, will be launched by an SPD-led federal government in the first few months.
- Strengthening nature conservation.
The SPD has strengthened nature conservation in Germany with the national natural heritage program and the national biodiversity strategy.
Nature conservation means the preservation of our homeland.
Biodiversity is also an important and often underestimated economic factor.
We will continue along this path with new instruments.
- Nature conservation investment offensive.
We will launch a nature conservation investment offensive.
This includes a National Program for Floodplains, Peatlands, and Other Wetlands and Natural Forests.
We want to realize an International Forest Conservation Fund to be able to ensure the protection of forests and other carbon storing ecosystems.
We will launch a federal avenue program and a green bridge program with which we will preserve avenues and use green bridges to reduce the existing fragmentation of the landscape.
For international forest protection, we will ensure that the import of illegally logged timber and products made from it into the EU is finally effectively curbed.
- Marine protection.
We will advance the creation of a global, representative network of marine protected areas by 2012 and create the first marine national park where nature conservation takes priority over all uses.
- Restrict land use.
We will put a stop to the unacceptable land consumption of over 100 ha/day.
We want to test the concept of land certificates in a major pilot project:
After agreeing on upper limits for future annual settlement expansions, municipalities will receive land certificates that they can trade among themselves.
Environmental protection is health protection
- Avoid environmentally harmful products.
We need clear rules to prevent damage to health from products of concern.
To this end, we will tighten limit values.
- Reducing pollutant emissions.
To reduce particulate matter pollution, we will lower the emission limits for nitrogen oxides and dust in industry and commerce.
We will tighten the limits for dust for all small combustion plants using solid fuels.
- Reduce emissions and noise from traffic.
We will expand incentives for low-emission vehicles.
In addition, we will further expand the federal government's noise abatement program for roads and rail lines and provide those affected by aircraft noise with soundproofing for their buildings.
In the European Union, we will work to significantly tighten noise regulations for equipment, machinery, motorcycles, cars, ships and aircraft.
Opportunity for rural areas
- Innovation Offensive Rural Areas.
Rural areas have long been undergoing a transformation process away from pure agricultural production toward multifunctional development.
Ecological industrial policy finds its counterpart in sustainable regional development in rural areas.
We will launch an "innovation offensive for rural areas" to exploit the potential of rural areas as Germany's future regions.
In addition to the citizens who live and work in these regions, these areas are particularly characterized by their natural capital.
In order for this capital to bear fruit sustainably for future generations, innovative concepts for nature-compatible rural development must be implemented.
In addition to the environmentally compatible production of healthy, high-quality food,
tourism, nature conservation and landscape management, health care, renewable energies and the development of regional brands are crucial areas of dynamic rural development.
We want to create the conditions for more opportunities for participation and employment, especially in structurally weak rural regions.
- New direction in agricultural policy.
Our agriculture not only provides work and the production of important agricultural products.
It preserves cultural landscapes, protects our natural livelihoods and contributes to the sustainable development of rural areas.
We have made a paradigm shift in agricultural policy.
The interests of individual sectors of the agriculture and food industry should no longer take precedence over the objectives of consumer protection.
and environmental protection dominate.
In the EU, we want to move away from a policy of watering-can subsidies for agricultural production and
redirect these funds to supporting the development of rural regions
and providing socially desirable services such as water protection, keeping cultural landscapes open and safeguarding recreational areas.
We are in favor of clear guard rails for sustainable production that protects nature and the environment.
We want to preserve biodiversity, protect soils and water.
Agriculture must contribute more to climate protection; we want to support it in this.
Improve animal welfare
- Reform Animal Welfare Act.
Animal welfare is an important concern for us.
We appreciate the high level of commitment of many citizens to animal welfare organizations.
The SPD has succeeded in anchoring animal protection in the Basic Law.
We are seeking an amendment to the Animal Welfare Act.
We want a reduction in animal testing.
We want to make the conditions under which farm animals are kept and transported more animal-friendly.
- Animal welfare seal.
The so-called "animal welfare TÜV", pushed through by the SPD, forms the basis for the introduction of animal welfare seals.
If necessary, we will also introduce these as a pioneer at national level if no Europe-wide regulation is possible in the short term.
Consumers can then directly influence more animal welfare when shopping.
12. culture and media
Culture is the elementary basis of our democratic society.
Political tasks for the future cannot be solved without the contribution of culture.
Cultural dialogue is also the basis of international understanding and economic exchange.
The SPD will continue to seek dialogue with and advice from artists,
strengthen the freedom of the arts,
and place a high value on social responsibility toward those who create culture.
Our open concept of culture is not limited to the arts and their promotion.
We Social Democrats advocate a culture of democracy in which art and culture are of central importance for social understanding about values and goals in a world of accelerated upheaval.
Because art and culture, as the intellectual foundations of life, shape people and strengthen social cohesion.
They hold up a mirror to a society, reflect lifestyles, formulate offers of identity and provide orientation.
A culture of democracy and in democracy must therefore always also be a culture of cultural participation.
What we want:
- Culture as a state goal.
As an overall state, Germany is obliged to protect and promote culture.
That is why we will anchor culture as a state objective in the Basic Law.
The constitution expresses the order of values and meaning of our society, and culture is part of it.
For us, culture is the spiritual basis of life and a public good.
Promoting culture is not a subsidy, but an investment in the future.
- Culture for all.
Everyone should have access to culture, because cultural and media divisions lead to social divisions.
Culture and education enable participation, self-realization and personal development.
Especially in our immigration society, they are at the same time an important element of integration and community.
We will launch a broad-based initiative for arts education from early childhood education onward.
Public libraries, music and youth art schools, but also museums, theaters and cinemas must be used and promoted more as places of cultural education.
The funding of public cultural institutions should be linked to cultural education programs.
- Expansion of cultural infrastructure.
A comprehensive cultural infrastructure is essential for a vital and developing cultural and creative industry.
We want the state to pursue an activating cultural policy that provides targeted support for cultural infrastructure
and sees the promotion of culture as a mandatory task of the state, in joint responsibility with civil society and the market.
- Promotion of the cultural and creative industries.
Knowledge and ideas are the most important raw materials of our country.
That is why we want to promote the cultural and creative industries to a special degree.
We propose a creative pact between politics, business, artists and creative people in which economic issues, social security issues, education and participation are discussed together.
- Safeguarding cultural and media professionals.
Social security for cultural and media workers is a central component of our creative pact.
We will maintain and further strengthen the artists' social insurance (KSV) as a unique model worldwide.
We are committed to collective agreements and minimum social standards in the culture and media sector as well, and will tie federal funding to compliance with these minimum standards.
- Fair remuneration for creative work.
Within the framework of the Social Democratic Creative Pact, we want to ensure that cultural and media professionals, artists and creative people can make a living from their work.
It is important to protect intellectual property and to remunerate it appropriately.
Copyright law and copyright contract law are intended to enable an appropriate income from the exploitation of intellectual property in the digital world.
The future of digitalization presents us with new challenges in the protection of intangible products and goods.
We need a reasonable balance between user-friendliness and the rights of creators.
In this context, we will involve network operators and Internet service providers in the dialog with rights holders and collecting societies as part of the creative pact.
We are committed to testing a cultural flat rate.
- Film as an important cultural asset.
With the Creative Pact, we want to further improve the framework conditions for film and strengthen film funding.
Cinemas are important places of cultural and social coexistence.
That's why we want to support the digitization of our cinema landscape.
We will further develop the Film Subsidies Act into a Media Subsidies Act to meet the challenges of a digital media world.
- Strengthen public broadcasting Maintain the dual broadcasting system.
We rely on both pillars of our dual broadcasting system.
The cultural, educational and informational mandate of public broadcasting, which is enshrined in the German Basic Law, follows criteria other than maximizing audience ratings.
We are committed to preserving this special role of public broadcasting.
New media must always be part of the public broadcaster's offering.
At the same time, we are focusing on the further development of citizen media as part of democratic participation
and as the third pillar of a future media order.
- A modern media order in the digital age.
An independent and diverse media system is indispensable for our democracy.
Freedom of information and diversity of opinion are prerequisites for a social and democratic society.
This includes access for all people to all means of transmission, forms of communication, knowledge and information.
We want to overcome the digital divide in Germany.
That is why the expansion of the broadband network is a key task for us.
We want to develop a media order that meets the requirements of the digital world.
We want to preserve the diversity of the media
and prevent monopolies and the development of concentrations.
We therefore consider the establishment of a state media authority to be an essential instrument.
- Informational self-determination.
The protection of personal data
and the fundamental right to informational self-determination are becoming even more important in the digital world.
Data protection must be further developed.
We also want individuals to be able to move safely in the digital world and learn what the consequences of voluntarily disclosing personal data can be.
- Media license for children and young people.
Media competence is not only the key qualification in the information and communication society, but also an educational topic to be promoted.
We will establish a media literacy foundation and introduce the offer of a media guide for all children and young people.
13. dare more democracy
Democracy is rule by the people.
In other words, it is the citizens who freely and self-determinedly set rules for their coexistence.
We in Germany know that this is a great achievement of civilization that we must defend against all threats.
Our democracy is threatened from various sides, not least by the dominance of the markets and the indifference of the people.
Willy Brandt called for "more democracy" 40 years ago.
The Basic Law came into force 60 years ago.
The Basic Law, its value orientations and rights determine the central principles of living together in our country.
It formulates the foundations of our understanding of freedom, equality and justice.
And it contains the permanent mandate to check again and again whether our society still lives up to these principles.
The Basic Law states: Human dignity is inviolable.
This explicitly refers to all people.
We reject a Leitkultur debate because it is incompatible with the idea of freedom and equality.
We consider the fight against right-wing extremism to be one of the most important tasks facing our society.
The Basic Law goes on to say that property is an obligation.
This also applies to the ownership of money and shares.
The economy and the financial markets must serve society, not the other way around.
This is not only a question of justice,
but also decides on the future of democracy, on the willingness of citizens to get involved for and in democracy.
And the Basic Law states that men and women have equal rights.
Any form of discrimination violates this principle of equality.
This also applies to pay in the workplace.
Democracy does not stop at the office door and the factory gate.
Equality of opportunity and co-determination in the workplace are part of our social democratic tradition of democracy.
They must be preserved and expanded.
What we want
- Democracy does not come by itself.
Democracy is not hereditary.
Families, schools and all socially relevant groups must teach every generation anew that democracy is necessary and how every citizen can participate in our society. -
For us, democracy also means clear social rights
and respect for human dignity, especially in working life.
This includes strong rights for employees through effective protection against dismissal
and functioning co-determination.
- Extend local voting rights.
For non-EU citizens who have lived in Germany for 6 years, we will enforce local voting rights.
- Direct democracy.
We want to enable referendums and plebiscites at the federal level as well, taking into account experience in the states.
- Political education:
Democracy needs politically informed citizens.
Therefore, an intensification of political education, also by the Federal Agency for Civic Education, is necessary.
- Statutory lobby register.
It is part of democracy that social groups try to draw attention to their concerns and interests.
Lobbying by associations, companies, unions and initiatives is the norm in democracy.
However, the democratic public has a right to transparency.
This includes requiring lobbyists to disclose which interest groups are behind them and paying them.
We will push through a corresponding lobby register at the German Bundestag.
- Using new technologies.
In communicating with citizens, we will use new information technologies to strengthen participation in the democratic process.
Where the Internet can help improve public opinion-forming and participation processes, we will use this opportunity in the interests of a strong democracy.
Strong Democracy - Combating Right-Wing Extremism, Xenophobia and Anti-Semitism
- Overall societal task.
For us, the fight against right-wing extremism, racism and anti-Semitism is a task for society as a whole and for all generations.
In addressing right-wing extremism, we take a multifaceted approach:
from a youth policy with a preventive approach and a focus on schools, youth work and education, to
labor market policy programs that combine integration, education and labor market opportunities,
to special activities for cities and neighborhoods where right-wing extremists are on the rise.
We do not tolerate racist or anti-Semitic slogans and stereotypes in political discourse.
- Continuity and diversity in the commitment against right-wing extremism.
We understand right-wing extremism prevention not as a project, but as institutionalized work.
We therefore want to make the federal programs against right-wing extremism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism permanent
and provide sustained and ongoing support for the commitment to democracy and tolerance.
In doing so, we consciously rely on the diversity of local activities and initiatives.
The SPD will make the federal programs for the fight against right-wing extremism permanent and establish a federal foundation in the next legislative period at the latest in order to bundle the necessary work of the numerous civil society projects and initiatives against right-wing extremism.
- Protecting victims.
We will expand counseling services to protect (potential) victims
and improve networking and support for those active in the work against right-wing extremism.
- Ban the NPD.
The NPD is a party that openly glorifies National Socialism and displays an aggressive, militant attitude toward our free democratic basic order.
Therefore, the ban of the NPD must be sought.
14. for a global community of responsibility
The globalization of markets calls for political globalization, for joint policy-making and fair rules.
Only in this way will we come closer to our great goal of a peaceful and just world
and use the global economic and financial crisis as a wake-up call for the global community.
That is why we are committed to global structural policy.
To achieve this, we need a strong European Union,
a renewal of transatlantic relations,
but also the inclusion in partnership of the new economic and political powerhouses of Asia, Latin America and Africa.
Together we must design the rules for the world of the 21st century Rules for a global community of responsibility that is reliable and stable, just and based on solidarity.
We must pay particular attention to the poorest:
Financial, economic and resource crises must not be dumped on the shoulders of the weak.
Global solidarity and the fight against poverty are our top priorities.
That is why we want to strengthen our commitment to development policy
and further expand our capabilities in the areas of conflict prevention, crisis management and peacebuilding.
What we want:
- Strengthen the United Nations.
The United Nations is the supreme authority of a global legal order.
We want a strong UN and therefore continue to support the reform process that has been initiated.
Germany is ready to assume even more responsibility internationally, including in the Security Council.
- Reorganizing the global financial architecture.
The global economic and financial crisis is opening up new opportunities for political reordering of the world's financial architecture.
We want strong international institutions that ensure transparency and risk control and prevent undesirable developments.
No market, no actor, no state and territory, no product may remain unattended!
We advocate a strengthening of the IMF and the World Bank, more rights and obligations for the emerging economies, and an audible European voice in the international financial institutions.
- Free and fair world trade.
We stand by the principle of free and fair world trade.
Tackling the economic crisis must not lead to compartmentalization and protectionism.
Developing countries in particular would be the first to suffer.
In the WTO development round, poor countries must be allowed to participate more fully in world trade
and agricultural export subsidies must be ended.
Minimum social and environmental standards should be included in the WTO rules and regulations.
- Expand G 8.
We want to expand the G8 to include important emerging economies
and use it to advance political globalization.
The major issues of the future can no longer be solved without states such as China, India or Brazil.
The Islamic world should also be represented in an expanded G8.
In the long term, we are pursuing the plan for a United Nations Global Council on Economic, Social and Environmental Policy.
It is intended to harmonize economic interests, social needs and ecological necessities.
- Strengthen human rights.
Global commitment to human rights is a central component of our policy.
Human rights, solidarity and democracy belong together.
Human rights policy is also peace policy.
We want to further strengthen the human rights protection systems of the United Nations, the EU and the Council of Europe.
- Strengthen women's rights.
We are committed to strengthening the rights of women.
Women are the key players in development.
We want to continue the fight against genital mutilation
and help end violence against women worldwide.
- Outlaw homophobia worldwide.
We actively work to prevent the persecution of persons belonging to sexual minorities.
At the international level, we want to promote the implementation of the Yogyakarta Principles.
- Expand human rights dialogs.
We want to expand the instrument of human rights dialogs at both national and European level.
Only if we remain in dialogue, even with difficult states, do we have a chance of promoting human rights and actually helping people.
- Fight against torture and the death penalty.
We strongly support European and international initiatives to abolish the death penalty and torture.
- Strengthen international criminal justice.
We support international criminal justice so that genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes are punished and the perpetrators held accountable.
- More rights for children.
We are committed to strengthening the rights of children.
In Germany itself, we advocate the withdrawal of the declaration of reservation to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.
and for an individual right of appeal.
- For a cooperative energy and resource policy.
We stand for a cooperative energy and resource policy.
We want to prevent tomorrow's conflicts from arising from ever fiercer competition for scarce goods.
We promote regional cooperation in the sustainable use of resources
and advocate strong international institutions in the energy sector.
We want to help developing countries gain access to modern, sustainable energy supplies.
The production of agrofuels must not jeopardize the supply of food for the population.
To this end, we need binding sustainability standards and effective certification systems.
- Strengthen foreign cultural and education policy.
In a world that is growing together, foreign cultural and educational policy is becoming increasingly important.
We can no longer assume that European values can be taken for granted.
In a world with a multitude of new, self-confident actors, cultural exchange is the basis for political or social dialogue.
That is why we have reformed, strengthened and expanded the Goethe-Instituts, partner schools abroad and academic exchange in recent years.
They are anchor points of understanding and promote our attitudes and values.
We want to continue along this path.
- Using information and communication technologies for development.
The dynamics of the global knowledge society increasingly depend on information and communication technologies.
This applies in particular to their innovation potential.
We want people in developing countries to benefit from the opportunities offered by new technologies
and to use them wisely to achieve the Millennium Development Goals.
- Maintain an independent development ministry.
Germany is one of the countries with an independent development ministry.
In the future, too, we want development cooperation to be managed coherently within this ministry.
By making this ministry independent, we are making it clear that global solidarity and the fight against poverty are our top priorities.
- More money for development.
We stand by our commitment to provide 0.51 percent of gross domestic product by 2010 and 0.7 percent by 2015 to fight poverty and hunger worldwide.
In addition to providing traditional budgetary resources, we want to tap into other, innovative sources of funding.
Part of the revenue from the auctioning of CO2 pollution rights is to be used to combat poverty.
and international climate protection.
As Germany's peace party, we are committed to reversing the global imbalance between arms and development spending.
- Achieving Millennium Development Goals.
We want to do everything we can to achieve the Millennium Development Goals by 2015.
As part of our development policy, we will invest more in rural development, climate protection, adaptation to climate change and renewable energies.
We want to support our partner countries in expanding social security systems and an efficient and fair tax system.
Support for Africa will remain an important focus, because achieving the Millennium Development Goals will depend crucially on progress in Africa.
- Strengthening civil society forces.
We intend to continue our intensive cooperation with and support for non-governmental organizations, trade unions, churches and business in the future.
15 A strong and social Europe
Europe is our common opportunity to realize our vision of progress and social justice in the global 21st century.
Where the power of nation states to shape policy reaches its limits, a Europe united in solidarity can and must assert the primacy of democratic politics over the free play of market forces.
In the last century, the SPD and trade unions in Germany have proven that it is possible to civilize capitalism
through co-determination in companies and enterprises, through
workers' rights,
through social and ecological rules and standards that set limits to free enterprise,
and through a fair share for all in the wealth generated by society.
In the global 21st century, we need to prove it again.
Now the stage is Europe.
As the European Party of Germany, we are the driving political force for an effective and democratic Europe of the citizens.
Deepening and widening the European Union remain the defining basic constants of our policy.
What we want: Create the social Europe Prevent wage and social dumping
- Europe social.
We want to progressively develop the European tradition of the welfare state.
To this end, economic activity in the European single market must also be embedded in a political and social order.
The European Economic and Monetary Union must be complemented by a European Social Union.
We want to agree on European minimum social standards in order to prevent a downward spiral in wages and social standards in Europe and to implement social progress at European level.
This is also a necessary step toward maintaining the welfare state in Germany at a high level.
- For a social stability pact.
As an essential element of a future European social union, we call for a European social stability pact.
It is intended to set goals and targets for social and education spending that are based on and flexibly adaptable to the respective economic performance of the EU member states.
As a country's economic performance increases, it would then also be obliged to spend more on education and social security systems.
In this way, joint European progress towards more education and improved social protection standards can be achieved,
while at the same time preserving the autonomy of the respective social security systems of the EU member states.
As a second element of a social stability pact for Europe, we call for minimum wage regulations to apply in all EU member states.
This is an important step toward eliminating wage dumping throughout Europe.
As a first step, the Social Stability Pact should be realized within the framework of the Open Method of Coordination (OMC).
If the Social Stability Pact does not initially find support among all EU member states, a core group of EU member states willing to move forward could lead the way in the context of enhanced social cooperation.
- Combating tax dumping.
We also want to take action against tax dumping in Europe.
We therefore advocate a uniform tax base and minimum rates for corporate taxes in Europe.
- Good work in Europe.
We advocate a social progress clause in EU primary law and a revision of the EU Posting of Workers Directive.
This must go beyond the protection of mere minimum standards.
The following must apply throughout Europe: Equal pay and working conditions for equal work in the same place!
Furthermore, the admissibility of ecological and social criteria in the award of public contracts must be specified and expanded in EU procurement law.
- Strengthen co-determination.
A constitutive element of social Europe and a prerequisite for good work is the principle of employee co-determination in companies and enterprises.
The far-reaching standards of co-determination in European stock corporations (SEs) must be the yardstick and benchmark for the further development of European company law.
We call for a directive on the relocation of companies' registered offices that ensures that co-determination standards are upheld.
We are also taking care to ensure that German co-determination rights are not undermined in the establishment of a European Private Company for small and medium-sized enterprises.
- More rights for works councils.
We want to expand the rights of European works councils.
They must be informed at an early stage, comprehensively consulted and effectively involved in corporate decisions.
In addition, to strengthen collective bargaining autonomy at European level, we want to create a legal basis for cross-border collective bargaining and collective agreements.
- For equality, against discrimination.
With an ambitious policy for equality and against discrimination, we want to make Europe an area of equal opportunities free of discrimination.
The legislation of the European Union in the field of anti-discrimination must be further developed in the direction of comprehensive protection.
- Legal certainty for services of general interest.
We want to create more European legal certainty for public services of general interest.
Water supply, sewage and waste disposal, local public transport, airports and air traffic control, important health and social services and also public broadcasting serve the common good.
They must not be subjected to unilateral pressure for liberalization and privatization.
- European Pact for the Future of Work.
We need to give priority to employment in Europe and are therefore proposing a European Jobs Pact for the future.
All European programs must be examined for their employment-promoting effect.
Europe more democratic and capable of action
- Realize Lisbon Treaty.
The self-assertion of Europe and the European Union in the first truly global century requires political capacity to act.
We want the Lisbon Treaty to enter into force soon.
It will make the EU more democratic, more capable of action, closer to its citizens and also more social.
- Developing Europe into a citizens' union.
In the long term, we want to develop Europe into a democratic citizens' union.
The democratic Europe of the future needs a parliamentary responsible government on the basis of a European constitution.
- Europe as a peace power.
We want to further strengthen Europe's identity as a global peace power that assumes responsibility for peace and development in the world, enforces human rights and international law, promotes democracy and a dialogue of cultures, and advocates social and ecological standards in the globalized economy.
We want to expand the European Security and Defense Policy (ESDP) and strengthen its civilian component in particular.
- Keeping the doors open.
We want to continue the EU enlargement policy as a successful peace policy.
We support Turkey's accession to the EU if it fully meets the necessary criteria.
We remain committed to the accession perspective of the Western Balkan states.
A strong European economic and industrial policy
- Improve economic and fiscal policy coordination.
We want to improve economic and fiscal policy coordination at EU level, especially in the Eurogroup, and make it more binding.
We welcome the strengthening and further institutionalization of the Eurogroup through the Lisbon Treaty.
Especially in the current economic and financial crisis, we now need a qualitative step toward a strong common European economic policy.
- Strong SMEs, less bureaucracy.
We call for a new European offensive to strengthen the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises and the skilled trades in Europe in particular, with easier access to credit and the further reduction of bureaucratic burdens in the European single market.
- For an innovative Europe.
We call for increased European investment in innovation, research and development,
and in a sustainable European infrastructure, for example in energy networks or broadband supply.
We also want to implement an ecological industrial policy in Europe.
To this end, we need a European research offensive in environmental technologies and renewable energies.
- Modern agricultural and structural policy.
We want equal living conditions throughout Europe.
We advocate a social and future-oriented agricultural and structural policy for the EU.
Job creation, education and training, research, environmental protection, support for socially disadvantaged urban districts and rural regions, and a sustainable infrastructure must be made even stronger priorities of EU funding policy.
16. worldwide for peace and disarmament
Social Democratic foreign and security policy has shaped our country from Willy Brandt's policy of détente to Gerhard Schröder's yes to the Afghanistan engagement and his no to the Iraq war.
It created the conditions for German unity and increased Germany's standing in the world.
It has developed a concept of civil crisis prevention and civil conflict management and anchored it nationally and at the European level with appropriate instruments.
We intend to continue this policy.
Threatening rearmament worldwide calls for a new policy of détente.
Instead of threats and demarcation, we need more dialogue.
International terrorism must be fought effectively, but we want to counter the myth of the clash of civilizations just as clearly.
What we want:
- Renewing the Transatlantic Partnership.
Barack Obama's inauguration presents an opportunity to renew the transatlantic partnership.
We want to use this opportunity to give new impetus to disarmament, promote climate protection and energy security, and jointly develop new rules for a fairer world order.
- A common space of security from Vancouver to Vladivostok.
NATO remains the most important guarantor of our security.
With our partners, we want to develop a new understanding on the future strategic direction of the Alliance, in which its responsibility for disarmament and arms control is strengthened.
We argue for a common space of security from Vancouver to Vladivostok, in which NATO and Russia work together in trust.
The current American plans for a missile shield are not compatible with this goal and are therefore rejected by us.
- A world without nuclear weapons.
Disarmament, non-proliferation and arms control are central questions of survival for us tomorrow.
Our goal remains a world without nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction.
We advocate a new approach to nuclear disarmament.
We want all sub-strategic nuclear weapons to be completely withdrawn from Europe.
This also applies to the nuclear weapons still remaining in Germany.
They are a relic of the Cold War and militarily obsolete today.
We will work to ensure that this is addressed in the planned U.S.-Russian disarmament talks.
- Revive conventional disarmament.
We want to revive and renew the Treaty on Conventional Disarmament in Europe (CFE).
Regional disarmament agreements strengthen stability and security.
We want to offer support wherever regions seek cooperative security systems.
- Effective arms export control and arms control.
We stand by a restrictive arms control policy, which should also be further harmonized at a high European level.
We reject arms exports to crisis regions and a softening of arms export policy principles.
A restrictive arms export policy, which includes small arms in particular, contributes to conflict prevention and peacekeeping and helps to prevent human rights violations.
We are committed to upholding the ban on anti-personnel mines
and to enforcing the ban on cluster munitions under international law.
We call for missile defense to be included in treaty arms control.
Limiting and verifying such weapons systems could promote trust and cooperation.
- Secure the state's monopoly on the use of force.
We want to roll back the influence of private mercenary armies and security services and advocate strict national and international rules for private military and security companies.
Protection of weak states must be safeguarded under international law.
We want to remove the ground from economies of violence through preventive policies and support for an international security architecture.
- Russia as a responsible partner.
Good cooperation with Russia is in the vital German and European interest.
We need Russia as a partner in the shared responsibility for security and stability in Europe and the world.
We therefore want to strengthen Russia's ties with Europe,
support Russia in its modernization
and promote its development under the rule of law.
- A European perspective for our eastern neighbors.
We advocate rapid implementation of the Eastern Partnership with Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova and the states of the South Caucasus.
Our goal is the full participation of these countries in a Europe of peace and prosperity.
- For peace in the Middle East.
The central goal of our policy in the Middle East is and remains a two-state solution:
with an Israel that lives in peace, security and within borders recognized by its neighbors, and a viable Palestinian state in which the people have a future worth living.
In the conflict over Iran's nuclear program, we advocate a negotiated solution within the framework of the United Nations that provides incentives for cooperation but does not rule out sanctions if necessary.
- Supporting Afghanistan.
Together with our partners, we have revised our Afghanistan strategy and defined our goals more clearly.
We will continue to provide constructive and critical support for Germany's engagement in Afghanistan.
Afghanistan must not be allowed to become a haven for terrorists again.
The government must be able to ensure security and stability on its own.
Basic human rights must be respected.
On the one hand, we promote our civil society and development policy approach, according to which we support, for example, infrastructure development, cultural dialogue projects and educational policy initiatives.
On the other hand, we are promoting our civil-military approach, under which we are stepping up training efforts for the Afghan security forces.
The sooner we achieve these goals, the sooner we can end our military involvement in Afghanistan.
- Shaping the Bundeswehr's international missions responsibly.
For us, international deployments of the Bundeswehr can only be the last resort if other instruments for securing peace and protecting people cannot bring about a solution.
The Bundeswehr's missions must be legitimized by a mandate from the UN Security Council and a constitutive resolution of the German Bundestag and integrated into an overall political concept.
- Modernizing the Bundeswehr.
We want to actively drive forward the transformation process of the Bundeswehr and continue to shape the transformation in a socially responsible manner.
In particular, this means ensuring that the Bundeswehr is equipped to perform well and is fit for the future,
raising social standards for service and the accommodation of servicemen and women and adapting them to a modern image of the family,
and taking appropriate measures to make service in the Bundeswehr more attractive, including reforming the pay structure.
We advocate ending the legal dispute over the future use of Kyritz-Ruppiner Heide and refraining from military use.
At the same time, we advocate keeping the burden on the population at the Bundeswehr's other air-ground firing ranges as low as possible, reducing it further where possible and ensuring that the burden is shared fairly.
We support a European solution for the exercise capabilities of the European NATO air forces.
- Further develop conscription.
We are committed to the further development of compulsory military service, which, while retaining conscription, combines the possibility of flexibly meeting the demand for the necessary Bundeswehr personnel with a strengthening of voluntary commitment to the Bundeswehr.
In future, we aim to call up for service in the armed forces only those who have previously declared their willingness to serve in the Bundeswehr.
III A majority in solidarity for Germany
This year, Germany is setting the course for the next decade.
We cannot avoid the efforts and risks that lie ahead.
But we can determine which course we want to take: A course where people are turned in on themselves, where selfishness prevails and cynicism is allowed.
Or the path of responsibility that all citizens take for the common good.
We say: Only with the power of joint, responsible action can trust return to our country.
The tasks ahead are daunting.
They need social democratic answers.
The prerequisite for this is a strong SPD.
Our country needs clear leadership again: a Social Democratic-led federal government.
We call on all citizens of our country:
- Anyone who wants our country to learn the lessons of the crisis and move towards more democracy
and new common ground must vote SPD.
- If you want to bring the country together and overcome the division between the strong and the weak, you have to vote SPD.
- If you want good work, decent work and fair wages, you have to vote SPD.
- Those who want strong employee rights,
functioning protection against dismissal
and co-determination, must vote SPD.
- If you want to implement equal rights for men and women in practice, you have to vote SPD.
- If you want to fight child poverty decisively and provide better support for single parents, you have to vote SPD.
- If you want reliable old-age provision and genuine participation for older people, you have to vote SPD.
- If you want the burden to be shared fairly, you have to vote SPD.
- Anyone who wants an effective welfare state in the future must vote SPD.
- If you don't want new nuclear power plants, you have to vote SPD.
- Anyone who does not consider tax evasion to be a trivial offense must vote SPD.
- If you want social democratic politics in the future, you have to vote SPD.
- Those in favor of international disarmament
and a consistent peace policy must vote SPD.
- Anyone who stands up for global justice must vote SPD.
We want to enter the Bundestag on September 27 as the strongest parliamentary group.
Germany must not be governed by a black-yellow coalition again.
Our country does not need a return to the old, but a departure for the better.
In a coalition government, we want to push through our social democratic content.
This is best achieved in a government alliance with the Greens.
If a three-party coalition becomes necessary, we believe that a traffic light coalition with the FDP would be suitable for successfully tackling the tasks at hand: creating jobs, guaranteeing social security, shaping social progress.
The grand coalition of SPD, CDU and CSU is the exceptional case in democracy and should remain so.
That is why we are not seeking a new alliance with the CDU/CSU.
But if other constellations are not possible and our country is threatened with the inability to govern, we Social Democrats will know our responsibility and act accordingly.
We Social Democrats rule out an alliance with the Left Party at the federal level for the entire next legislative period.
Nor will we form a minority government that is tolerated by the Left Party.
Our country needs stability and experience in the difficult times ahead.
The Left Party cannot guarantee either.
We are well equipped for the coming years.
With fresh ideas and the courage to act.
And we have the better chancellor: Frank-Walter Steinmeier.
