Out of respect for your future The SPD's future program
What we stand for.
What drives us.
What we strive for.
Contents
1.0. future.
Respect.
Europe. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 3
1.1 Securing the future . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 4
1.2 Renew Respect . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 5
1.3 Strengthening Europe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 6
1.4 Selecting cohesion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 6
2.0.A future worth living . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 8
2.1.Future Mission I.
Climate-neutral Germany . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 8
2.2.Future Mission II.
Europe's most modern mobility system . . . . . . . . > 11
2.3.Future Mission III.
Digital sovereignty in Germany and Europe > 13
2.4.Future Mission IV.
Health update . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 17
2.5.How we want to promote a sustainable economy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 19
2.6.How we keep science and research innovative and fit for the future. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 21
2.7.How we want to finance our policies . . . . . . > 22
2.8 How we want to govern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 25
3.0 A Society of Respect . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 27
3.1 Valuing work. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 27
3.2 Increasing career opportunities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 31
3.3 Expanding Solidarity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 33
3.4 Safeguarding old age . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 35
3.5 Standing up for each other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 36
3.6 Affordable housing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 37
3.7 Growing up well . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 39
3.8 Realizing equality . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 42
3.9 Living together . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 45
3.10. Strengthening democracy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 47
3.11. Promoting culture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 48
3.12. Understanding each other better . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 50
3.13. Live safely . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 51
3.14. Health protection, youth protection and decrimi- nalization determine our drug policy . . > 52
3.15. Respect nature . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 52
4.0 Sovereign Europe in the World . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 55
4.1 Strengthening solidarity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 55
4.2 Social-ecological management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 56
4.3 Expanding Democracy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 58
4.4 Cultivating European Neighborhoods. . . . . . . . . > 59
4.5 Securing peace. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . > 61
5.0 Future, respect and a Europe based on solidarity - guiding principles for a new decade . . . . . . . . > 65
1.0.Future.
Respect.
Europe.
At the beginning of the third decade of the 21st century, we are facing enormous tasks in Germany, Europe and the world.
At the same time, the Corona crisis has partly overshadowed pressing questions of our time and partly brought them into sharper focus: Will we succeed in securing tomorrow's work and prosperity and ensuring full employment?
Or do we resign ourselves to the fact that people remain without work?
Are we overcoming growing inequality?
Or do we accept that a few secure the highest incomes and the best prospects, but that the burdens and risks are placed on the shoulders of those who cannot defend themselves?
Will we succeed in changing our lives and economies in such a way that we can stop man-made climate change?
Do we take the shaping of the digital transformation into our own hands as a democratic society,
or will the development of the digital world continue to be dictated by a few technology corporations?
Do we ensure equal participation
and more cohesion?
Or do we accept that our society is drifting further and further apart, so that populists and nationalists have an easy game?
The new decade begins with the challenge of the Corona pandemic.
For many citizens and companies, this crisis means severe restrictions.
All the more remarkable is the willingness to exercise solidarity to protect all of us and to accept cuts in personal freedom to do so.
The next few months will allow us to return to a new normal, overcoming the restrictions of public and private life one by one.
But even then Corona will still accompany us.
Many things will be different.
The experience of this crisis will be inscribed in the collective memory.
We have all experienced that nothing can replace a personal encounter in the long run.
But we also learned how to collaborate and communicate digitally.
In addition, everyone has now realized how indispensable the work of many people is for our daily life and survival, but who until now have not received the appreciation and certainly not the payment and security they deserve.
It has been emphatically confirmed that families are dependent on a crisis-proof, reliable infrastructure of education, care and offers of child and youth work.
A joint effort is needed to overcome the crisis.
From this, new courage can grow with which we can confidently tackle the great tasks of our time.
We want to secure and build on what we have worked for,
we want to tackle climate change,
create the jobs of tomorrow,
distribute opportunities and burdens fairly,
keep society together and counter the danger of its division.
We Social Democrats are determined to tackle these tasks.
Most citizens in our country are united by the need for respect, cohesion and confidence for a good, secure future in Germany and Europe.
This confidence arises from the trust that we can influence the direction in which our lives and our society are developing.
More and more citizens want to have a say in the direction in which we are going.
This can be felt in the growing awareness of ecological responsibility,
in the urgent concern about dwindling cohesion,
or in the growing criticism of inequality in our society.
The Corona crisis once again makes it abundantly clear that profit maximization and cost minimization must not be the measure of all things.
In the economy, the health care system, the education system, the judiciary and other important areas, too much has been "sewn on the edge."
But our society is stable - even under adverse circumstances and in crisis situations.
We have to do everything we can to keep it that way.
We owe this stability to the impressive solidarity
and fundamental democratic values of our society.
New acceptance and new enthusiasm, as well as new respect for democratic institutions, come from greater transparency and participation.
Respect for the diversity of people and their lifestyles is one of the most important foundations for the cohesion of our society.
This diversity is an invaluable asset, and we will ensure that it is adequately reflected in all areas of our society, in our parliaments and in the formats of participation.
Many people in Germany are doing well economically - even in comparison with other countries.
But this is not true for everyone, and many lack the certainty that this will be the case tomorrow.
Our policies will help overcome inequality, guarantee security in the face of change, and create new confidence.
1.1.Secure future
A brief look into the future: By 2045 at the latest, we will have a climate-neutral economy.
Wind power and solar are our energy sources, supported by a clean hydrogen economy.
Public buildings, schools and supermarkets purchase solar power,
and climate-friendly entrepreneurship is financially rewarded.
We see huge potential for good and secure jobs in this task of the century.
Germany is successful as an exporter of environmentally friendly technologies because it has succeeded in making production processes sustainable and the 20s a decade of renewable energies.
We will master the socio-ecological transformation of the economy if we measure economic success in the future not only in terms of gross domestic product, but also in terms of the well-being of society and nature as a whole.
We align our policies with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
and will further develop the German Sustainability Strategy to this end.
If the state provides decisive impetus, through clever rules of the game that generate social and technical innovations, through the
promotion of science and research,
through massive and constant investment in a modern infrastructure, through the
active promotion of regions undergoing change
and through the participation of citizens in general
and employees in particular.
This makes jobs sustainable and creates new good jobs.
This is how we secure income and prospects for all.
We want a new social-ecological social contract that ensures that no one is left behind in times of change.
1.2.Respect renew
The Corona crisis has shown all of us in Germany how much we depend in our everyday lives on the work of those whose incomes have often been barely enough to live on.
The cashiers in the supermarket, the bus drivers, cleaners, care workers and educators deserve more recognition - which is also reflected in good incomes and working conditions.
We will fight for that.
We saw just how valuable a functioning welfare state is during the Corona crisis.
We are endeavoring to mitigate the economic and social consequences of the crisis as best we can through various measures, such as viable short-time working benefits.
However, it also became clear where we as a society still have a lot to do.
In the case of the still incomplete equality of men and women, which became apparent above all in the fact that many saw themselves abruptly relegated to old role models.
This also applies to the inadequate protection of artists and the self-employed,
the overpriced apartments not only in the conurbations
and the lack of infrastructure in rural areas, there is still a lot to do.
For us, respect for the dignity of all citizens means that everyone has the right to equal opportunities and a secure life.
An apartment, a daycare place, access to free education, mobility, culture, sports, a fast Internet connection, access to the knowledge of this world, reliable digital services for an active civil society, health care, co-determination in working life, a secure pension, good care in old age - for us, these are basic social rights and the prerequisites for the stability of family and society.
We advocate a society based on mutual respect.
A society that respects all citizens equally, free from prejudice.
We owe each other respect, regardless of whether one has studied or not, whether born in Germany or elsewhere, in the East or West, whether female, male or diverse, whether young or old, poor or rich, whether with a disability or not.
This must not make any difference to the dignity and esteem of each and every individual.
We want a society of cohesion
and resolutely oppose hatred and agitation, any kind of exclusion and discrimination, and the strengthening of right-wing extremist forces.
We want to create equal living conditions throughout Germany.
This includes completing German unity and reducing the imbalance between metropolis and periphery, between traditional industrial regions and new boom zones, between urban and rural areas.
It is precisely here that the challenges of major social transformation processes and structural change become apparent.
Respect for and recognition of the specifically East German life experiences and life achievements are central to further strengthening trust in democracy.
Our goal is to increase the visibility of East Germans in all areas.
1.3.Strengthen Europe
Travel, work, study or live without borders.
The European Union (EU) has shaped the lives of millions of people, opened up new opportunities and freedoms, and enabled many to experience the immeasurable value of cultural diversity for our societies.
It has shown that we can achieve more together.
This will be particularly important in the future.
In an environment characterized by global competition, we can only assert our European values and interests if Europe is united internally and capable of acting externally.
We want to protect freedom and the rule of law in Europe and make the EU the most modern democracy in the world.
We want Europe to be a pioneer in climate protection as well.
We want a digitally sovereign Europe based on a value-based digital economy.
By investing in our shared economic and innovative strength, we are strengthening Europe as the most modern, socially responsible, sustainable and competitive economic area in the world, thus securing the foundations of our prosperity.
In doing so, we are creating the conditions for a sovereign Europe that stands for social justice, prosperity and human rights and is united in its commitment to a fairer, more peaceful and more sustainable world.
Only together will we ensure a humanitarian and solidarity-based refugee policy.
Democracy, freedom and the rule of law are the foundation of our community.
We will not allow nationalist hatred and populist agitation to divide Europe.
We are serious about European solidarity.
We acted quickly and forcefully at the onset of the pandemic to launch the largest reconstruction fund in the history of the European Union -
a show of solidarity that mitigates the social consequences of the Corona crisis
while driving socio-ecological change
and fostering innovation.
Europe receives worldwide recognition for this.
On this basis, we want to build new trust in Europe and prevent an economic and political split in the EU.
1.4.Cohesion select
We have achieved a lot in the governing coalition.
The successes bear a recognizably social-democratic signature.
These include the extension and increase of the short-time allowance, the Corona child bonus and the increase in the child supplement as well as more money for the expansion of daycare centers, the design of the Corona economic stimulus package with its focus on economic stabilization, social security and ecological transformation, plus the significant restriction of work contract and temporary employment in the meat industry.
We have pushed through the basic pension, the minimum training allowance, bridge part-time work and the abolition of the solidarity surcharge for low and middle incomes.
The upcoming federal election is about questions of direction.
There are those who want to dismantle the welfare state and cut social benefits.
We oppose them with a concept for a welfare state that enables everyone to master change and defy coming crises.
We counter those who want to save against the crisis and subject all areas of life to the laws of the market with central missions for the future with concrete investment priorities.
We are promoting our striving for more mutual respect in Germany, Europe and the world with this program.
Future for all needs a program for all
2.0.A future worth living
We see a lot of good.
We also see a lot of things that can be done better.
But we also see developments that need to be changed or stopped to make a good future possible.
That is why we will secure, maintain and expand our prosperity in tomorrow's world
while protecting the climate and the environment.
We will make it possible for all citizens to live safely
and be able to develop.
Many citizens have the impression that government action often resembles a repair store.
Sometimes one screw is turned, sometimes another.
We are overcoming this political "Klein- Klein".
For us, it's about tackling future challenges.
We therefore name four missions for the future that are of central importance to us.
This applies to the fight against climate change, to the
future of mobility,
to digitization
and to the healthcare system.
We will tackle these four missions for the future to modernize the economy,
promote high-tech in key industries,
preserve our livelihoods
and create the jobs of the future.
The implementation of these missions requires a high level of public investment
and a socio-ecologically oriented economic and financial policy.
We will advance these missions in cooperation with trade unions, science, business and civil society
and shape climate-friendly infrastructure development on the basis of a new, all-society consensus on infrastructure.
This reflects our claim of modern and cooperative governance.
2.1.Future mission I. Climate-neutral Germany
Stopping climate change is a human task.
Our policy is guided by the Paris climate agreement:
we must limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius if possible.
That is why we have set ourselves the goal of being completely climate-neutral in Germany by 2045 at the latest.
With the Climate Protection Act, we have ensured that the climate agreement becomes concrete:
It provides an effective control mechanism for achieving the climate targets.
Accordingly, in line with European climate targets, we will significantly increase our reduction target for 2030 (to 65%); we will also set a reduction target for 2040 (88%).
It is now a matter of translating the goals into practical policy.
The phase-out of nuclear energy will be completed by the end of next year.
The coal phase-out is also a done deal.
The faster the expansion of power generation from renewable energies takes place
and the faster the necessary power lines and distribution grids are built,
the sooner fossil fuels can be dispensed with.
In this legislative period, we have put the phase-out on track and linked it to comprehensive structural assistance, which we intend to implement swiftly.
These are historic decisions.
Our labor market has a strong industrial base that can emerge even stronger from the transformation
- if we make targeted investments in infrastructure and innovations.
In this way, our mission for the future, "climate-neutral Germany," will become a job engine.
We will also lay the foundations - not only within the framework of our climate policy - to ensure that everyone can play a part in tackling climate change, that everyone benefits from the opportunities and that those who have the least impact on their carbon footprint are not left behind.
Our goal: By 2045 at the latest, living, working and doing business will no longer have a negative impact on our climate.
Germany's energy supply will then be based entirely on renewable energies, and our buildings will be efficiently heated with renewable energies.
Our industry continues to lead the world markets precisely because it produces in a CO2-neutral manner and exports technologies that tomorrow's climate-neutral world will need.
In this way, we secure jobs for the future
and achieve our ecological goals at the same time.
Climate protection is the social task of the coming decades.
In order to be able to live, work and do business in Germany in a greenhouse gas-neutral manner by 2045 at the latest, we will ensure that we obtain all our electricity from renewable sources by 2040 at the latest.
Our electricity demand will increase significantly in the coming years and decades because we will use much more electricity in transportation and industry instead of fossil fuels.
By 2030 alone, we will need an additional 10 tWh of electricity per year - the equivalent of Hamburg's electricity consumption.
We therefore need a decade of determined expansion of renewable energies.
The right decisions must be made now to achieve this: In the expansion of renewable energies and the digitization of electricity grids, in increasing energy efficiency, in developing storage technologies and hydrogen production as well as a transport network, in investing in climate-friendly production processes in industry, in modernizing residential buildings, factories and schools.
Renewable electricity is used in all sectors.
Where direct electrification is not practical, we will need large quantities of hydrogen from renewables.
Hydrogen does not emit any greenhouse gases during combustion and can be stored easily.
It is abundant and can be produced by splitting water into oxygen and hydrogen.
Climate neutrality cannot be achieved without clean hydrogen on a large industrial scale.
We need more speed in the expansion of power grids, rail lines, hydrogen pipelines and charging stations for electric cars.
The development of these infrastructures must precede the need.
Our plans for building a sustainable infrastructure must extend beyond 2025.
The massive expansion of renewable energies
and the participation of local citizens, for example through energy cooperatives,
will be at the heart of our climate protection and energy policy.
In a pact for the future between the federal government, the states, local authorities and leading local authority associations, we agree binding expansion targets for renewable energies such as solar, wind and geothermal energy.
To make the local energy transition a win-win situation for everyone, we invite citizens and communities to participate by strengthening tenant electricity and community self-sufficiency, expanding community participation models, and launching sustainable electricity bonds.
It is equally clear to us that we bear responsibility for the future of the people in the industries and regions.
What we have decided applies: Structural aid for the mining regions affected by the phase-out, but also beyond.
Reliable support for the creation of new value added
and sustainable jobs is a top priority
- as is the reclamation and aftercare of mined areas.
We want to make sure that all roofs suitable for this purpose get a solar installation.
As a first step, we are ensuring that solar power is generated on public buildings and new commercial buildings.
Our goal is to have solar on every supermarket, school and city hall.
We will target innovative forms of renewable power generation, such as integrated photovoltaics in the building envelope and on agricultural land
, and develop new strategic energy partnerships.
With the switch to renewable energies, we must at the same time use energy more efficiently.
We will continue to develop energy efficiency targets and standards.
A CO2 price has been in effect since the beginning of 2021 as part of national emissions trading.
In combination with other measures such as the environmental bonus for the purchase of an electric car or subsidy programs for heating system replacement, it ensures that climate-friendly alternatives become more attractive.
To support the use of renewable energies in transport and building heating ("sector coupling"), we will abolish the EEG levy in its existing form by 2025 and finance it from the federal budget.
The revenues from CO2 pricing also serve this purpose.
This measure also contributes to the socially just financing of the energy turnaround, because it significantly reduces the electricity bill.
We will ensure that low-income citizens are not left behind.
As the CO2 price rises, we will ensure further socially just compensation measures.
We will examine a per capita bonus.
The building sector must also gradually become CO2 neutral.
With the CO2 price, we want to direct investments and motivate landlords to modernize.
There is still much to be done, especially in existing rental housing.
We have a target of five million homes being supplied via innovative heating and energy systems (e.g. heat pumps) by 2030.
We will create legal regulations so that the CO2 price is borne by the landlords.
In doing so, we are guided by the goal of warm rent neutrality.
At the same time, we will provide state support for investments in heating networks and neighborhood concepts.
We will create planning security for the social and ecological transformation of our economy with a long-term industrial strategy.
This industrial strategy will be embedded in a pan-European solution in conjunction with the European Green Deal.
We will provide government support for the switch to climate-friendly production processes by directly promoting investment and
compensating for the current higher costs of climate-friendly technologies; we
will dismantle subsidies that are harmful to the climate and the environment.
We will create a market for environmentally friendly starting materials.
The public sector, as a major builder of roads and buildings, will gradually procure more and more climate-neutral base materials for buildings by 2030, and exclusively from 2030 onward.
We will safeguard our industries
and make the relocation of production and emissions abroad less attractive through tailored instruments.
We will also ensure that the industrial electricity price is also competitive for companies that compete internationally.
We will no longer be wasteful with resources.
We will transform our economy into a circular economy.
The amount of waste we produce in Germany must be significantly reduced.
In addition to recycling, we will develop a raw material security concept to ensure a secure supply of the raw materials needed for environmentally friendly production.
We will support key industries on their path to climate neutrality and develop and promote concrete transformation targets.
We will make Germany the lead market for hydrogen technologies by 2030 - for the climate-neutral production of steel, for low-CO2 cars, trucks and shipping and aviation.
2.2 Future Mission II.
Europe's most modern mobility system
All citizens must be able to get from A to B quickly, reliably and in a climate-friendly manner.
To achieve this, we are rethinking mobility:
sustainable,
affordable,
barrier-free
and reliable.
And more and more citizens are switching to buses, trains or bicycles.
Nevertheless, the car remains important for many people.
But pollutant emissions will be reduced to zero.
Our mission is climate-neutral mobility for all.
We will drive forward the transformation of transport and build Europe's most modern and climate-friendly mobility system by 2030.
This is a task for the whole of Germany, to which the federal government will make its contribution, but which also places obligations on the states and local authorities.
Our goal is a mobility guarantee:
Every citizen - in the city and in the countryside - should have a connection to public transport close to home.
To this end, we are exploiting the opportunities offered by digitization: with new mobility services that make networked mobility offerings available on digital platforms.
We support models such as the 365-Euro-Ticket or model projects for ticket-free local transportation.
We will launch a Mobility Plan 2030 that will bring local public transport and rail to a new level.
The federal government will make its contribution through replacement programs to ensure that all new buses and trains in the municipalities are climate-neutral by 2030
and the existing fleets are modernized.
Funding programs and a change in road traffic law are intended to help municipalities create more space in cities for public transport, pedestrians and cyclists.
We will make road traffic safer in the sense of Vision Zero, especially for the many cyclists.
At intersections, we will promote the establishment of barrier-free mobility stations for sustainable urban mobility so that as many people as possible switch from cars to environmentally friendly means of transportation.
We will establish a national mobility lead agency to support the development of regional mobility plans
and ensure early local participation.
Rail transport is a key focus of our transport policy agenda.
Rail travel within Europe should be cheaper and more attractive than flying.
We want to quickly implement a Germany Pact
and build a Europe Pact.
To this end, we will invest in the expansion and new construction of the rail network, in noise abatement and in the expansion and enhancement of the attractiveness of rail stations.
Our goal is to reconnect all major cities to the long-distance network
and establish new fast train and night train connections to our neighboring countries.
Above all, we will improve the attractiveness of local transport by investing in the service and quality of trains and buses and by reactivating old rail lines.
We will enable tighter, reliable intervals, more comfortable trains with nationwide wi-fi and a seat reservation option.
We want to electrify at least 75 percent of the rail network by 2030,
Further digitize the railways
and support mandatory uses for non-electrified lines, such as the use of hydrogen-powered trains.
For us, Deutsche Bahn AG is a guarantor of reliable mobility.
We will maintain it as an integrated group under public ownership.
We are ensuring fairness on the market for mobility services by committing to collective bargaining, transferring personnel for all employees when operators change and guaranteeing good working conditions in public procurement law.
We want Deutsche Bahn AG to concentrate on its core business of transporting passengers and goods by rail and to focus on public welfare-oriented goals.
We want to expand and modernize rail freight transport.
We will invest in the renewal and digitization of locomotives and rail cars.
We will reduce the cost disadvantages of rail compared with road in parallel with the capacity expansion in rail freight transport.
We will make greater use of the potential of our waterways to shift more freight traffic from trucks to environmentally friendly inland shipping.
The future belongs to electric drives.
We want to actively shape this development so that the automotive industry remains the leading industry
and the future of the many small and medium-sized suppliers and their jobs is secured.
We want to massively advance the electrification of transport.
By 2030, at least 15 million passenger cars in Germany should be fully electric.
We will make Germany a center for battery cell production and recycling of used batteries.
The hydrogen fuel cell will also play an important role in heavy-duty transport.
We will support further research on this.
We support the automotive supply industry in the conversion of its production processes and the development of new business areas.
Together with social partners and local stakeholders, we will build regional transformation clusters to create new, skilled and well-paid employment in the regions.
We make refueling with electricity as easy as refueling with gasoline and diesel in the past.
We want to evaluate progress in the expansion of charging stations for electric cars on a quarterly basis and, where necessary, establish the necessary reliable accessibility of charging points with supply requirements and government expansion.
We will introduce a speed limit of 130 km/h on federal highways.
This protects the environment
and significantly reduces the number of accidents.
In addition, we will drive forward research, development and pilot projects so that ships, aircraft and trucks no longer emit climate-damaging CO2.
We combine this with projects to build an environmentally friendly hydrogen economy.
2.3 Future Mission III.
Digital sovereignty in Germany and Europe
By 2030, Germany should have a world-class digital infrastructure,
a fully and end-to-end digitized administration,
and an education system in which people can learn to live in a digital world.
The self-determination and digital maturity of citizens is our guiding principle,
so that digitization can benefit everyone.
Fast, secure and affordable Internet access is essential in the 21st century.
Germany must become a "gigabit society" in the 2020s.
Medium-sized companies in rural areas in particular, which often operate globally, are dependent on fast Internet in order to remain competitive.
To keep this promise, we will guarantee the provision of bandwidth of at least one gigabit per second to all households and businesses - through concrete, legally defined expansion and coverage obligations and corresponding interim targets.
The network operators also have a responsibility here.
Our goal is a modern, citizen-centric state that offers all citizens easy, digital access to its services.
We will therefore expand the obligation of the federal, state and local governments to provide digital administrative services so that all administrative services are also available digitally as quickly as possible.
Every citizen should have the opportunity to use these services voluntarily and in compliance with data protection laws with a digital identity without additional costs and extra devices.
Anyone who is entitled to a benefit must - if possible - receive it automatically, without having to apply for it, or be able to apply for it in a simple 'one-click' form.
Citizens should be able to assign and delete authorizations themselves, based on the model of a digital life chain, and thus control who accesses their data and when.
Publicly funded software should, where possible, be transparently developed as open source and made publicly available.
We are pursuing the goal of ensuring that all schools in Germany have first-class facilities.
Each student must have a digital device and access to the Internet.
With the DigitalPakt Schule (Digital Pact for Schools) and the economic stimulus package, the federal and state governments have already taken a major step toward making teaching materials digitally free.
We will continue to invest here and set up a federal modernization program that covers both the renovation needs of school buildings and digital equipment.
We will ensure that simple, unbureaucratic implementation of basic digital equipment is possible for all schools.
We will place a special emphasis on all-day schooling.
In addition to infrastructure, we also need better coordination of the teaching itself.
We need teaching and learning materials for inclusive, holistic education.
An open-source platform, which has already been commissioned and financed by the Digital Pact, is to make teaching and learning materials and teaching concepts accessible to all across the Länder in the future: open, decentralized, secure and networked.
Promoting the media skills of children and young people is a key objective here.
What is also needed is a system that checks and ensures the quality of the media posted on such open platforms.
We will support the development of privacy-compliant intelligent teaching and learning software.
Our goal is to individualize teaching and learning processes, to
support students in the best possible way, to
train and relieve teachers and to
improve internal differentiation in (digital) lessons.
Teacher education and training is a key to digital schooling.
We will therefore establish and support nationwide networked competence centers for digital teaching and learning.
For us, digital learning is also personality development and the promotion of social skills.
That is why we will include the pedagogical, strength-based approach of child and youth welfare as
well as early childhood education and
launch a digital pact, also for child and youth welfare.
Digitization must not divide society.
Access to the network must be affordable.
We will therefore create a social tariff for network access for low-income citizens, schoolchildren and students.
Digital participation includes accessibility.
All citizens should be empowered with digital self-determination.
We need a right to digital education and training for all generations.
Adult education centers in particular are ideal places to provide digital education for all citizens - cost-effectively, barrier-free, and inclusively.
We will support the adult education centers in their development with a federal funding program.
We welcome the ideas for a European media platform that makes the quality content of Europe's public service media accessible to all citizens across borders.
This platform will subsequently also be accessible for partnerships with museums and other cultural institutions.
We also welcome the increased publication of content under open and free licenses to make it easier to use the content, for example in the context of free knowledge projects (Wikipedia) or also in school lessons.
We stand up for the digital sovereignty of citizens and consumers.
Where global platform corporations become monopolists, they threaten digital diversity and tend to circumvent nation-state rules.
Together with the EU member states, we will therefore create strong and precise regulation,
safeguard competition
and promote alternative offerings.
More offerings with high data sovereignty are needed.
There must be alternatives to the major platforms - with real opportunities for local providers.
User data must be protected
and users must be able to decide what happens to their data.
Too much market power of individuals harms competition and ultimately consumers.
We want to stay ahead of developments in the market and create a preventive and proactive competition and antitrust law.
We will increasingly integrate preventive controls into antitrust law.
In addition, we will develop further, new European instruments to tame or, if necessary, unbundle the overpowering platforms.
A fundamental requirement for this is the preservation of net neutrality, which we will stand up for.
It must be possible to communicate or switch between different messenger services, social networks and digital services and platforms.
We will make this interoperability a legal requirement.
We need self-determined development and production of the necessary components and parts in Europe so that US and Chinese manufacturers are not the only ones to decide on the success and network security of digital infrastructures in Europe.
To achieve this, we want a joint effort in Europe to build up a joint European development and production of such components strategically and in the long term.
We are committed to providing targeted and coordinated support for the German and European digital economy at all technology levels and along the entire value chains: from semiconductor manufacturing and quantum technology to the cloud, artificial intelligence and edge computing, cyber security, secure and trustworthy hardware and software, as well as network technology and data-based business models.
Open source-based models are of great importance for European companies.
We are committed to a European cloud infrastructure.
Data should be harnessed for public benefit-oriented digital services and innovations and
not just be available to a few big data monopolists.
We will create a data law that focuses on the common good.
To do this, we will promote a trusted data-sharing infrastructure and establish public data trustees, while ensuring that large corporations are required to share their data for public good purposes.
It must not be possible to draw conclusions about individual persons.
Where the public sector awards contracts, it must be able to insist that the data collected as part of the contract flows back to it.
We encourage the development of anonymization techniques
and advocate for punitive bans on de-anonymization.
The state must lead by example in data sharing and enable broad data access in the spirit of open data.
We will support the authorities in implementing this.
Online commerce and the platform economy are changing commerce dramatically.
To ensure that not only the large digital corporations benefit, we will promote platforms for regional trade and services.
Local retailers must not be allowed to fall behind online retailers in terms of taxation.
That is why we have ensured that digital trading platforms are held liable if traders who transact business via the platform do not pay VAT.
We will continue to take consistent action against tax fraud in online commerce.
We will press ahead with measures to combat wage, social and environmental dumping.
Every day we get things suggested by algorithms: new songs, sneakers, or routes from A to B.
Self-learning systems and algorithms make decisions for large numbers of people.
They can make our lives and everyday life easier.
But they must be transparent
and non-discriminatory.
The objective of an algorithmic decision must be clearly and verifiably defined.
For this, we need stringent regulation and supervision.
Cybersecurity is the foundation for successful digitization.
We will strengthen the Federal Office for Information Security as a central, independent and exclusively preventive cybersecurity authority
and expand encryption research.
We want to oblige manufacturers to design software products, digital services and technical devices in such a way that they are secure (security by design) and that they select the most secure variant in the default settings (security by default).
Digital backdoors should not be kept open.
We will protect the right to informational self-determination.
The General Data Protection Regulation is an important milestone and must be improved in its enforcement in a practical way.
We therefore need well-equipped, effective data protection supervisory authorities.
Privacy and data protection create trust and secure individual and collective freedom.
The Federal Constitutional Court has ruled that "the citizens' perception of freedom" may not be "totally recorded and registered" by the sum of government surveillance measures.
We will create a permanent, regular and independent monitoring of the laws in the security sector.
The anonymous and pseudonymous use of the net protects many journalists and freedom fighters around the world from persecution and threats.
We are against a clear name requirement on the Internet
and continue to advocate the possibility of anonymous and pseudonymous use.
This is an important prerequisite for freedom of expression
and the best protection against discrimination.
Technically secure end-to-end encryption is a matter of course for us.
To protect our democracy
and the safety of individuals, we also need a consistent approach to hate crime, fraud and other criminal acts online.
Prosecution of crimes committed from or on the Internet requires law enforcement agencies that are adequately equipped in terms of technology and personnel.
If there are sufficient factual indications of a criminal offense, suspects must be able to be identified.
We will further develop the national protection provisions in the Criminal Code and Network Enforcement Act
and advocate binding regulations at European level (Digital Service Act).
However, in addition to legal requirements, civil commitment is also needed to restore respect between citizens in digital communication.
We pledge our support to organizations that are active against hate and incitement on the Internet.
2.4 Future Mission IV.
Update for health
The health sector needs renewed political attention and reform.
We need a clear mission statement for the coming decades.
Germany was considered the "pharmacy of the world" for decades.
The smartest researchers were found in German institutes, where they collected Nobel Prizes, and the undisputed world's best medical industry was built up in this country.
Germany supplied sick people all over the world with every conceivable remedy, from aspirin to vaccines against tuberculosis.
The Corona crisis made it clear that the migration of pharmaceutical production abroad and the resulting increase in dependence can lead to supply shortages or even supply bottlenecks.
Germany must once again use its innovative strength to find new therapeutic options.
The example of BioNtech has shown that the targeted promotion of innovations and new methods can be successful.
It also shows that the health care industry is not purely a market and that an active role for government can save lives.
We want a system that ensures the production, provision and distribution of necessary medicines and medical products in crisis situations.
We see it as our duty to ensure that the medicines that are developed here are not overpriced and in short supply in poorer countries.
One of our goals is to promote research into personalized medicine.
This must be accessible to all at affordable prices.
Customized products instead of "off the shelf" preparations are the beginning of a new healthcare economy and a new era of adaptive drug approval.
Personalized medicine is bringing about a change in the relationship between treatment and diagnostics.
In the future, there will be more products where a diagnostic test is offered with a drug as a unit.
These services must be available to all citizens
- we also need a guarantee for medicines.
Women, men and children have special health needs that must be addressed in their health care and prevention.
Yet health research, education, and health care practice are mostly oriented around data from white, male adult subjects- we're going to change that.
We will also promote programs in the areas of prevention and early detection of disease that take into account the specifics of different age groups and genders.
High-quality health care can best succeed by reorganizing the division of roles between the outpatient and inpatient sectors, overcoming sectoral boundaries, and ensuring good coordination and cooperation between the medical, psychotherapeutic, and nursing professions.
We therefore need hospitals to open up more to outpatient, team-based and interdisciplinary forms of care.
The Corona crisis has shown: Thepublic health service needs better framework conditions,
better equipment, also with a view to the digital infrastructure - hardware as well as software,
and competitive remuneration.
Then its most important socio-political task of supporting the economically weaker in health matters can also be better mastered.
We want to make more determined use of the potential of digitization to improve diagnoses and provide comprehensive healthcare.
Data is also becoming increasingly important in the healthcare sector.
Digitization can improve the quality of care and efficiency and relieve professionals of tasks.
We want to ensure data protection
and appropriate framework conditions so that the large platforms do not also dominate the healthcare industry.
For us, however, it is clear that digitization will not replace our outstanding and dedicated medical, psychotherapeutic and nursing staff.
There are always people behind good medical and psychotherapeutic care and nursing.
To ensure that everyone from nurses to physicians in private practice can master the digital transformation, comprehensive training and support services are essential.
We also want to give the highest priority to protecting patient data.
An efficient healthcare system needs stable and solidarity-based financing.
Tax subsidies and investment funds should be linked to clear targets for reforming the system.
We will introduce a citizens' insurance scheme.
This means: Equal access to medical care for all,
solidarity-based financing
and high quality of services.
Health is not a commodity, which is why our health care system must focus on the citizens.
The state must therefore ensure that health care services meet the needs of those who require them.
Good working conditions and reasonable wages in care are an important basis for this.
Professional nursing is a highly demanding profession.
Measures to overcome the staff shortage must not lead to the devaluation of nursing jobs.
We want to put an end to commercialization in the healthcare sector, because it has a negative impact on patient care
and the working conditions of employees.
Profits generated from the solidarity-based community should be returned to the healthcare system as far as possible.
We strengthen the municipalities in the establishment and operation of integrated medical care centers.
We will put the system of flat rates per case to the test, revise the flat rates and abolish them where necessary.
We will adequately fund the basic costs of hospitals and integrated medical care centers.
Public hospitals play a central role in strengthening the common good.
Flat rates per case do not meet the individual needs of children and adolescents.
As a result, children's hospitals outside metropolitan areas are not profitable and are closed.
That's why we will restructure funding for pediatric and adolescent medicine.
We will also strengthen outpatient and integrated psychotherapeutic care for children, adolescents and adults so that it is accessible to all at low thresholds and without long waiting times.
Overall, we will ensure basic funding for hospitals in line with demand,
the preservation of care including the expansion of integrated care centers in rural regions
, and integrated, better emergency care.
2.5.How we want to promote a sustainable economy
Many groundbreaking developments of the past decades would not have taken place without active and forward-looking policies.
Policymakers must describe the long lines and the direction and see themselves as drivers of innovation.
It must formulate the goals essential to competitiveness and sustainable employment on which to focus forces.
We need the state as a strategic investor, as a regulatory and creative force to meet the challenges of our time.
Government and administration must become drivers of innovation
and use their buying power.
Public-sector investment in important future fields is of central importance.
We will continue the high level of federal investment that we have achieved in this legislative period with at least EUR 50 billion per year
and also help to ensure that all levels of government participate with a high level of investment.
We will continue to support structurally weak regions through the Joint Task for the Improvement of Regional Economic Structures (GRW).
Local authorities are a key player in the investment process
- we must maintain and strengthen their investment power.
Ensuring equal living conditions also means that
social services must not be dependent on the financial capacity of the municipality.
To achieve this, we need strong municipalities that are able to act throughout the country.
In the wake of the Corona pandemic, we have already taken further steps to relieve municipalities of social spending.
One necessary step is to relieve particularly heavily indebted municipalities of one-time high levels of old debt.
In addition, we will solve the problem of old debts, especially of housing companies in eastern Germany.
In Germany, over 300 billion euros are currently transacted annually in public procurement.
As a major purchaser of products and services, the public sector in particular must assume responsibility.
We will align public procurement in a way that stimulates innovation
and serves the goals of social-ecological change.
To this end, the award criteria should focus more on innovation, collective bargaining agreements, gender equality and climate-friendly sustainability.
Product developments must be able to rely on the state as a buyer.
We need to get better at turning ideas into products and services and promoting start-ups.
In doing so, we will translate research findings more quickly and broadly into innovations and investments.
An important role is played by the Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW), which raises funds on the capital market and, together with the promotional banks of the federal states, directs them into strategically important sectors of the future, supports the socio-ecological transformation of the economy
and also promotes start-ups.
We will develop it into a modern innovation and investment agency.
We stand alongside the many companies that take their social, societal and environmental responsibilities seriously.
The skilled trades sector is the key partner in ensuring that the climate turnaround succeeds on the ground.
We will promote the skilled trades by abolishing fees for technician and master craftsman courses
and advocating collective bargaining in the skilled trades.
We support the skilled trades in their efforts to counter the shortage of skilled workers with new training concepts
and vocational training with schools and universities.
We promote and recognize the role of the skilled trades in training and integrating young people from all parts of the world.
Start-up companies are important growth engines for the economy.
We want to make Germany a leading start-up location in Europe,
thus creating high-quality jobs in the regions.
In order to encourage more start-ups and enable medium-sized companies to make sensible succession plans, we are focusing on three key points:
Organizational support such as one-stop agencies for founders,
easier access to capital through project funding as
well as public funds for venture capital
and a "culture of second chances", also in insolvency law.
We will specifically promote start-ups by women and in rural areas with our own programs.
We want to support companies for which the sense of their economic activity and the long-term existence of their company are more important than short-term profit.
To this end, we will develop a national strategy for the promotion of public welfare-oriented enterprises and social innovations.
We will improve the legal framework for public welfare-oriented business, such as cooperatives, social enterprises, integration enterprises and responsibly owned enterprises.
Decentralized structures already exist for promoting a socio-ecological and digital transformation of our economy - we want to bundle and further develop them into transformation centers as workshops of change, targeting established companies as well as social enterprises and non-exit-oriented start-ups, as well as employees, trade unions and civil society.
We will continue to show solidarity to those sectors of the economy that have suffered particular losses in the Corona pandemic for the benefit of everyone's health.
This is true for the cultural industry, as well as for the tourism industry, including the hotel and restaurant industry, which will be different after the pandemic than before.
Much more than before, the focus will be on domestic tourism.
This represents an opportunity to make this key sector of the economy sustainable, climate-conscious and modern.
2.6.How we keep science and research innovative and fit for the future
To remain innovative in the future, we will maintain and further develop the strengths of the German science system in all its breadth and diversity and its international orientation.
To this end, we are promoting future technologies such as quantum technology, artificial intelligence, alternative processes and hydrogen at many locations in the country.
We will draw up an overall plan to phase out animal experiments in the long term and provide greater support for the development of non-animal methods.
We will support universities and universities of applied sciences in advancing digitization,
promote innovation in good teaching,
and at the same time strengthen their importance in research policy, which radiates far into the respective regions.
In order to master current and future social challenges, we need not only technical but also cultural and social innovations.
We will therefore provide targeted support for research in the humanities, social sciences and cultural studies.
We are continuing to develop the Excellence Strategy and are
supplementing it with support for regional collaborations between universities and research institutions.
This will also help to ensure that the excellent research landscape that the eastern German states have built up over the past decades can continue to develop its potential for excellence, particularly with regard to research into innovative technologies.
Good science needs good working conditions.
We will advocate for reliable career paths and fewer temporary appointments in science.
We want doctoral students to be paid for their actual working hours, regardless of the subject.
The rule must be: 100 percent salary for 100 percent work.
We will ensure a much better work-life balance,
create new, permanent employment opportunities below the professorship level,
and expand the tenure track.
In recent years, we have already exceeded the target of three percent of GDP for public and private spending on research and development, and we want to increase this further to at least 3.5 percent.
To this end, we will increase innovation funding,
drive research into SME practice with partnership and cooperation funding,
and expand the funding and credit programs for SMEs in the area of environmental, climate and resource protection.
Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) will have low-threshold access to funding.
The exchange of scientific knowledge with society is of particular importance.
We will therefore make more funding available for open science and science communication.
To ensure that Europe can hold its own in international technological competition and maintain its sovereignty, we in the European Union will continue to move forward together in a united front.
We advocate a reorganized competition and state aid law that reduces competitive disadvantages vis-à-vis other major economic areas.
The socio-ecological transformation requires extensive investment in the climate-neutral restructuring of industrial value chains.
State aid law must enable the state to support the necessary capital investment in companies with public funds and in this way to preserve jobs.
2.7.How we want to finance our policy
The Corona pandemic has serious implications.
Also on public budgets.
While tax revenues have declined, government spending has increased.
A policy of austerity after the crisis would be a completely wrong path.
Those who pursue this path are putting our future at risk or want harsh cuts in the welfare state.
We stand for a financial and budgetary policy that finances the major investments of the future and thus creates sustainable jobs,
enables climate-neutral growth
and strengthens social cohesion.
That is why we are committed to securing funding for the priorities set out in this program for the future.
To this end, we will use the constitutionally possible scope for borrowing.
The fair distribution of income and wealth is a basic prerequisite for the cohesion of our society.
The extremely unequal distribution of income and wealth is not only questionable from a sociopolitical point of view, it is also economically unreasonable.
The high and growing concentration of wealth among a few high-net-worth individuals prevents sustainable growth and squanders valuable potential.
We will enforce tax justice
- tax evasion is not a trivial offense.
We will take consistent action against tax evasion, tax avoidance and tax fraud.
We have made cross-border tax structuring models subject to mandatory reporting and will introduce a national reporting requirement.
We will end the evasion of real estate transfer tax (share deals).
VAT fraud in carousel transactions at the European level must be stopped.
Public transparency is a good way to hold companies accountable.
We will curb tax avoidance with public reporting by large, internationally active companies (public country-by-country reporting).
We will make the taxation of income fairer.
The current tax system takes too much of a toll on middle incomes in particular.
The financial burdens of crisis management must not lead to an additional tax burden for the vast majority of citizens, who are already under great strain.
On the contrary, we want to lower taxes for the majority.
We will carry out an income tax reform that improves small and medium incomes, strengthens purchasing power and, in return, makes greater use of the top five percent to finance important public tasks.
For those who earn particularly much, we are also maintaining the three percentage point surcharge on income tax.
In the future, it is to apply to the taxable income portion above 500,000 euros per year for married persons and from 250,000 euros per year for single persons.
We want to regularly adjust the assessment threshold for levying contributions to statutory health, long-term care, pension and unemployment insurance.
We have abolished the solidarity surcharge for the vast majority of citizens.
We will continue to need the revenues from the remaining solidarity surcharge, which is only paid by the highest earners.
It is a just contribution to a stable community that benefits everyone.
Current tax law promotes the traditional division of labor between men and women.
We will change this and gear tax law more to partnership
and distribute the tax burden fairly between spouses with different incomes.
Marital splitting no longer reflects social reality and excludes many households with children from the tax benefit granted.
Instead, the main beneficiaries are single-earner couples with high incomes, regardless of the number of children.
We will change the spousal splitting system for newly married couples.
The vast majority of households with children will be financially better off as a result of the basic child allowance.
Normal earners even without children will not suffer any losses.
We will also introduce a right to vote for existing marriages.
We will limit the tax deductibility of managers' salaries to 15 times the average income of employees in the company where the manager is employed.
Until now, the rule for eligible expenses such as donations has been: The higher the income, the higher the tax refund.
In the future, everyone is to receive a tax reduction independent of income.
We want to reinstate the wealth tax, also to improve the financial strength of the states for important future tasks.
Those who have a great deal of wealth must make a greater contribution to the financing of our community.
That is why, among other things, we will introduce a moderate, uniform tax rate of one percent for very high wealth.
At the same time, there will be high personal allowances, so that the tax burden will be concentrated on particularly wealthy sections of the population.
We ensure that no jobs are jeopardized with the wealth tax.
The basis of businesses is spared in property tax.
The inheritance tax is in need of reform.
In its current form, it is unfair because it favors wealthy corporate heirs.
With effective minimum taxation, we will abolish the over-privileging of large business assets.
We will also introduce minimum taxation for asset-holding family foundations.
We will introduce a financial transaction tax,
if possible in line with our European partners.
At the same time, we will conclude the international negotiations on the introduction of effective minimum taxation and fair taxation of so-called digital companies, which we played a key role in supporting, and implement them in Germany and Europe.
Google, Amazon, Facebook and other large digital companies must make an appropriate contribution to funding the community.
We need an efficient, secure and fair financial market in order to make the transition to a digital world.
and sustainable economy.
It must be properly regulated and monitored.
We will ensure that financing services are offered to consumers* in a cost-effective manner
and encourage investment in sustainable, climate-friendly products and production processes.
For small investors in particular, it is important to have confidence in the functionality and security of financial market players and financial products that they can receive independent advice that is oriented to their interests.
We will better help over-indebted individuals out of a financial hardship that they cannot overcome on their own.
We will strengthen debt counseling.
The best way to avoid overindebtedness from the outset is to expand the range of preventive counseling options.
In order to make Germany a driver of sustainable transformation of the financial and real economy in line with the Paris climate protection targets, we will issue even more sustainable government bonds in future and work towards further financial products certified as sustainable.
The aim is to channel private capital flows into the establishment and expansion of sustainable economic structures.
Competition in the financial sector should be preserved
and banking regulation must have the effect that state bailouts for individual banks are not necessary.
We support the EU Commission in paying attention to this within the framework of European merger control.
We have ensured that the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) is given stronger supervisory powers.
We have made it possible for BaFin to review the annual financial statements of the companies directly.
It can now carry out sovereign audits, as annual financial statements are the most important source of information for investors and consumers.
We have also tightened and regulated the supervision of auditors so that they have to be changed more frequently than before.
In addition, we advocate that BaFin be given more competencies in money laundering supervision, including for large companies, beyond its current supervisory responsibilities.
Dirty money must not find a home in Germany.
Customs, along with the police, is an important institution in the fight against money laundering and crime.
We will further strengthen the competencies of customs and
effectively support the staffing and equipment associated with their performance of duties in the area of illegal employment and undeclared work, organized crime, money laundering.
We reject the privatization of currencies.
This also applies to private digital currencies, which are kept artificially stable in their value (stablecoins).
2.8.How we want to govern
We want to govern in a more forward-looking, effective, agile and sustainable way
, daring more transparency, more participation, more democracy.
Our federal structure is one of our democratic strengths.
The future is being negotiated at the federal, state, city, county and local levels.
At the same time, the great challenge is to pursue common goals for our future.
We will therefore involve everyone who bears responsibility in the implementation of our major goals.
We want to overcome the silo thinking of political levels and departments and organize innovative government projects in platforms.
Thinking outside old patterns is called for.
We need a modernization offensive for the civil service
and better cooperation between administrations.
We want to involve scientific and economic expertise, associations and civil society in the development, implementation and evaluation of projects and
strengthen parliament in its monitoring function.
The democratic shaping of the digital transformation, which encompasses all areas of life, all social, economic and political fields and levels, is an example of conventional forms of organization being overwhelmed by the tasks of our time.
Sustainable governance involves communicating the implementation of government plans, projects and laws.
In addition, implementation must be ensured in the relevant administrative units, through sufficient staffing and appropriate training measures.
The principles of open government - transparency, participation and cooperation - guide our actions.
We will implement and further develop the National Action Plans as part of Germany's Open Government Partnership.
We will take up the experience gained with citizens' councils and make it our task to explore new ways of direct participation in government decision-making.
Systematic and early participation of citizens in government projects can shorten legal channels and speed up procedures.
We will further develop and expand the freedom of information law into an effective transparency law.
We will provide public data and information free of charge and without discrimination.
Through a legislative and executive footprint, we make visible the influence of lobbyists in draft legislation.
This makes decision-making processes comprehensible.
We will ensure that future members of parliament have to declare their income in euros and cents.
Similarly, we will tighten the disclosure requirements for corporate shareholdings and action options for members of
parliament and clearly regulate when a conflict of interest between parliamentary and business work exists and how it is to be resolved.
Respect for all means leaving no one behind
3.0.A society of respect
We stand for a society of respect.
A society in which we recognize each other, even if we are different in many ways.
A society where no one looks down on others
and where differences of opinion are dealt with fairly, civilly and on the basis of our democratic principles.
Where this respect is lacking, our society disintegrates.
Hate speech on the Internet is corroding our society.
This is the breeding ground for right-wing extremists.
Our policy aims to restore respect.
It respects the dignity of every job and every lifetime achievement.
It stands for equal participation and equal life chances for all.
It ensures equal living conditions in urban and rural areas.
It is consistently opposed to any form of discrimination, whether it be social origin, gender, migration biography, religion, disability or sexual orientation.
It stands for political and social civil rights.
But it also stands for duties.
This includes everyone abiding by laws.
3.1.value work
Our goal is full employment with fair wages.
Our answer to the changing world of work is a "right to work".
For us, this means that the solidarity community is committed to taking care of everyone
and enabling everyone to work and participate.
Because work changes, everyone should have every opportunity to develop themselves.
Work also means securing one's livelihood.
This is a fundamental need.
For themselves and the family.
You can only have this security if you can also plan for the long term: Finding a good apartment, paying the rent, giving your children a good education, securing your standard of living in old age.
That is why we are committed to fair wages.
We will simplify the possibility of declaring collective agreements to be generally binding so that they apply to all employees and employers in an industry.
Collective agreements must continue to apply even if companies are split up and outsourced.
We want as many companies as possible to participate in collective agreements.
Membership in employers' associations that are not bound by collective bargaining agreements is indecent.
We will push back on this practice.
A public contract may only be awarded to companies that pay according to the collective wage agreement.
To this end, we are creating a federal tariff loyalty law.
Better collective bargaining coverage is also an important prerequisite for achieving wage convergence between East and West Germany.
People who work all day must be able to live from their work without additional support.
That, too, is a matter of respect.
We will initially increase the statutory minimum wage to at least twelve euros
and expand the scope of the Minimum Wage Commission for future increases.
We will abolish fixed-term employment contracts without a material reason
and critically review the reasons accepted by law for a time limit.
Temporary workers will receive the same wages as permanent employees from day one.
The Corona crisis has once again shown that the social security of mini-jobs is inadequate.
Our goal is to include all employment relationships in social security.
There will be transitions for existing employment relationships and exceptions for certain groups such as pensioners.
In order to increase the net income of low earners, we are raising the sliding zone of midi jobs to 1,600 euros.
In this zone, employees pay lower contributions without having a lower pension entitlement as a result.
We will make access to bridge part-time work possible for more employees.
Corona has shined a spotlight on how wide the gap is between value and pay for some professions.
This includes the social service professions.
It deserves great recognition that more and more young people can imagine taking up social professions, girls as well as boys - these are professions with meaning and a future.
This is where most of the jobs are created.
Enormous and socially valuable work is done in nursing.
We want to quickly improve pay and working conditions in care for the elderly and people with disabilities.
Our goals are generally binding sectoral collective agreements.
We will pursue further increases in minimum wages through the Minimum Nursing Wage Commission.
Together with the churches, we want to work out a way to bring their labor law into line with general labor and collective bargaining law and the works constitution.
We have ensured that care providers who pay according to tariffs also have them refinanced by the care insurance scheme.
Now, conversely, we will tie the refinancing of care services to the validity of collective agreements.
There is a huge staffing shortage in hospitals and nursing facilities.
For us, upgrading social work also means reducing the workload and stress levels.
We will therefore advance the proposal for a new, nationwide and uniform staffing framework.
Nurses must be able to develop professionally.
Work with children and young people is also carried out by well-trained professionals.
Educators, teachers, social pedagogues and youth welfare workers do their work with great commitment and passion, but there is also a lack of staff here.
We will support the states in the further expansion of daycare centers, all-day care at schools and youth facilities with targeted impulses for securing skilled workers.
Our goal is to double the number of young people in the educational professions nationwide by 2030.
To this end, we will create an attractive, remunerated and tuition-free training program, ensure more training capacity at technical colleges and in social work and childhood education degree programs, create more career options for professionals, and strive for employment relationships that allow for independent livelihoods.
The crisis has shown how indispensable and important functioning postal and parcel services are for the provision of public services in Germany.
Working conditions in this industry are often poor.
There are many unsecured employment relationships due to bogus self-employment and subcontracting.
We will prevent Deutsche Post from being broken up and completely privatized
and eliminate unfair competitive advantages for digital corporations in this area as well.
We will align the industry socially and ecologically.
The success of companies is earned by their employees.
That is why we are improving their co-determination.
We will extend it to companies with a foreign legal form.
We will expand the scope of co-determination by lowering the thresholds for company sizes.
Decisions to relocate or close operating sites should not be taken over the heads of the employees.
That is why we are strengthening the influence of employees through true parity on supervisory boards.
The new technological possibilities offer the opportunity to improve working conditions in companies and businesses, reduce stress and broaden the scope of action for working people.
In the digitization of companies, the workforce must be involved at eye level.
The last major reform of the Works Constitution was 20 years ago and needs an update.
Our goals: More genuine co-determination rights in employee protection and operational changes, in the use of temporary work and work contracts, in the use of new technologies and working methods such as artificial intelligence (AI), in staffing levels to eliminate overloads and in company training as a key prerequisite for successful change.
We will extend the protection against dismissal for works council members
and pursue obstruction of works council work more vigorously.
With digitalization, work is increasingly being done regardless of location or organized via platforms.
Here, too, employees' rights must remain undiminished and effective.
Trade unions are to be given digital access rights to the "virtual" company.
Employees on platforms should be able to join together to negotiate basic terms and conditions of their employment with the platforms.
We want employee status to be easier to clarify.
We will establish a right of action for trade unions
and introduce an Employee Data Protection Act.
The Corona crisis has turned parts of the working world upside down, and the home office has gained in importance.
A desk at home and video conferencing instead of face-to-face meetings were unfamiliar at first, but have since become part of everyday life and routine for many citizens.
We will introduce a legal right to mobile work.
In principle, employees working a five-day week should be able to work mobile or in a home office at least 24 days a year, if the job permits.
It is clear that this must not degenerate into round-the-clock working - working and rest times must also apply in the home office, working time must be recorded in full every day
, and there needs to be a right to non-availability times,
technical equipment
and good accident insurance protection.
In order to promote company regulations on mobile work, we are creating a right of co-determination for the introduction and design of mobile work.
The principle of voluntary mobile work for employees is a prerequisite for us.
We ensure that everyone benefits from the transformation of the world of work.
This includes ensuring that working hours fit in better with life and that people have more self-determined time - for family, social commitment and further education, for example.
We will preserve the protective function of the Working Hours Act.
We exclude an extension of the daily working hours.
If work should become less due to productivity gains, everyone must benefit.
Wherever trade unions fight for the reduction of working hours in order to enable more self-determined time or to secure employment, we stand by their side.
For many people, self-employment is an attractive form of gainful employment.
Entrepreneurship fosters much-needed innovation.
We create a climate that positively welcomes and supports independence.
This includes eliminating obvious protection gaps for small self-employed and creative workers and improving their social security.
The Corona crisis has shown us more clearly than ever how quickly we can get into difficulties through no fault of our own and how quickly reserves can be depleted.
We will therefore provide better protection for the self-employed, including many artists, authors, painters, translators and developers.
To this end, we will improve coverage in artists' social insurance as well as in pension, health and unemployment insurance.
Switching between employment subject to compulsory insurance and self-employment is no longer an exception.
Anyone who dares to try something new needs security.
The existing voluntary continued insurance in the unemployment insurance system provides such a network.
We will improve access and create more security in case of need.
We will significantly simplify the regulations for permanent and non-permanent employees, for example in the film and theater sectors,
and strengthen and expand employment subject to social security contributions.
We will introduce a basic obligation to provide for old age
and gradually integrate the self-employed into the statutory pension scheme.
We have already cut the minimum health insurance contributions for the self-employed by more than half.
Our goal is income-based contributions like those paid by dependent employees.
We will also provide better protection for solo self-employed workers whose business model basically supports them, but where unforeseeable significant revenue losses, for example due to the short-term loss of clients, lead to emergency situations.
With a security allowance, we are creating a new way for the Federal Employment Agency to provide solidarity-based protection for the self-employed in emergency situations that go beyond fluctuations that are normal for the industry and season.
The security allowance is to be comparable to unemployment insurance benefits.
The security allowance, which is financed by contributions from the self-employed, takes precedence over benefits under the basic security allowance.
3.2.Increase career opportunities
We are committed to a training guarantee.
Young people starting their careers need a chance to enter the workforce.
They deserve respect just as much as those who dare to make a new start in their careers.
For us, placing young people in in-company training remains the top priority.
After all, dual training is a successful model that we want to strengthen in its entirety.
However, all companies, especially larger ones, must take more responsibility for creating enough apprenticeships.
We support the means of apportionments or funds, for example industry-related, where training is provided below the level required.
For all those without an in-company apprenticeship, we offer training closely related to the practical work in a vocational school or extracurricular training.
Switching to in-company training is a priority for us here at all times.
We will also continue on our path of dual-track training in the occupations of health, nursing and education.
Thus, they become free of charge
and the trainees receive remuneration.
We will also strengthen dual academic training paths and thus the importance of professionalism in these occupational fields,
ensure quality
and open up career options for employees.
We will strengthen the vocational school as a place of learning,
especially in rural areas and in structurally weak regions.
To this end, we are concluding a pact for vocational schools between the federal government, the states and the school authorities together with the social partners.
The focus here is on modernizing technical equipment
and improving the security of the next generation of teachers.
In order to better dovetail vocational and academic education, we will better promote dual studies.
We are continuing along the path of fee exemption for upgrading training.
Our work is in a state of flux.
Due to technological developments, some job descriptions are now a thing of the past or will disappear or change in the near future.
At the same time, new job profiles are emerging that promise a bright future.
To ensure that everyone can take advantage of the opportunities this offers, we are focusing our attention on continuing education.
We want to develop unemployment insurance into a solidarity-based employment insurance scheme.
It is not intended to come on the scene when unemployment occurs, but to help prevent it from occurring in the first place.
We are therefore transforming the Federal Employment Agency into the Federal Agency for Employment and Qualification, which will ensure a high-quality and individualized advisory service.
We will introduce an entitlement to qualification that takes effect after only three months without new gainful employment (unemployment benefit Q).
In this way, we keep the backs of those affected free so that they can concentrate on what is important: Finding new work to stand on their own two feet again.
We create a right to further education and a new start in professional life at all stages of life.
Each individual is supported in the upcoming changes.
We will create a right that makes it possible for employees over 40 to learn a completely new profession.
With our model of subsidized educational leave and part-time educational leave, we will make it possible for all employed persons to continue their education or retrain during the course of their working lives on their own initiative and with state support, independently of the company.
Those who apply for educational leave or part-time educational leave are granted the right to take time off from their job or to reduce their working hours.
We will structure the training periods with financial support that adequately compensates for wage losses during further training or retraining - and long enough to acquire recognized qualifications.
With regard to the costs of the training measure, we will support those who are unable to raise the funds out of their own pockets, or who are unable to raise them in full.
With a transformation short-time allowance, we support the qualification of employees in companies that need to reorient themselves.
In addition to individual further training support,
we want to provide greater support for employee transfer options when operational restructuring or plant closures are unavoidable.
The Federal Training Assistance Act (BAföG) is to reach more young adults again in the future.
To this end, we are expanding the funding entitlements and aiming for a gradual return to full subsidies.
The new child benefit is a basic coverage for everyone up to the age of 25.
It makes BAföG more independent of parents.
At the same time, we will better coordinate BAföG and Aufstiegs BAföG and merge them in the future.
As a first step, we will abolish the age limits in BAföG.
And we need a new start BAföG that also opens up new career paths in adulthood and adequately secures livelihoods.
It is already possible for employees to save the hours they have worked in long-term accounts.
However, there is no legal entitlement to this so far and only a small proportion of companies and employees use long-term accounts.
We will further develop the tool into a personal time account in order to create additional individual design options along the life course.
The basis of such a time account is time contributions by employees - in this way, overtime is not lost, but is transformed into a time credit that can be topped up by collective agreement or by the state according to the principle of an opportunity account.
3.3.Extend solidarity
Our welfare state is the guarantor that everyone must be able to rely on to
keep our society together.
It is built on social rights and duties.
Citizens do not face him as supplicants.
We will facilitate access to unemployment benefits.
In particular, we are focusing on new forms of employment and interrupted employment biographies.
We want to take greater account of lifetime achievements.
Those who have paid into the system for longer should also receive unemployment benefit I for longer in the future.
For citizens who, despite the best support, have no prospects on the primary labor market, we have introduced the social labor market.
It paves the way for those who have been affected by unemployment for many years to enter regular employment subject to social insurance contributions.
It has been proven to create meaningful and socially secure activities.
We will expand and further develop the social labor market.
We will continue to support employers with wage subsidies who hire long-term unemployed persons on a social security basis.
We will fundamentally overhaul the basic benefit system and develop it into a citizen's income.
Our citizen's income stands for a new understanding of a welfare state that provides support and is close to its citizens.
The citizen's income should be accessible digitally and in an uncomplicated way.
Notices and correspondence should speak an understandable language.
The standard rates in the new citizen's income must be sufficient for a life in dignity and enable people to participate in society.
The citizen's income must ensure that a broken washing machine or a new winter jacket does not become an unbearable burden.
We will further develop the criteria for determining the standard rate and involve those affected and social welfare associations.
The goal must be to jointly conquer the needy living situation
and to provide employment and, if necessary, qualification and further training for all.
We focus on comprehensive and tailored support that takes the entire community of need into account - on quality and good networks rather than purely on the logic of key figures.
We will continue to improve the legal, personnel and financial framework so that the job centers and their employees can fulfill this mandate.
We are creating the right to funding when catching up on a vocational qualification
and are introducing a continuing education bonus that noticeably expands the financial scope.
We have largely suspended asset testing due to the Corona pandemic.
You no longer run the risk of having to move out of your home.
This allows the authorities and those affected to focus all their energy on a meaningful return to employment in the first few months.
The good experience from these temporary measures has confirmed our decision to ensure that in the future, too, assets and apartment size will not be reviewed within the first two years
and that the sheltered assets will be increased.
The Citizen's Income includes obligations to cooperate, but consistently relies on assistance and encouragement.
Integration agreements are replaced by a joint participation agreement drawn up on an equal footing.
In implementing them, we rely on empowerment and encouragement rather than on specifications and coercion.
We are abolishing senseless and undignified sanctions.
The socioeconomic and sociocultural subsistence level must be secured at all times.
The benefits of the welfare state are social rights - those who need them should not have to look far.
Our goal is to make services accessible without hurdles and detours.
We want a citizen service that provides advice according to life situations and makes all services available from a single source.
It is digital and outreach where the road is too arduous.
A responsive welfare state helps people to assert their legal rights and also provides advice and support in all subsequent steps.
We will support employees in working healthily until retirement age.
In addition to continuing education, preventive health care is of central importance.
To this end, we want to bundle the activities of the various social insurance schemes for companies and employees.
The spiritual well-being of all citizens is as important as material care.
It was not only the Corona pandemic that made loneliness clearly visible as a major social challenge.
We will counteract it at the various levels.
3.4.Secure age
A good and reliable pension must be secure for all working people after many years of work.
It is about respect and appreciation of work and about creating a good independent security in old age with one's own work and not losing considerably from the acquired standard of living.
For us, the central basis for this remains the statutory pension insurance with its reliable benefits and solidarity-based financing.
We want to strengthen the statutory pension and stand for a permanently stable pension benefit and a permanent pension level of at least 48 percent.
Should further scope arise, we will make use of it.
Work must not lose its value in old age.
In parliament and government, we have successfully campaigned for the basic pension.
It is progress and protects many people who have worked for decades for low wages from the risk of being poor in old age.
Time and again, employers and conservative forces demand that people work even longer for a good pension.
We reject a further increase in the statutory retirement age because it means a pension cut for many who cannot work longer and is unfair.
We will retain the statutory entitlement to retire without deductions before reaching the standard retirement age for those with particularly long years of service.
For us, solidarity in old-age provision also means that the self-employed, civil servants, freelancers and elected officials should also be covered by the statutory pension scheme.
It is time to include the entire working population in the pension insurance system and to overcome the special systems in the long term.
If the pension scheme for civil servants is merged with the statutory pension scheme, the overall level of their old-age provision will not be reduced.
It must not be the case that someone falls into poverty because of health impairments.
We will therefore reduce the poverty risks among today's pensioners with reduced earning capacity and achieve improvements for them.
We want a gender-equitable pension.
We will treat different working hours and family-related activities more fairly when it comes to pensions.
Long-term care for parents, in-laws or other family members must no longer have a negative impact on pensions and mean one's own poverty in old age.
Here we need more solidarity and respect for this difficult task.
We have made it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises to enter into company pension schemes for their employees.
Our goal is to ensure that significantly more employees are covered by a company pension scheme.
Collectively agreed forms of retirement provision should be given preference.
We also advocate the complete abolition of full contributions and double contributions to company pensions in statutory health insurance.
We want to give all those insured under the statutory scheme the additional option of taking out supplementary voluntary insurance in the statutory pension scheme to a reasonable extent.
Supplementary private pension provision is not a substitute for the statutory pension.
The results of the Riester pension so far are not satisfactory.
We therefore want to reduce bureaucratic obstacles and cut costs for traditional private pension plans.
In order to provide citizens with an attractive private pension plan, we advocate for a new standardized offering that is cost-effective, digital and cross-border, and (following the Swedish model) also offered by a public institution.
We will limit subsidies for new contracts in the form of grants to lower and middle income groups.
3.5.Standing up for each other
A society of respect is also measured by the way it treats its citizens, who depend on others and need to be cared for.
We have already ensured that relatives with an income of less than 100,000 euros per year will no longer be liable for care costs.
This way, parents no longer have to worry about their children having to pay for their care later on.
We want full insurance as a citizen's insurance that covers all care needs and benefits.
For us, a first step in this direction is to cap the co-payment for those in need of care with small and medium incomes so that care remains affordable for them.
Future cost increases will be financed on a solidarity basis by a mix of moderately rising long-term care insurance contributions and a dynamic federal subsidy.
The care infrastructure must be expanded to meet demand.
For us, it is also important that states, counties and municipalities are given more opportunities to decide where and in which ownership homes are built.
In order to guarantee their mandate to ensure safety, they must be involved much more intensively in the decision-making process.
When care is needed, many want to stay in their own homes.
In the process, they often rely on 24-hour care.
This creates a lot of legal uncertainty about mutual obligations and rights.
We will provide legal clarity in care and assistance in everyday life.
We will pay particular attention to rural areas.
We will create service centers (DLZ) in small towns and communities as part of a model federal project, where medical and household services will be arranged.
Furthermore, the DLZs identify missing offers and create remedies in cooperation with the social labor market and existing providers.
By providing special support for household-related services, we will improve the compatibility of family and career, help the elderly to live in their own homes for as long as possible, combat undeclared work, and give people who have so far worked in private households without social insurance coverage in the event of an accident at work or illness.
This support should be oriented in such a way that low-income earners can also take advantage of it.
3.6.Affordable housing
Finding an apartment is becoming an ever greater challenge in many locations - even with a medium income.
We will preserve affordable housing and create new housing.
To this end, we will bring all stakeholders to the table.
Municipal housing companies and cooperatives, but also private housing companies and landlords who are committed to socially responsible leasing, should be involved, as should the construction industry and the trade unions.
There is a shared responsibility of all parties involved, especially for the necessary new construction as well as neighborhood development and climate protection.
New construction of 100,000 social housing units per year is still required.
In addition, we are introducing a new housing non-profit and thus promoting an additional non-profit segment on the housing market.
In tight residential areas, we will also introduce a temporary moratorium on rents, which means that
rents can only be increased in line with the rate of inflation for a certain period of time.
We will effectively prevent rent-seeking.
We will also remove time limits on the rent brake and close loopholes.
We want to develop the instrument of the qualified rent index nationwide according to uniform and thus legally secure criteria and strengthen its importance.
Rent indices must not be mere new rent indices.
In future, therefore, we will use at least the contractually agreed rents for the past eight years in drawing them up.
Our land policy is guided by the common good.
The federal, state and local governments should secure and increase public ownership of land in order to stop speculation with land.
To this end, the right of first refusal for municipalities at fair prices is important.
We will help to ensure that municipal housing land is not sold off,
land is reacquired
and public building land is only made available for housing construction by way of ground leases.
The creation of land funds involving federally owned land gives municipalities an instrument for sustainable urban development
and affordable housing construction.
The federal government's real estate policy will continue to be geared towards urban development priorities in the future
and support the creation of affordable housing in local communities.
We will abolish the tax exemption for capital gains on non-owner-occupied land, which has so far applied after a ten-year period, and introduce a planning value adjustment to ensure that non-performing land value gains are passed on to the general public.
In order to curb speculation with housing, we will make ownership structures transparent via a central real estate register.
Home ownership serves not only to provide housing, but also to secure assets and retirement.
To make it easier for young families in particular to buy their own homes, we will make it easier to purchase shares in cooperatives in tight residential areas.
We will promote lease-purchase models and launch a "Young-Buy-Old" program for the acquisition of existing properties, especially in local centers affected by vacancies.
We as a society must provide sustainable help for people who have slipped into homelessness.
That's why we want to advance a nationwide implementation of Housing First concepts in cities and municipalities.
The very high success rates of these projects make it possible to return to one's own home and thus live in dignity.
The Corona pandemic is intensifying structural changes in our downtowns and neighborhood centers.
This applies to retail, restaurants and hotels as well as museums, theaters, libraries and cinemas.
We are safeguarding the urban development funding provided jointly with the federal states.
We support cities in keeping city centres lively and in being able to help shape necessary changes in use, for example through rent caps, tenant protection in the commercial real estate sector, concepts for the revitalization of locations and the promotion of co-working spaces in city centres.
We will pay particular attention to development in rural areas.
We will promote intergenerational, alternative and barrier-free forms of housing in cities and neighborhoods.
3.7.Growing up well
Children and youth need strong families.
They need love, attention and a lot of time together.
The future viability of our society depends on people choosing to have children and accompanying them as best they can on their way to an independent life.
Reconciling family work and career is still a daily balancing act for many - this is where parents need more support.
This is especially true if, in addition to raising children, there is also everyday help or care to be provided for elderly relatives.
In the crisis, it has once again become clear that care work is predominantly performed by women.
We advocate that families have more time for each other,
and that it becomes easier to share gainful employment and care work more equitably between all genders, and that
single parents are better supported.
We will introduce a four-pillar model for more family time.
The first pillar is two weeks of parental leave directly after the birth of a child, to which every father or partner is entitled on a short-term basis and with social security.
We will thus support families with children in their very first phase and create the conditions for a fairer sharing of care responsibilities.
The second pillar is family working time, with which we will expand the current partnership bonus in ElterngeldPlus into flexible, subsidized part-time parental leave after the first year of a child's life.
If both parents in couple families work at the same time or single parents work slightly less than full-time, they will each receive ten months of ElterngeldPlus in the future - a minimum of 200 and a maximum of 900 euros.
This benefit can be used as long as the entitlement to parental leave also applies, i.e. until the child's eighth birthday.
Because even beyond toddlerhood, parents need time for their children, be it when they start school, because a move is imminent, or because one child simply needs more support than others.
The third pillar is the permanent extension of pandemic-related increased child sick days to 20 days per child, year, and parent (as "parenting acute" benefits) - with a maximum of 45 days per parent for more than two children and 90 days for single parents.
Children's sick days were often too scarce even before Corona - especially for younger children, who often get sick in the early years of daycare.
In addition, it should also be possible in the future to organize other short-term care needs through the "Elterngeld akut" program.
Our family caregiver leave model is the fourth pillar.
Those who care for relatives should be supported in combining care with gainful employment.
This means: 15 months of entitlement to support (wage replacement) in the event of a reduction in working hours for each close relative from care level 2, divisible among several caregivers with a minimum working time of 15 to 20 hours.
It is important that companies specifically encourage men to use this model as well.
We will ensure that all children and young people, regardless of their background, have the same opportunities to make the most of their lives.
Every child should grow up well and secure and all young people should start well into adulthood.
Support for children and families in Germany is multifaceted.
But precisely where it is most needed, it often does not arrive.
We have therefore developed a concept of basic child security consisting of two central areas.
One is an infrastructure that enables equitable education and participation for all children.
It includes good, non-contributory daycare centers, all-day programs for schoolchildren, a social infrastructure for children and young people,
and free bus and rail travel on local public transport, as well as a right to mobility, especially for rural areas.
On the other hand, the basic child allowance consists of a new living allowance that is paid automatically and is graduated according to the family's income - the higher the need for support, the higher the child allowance.
In this way, we make life easier for families who have it particularly hard.
The basic monthly amount of this new child benefit will be around 250 euros.
The maximum amount will be based on the expenses of middle-income families for education and participation and will be at least twice as high as the basic amount.
The maximum amount includes the material subsistence minimum including a flat-rate housing allowance as well as education and participation costs.
The new child benefit thus replaces the child allowance and bundles previous benefits.
Young people in training are to be financially secured through direct, parent-independent payment of the new child benefit
- with an additional, adequate subsidy rate of BAföG on top.
We want to bundle assistance for children, young people and families affected by illness or disability.
Children, youth, young adults and parents must have easy access to support services.
Further steps are necessary for this.
The fight against educational disadvantage must be consistent across all systems.
Today, the first educational institution in a child's life is the daycare center.
That is why we will continue to expand early childhood education.
Without affordable housing options, many trainees and students cannot successfully complete their education.
We will expand them
and also make it possible for young people up to the age of 27 to live here in the future as part of the child and youth welfare program,
as well as creating more spaces for youth work.
In order to support professional orientation and personal development, the strengthening of voluntary commitment, every young person must have the opportunity to opt for a youth voluntary year after finishing school.
We will create a legal entitlement to funding for all voluntary service arrangements for under-27s, for example in the Voluntary Social Year or in international voluntary services.
We will relaunch the Voluntary Social Year Digital (FSJdigital).
Involvement in youth voluntary services must be possible for young people regardless of their social background.
To this end, there is to be a uniform nationwide volunteer allowance that, together with the new graduated child benefit, will provide young people with parental-independent security.
We will anchor strong children's rights to protection, participation and promotion and the primacy of the best interests of the child in the Basic Law.
We will lower the voting age for young people to 16.
Children and young people must be involved in political processes at all levels
and have a right to genuine participation in municipal youth welfare committees and state youth welfare committees, which must be enshrined in law in the municipal constitutions.
We want to finance youth associations and existing participation structures such as youth rings, children's and youth parliaments on a permanent and sustainable basis
and subject every new law to a youth check.
We will improve the co-determination opportunities of youth and trainee representatives (JAV) by extending their right of representation to all employees in training and making it easier to establish a JAV.
With a federal program called "Gemeindehaus 2.0," we will build on the network of multigenerational houses to bring together even more offerings under one roof: extracurricular education, sports, culture and youth work, networks for child protection, barrier-free digital infrastructure for all the children and young people they need for education and social participation.
Self-determined spaces for children and youth work must be maintained and expanded regardless.
We want to regulate advertising directed at children.
Kitas and schools must be an advertising-free space.
A good all-day program is crucial for equal opportunities
- and that must be available for all children.
All-day schools are places of learning and living where good opportunities are made possible and ensured for all.
School reaches every child, regardless of their background.
The legal entitlement to a full-day education and childcare program at primary school age is an important contribution to educational equity and
, moreover, for many parents the necessary next step in the reconciliation of family and career, which they are urgently waiting for.
More than 70 percent would like to see such a service for their children.
Restricting face-to-face instruction during the pandemic threatens to entrench the link between educational success and family background and reinforce educational disadvantage.
This is why we are launching the federal initiative Equal Opportunities in Education.
A federal program for school social work provides funding to local governments to support opportunity workers at each school.
The principle of equal living conditions is decisive for us in the further development of cooperation between the federal and state governments, so that children and young people from economically disadvantaged families are not left to fend for themselves.
The funds from the federal and state governments must be used where they are most urgently needed through the additional introduction of social criteria.
We want children and young people to grow up safely.
We will therefore better combine criminal law and prevention to effectively protect children and young people.
We need protection concepts with child protection officers for daycare centers, schools, youth welfare facilities and associations, among others, and will support this through federally funded pilot projects.
In addition, we will establish independent ombudsman offices.
We will create prevention chains and networks for children and adolescents of all ages, in which youth welfare and health services, educational and health institutions, public and voluntary organizations, sports clubs and associations, police and family courts cooperate on a binding basis at the municipal level.
Standards of protection for children and young people must also apply in the digital space, i.e. also in the protection of personal integrity, against sexual harassment and violence, developmental impairments and economic exploitation.
In order to keep the burdens on children and adolescents as low as possible, especially in child protection or family law proceedings, we advocate for a child-sensitive justice system.
3.8.Realize equality
In the great task of gender equality, much has been achieved in recent decades, though by no means everything.
The pandemic has once again shown the still unequal opportunities for women and men.
We want a decade of equality.
Equality between women and men is a task for society as a whole.
It is a cross-sectional task that must permeate all areas: Family policy, labor market policy, social policy, education and legal policy - but also budgetary and financial policy.
This includes gender-equitable budget management.
We want to achieve equality between men and women in all areas of society by 2030.
To this end, we will further develop the federal government's gender equality strategy into a binding roadmap with concrete and effective measures for all policy areas.
And we are fighting for the implementation of the EU Equality Strategy, the unblocking of Women on Board and the Paytransparency Directive in the EU.
Equality is also a matter of political representation.
That's why we advocate for parity laws for the Bundestag, states and municipalities so that all genders participate equally in political decision-making.
The principle of equal pay for equal work of equal value must apply.
We have ensured by law that employees have a right to information from their employer so that they can find out whether other colleagues who do the same work are paid more.
But that is not enough.
We will further develop the Pay Transparency Act so that it obliges companies and administrations to review wages and salaries in terms of gender equality and to establish procedures to eliminate inequality in pay without those affected having to deal with it themselves.
We will also push for a corresponding regulation at European level.
Successful business requires gender-parity and culturally diverse work teams.
Of course, this also applies at the top of the company.
We have so far introduced a quota for supervisory boards and regulated that at least one woman must be represented on the boards of larger listed companies and large companies with equal codetermination.
We want there to be as many women as men at the top of companies and in the management levels below.
We will extend this to all listed or co-determined companies and introduce effective sanctions for those who do not comply.
In startups and the big tech companies, our future is literally being programmed.
Women should have a relevant share in this.
The first person in the world to program a machine was a woman: Ada Lovelace.
But today, IT professions are highly dominated by men, and women are even less likely to be represented at the top of tech companies in Germany than the average company.
We want girls and young women to learn early on that technology and starting a business can be for them,
and we remain committed to promoting women and girls in science and technology (STEM).
We want better access for women to start-up capital
and a comprehensive and coordinated funding strategy to break down gender-related barriers, especially for digitization-related start-ups.
If the use of algorithms, for example in personnel recruitment, helps decide people's lives or opportunities, they must never discriminate.
We want responsible artificial intelligences (AI) and algorithms that are programmed without bias and based on non-discriminatory data sets.
This is to be regularly audited and certified.
That a woman dies every third day at the hands of her partner or ex-partner is staggering.
One in seven women experiences harassment or violence in the workplace.
To effectively combat violence against women, we will improve the legal basis for effective law enforcement and cooperation among all responsible parties in governmental and non-governmental institutions.
In line with our obligations under the Istanbul Convention, we will continue to develop the support system of counseling centers, women's shelters and other protective facilities and implement the international agreements on protection against violence at the workplace (ILO Convention 190).
We are introducing a legal right to counseling and protection for women affected by violence.
We will establish focal prosecutorial offices for femicides - that is, to prosecute murders of women committed because they are women,
and advocate socially for femicides to be named as such, rather than as "crimes of passion" or "family tragedies."
Couples who decide to have children need security of supply
and the freedom to choose the place of birth.
Whether inpatient or outpatient in the clinic, in a birth center or in your own home.
Good birth attendance requires a midwifery care ratio that provides one-to-one care in the delivery room.
Therefore, obstetrics must also be released from the system of "diagnosis-related flat rates per case".
In addition, we advocate for performance-based remuneration for freelance midwives that takes their responsible tasks fully into account.
In family planning, people must be able to make self-determined decisions - independently, in partnership, and regardless of income.
We will therefore ensure free access to contraceptives
and specifically promote research into contraceptive methods for men.
Women and couples who decide to terminate a pregnancy in a conflict situation need access to information and good medical care close to home - this applies to both outpatient and inpatient care.
Therefore, states and municipalities must ensure that hospitals that receive public funding offer abortions as basic care.
We recognize the responsibility and the right of self-determination of women and therefore also want to abolish paragraph 219a.
In addition, we state with regard to paragraphs 218 ff.: Pregnancy conflicts do not belong in criminal law.
In the family, people take responsibility for each other.
Marriage is and remains attractive for this purpose.
That's why we pushed through marriage for all.
At the same time, it is clear that responsibility does not depend on the marriage certificate.
We will provide legal protection for a wide range of family models.
With the community of responsibility, we are creating a way of standing up for each other for all those whose life situation does not fit the classic marriage model, following the example of the French "Pacte civil de solidarité (PACS).
With the community of responsibility, we additionally support rainbow families, for example, in caring for each other and taking responsibility when several people take care of children with or instead of the biological parents.
We are creating a modern law of parentage.
We advocate for equal rights for same-sex partners in marriage, especially in adoption.
No court should decide on the adjustment of personal status in the future.
We will abolish psychological assessments to determine gender identity.
Every person should be able to determine his or her own life.
We want trans, intersex and non-binary people to be treated equally under the law, which is why we will reform the Transsexual Act.
We will include the prohibition of discrimination on the grounds of gender and sexual identity in Article 3 (3) of the Basic Law.
Equal participation of all genders and identities is a benefit for the whole society.
In this way, old role and thinking patterns can be broken down.
We advocate for the recognition and equality of lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, inter and queer people (LGBTIQ*).
Our goal is the legal protection of LGBTIQ* families and trans* and inter* persons.
We consistently oppose discrimination
and violence.
We will develop a national action plan against homo-, bi-, trans- and interphobia
and violence against LGBTIQ* people
and campaign at European level for the outlawing of such discrimination.
We promote the fight against violence
and discrimination directed against queer people - in Germany and the European Union.
We will work to abolish the discriminatory directive of the German Medical Association on blood donation.
In our society, the daily coexistence of people with and without disabilities should become a matter of course.
People with disabilities are to be given better opportunities on the labor market.
The right to good work also applies to them.
We will support this by strengthening the representatives of the severely disabled and further developing the equalization levy.
Many people with disabilities are well or even very well educated and are sought-after workers in times of shortage of skilled labor.
We advocate for the creation of a single point of contact for employers of small and medium-sized enterprises to advise on issues such as accessibility or wage subsidies.
Social life must be made inclusive for people with disabilities at all levels.
Accessibility is indispensable in this context.
Above all, we will support the municipalities in this task.
The great shortage of accessible or poor housing, gymnasiums, and other recreational facilities must be addressed.
We will initiate a federal accessibility program that must have appropriate resources.
3.9.Living together
The basic prerequisite for living together in a society of respect is the certainty that one belongs,
that one is accepted and belongs regardless of a family migration biography.
Germany is no stranger to migration.
Our country has always welcomed people from other regions - just as Germans have found a new home in other countries around the world.
This makes us richer as a society and moves us forward.
Our goal is to ensure that this naturalness and sense of belonging become visible and tangible in all areas of society.
It is about guaranteeing that all citizens have the same opportunities and possibilities - free from discrimination.
To this end, we will strengthen the work of the Federal Anti-Discrimination Agency and modernize the General Equal Treatment Act.
At the same time, we will take strong action against racism, right-wing extremism, anti-Semitism, anti-gypsyism, Islamophobia, anti-feminism, sexism and LGBTIQ* hostility.
Better exchange and a coordinated approach, for example through the creation of a federal-state commission, is an important step.
In addition, crimes in this area must be recorded and punished more consistently.
Integration is a permanent social as well as state task.
We want to guarantee all new arrivals the right to integration and participation opportunities.
For the sake of togetherness, we are strengthening integration and language courses for all immigrants in Germany, to which they should have access from day one - regardless of their nationality and residence status.
All children must immediately be given the opportunity to attend a daycare center;
compulsory schooling also applies directly to all children.
We want to give well-integrated people without a secure residence permit a permanent right to stay.
Families belong together.
Integration also works best with the family.
We therefore want to bring the rules on family reunification for beneficiaries of subsidiary protection back into line with those for refugees.
In doing so, we will also create regulations for the reunification of siblings with unaccompanied minor refugees.
Everyone who lives with us should have the right to make a living.
We will therefore abolish work bans.
The condition of years of chain toleration is also an obstacle to integration and must be ended by a deadline regulation in order to give people a perspective.
We reject the forced repatriation of people to countries where they are threatened with danger to life and limb.
Nevertheless, our integration capacity must encompass much more than the financing of language and integration courses.
And it's not just about newcomers, either.
The children and grandchildren of the then so-called "guest workers" and "contract workers" of the 1960s also still experience discrimination in everyday life.
The public sector must be a role model in terms of integration.
In terms of equal opportunities, care must be taken to ensure that marginalized groups of people also have access to jobs in the public sector and that it is equally possible for all employees to continue their education and move up the career ladder.
Therefore, in addition to target group-specific formulations of job advertisements, recognition of diversity competencies, recognition of qualifications acquired abroad, and pay equity, we also need a Participation and Integration Act that commits state institutions to a process of intercultural opening.
Our society of respect needs a modern citizenship law.
We have already ensured that all children born in Germany are also German citizens at birth,
we will also enshrine the general possibility of multiple nationality in law.
We want to abolish existing hurdles to naturalization and also shorten the current standard period of residence from eight years.
The fight against racism in German society requires a critical examination of our colonial past.
It is necessary to deal responsibly with our historical guilt.
We welcome the commitment in the religious communities and churches.
We will continue to promote and strengthen interreligious dialogue and dialogue between religions, worldviews and cultures.
We welcome the engagement of secular civil society initiatives.
Freedom of religion is firmly anchored in the Basic Law and we protect it.
3.10.Strengthen democracy
Democracy is vulnerable.
Protecting them is necessary.
Therefore, we must make our democracy defensible against its enemies.
The differentiated federal security structure has proven its worth.
We will further improve it through more effective cooperation between the federal government and the states.
Democracy is the basis of a society that offers everyone the chance to live in freedom and security.
With a Democracy Promotion Act, we will provide long-term support for associations, projects and initiatives and better arm them against the enemies of our open society.
We will continue to expand the federal "Live Democracy!" program and use it to promote prevention projects at the federal, state and local levels.
Political education is also indispensable.
To this end, we advocate within and outside of school education for increased and easier access to political education opportunities and democracy promotion.
We will increasingly enable employees to use their statutory educational leave to more
to make it easier for them to take time off for their voluntary work.
Millions of citizens volunteer in (sports) clubs, the volunteer fire department, church and religious communities, food banks, women's emergency services, refugee organizations, the THW and other organizations.
With their work, they contribute to the functioning of our community.
This voluntary civil society commitment is indispensable for us.
We will therefore continue to support it.
Sport is of central importance for social cohesion in our society, for inclusion, integration and against discrimination.
We will promote both popular and competitive sports.
As social democrats, we stand for a sport that exemplifies our constitutional values in national and international competitions.
We will continue to promote top-level sports in the coming years.
In addition, we do not lose sight of the concerns and worries of our local associations.
The federal government, federal states and local authorities are equally called upon to provide special support to the grassroots of sport in overcoming the problems caused by the pandemic.
A vibrant democracy needs a strong civil society and a modern non-profit law.
We will therefore examine which other socio-politically significant areas can be included in the catalog of charitable purposes and ensure that tax-privileged corporations such as associations can also be politically active in pursuing their statutory purposes and that, for example, a sports club's call for a demonstration against racism and xenophobia is possible without losing this tax benefit.
Extremists and terrorists threaten our free society.
In order to effectively counter this considerable danger, the Office for the Protection of the Constitution must fulfill the role of a democratic early warning system.
We will ban anti-constitutional organizations.
Where religious freedom is abused and turns into religious fanaticism, state security authorities must intervene consistently.
We will continue to act against terror and violence with all consistency and severity.
We have created the legal basis for this.
We consistently combat right-wing extremism in security agencies and in the Bundeswehr.
We counteract the emergence of racist thought patterns in everyday police life by enabling more supervision, further and advanced training, and good working conditions.
We support the establishment of focal prosecutorial offices to prosecute anti-Semitism and racism.
3.11.Promote culture
Culture is vital, as a source of inspiration and a catalyst for debate.
Many of the issues that are currently affecting us are, at their core, cultural policy issues.
After all, we are not only experiencing a threat to social cohesion, but also a disappearance of common meaning and a common basis of values.
This is a disturbing development for a democracy.
In view of the existential importance of art and culture, we as a society must come to an understanding about what cultural policy must achieve in the 21st century.
To this end, we want to further develop the top-level cultural policy talks into a nationwide cultural plenum, in which cultural producers, their associations and civil society are represented alongside municipalities, states and the federal government, in order to develop a new cultural consensus on the tasks and procedures of cultural policy, a cultural alliance of diversity and freedom.
We want to anchor culture as a state objective in the Basic Law.
In order to promote culture, the existing infrastructures must be maintained and the production possibilities of artistic and cultural content must also be secured in the independent scene.
To this end, we will take greater account of the living and working conditions of artists.
To improve the social security of freelance artists, we will firmly establish minimum wages and exhibition fees.
We want to provide the means for art to emerge and for cultural institutions to be open to all, from theaters to music clubs, from museums to sociocultural centers, from libraries to music schools.
A decisive task will be to put the municipalities in a position, also financially, to promote art and culture from their own resources in the long term.
We will expand the federal cultural funds
and launch programs to secure and develop cultural open spaces.
We will shape the framework conditions in the markets for cultural and creative industries in such a way that corresponding business and revenue models are strengthened.
We are improving film funding through the German Federal Film Board (FFA), securing the filmmaker's revenue base with the amendment to the Film Funding Act, supporting the international broadcast of German films, preserving film heritage and making decision-making bodies more efficient.
We want to promote the production of audiovisual content in Germany as a business location, in order to maintain viable jobs and create new ones.
A sustainable funding base for cinema support is necessary to successfully lead cinemas into the future and ensure their regional presence as cultural venues.
We will develop future concepts for film funding with the film community.
Games are cultural assets,
Innovation driver and
Economic factor.
However, the potential of games in digital education, but also of eSports in clubs and schools, is still insufficiently exploited.
We therefore want to make the promotion of computer games permanent.
We will continue to support the development of eSports in Germany, for example by making it non-profit.
We will enable all citizens to have access to art and culture, regardless of their background, education, social situation and financial means.
We will see to it that cultural institutions can open up further.
We will strengthen diversity in cultural institutions.
We will also expand diversity and gender equality in leadership positions, committees and juries.
Participation in art and culture is a key to self-confidence, personality development, education and integration.
We will also secure them sustainably as part of school and extracurricular education through programs such as "Kultur macht stark".
We will advance the digitization of media libraries
and secure our cultural heritage and make it more accessible.
We will strengthen the development of digital as an artistic space and promote digital art projects.
Last but not least, we will also actively support the development of digital cultural events and revenue models.
Cultural exchange is intended to emphasize both social and artistic cooperation in Europe and European values such as openness, equality, freedom and humanism.
Cultural networks, cultural platforms and cultural actors are partners of government action.
The joint appearance of the Goethe-Institut and the Institut Francais, for example, shows how we can deal with our values and the issues that challenge us together, such as colonialism.
Nationalism, racism, anti-Semitism and anti-gypsyism present us with new challenges, especially in coming to terms with Nazi crimes and the Shoa.
We will provide better support for the scientific and facial didactic processing of eyewitness accounts and source material on the Nazi era.
We will provide greater support for small initiatives and memorial sites and, mindful of the passing of contemporary witnesses, promote the development of new forms of commemorative culture
We will strengthen the Federal Foundation for Reappraisal (Bundesstiftung Aufarbeitung) so that the commitment to coming to terms with the SED dictatorship also receives more support nationwide.
We support the Future Center for European Transformation and German Unity.
In view of the colonial crimes committed by Germans, we will also promote the development of a postcolonial culture of remembrance in federal policy.
This includes a change in the way museums deal with colonially contaminated collections.
We want to promote outstanding sites of Germany's democratic history at the federal level.
3.12.Understand each other better
The new world is digital and media-based.
That is why digital and media participation, diversity, equal opportunities and communicative pluralism are of fundamental importance.
We understand media policy at all levels of government as social policy.
It serves to strengthen the open democratic conversation of our society.
We are committed to a strong public broadcasting system at the national level
and support the federal states in further developing the mandate in a digital media world.
It is precisely now that public service offerings are needed to ensure comprehensive and in-depth journalistic reporting.
We will strengthen the framework conditions for private-sector media creation and provide support in particular where federal issues of competition, copyright or telecommunications law shape the framework conditions for private media markets.
We will help publishers successfully manage the transformation to digital.
We will strengthen journalists' rights to information and reporting.
We will anchor journalism in non-profit law so that foundation funding is also possible without counteracting market-based structures.
We are concerned that journalists and media organizations in many parts of the world are increasingly being attacked, threatened and their freedom impaired by state institutions and officials.
In bilateral talks and intergovernmental associations, we will therefore strengthen initiatives to protect press freedom and the work of journalists and media companies.
Enabling all citizens in Germany to participate in the media is a joint responsibility of all media and public authorities.
We want to expand barrier-free offerings
and, together with media providers, take advantage of the opportunities offered by digitization and technical possibilities here as well.
The Corona crisis has shown very clearly: The need for digitally available media, educational and cultural content is great.
We therefore advocate for stronger networking and cooperation between stakeholders, especially from the media, culture and education sectors.
Media competence is first and foremost democratic competence.
Learning, working, identity formation, personality development, and communication with others are increasingly tied to social media in our everyday lives.
To achieve this, we want to bring together the creative energy of the net community with the quality and experience of the traditional media.
We want to create development spaces in which the digital transformation of the media world succeeds,
and link these with educational offerings.
3.13.Live safely
Germany is one of the safest countries in the world.
We will ensure that this remains the case.
For those who are threatened by crime or feel threatened by it no longer act freely.
Through preventive measures, we want to prevent citizens from becoming victims of crime.
Good social, labor market, child, family and integration policies form the necessary basis of successful prevention.
More security in Germany depends on motivated, well-trained and well-equipped police officers.
It is unacceptable that police officers and rescue services as well as employees of public authorities are increasingly attacked and insulted.
They deserve recognition and respect for their work.
This must also be reflected in modern service law, good working conditions and adequate pay for police officers and employees.
As an attractive public service, the federal and state governments must once again become more permeable to one another and at the same time be competitive vis-à-vis the business community.
We fight organized crime, especially human trafficking, as well as drug trafficking, gang-related residential burglaries and white-collar crime.
We ensure that the origin of dirty money becomes easier to prove.
Continuous and area-wide structural investigations by the state police, the federal police and customs together with the BKA and Europol are necessary.
We are improving the structures of the security authorities
and ensuring smoother dovetailing with the judiciary.
For this purpose, too, it is necessary that we continue the Pact for the Rule of Law.
In the case of crimes committed, proceedings must be commenced immediately.
Punishment must be carried out quickly in connection with the crime.
Prisons are where offenders are supposed to serve their sentences.
They should always be places of resocialization as well.
Together with the federal states, we will promote measures to protect against radicalization and to deradicalize offenders.
To be able to prevent more specifically, we need to know more about crime trends.
To this end, we will again have the Periodic Safety Report prepared on a regular basis.
We have an efficient aid system for disasters in Germany.
Volunteers are at the heart of these structures, especially in rural areas.
We will continue to support this indispensable commitment.
At the same time, new as well as already known challenges are emerging: Cyberattacks, disinformation and terrorism pose significant threats that can quickly affect large parts of the population.
We ensure that the federal, state and local governments can work better and faster hand in hand.
3.14.Health protection, protection of minors and decriminalization determine our drug policy
Like alcohol, cannabis is a social reality that we need to find an adequate political way to deal with.
Prohibitions and criminalization have not reduced consumption; they stand in the way of effective addiction prevention and youth protection and tie up enormous resources in the judiciary and police.
It should be possible to test the regulated supply of cannabis to adults in model projects run by the federal states and local authorities, accompanied by prevention, counseling and treatment measures for young people.
In addition, we will regulate nationwide that the possession of small amounts of cannabis will no longer be prosecuted.
3.15.Respect nature
We want to preserve our natural habitat.
To do this, we have to get out of the throwaway society.
The circular economy is the future.
In particular, the pollution of the oceans by plastic is alarming.
We need to cut back on the rising tide of plastic.
This can only be achieved if we avoid and eliminate unnecessary plastic.
Where single-use plastic is unavoidable, we will demand environmentally friendly and recyclable solutions.
As much plastic as possible must be recycled and reused.
We want to hold manufacturers even more accountable.
Products must be designed so that they can be reused, recycled and also repaired.
We advocate for biodiversity policies to protect and restore ecosystems.
The preservation of forests has a special role to play.
Likewise, we want to reduce the use of fertilizers and pesticides.
Without powerful carbon sinks, Germany cannot become climate neutral.
Moors and forests are of particular importance in this respect.
Existing peatlands must be protected and drained peatlands must be re-wetted on a large scale.
Forests must be adapted to climate change so that they can continue to fulfill their important role for climate protection and biodiversity in the future.
Agriculture has a central role in combating climate change and preserving biodiversity.
We will therefore align agricultural subsidies in such a way that environmentally friendly agriculture can keep up with the competition.
Food is our livelihood.
They should also secure the livelihood of farmers.
This can only be achieved with fair prices for high-quality food.
We will put a stop to unfair trade practices in the food trade, because they harm consumers, farmers and fair trade competitors.
We are committed to decent wages and good working conditions for employees in agriculture and forestry.
Migrant workers in seasonal agricultural enterprises are indispensable for securing the food supply.
We will fight precarious working and living conditions of migrant workers.
The soil, as the most important commodity in agriculture, belongs to the self-managing farms on site.
It must not be an object of speculation.
We will protect it from non-agricultural investors.
Animal suffering cannot be justified, not even for economic reasons.
In livestock farming, we are consistently focusing on improving animal welfare with the introduction of an area-based ceiling.
We will reduce the use of antibiotics.
We will ensure the introduction of a mandatory state animal welfare label with comprehensible rules
and limit the transport of live animals to eight hours.
For more and more people, the quality of food production and its effect on the environment and climate is relevant.
Our goal is to provide healthy and sustainable food for all.
We want to implement health-promoting communal catering in state-funded facilities that meets the standards of the German Nutrition Society.
To combat food poverty, it should be free of charge for daycare and school meals.
We will make it easier for consumers to make healthy and sustainable choices, and we will also hold industry accountable.
To curb food waste, we will prohibit producers and retailers from throwing away edible food.
We want to end the proliferation of self-created labels by companies on the sustainability of their products and develop a binding government label.
We will improve food safety through more inspections
and enable consumers to find out about inspection results by introducing a hygiene barometer.
We stand by our No to genetically modified crops.
Strengthening Europe means strengthening cohesion
4.0.Sovereign Europe in the World
The unity of Europe is an achievement of civilization.
It is our shared opportunity for a better future in the 21st century.
At the same time, dealing with the Corona pandemic and its aftermath is the greatest challenge facing the European Union (EU) since its creation.
We have used the German EU Council Presidency to take a more solidary and better path than during the last major crisis a good ten years ago.
The historic decisions on the largest reconstruction program in the history of the European Union would not have been taken without the SPD.
A Paradigm Shift in German European Policy.
4.1.Strengthen solidarity
We will emerge stronger from the crisis if we stand together in solidarity in Europe and make the EU more robust and capable of action for the major tasks of the future.
We are committed to turning the reconstruction fund and the European solidarity strengthened during the crisis into a lasting progress in integration.
We will dismantle internal obstacles to EU action
and further develop external autonomy of action.
Only with a solidary and sovereign EU will we be able to help shape the world of tomorrow and come closer to our vision of a democratic, just and sustainable future.
Our goal is to fundamentally strengthen Europe so that we can preserve our independence and our way of life in a multipolar world in the future.
With our policies in Europe as in the world, we want to implement the United Nations' Agenda 2030, in which the peoples of the world have committed themselves to a shared sustainable future in peace, freedom and social cohesion.
Such a Europe can bring its influence to bear equally to protect and strengthen European values and interests,
act as a self-confident peace power,
and thus help shape a cooperative, multilateral world order that makes the hope of a good life for all humanity real.
Investment is essential for a sustainable European future.
We will further develop the Stability and Growth Pact into a sustainability pact.
Instead of a return to the austerity policies of the past, we are sticking to the common European investment policy started in the Corona crisis.
A crisis-proof EU must be capable of acting in terms of fiscal policy and must evolve into a genuine fiscal, economic and social union.
We will effectively protect states and taxpayers from bank failures in the future.
Together with the Capital Markets Union, the completion of the Banking Union is intended to create a European capital market that will ensure the competitive financing of European companies.
Because common expenditures also include common revenues, we have laid the foundation for new European own resources.
We are committed to making the financing of the EU fairer and more independent in the long term.
We will tax large digital corporations for this important integration step,
a CO2 border tax
and new revenue from emissions trading.
This can also effectively cut emissions
and establish a level playing field for climate-friendly companies.
Economic integration
and the creation of tax justice are two sides of the same coin for us.
Therefore, we advocate overcoming the unanimity principle in tax matters and ending tax dumping between member states, especially in the area of corporate taxation.
4.2.Social-ecological management
As a global technology leader, the EU must also be more independent of third parties in sectors of the future.
We will drive forward the development of joint markets and infrastructures,
Develop strategically important future technologies
and protect key industries. Climate change,
species extinction and excessive consumption of raw materials,
the way we live, consume and produce in Europe must change fundamentally.
The energy sector has a key role to play in meeting the commitments under the Paris climate agreement.
We must enormously increase the share of renewable energies,
further expand the energy mix
and reduce existing dependence on fossil energy supplies.
We will make Europe the first sustainable and greenhouse gas neutral continent by 2050 at the latest
and take a leading role in combating climate change.
European agriculture, as one of the largest emitters of greenhouse gases, must also make a contribution, moving away from land subsidies to subsidies linked to criteria for climate, nature and environmental protection and animal welfare.
In all EU trade, economic partnership and investment agreements, concrete complaint and sanction mechanisms will in future be agreed alongside binding social standards such as the ILO core labor standards and human rights and environmental standards.
In addition, private dispute resolution mechanisms are to be abolished and replaced by public courts.
We want a multinational investment court to intervene in cases of discrimination, i.e. unequal treatment between trading partners.
The rights of workers,
stricter environmental legislation, the
implementation of international obligations such as climate protection
and areas of public services are not discriminatory practices.
There should be no possibility of legal action here.
The agreement between the EU and the MERCOSUR confederation of states is an important project to consolidate economic and political relations between Europe and Latin America.
However, we will not agree to an agreement without strengthening environmental, human rights and social standards through additional binding and sanctionable review, implementation and enforcement mechanisms.
Our trade policy will support the social-ecological transformation.
To this end, trade in sustainable goods is to be particularly promoted.
Trade policy measures on a value-based basis always have the interests of partners in mind, especially those of the less developed countries.
That is why we will also promote small-scale and agro-ecological agriculture in particular.
In order to make trade policy more democratic, we will extend the control and decision-making rights of the European Parliament and involve representatives of trade unions and civil society in negotiation processes better than before.
The pandemic has exposed the vulnerability of our health care system.
We will create a sovereign European Health Union with a strong and resilient health economy in Europe
by guaranteeing minimum standards of health care,
establishing a strong civil protection mechanism,
and promoting joint research and procurement of essential medical supplies.
In order to be able to respond better to cross-border health threats in the future, we need crisis-proof European health authorities that are equipped with far-reaching competencies and resources.
With the aim of improving the working and living conditions of all Europeans and developing them further in the direction of equal living conditions, we will consistently put the European Pillar of Social Rights into practice in the coming years.
All employees in Europe must be able to live well from their work.
Our goal remains living wages across Europe, so we welcome the proposal for a legal framework for European minimum wages.
To protect the euro area from economic shocks, we advocate a permanent European unemployment reinsurance scheme that also ensures that all member states can fulfill important social security functions even in times of severe economic crisis.
In order to ensure adequate social security and combat poverty, we advocate European minimum standards for national basic security systems.
It is particularly important to us to combat child poverty in Europe and therefore to implement the European Child Guarantee.
We will further expand the rights of employees, in particular by strengthening European works councils, by giving them a say in the organization and decisions of large companies, and by giving them the right to collective action and collective bargaining.
Enforcement of current labor law and occupational health and safety for seasonal workers urgently needs to be improved.
Because in many places youth unemployment in particular has become one of the biggest challenges of the crisis, we will continue to strengthen the European Youth Guarantee and offer young people a perspective.
The goal must be to create more full-time positions for youth and young adults that are subject to social insurance contributions and are permanent.
4.3.Extend democracy
We will strengthen democracy in Europe.
We do not accept that our European community of values is increasingly being put to the test and that populist and nationalist governments are curtailing the independence of the judiciary and fundamental rights.
The protection of democracy,
Rule of law
and freedom in Europe
forms the foundation for a united European future.
This includes a completion of the co-decision rights of the European Parliament, including a genuine right of initiative.
We will create a common electoral law for the election of the European representation of the people.
We will provide targeted support for civil society cooperation with a special fund for democracy and the rule of law.
The conference on the future of Europe should be a success.
We are committed to ensuring that it initiates a broad debate in Germany and throughout the EU on European democracy and the ability to act, and that its results are implemented.
Through the Rule of Law Dialogue and the Rule of Law Mechanism, we have made Europe more defensible and
and concrete instruments have been introduced to monitor compliance with fundamental European values in a binding manner and to sanction violations.
We will advocate for consistent implementation and tightening of sanction options.
Disinformation campaigns, fake news and hate speech pose a threat to democracy.
We advocate European regulations to effectively combat punishable online hate speech
and will expand European early warning systems against disinformation campaigns.
We stand for a humanitarian and solidarity-based asylum and refugee policy in the European Union.
Therefore, we will advance a functioning European Asylum System with the necessary balance between responsibility and solidarity, which includes a reform of the Dublin system towards a solidarity-based distribution mechanism
and fully respects and grants the right to asylum.
The asylum system is to be further Europeanized and the European Asylum Support Office is to be expanded into a fully-fledged European asylum agency.
We will defend the Geneva Convention on Refugees.
Pushbacks are a blatant violation of international law.
Sea rescue is an obligation under international maritime law and must not be criminalized, but should also be guaranteed by the state through the EU.
Legal migration channels should be created as part of a comprehensive approach.
and the causes of flight and displacement must be combated.
We will build a bridge to local actors
and encourage and support the receptiveness of European municipalities and cities.
This is to be made possible through federal quotas, thus also picking up on the willingness of many municipalities within the framework of the "Safe Harbors" initiative.
In addition, the European Union should establish a vaccination quota for refugees.
We advocate EU-wide ratification of the Council of Europe's Istanbul Convention as a binding legal norm against violence against women.
4.4.Cultivate European Neighborhoods
We are committed to ensuring that Europe plays a pioneering role in international crisis prevention, peace and democracy promotion, and the protection of human rights.
We will strengthen Europe's responsibility in development cooperation and humanitarian aid by increasing EU funding.
More autonomy requires greater capacity to act.
Fundamental to this is the introduction of majority voting in foreign policy - instead of the current unanimity principle.
The office of the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy should also be developed into an EU Foreign Minister in the long term.
We want a common direction for our global development cooperation and therefore want to join forces in Europe.
A Europe that stands united contributes to the revival of a functioning and cooperative multilateralism.
We rely on international networks of trust, such as the Alliance for Multilateralism, which has already provided important impetus for cooperation.
NATO is and remains a supporting pillar of the transatlantic partnership and indispensable for Europe's security.
In parallel, the EU must become more independent in terms of security and defense policy.
We will expand European cooperation.
Our goal remains a European army
as part of the peace power Europe.
By pooling European armaments cooperation, we exploit synergies and save unnecessary additional expenditure.
Sovereignly, Europe must develop new arms control and disarmament initiatives for the European continent in order to be able to react early to the risks of new technologies and dangerous developments in the cyber domain or in space.
Europe's neighborhood to the south and east is characterized by crises and the growing influence of other states.
The EU must address these challenges through a conceptually reoriented European Neighborhood Policy.
We will integrate the countries of the Western Balkans.
We want to significantly expand the partnership between Europe and Africa politically and economically and raise it to a new level of cooperation.
We are approaching the new U.S. administration with a renewed commitment to international cooperation.
We need nothing less than a fresh start in transatlantic relations.
We will fundamentally strengthen the partnership between Europe and the U.S., which is based on shared and democratic values, and intensify cooperation on issues such as climate protection, global health policy, trade, disarmament and security issues.
It is in Germany's and Europe's interest if we achieve joint progress with Russia on issues of common security, disarmament and arms control, as well as on climate, sustainability, energy and the fight against pandemics.
However, we also see that Europe's relations with Russia are repeatedly subject to setbacks.
Whether it is the annexation of Crimea in violation of international law, support for separatists in eastern Ukraine, cyberattacks on the German Bundestag, or the use of the internationally outlawed chemical agent Novichok to eliminate domestic political opponents, Russia regularly breaks international law and thus strains relations with its neighbors.
Despite all the necessary criticism, we are counting on Russia's willingness to engage in dialogue and cooperation.
There can be peace in Europe only with Russia, not against it.
Valuable in relations with Russia are the civil society contacts, which we want to further promote and expand, including through visa facilitation for the exchange of young people.
Based on the values and principles of the OSCE, we are therefore pursuing the goal of a new European policy towards the East that focuses on a common and coherent EU policy towards Russia.
A constructive willingness to engage in dialogue on the part of Russia is a prerequisite for working on reducing tensions.
This also includes the fact that the path to a peaceful resolution of the Ukraine conflict and, consequently, the end of sanctions depends to a large extent on the implementation of the Minsk agreements.
The growing importance of China in the world means that a global response to the eco- nomic, environmental, social and political challenges of our time can hardly be imagined without Beijing.
Conflicts of interest and values with China are increasing.
Europe must conduct the dialogue with China on cooperation and competition in a united, constructive and critical manner.
We condemn the serious human rights violations against minorities, especially Uighur Muslims.
For Honkong, the internationally enshrined principle of "one country, two systems" must be upheld.
We view with great concern the growing pressure on Taiwan.
We support the people of Belarus in their desire for democracy and freedom.
Violence and repression by the security forces must end,
All political prisoners released
and new democratic elections should be held under the supervision of the OSCE.
We view the Turkish government's domestic and foreign policy course with concern.
Turkey must comply with the principles of the rule of law, democracy and international law.
An intensification of the EU-Turkey dialogue, which also critically discusses these issues, is urgently needed.
Israel's security and right to exist is part of Germany's reason of state.
It is also because of this special responsibility that we will work with our European partners and the United States to support new initiatives to revive the Middle East peace process.
Based on the Oslo Accords, the goal for us is and remains the peaceful coexistence of two sovereign and viable states within the framework of a negotiated settlement.
The normalization of relations between Israel and some states in the region are encouraging signals that progress toward peace is possible.
Unilateral steps by all sides complicate peace efforts and must be refrained from.
From the Palestinian side we demand the end of terror.
Further democratic progress is needed at all levels in the Palestinian territories.
We categorically reject plans for annexations.
There must be a halt to the construction of settlements in violation of international law.
Even after Brexit, the United Kingdom remains a close friend of the EU.
The joint agreements can be the foundation for a comprehensive partnership between the EU and the UK.
On the basis of fair dealings with each other, we will continue to develop cooperation in areas that have not been regulated to date.
A race to the bottom in terms of environmental standards
or the rights of employees
and consumers must not be allowed to exist.
4.5.Secure peace
International solidarity belongs to social democracy more than to any other party,
the universal validity of human rights,
Peace
and dialog have been part of our basic understanding of political action from the very beginning.
Within the framework of the Council of Europe, we will promote the fundamental values of democracy,
Human rights
and the rule of law
and strengthen the European Court of Human Rights.
Court rulings must be implemented consistently by all member states.
We are in favor of the EU joining the European Convention on Human Rights.
As the peace party in Germany, we focus on diplomacy and dialogue, civil crisis prevention and peacebuilding, disarmament and arms control, and international cooperation.
We will revive and strengthen multilateral action, including in partnership with civil society and non-governmental organizations, because pandemics, global economic, financial and development crises, and the consequences of global warming are challenges that can only be solved together.
The fight against climate change, which in many countries threatens not only natural livelihoods but also social and economic development, must become the starting point of more just and sustainable societies worldwide.
"Leaving none and none behind" that is our benchmark for overcoming hunger and poverty worldwide.
We must keep global warming to well below two degrees and, if possible, limit it to 1.5 degrees Celsius.
To this end, we will meet and further increase our own climate protection commitments in accordance with the Paris Climate Agreement.
In addition, we will support the countries of the Global South in their sustainable development as they adapt to climate change.
Good work
and an intact environment worldwide is one of the core tasks of social democratic politics.
We do this by requiring companies worldwide to comply with human rights and environmental due diligence requirements along global supply chains.
It is a great success for the SPD that a national supply chain law could be launched.
We will continue to develop it consistently.
Now we also want to anchor a law on tracing goods traded on the world market at the European level, with binding rules backed by sanctions, access to judgments in Europe and compensation for victims.
We support a UN agreement on business and human rights to shape globalization in the interests of human rights.
Work must not make people poor or sick.
That is why we join the trade unions in supporting the demand that occupational health and safety be upgraded as a core labor standard of the International Labor Organization (ILO).
We will also ratify the Additional Protocol to the United Nations Social Covenant to enable complaints procedures to ensure compliance with the Covenant's rights.
In order to combat poverty sustainably, we also advocate the establishment of a global fund for basic social protection systems.
Health is a global public good.
This pandemic can only be overcome through international solidarity.
The crisis will not be over until there is enough vaccine globally.
We therefore advocate for financial and substantial support for the World Health Organization's Global Corona Vaccination Campaign (COVAX).
Our focus is on expanding and building public health systems, improving access to medicines and vaccines, increasing transparency,
and health education and, in turn, strengthening sexual and reproductive health and rights.
We are also working to ensure that the World Health Organization (WHO) is strengthened through a bold reform process.
We are committed to maintaining the share of public spending on development cooperation (ODA quota) of at least 0.7 percent of gross national income.
Of this, 0.2 percent of gross national income is to be used for the poorest developing countries (LDCs).
People in need due to conflicts, epidemics or natural disasters require our help.
As a rich industrialized country, we will continue to align our commitment to humanitarian assistance with growing humanitarian needs
and work to strengthen and expand the international donor base.
In addition, we continue to fight the causes of flight, not the refugees.
Together with partner countries, we will therefore work to ensure that the Global Compact on Migration is fully implemented.
International tax cooperation can prevent assets and corporate profits from escaping taxation.
That is why we need a global register for more transparency.
Globally active corporations must participate in the financing of the community.
To achieve this, the global dumping competition for the lowest corporate taxes must be ended.
For this reason, the SPD in the German government has developed the concept of a global minimum taxation for companies
and initiated international negotiations on this.
The new U.S. administration has now thrown its weight behind this concept.
We will seize this historic opportunity for global tax reform.
We will support the establishment of a Global Tax Coordination Unit at the UN and the OECD in its fight against profit-shifting and profit-shifting.
Our goal is to dry up tax havens and
to promote and demand fair tax systems with appropriate participation also of the elites in the Global South.
More than almost any other country, Germany is dependent on open markets and a functioning and rule-based global economy.
Our goal is to establish a stable, fair and democratic trading system.
We will modernize trade and investment policy instruments - especially with a view to sustainability and the enforcement of common multilateral rules -
and work to strengthen the World Trade Organization (WTO).
To this end, we will expand the regulatory framework, incorporate the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, and improve enforcement capabilities.
All instances of the WTO dispute settlement mechanism should again have a quorum.
This is why a strong WTO with a modern set of rules that recognizes and promotes the sustainable development needs of the Global South as well as those of the North in a fair and cooperative manner is so important.
Many countries were already in a debt crisis before the Corona pandemic, and this is now being magnified.
Central pillars of development finance have collapsed and financial flows have dried up.
The short-term suspension of debt service under the G20 and the IMF brought relief.
We support an initiative for a global sovereign insolvency process that involves sovereign and, above all, private creditors and that formulates and implements debt relief for particularly vulnerable groups of countries.
The peace policy challenges are increasing.
Health crisis, climate change and injustice exacerbate existing conflicts and spark new ones.
Autonomous weapons systems are lowering the threshold for acts of war,
nuclear weapons are making a comeback, and
digital advances are making us vulnerable to cyberattacks.
To this end, we will establish a mechanism at the parliamentary level through which new programs, laws, and projects will be reviewed to determine whether they contradict peace policy goals.
Germany already plays a leading role worldwide in defusing international crises and mediating peace.
We will continue to build on this by strengthening the Center for International Peace Operations (ZIF) and developing a highly professional team of peace emissaries to conduct negotiations.
Peace processes are only sustainable if the concerns and interests of women are given greater consideration and if they are involved in negotiation processes.
Therefore, we demand that UN Resolution 1325 "Women, Peace, Security" be consistently implemented and further developed.
The UN Convention on the Rights of Women must also be applied consistently.
The anti-gender movement must be opposed at all levels.
The Bundeswehr makes a responsible contribution to securing peace and defense.
We stand for the primacy of politics
and for the guiding principle of Innere Führung of soldiers as citizens in uniform.
For us, it is clear that only with a well-equipped and modern Bundeswehr can we fulfill our tasks as a reliable partner in Europe and NATO.
Our soldiers can rely on us.
We have therefore increased investment in the defense budget after many years of repeated rounds of austerity.
Our soldiers deserve the best possible equipment and the highest level of training.
Equipment instead of rearmament - committed to this principle, we have pushed ahead with major procurement projects for the German armed forces and are continuously working to improve personal equipment and social security.
At the same time, we will further enhance the attractiveness of serving in the Bundeswehr.
We stand for the best possible protection of our soldiers.
This also includes the use of drones.
The decision as to whether they should also be armed can only be made responsibly after a comprehensive political and social debate and careful consideration of all aspects.
We advocate that unmanned armed drones be recorded internationally and included in an international regulatory framework in order to counteract the trend of a temporal and spatial dissolution of the boundaries of military force as well as the fears of a techno- logical and functional autonomy.
The need for such a set of rules has been demonstrated not least by the massive use of armed drones as offensive weapons in the war between Azerbaijan and Armenia and in the Libyan conflict.
This deployment has raised new questions that need to be considered in a comprehensive debate.
Before a decision is made on a successor to the Tornado fighter aircraft, we advocate a conscientious, objective and careful discussion of technical nuclear sharing.
A world without nuclear weapons is and remains the goal of social democratic foreign policy.
A disarmament policy offensive includes saving existing agreements on arms control and disarmament at all costs and implementing the obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT).
We need real steps toward disarmament.
The task with the new U.S. administration is to resume talks on how to fully implement the international nuclear agreement (JCPoA) with Iran.
The Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, which was adopted within the framework of the United Nations and has since entered into force, brings further momentum to efforts to achieve a world free of nuclear weapons.
As an observer at the Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, Germany should constructively support the intentions of the treaty.
We also advocate the start of negotiations between the USA and Russia on verifiable, complete disarmament in the sub-strategic area with the aim of finally withdrawing and destroying the nuclear weapons stationed in Europe and Germany.
We will also establish arms control in the areas of biotechnology, cyber and artificial intelligence.
Outlawing autonomous lethal weapons systems remains our goal.
China must also be more closely involved in all disarmament efforts.
For us, a restrictive arms export policy is central.
We will work to ensure that the export of German military equipment to countries outside the EU, NATO and their equivalent is further restricted, that
control over the final whereabouts of the weapons is extended
and that absolute exceptions are only possible in justified individual cases - documented in a publicly comprehensible manner.
This is to be enshrined in an arms export law.
We will also coordinate a tightening of EU arms export agreements with our European partners.
For countries that are neither members of the EU nor NATO, ratification of the Arms Trade Treaty (ATT) and its consistent implementation is a mandatory prerequisite for any form of arms cooperation.
For us, the indivisibility and universal validity of human rights is non-negotiable.
To enforce human rights, we must protect those who stand up for them.
We will make consistent use of the human rights sanctions regime created in the EU framework under the German Council Presidency.
These include entry bans and the freezing of accounts.
We will also promote opportunities to prosecute human rights violators worldwide
and strengthen the International Criminal Court.
By supporting and further expanding the institutions of the Bundestag and the Federal Government that deal with human rights, we strengthen the human rights architecture.
However, all our efforts can only succeed if we support the United Nations,
their peacekeeping mission,
Promoting sustainable development
and respect for human rights.
We know: Reforms of the United Nations are urgently needed for this purpose.
We will drive these forward.
Our goal is a permanent European seat
and adequate representation of the Global South in the United Nations Security Council.
5.0. future, respect and a Europe based on solidarity - guiding principles for a new decade
The 20s of the 21st century will decide what role Germany and Europe will play in the world.
With our future missions, we will shape the future today.
We want to achieve full employment with good work and fair wages.
We want to remain a location for industry and innovation,
with climate-neutral products and technologies,
setting global standards for modern mobility
and use the opportunities of digitalization based on our values.
We want to ensure that the prosperity generated enables all citizens in our country to live a good and secure life.
We want to turn dreams into futures.
We want all people to be able to realize their aspirations and achieve their goals.
At the beginning of their lives, but also when they are already in the middle of life.
With equal support from the beginning of a life,
and with opportunities to develop - throughout life.
We want a society that is inclusive and based on solidarity and
enables all citizens to participate in social life.
A modern and strong welfare state is the foundation for this and treats all people with the respect they deserve.
We want to live together respectfully.
Our society thrives on its cultural diversity, creativity and variety.
Democracy and social justice are the foundations for a strong society that fights extremism, political hatred and social agitation
and protects against crime.
We want to secure peace.
From a strong European community we draw the strength for a common peace policy that resolves conflicts and brings people together across borders.
We want to take responsibility.
Prosperity and decency must not be opposites.
Our standard of living must not be based on the exploitation of people
and nature.
Neither in Germany nor in Europe or other regions of the world.
That's what we're promoting with this program.
