Let's not watch any longer!
We see the challenges
We see our world changing at breakneck speed.
Digitalization is reshaping our economy.
Even seasoned companies from industry and finance are in danger of losing touch.
Faster and faster media compete for our attention.
We see that wars and poor living conditions are moving millions of people around the world - many of whom want to come to us.
The financing of our social security systems is getting out of hand.
We see extreme groups from the left and right changing the political landscape.
Nationalists mobilize against the European Union.
Islamist terrorists are trying to use violence to destroy our tolerant way of life.
We see that the rule of law and the cosmopolitanism of our country are wavering.
That many things that were taken for granted a short time ago are suddenly up for discussion again.
Every one of us sees that.
Every day.
For many months, even years.
Now is the time when it is no longer enough to watch.
We have to do something - let's not watch any longer!
We see the opportunities
We Free Democrats not only see the challenges.
Above all, we see a country full of strength and creative will.
A country bursting with ideas.
A country full of untapped potential.
And we see the opportunities inherent in the challenges of our time.
Opportunities that are waiting to be seized by us - if we allow ourselves to be guided not by fear but by "German courage:
The individualization of society opens up a variety of life paths for people, for which we want to make them strong through the best education.
Digitization is a tremendous opportunity for greater prosperity, more self-determined work and a less complicated state.
The strong immigration to Germany is an occasion to finally provide for a reasonable immigration law
and clear requirements for integration.
In times of record revenues, budgets and social security systems must be made fit for the future and the burden on citizens must be eased.
When real gaps open up in our security architecture, they must be repaired with pinpoint accuracy instead of placing all citizens under general suspicion with symbolic policies.
If nationalists want to storm Europe with propaganda, then Europe's strengths must be promoted, but its weaknesses must also be addressed with equal determination.
We Free Democrats are firmly convinced: We can do something - let's not watch any longer!
Free Democrats: The right ones for this time.
We Free Democrats draw our spirit of optimism, our "German courage," from the fundamental conviction that Free Democrats in Germany have always shared:
We believe in the potential and energy of every individual and in the power of freedom.
We believe that there is always a possibility.
We don't want "Yes, but ..." and co. to get the upper hand.
Therefore, our mission is: Let's strengthen people's faith in themselves!
With this attitude, Free Democrats have provided important impetus for the major milestones in the history of the Federal Republic: for the most liberal constitution in German history
and the introduction of the social market economy, for
successful integration into the West and the new Ostpolitik,
for proving the rule of law in times of RAF terror, for the
free-market renewal of the 1980s, and - for German reunification.
Based on this attitude, we are convinced that the best way to successfully shape the future is also through fair rules and clear orientation.
To achieve this, we rely on the free democratic basic order of our Basic Law, the constitutional state with its fundamental rights
and the social market economy.
After all, the Basic Law is the most liberal constitution Germany has ever had.
The rule of law balances freedom and security in such a way that it resolutely counters concrete dangers
without, however, violating citizens' fundamental rights.
The social market economy ensures prosperity and innovation through competition.
These principles have lost nothing of their modernity.
The grand coalition, however, is allowing itself to be ruled by fear.
She looks as if she is overwhelmed with everything.
Instead of making the free democratic basic order the guiding principle of domestic and foreign policy, the grand coalition ducks out of the way when conflicts arise.
Instead of enforcing existing law, it is merely engaging in symbolic politics.
Instead of using the market and competition for the benefit of the people, it is leveraging both in the euro, energy and economy.
It does not act.
It engages in symbolic debates and watches things take their course.
It is not fit enough for our times.
In recent years, we have been condemned to watch.
The reasons for this are well known and no one else bears responsibility for this than ourselves.
Many people tell us: You are missing!
Because our country needs courage, fresh ideas and new determination again.
This is what we have been preparing for over the last few years.
We have clarified what we want to achieve and what we are committed to achieving with all our strength: Theworld's best education for everyone
Advancement through personal achievement
Self-determination in all walks of life
Freedom and human rights worldwide
Politics that can count
An uncomplicated state
We are convinced that millions of people in Germany share these goals.
That is why we want to implement them with determination.
Together with these many people we say: Let's not watch any longer!
Together with all the people in our country who want a new beginning, determination and activity in politics instead of despondency, defensiveness and disorientation, we say: Let's become again the country that is in us!
It is up to each individual to shape change into new opportunities.
Let's go!
World's best education for everyone
In a world of change, there is no resource more valuable than education.
It enables people to go their own way, even in a complex environment.
Education is the opportunity for social advancement.
What is important is what a person can do.
It becomes unimportant into which parental home he was born.
Digitization is full of opportunities for better education: more individualized learning, innovative teaching methods and more up-to-date teaching materials.
Let's finally make use of it!
Germany was once the world's leading education nation.
We can be again.
Therefore: Let's not watch any longer!
Let's provide the world's best education for everyone!
Moon ride project world best education
World's best education for everyone is a "moon ride" project.
Just as John F. Kennedy led his country to the moon with a tremendous effort, we want to return Germany to the top of the world's educational nations.
We Free Democrats are therefore committed to a school and education system that provides equal access opportunities, prevents discrimination, and maintains neutrality.
Ideological trench warfare, frictional losses in administration, a lack of competition and insufficient funding are slowing Germany down.
We want to change that!
Education spending at top 5 level of OECD countries
We Free Democrats want to increase spending on education in such a way that - measured in terms of the national budget - Germany ranks among the leading five countries of the 35 states of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).
The comprehensive modernization of the education system would overburden the states and municipalities alone.
Financing must therefore become a task for society as a whole.
Ideological bickering and bureaucratic friction also no longer fit into an era in which Bremen is no longer competing with Bavaria, but Germany as a whole with North America and China.
That is why we want uniform educational standards in Germany.
In particular, school-leaving qualifications must become more comparable by means of uniformly set final examinations.
However, there must be no levelling down.
To keep up with the leading nations, we need more mobility and more comparability among the 16 countries.
To achieve this, our education federalism must be fundamentally reformed.
Independence of schools
We Free Democrats are committed to more autonomy for schools to provide the world's best education.
As the PISA study shows, children perform significantly better in schools with greater freedom to shape and make decisions.
After all, if you have your own decision-making authority in terms of organization, budget, profiling and personnel, you are also committed to taking responsibility and can ensure the best results.
Therefore, schools should be able to decide on their own budget, profile and staff.
Uniform educational standards set the goal of aligning with the level of the best educational institutions in the world.
Whether the individual school achieves them is checked and made transparent.
In order to achieve the standards, schools must be supported through excellent professional development in school and instructional development.
Schools with special problems, schools in hot spots, and schools that still lag behind the results of comparable schools need special support, for example, in terms of teacher-student ratios.
To make it easier for parents and students to find the right school for them, we want to enable transparent evaluation of individual schools and teachers, working closely with parents and students.
The results of the quality analysis and the learning level surveys are then to be published by the schools on the Internet.
Tuition guarantee for pupils
We Free Democrats demand a tuition guarantee for our students.
All over Germany, hundreds of school lessons are cancelled.
But it is only when classes are held that our students can receive the best education in the world.
That's why we advocate for a tuition guarantee that ensures the necessary staff are available to provide expert instruction in the event of special shortages.
In addition, so that teaching staff can also focus on teaching, the excessive bureaucracy in schools must be curtailed.
Education vouchers
We Free Democrats demand that the financing of schools, kindergartens and daycare centers be gradually switched to education vouchers.
Because this creates transparent quality competition for the best educational services.
The state grants financing contributions for each child.
To ensure that these funds are used transparently and consciously, we advocate for vouchers that document the amounts involved.
Parents receive these per child and pass them on to their chosen educational institution.
Only this institution can redeem the education voucher with the state.
State, municipal and independent educational institutions receive the same amount per child, so that parents not only have a free choice between different public offers, but also between public and independent providers.
The equivalent value of the vouchers may vary according to age, the amount of time spent in care each week, and special educational care needs.
Equivalent support for independent schools
We Free Democrats demand equal support for independent schools.
Independent schools are often the driving force behind pedagogical reform processes and lead students to the same qualifications as state schools.
However, the schools receive less money per student for their work than public schools.
Within the framework of fair competition between all schools, we demand the same recognition and financial support for independent schools as for state schools.
In turn, a school admission requirement ensures equal access opportunities for all children.
Money follows students - cross-state university funding
We Free Democrats are committed to securing the basic financial needs of higher education institutions in a way that stimulates competition for students.
Education vouchers eliminate the need for state calculation of training capacity and state setting of admission numbers.
If universities receive an amount for each student admitted that is commensurate with the cost of the program, then they will admit as many students as their capacity allows and, if successful, expand it.
They will only achieve sufficient numbers of applicants to select suitable students if the quality of the courses offered is good.
Only with the right balance between quantity and quality will a university's success be sustainable.
The quality of studies should not depend on the financial strength of the country in which the university is located.
To ensure good study conditions, we want to establish a nationwide fund.
Each country pays into this fund according to the so-called Königstein Key.
This means that a country's contribution is calculated proportionately on the basis of its tax revenue and population size.
For each student enrolled, the university receives a contribution from the fund.
So the money follows the students.
In this way, we achieve fair quality competition for students throughout Germany.
Digitization of education
Digitization opens up great opportunities for the world's best education: For individual learning according to one's own needs and talents.
For new methods that fit a wide variety of lifestyles.
For a new quality of education.
Let's finally make use of it!
1,000 euro technology investment per student
We Free Democrats want to invest an additional total of 1,000 euros per pupil in technology and modernization over the next five years.
New technologies and methods offer room for creativity and curiosity and are becoming increasingly important for later professions.
To take advantage of these opportunities, children need guidance in schools with appropriate equipment.
The technical upgrading of our schools requires a financial effort.
That is why we Free Democrats are striving for an international treaty between the federal and state governments that regulates the expansion of the digital infrastructure.
To this end, incentives are to be created for the municipal sponsors of schools to drive forward the integration of digital education by expanding digital infrastructures.
The states are being called upon to anchor digital education as a fixed component of initial and in-service teacher training and to make teachers fit to handle and use new digital media.
Media competence in the educational standards
We Free Democrats call for a focus on media literacy in the educational standards.
Thanks to the digital revolution, you have entire libraries at your fingertips at all times.
But information doesn't become knowledge through search engines, and the many digital channels can also quickly lead to overwhelm.
In the digital age, news is always, everywhere and immediately available.
People must learn to form their own informed opinions from this.
This is based on the ability to separate the wheat from the chaff and critically scrutinize sources on the basis of sound specialist knowledge.
This includes teaching media and methodological skills from an early age.
This also includes an understanding of how information technology systems, artificial intelligence and computer language work.
Accordingly, modern concepts such as "open book tests" or Internet-enabled devices should also be allowed to be used in examinations in the future.
Teachers are to receive mandatory further training in the area of media competence.
Lifelong learning with online tools
We Free Democrats are committed to lifelong learning.
Combined learning in particular offers many opportunities for this through the combination of face-to-face teaching, online self-learning units and practical phases.
Each person responds to different methods and only draws the best result for himself from the variety of offers.
The combination of different forms of teaching teaches and uses the handling of different methods and learning channels.
Education in Germany is thus being shaped for the future by learning with digital media and about digital media.
We therefore also support innovative educational platforms along the lines of the "Open University," to
which every citizen should have access, regardless of their formal level of education.
Their educational content is to be made available online in the form of "Massive Open Online Courses" (MOOCs).
A standardized evaluation and certification system is designed to enable employers to recognize these courses.
We also want to examine the extent to which online certificates acquired in the context of a MOOC can be recognized as course work.
World's best teachers for world's best education
The world's best education for everyone only works with the world's best teachers.
For this, we need the right framework conditions.
Only then will the best rise to the challenge of the teaching profession.
Let's take care of it!
Incentives, selection and training of teachers
We Free Democrats demand better incentives, selection and training of teachers.
Because the best education in the world needs the best teachers in the world.
Only with the right incentives do committed and motivated young people choose the teaching profession.
This requires the best framework conditions and our appreciation.
This includes paying better teachers better.
In training, we focus on professionalism, practical relevance and strengthening diagnostic skills.
Through an early practical phase, students should recognize in good time whether the profession suits them and what they really need in everyday life in front of the class.
We call for an assessed practical phase with advice on prospects for changing careers if it is apparent that someone is not suited to the teaching profession.
In their training, prospective teachers are to be prepared for the advancing digitalization and internationalization.
We also want to improve the framework conditions for lateral entry into the teaching profession.
To this end, we call for in-service postgraduate courses and resources for the supervision of lateral entrants in schools by experienced teachers.
We want to give local school administrators more freedom to make decisions about hiring lateral hires.
Regular in-service training for teachers should be mandatory.
Digital competence counts
We Free Democrats want the best teachers for our children and also in adult education.
Whether in new technologies, internationality or practical experience - we want to broaden the horizons of teachers.
Teachers must not be digital amateurs, but must be able to convey to children a desire for progress and technology.
Better pay and training for daycare staff
We Free Democrats are committed to better pay and training for daycare staff.
Daycare centers should nurture our children, not just keep and care for them - the motto "safe, clean, full" is too lowbrow.
Instead, sports and music activities as well as occupational therapy are to be integrated into the daycare operations.
This requires professionals who are trained to stimulate and develop children, identify their problems and nurture talents.
Educators must be appropriately qualified for this important task and should be paid appropriately for it.
Education for equal opportunities
World-class education for everyone ensures that all can freely develop their different talents and gifts.
The parental home or the living situation must not be the decisive factor, but commitment and performance.
Language support before school enrollment
We Free Democrats demand comprehensive language support for children before they start school.
Language is the central means of being able to participate in social life and in the classroom.
All children with language deficits must be given the opportunity to learn German before they start school.
This is the only way to ensure a successful and equal start to school life.
Teaching the basic skills of reading, writing and arithmetic in elementary school
We Free Democrats demand that the basic skills of reading, writing and arithmetic be taught in elementary schools.
Our aspiration for the world's best education includes ensuring that every child can read, write and do math.
This includes increased mental arithmetic as well as the elimination of the concept of "writing as you speak."
We require correct spelling from the very beginning of the learning process and the learning of a clearly legible cursive script.
Promoting performance and learning
We Free Democrats are committed to a new school and learning culture.
Our children have the right to be taught knowledge and to learn that achievement and learning are worthwhile.
Learning and good grades can even be fun if individual support is provided and it is clear that exams are not a condemnation but a check of the level of knowledge.
World's best education also for students with special needs
For us Free Democrats, students with special needs or limitations must also receive the best possible education and support.
After all, the claim to the world's best education does not only apply to the high achievers.
In our view, the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities should also be understood in this sense: The well-being of the child must be the focus and not general social requirements.
It's the individual child that matters.
The closure of special schools in which children could be supported according to their needs is a mistake, as this is usually not in the best interests of the child and is often carried out against the parents' wishes.
The goal of largely integrating children with special needs into mainstream schools is correct and has been pursued in Germany for decades.
However, the radical understanding of an uncompromising inclusion, as it is often demanded and practiced, does not take into account the support needs of the individual, nor the integration capacity of regular classes.
Common education is intended to provide the best possible support for all students.
We therefore demand binding basic standards for the best possible organization of joint teaching.
If these basic standards cannot be met, for example, due to a lack of specialized staff or equipment, no inclusive learning groups may be formed at these school locations.
Sport as the key to integration and inclusion
We want to let people from different backgrounds and with different facilities (people with physical and mental disabilities and people with a migration background) find each other in sports and games.
In doing so, we promote the outstanding work of sports clubs and professional associations.
Parent-independent training support
We Free Democrats are committed to a parent-independent education subsidy for pupils, trainees and students of full age.
Young people are independent personalities who want to choose their own educational path.
For them, the choice of education sets the course for the future.
Pupils, trainees and students should follow their talents and must be able to make their choice freely and without money worries.
For this reason, financing must not fail for anyone because of the parents' ideas or their income.
The funding consists of a grant of 500 euros and a loan offer.
The subsidy is refinanced by shifting tax benefits from parents to pupils, trainees and students.
For the portion granted as a loan, the repayment terms are to be based on subsequent income.
Scholarships for 15 percent of students
We Free Democrats strive for merit-based funding of at least 15 percent of students with scholarships.
Currently, only about five percent of all students in Germany are supported with a scholarship.
If we want to counter the shortage of skilled workers in Germany, our students must become qualified specialists.
Those who can focus on their studies graduate better.
We Free Democrats would like to ease the burden on students and strengthen talent and special effort by, among other things, supporting private initiatives and expanding the Deutschlandstipendium scholarship.
In order to enable school leavers to prepare better and earlier for their life after graduation, study and career guidance is to be intensified at all schools and supplemented by central information fairs.
Education Savings
We Free Democrats call for government support for education savings for lifelong learning.
So that everyone can follow their talents and realize their dreams, we want to give every citizen the chance to advance throughout their lives.
Education is the key to advancement, but it hardly comes for free.
That's why we advocate for education savings.
This means that for every euro set aside for education, there is a government subsidy.
In this way, parents can secure their children's educational path from an early age.
Education beyond the plate
World-class education for everyone is not just about subject knowledge or expertise.
World's best education for everyone always has society as a whole in mind.
Let's look closely and look ahead!
Refugees' right to participate in classes
We Free Democrats demand an immediate right for refugees to participate in classes.
In some federal states, compulsory education also begins with the stay.
In other countries, however, refugee children do not have the right to attend classes until they leave the initial reception facilities.
Education is the most important cornerstone for integration.
Therefore, we demand an immediate right to participate in classes throughout Germany, even if the duration of stay is unclear or only short.
Inspire enthusiasm for technical and mathematical subjects
We Free Democrats are committed to getting children excited about technical and mathematical subjects at a young age.
In Germany, we already have a shortage of skilled workers, which will be exacerbated by demographic change.
Germany, a nation of engineers, is in danger of running out of young tinkerers and inventors.
An early interest and a vivid explanation are crucial for a later career choice.
It is important for schools to have very good specialist training for teachers and to have specialist staff teaching the various science subjects.
We expressly want to promote and support cooperation with partners outside of school.
Promotion of popular and professional sports
We Free Democrats are committed to promoting mass and elite sports in Germany.
With its millions of club members and volunteers in the various associations, sport is Germany's largest civic movement for fair cooperation, active commitment and a healthy life.
Sport brings people together regardless of gender, age, social status, religious or political views, physical conditions, origin or sexual orientation.
It promotes preventive health, building community spirit and reducing prejudice.
Sport literally keeps Germany moving.
That is why we want to free volunteers from unnecessary bureaucracy, because sport depends on voluntary help - whether as coaches, support staff or in club and association management.
It must be attractive for sportsmen and sportswomen to engage in top-level sport for our country.
Together with the German Olympic Sports Confederation, the Bundeswehr, the police, customs, Sporthilfe and the top associations, we also want to promote high-performance sports in such a way that athletes can develop freely.
They must not be put at a disadvantage, especially in education and at work.
After all, top athletes inspire and encourage people to participate in sports as role models.
However, the following applies to both amateur and professional sports: only clean sports are eligible for funding.
Because doping is cheating the clean athletes, the spectators, the organizers and the sponsors and must therefore be combated in the long term.
However, the anti-doping law passed by the grand coalition fails to achieve its purpose.
That is why we support the work of the anti-doping agencies (NADA national and WADA international).
We want to step up research in this field and use technological innovations to enable smarter and more efficient controls.
However, checks on athletes must always be carried out on the basis of the rule of law and respect personal rights.
World's best education strengthens vocational training
World's best education for everyone holds the right path for everyone.
In the area of vocational training, Germany already has a form of qualification that has a global impact and offers numerous opportunities for advancement.
Let's continue to build on this strength!
Strengthen dual training
We Free Democrats are committed to upgrading and expanding dual training in Germany.
Today, it is unfortunately still common practice for vocational students to receive completely analog instruction, while their everyday work takes place throughout the digital sphere.
In the future, all apprenticeships must be taught exclusively with digital media and the subject of information technology must be an essential part of vocational training.
The dual education system in Germany is a model for policymakers around the world.
Nevertheless, many consider a university degree to be the only proper educational path.
In contrast, numerous studies show that the combination of practical work and theoretical learning is effective for trainees and just the right mix of knowledge and skills for companies.
This connection and individual support further contributes to a higher permeability of our education system.
We Free Democrats therefore want to strengthen our successful vocational education system, which includes dual training and higher vocational education degrees (for example: master craftsmen, specialized tradesmen and business administrators).
Excellence Initiative Vocational Education and Training
We Free Democrats are committed to an excellence initiative for vocational education.
In view of the already existing shortage of skilled workers, demographics and our competitiveness, we need to strengthen education and training.
Such initiatives already exist for higher education.
Colleges and universities are demonstrably benefiting.
We need this in Germany for vocational training as well.
After all, the shortage of skilled workers and the challenges facing the economy in the future cannot be solved by university graduates alone.
On the contrary: Germany needs more skilled workers with a dual apprenticeship than skilled workers with an academic background.
That is why every investment in vocational training is an investment in the future.
Dual training and digitization
We Free Democrats are committed to more digital education in dual training.
The wide range of offerings can be tailored precisely to the trainees' skills and the companies' needs.
Trainees can thus learn techniques and expertise from international specialists without leaving their place of work.
In addition, individual learning programs with digital support offer opportunities to learn independently and close gaps.
This ensures better trained personnel.
Exchange program also for trainees
We Free Democrats are committed to expanding European exchange programs such as "ERASMUS plus".
It is not only students who should benefit from European exchanges.
The participation of trainees and young professionals in European exchange programs must also be encouraged.
To this end, more information about existing programs is already needed in vocational schools.
We also want to introduce free movement of education as a new fundamental freedom to make it easier for young people to complete their education in other EU countries.
This is because, in addition to broadening professional knowledge, meeting many people from different European countries also contributes to mutual trust and a European awareness.
In this way, we learn to draw strength from our diversity for a common future in peace and prosperity.
History teaches us that we must not take this for granted.
Research benefits all
World-class education for everyone leads to excellent research that benefits everyone: The researchers, the teachers, the students and all interested parties.
Research needs freedom, that's the only way to make progress.
Everyone should be able to participate as far as possible in gaining knowledge.
Let's share our knowledge for more insight, new products and more enlightenment!
Accessibility of publicly funded research results
We Free Democrats demand public access to research results that are substantially financed by public funds.
Germany has strong minds in research.
To ensure that the general public can also benefit from the results, we advocate an open access policy: results and publications that have been substantially financed with public funds should also be accessible to the public, taking into account a right of first use.
Online access to teaching materials at public universities
We Free Democrats call for the online provision of teaching and instructional materials in connection with university teaching, provided that no third-party rights are infringed.
The digital revolution is also enabling a revolution in teaching and research.
Lecture recordings, livestreams or online access to research allow teachers and students to work on content flexibly and self-determined.
The new generational contract: downstream tuition fees
We Free Democrats believe that universities should be allowed to charge downstream tuition fees.
For us, tuition fees are fair as long as they are levied only after graduation and paid according to income, so that generations of former students contribute to improving study conditions via a reverse intergenerational contract.
Tuition fees can help universities modernize more quickly
and improve study conditions.
However, students themselves usually have little money and therefore must not be financially burdened during their studies.
After graduation, however, they usually earn more and find work more quickly than people without a university certificate.
Tuition may not be due until a reasonable income threshold is exceeded.
Paid downstream tuition fees are to be recognized as income-related expenses for income tax purposes.
Tuition fees must not flow into the general budget of the federal states, either directly or indirectly (for example, as cuts in higher education).
They must remain at the college attended as additional funding for teaching.
The use of these funds is to be decided in a committee in which all status groups are represented.
Start-up culture for universities
We Free Democrats demand support for start-ups at universities.
Students often have good ideas and the energy needed to start their own businesses.
However, there is a partial lack of support from the university.
So that our students are not slowed down, we demand help for student start-ups: For example, students should have the opportunity to take semesters off for start-ups and they should be able to learn about the possibility of starting a business at entrepreneurship chairs across disciplines.
Our universities also provide impetus for the economy.
In order to be able to generate knowledge and progress, universities must also be able to cooperate with other actors outside the university and, in particular, to conduct research together.
The often articulated blanket demand for strict separation of business and higher education negates this fact and is rejected by the FDP.
Getting ahead through your own performance
The great promise of the social market economy is that every person can improve his own situation with his own performance.
But more and more people are doubting whether this promise still holds true today.
A strong economy is a prerequisite for infrastructure, culture and a high level of social security.
But many people wonder whether Germany will still be as strong economically tomorrow as it is today.
Especially in a time of change, we must use the innovative forces of the social market economy, which relies on the ideas of the many entrepreneurs, and more freedom instead of bureaucracy.
So let's stop watching!
Let us ensure a society in which everyone can once again achieve their goals through their own efforts.
Let's open up fair opportunities so that everyone can give their best according to their possibilities.
Let's create the conditions for Germany to be an economically strong country tomorrow as well!
Driving forward start-up culture
In a time of change, newcomers are often quicker to recognize the opportunities hidden within.
They should therefore be encouraged to put their ideas into practice.
To this end, we want to strengthen the start-up culture in Germany.
Founding Spirit for Germany
We Free Democrats want to promote a culture of entrepreneurship and risk-taking.
To this end, we want to strengthen basic economic knowledge by introducing a school subject "Economics" across the board, make it
easier to finance business start-ups, and ensure that even failure always offers the opportunity for something new.
We want to cut red tape so that young companies can focus on their business instead of forms.
Administrative procedures for founders must be reduced to such an extent that it is possible to set up a company on a single working day and online.
This requires a central official contact point for founders.
In addition to making startups capable of doing business quickly, we therefore want to create a bureaucracy-free year for startups, for example.
In addition, part-time start-ups or start-ups from parenthood should also be facilitated.
They account for about one-fifth of all startups and offer great potential.
In addition, founders should not pay taxes before the first sales or profits have even been made.
In the case of trade tax, the so-called addition provisions can result in a tax burden even if no profits are generated.
We therefore want to double the allowance for trade tax in the first three years after formation, with the allowance for corporations corresponding to that for partnerships.
Because founders create the future.
They create jobs for themselves and others.
They create innovation and thus ensure dynamism throughout the economy and society.
We Free Democrats also want to free start-ups and micro-enterprises from being forced into possible multiple chamber membership.
Furthermore, entrepreneurs in sideline business below a business income of 10,000 euros per year (basic tax-free amount) are to be relieved of chamber contributions.
Better conditions for venture capital
We want to improve the tax framework for venture capital in Germany through a Venture Capital Act.
This is because young companies in Germany all face the same challenge: a lack of capital at the latest after entering the market.
The companies can only grow, develop successor products and internationalize with a corresponding financial injection.
However, classic bank financing is often out of the question for start-ups.
This gap is closed by venture capital.
International experience shows that venture capitalists make their investment decisions according to a regional bias: they prefer to invest where they are based.
That is why we want a venture capital law that comprehensively and holistically creates the best conditions for venture capital in Germany, including and especially in tax law.
We see the elimination of substance taxation - such as the add-back provisions in trade tax, transparent taxation for venture capital companies, fair taxation of investors who sell their stake, an end to the (tax) discrimination of equity capital against debt capital - as decisive points in the tax law area in this venture capital law, the tax deductibility of investments in companies, a standardization of the legal framework at least within the EU, no restrictions on loss carryforwards, the ability to account for investments in own intellectual property and the liberalization of capital collection agencies so that private investment capital can be used to a greater extent.
But it should also be made easier for institutional investors to invest in start-ups with venture capital: We therefore want to make it possible for pension funds, provident funds and insurance companies in Germany to finance start-ups along the lines of the "Zukunftsfonds Schweiz".
By bundling risks accordingly, venture capital can be given to promising, young and innovative companies that would be too risky for individual funds.
Improve corporate financing
We Free Democrats want to simplify the legal framework for corporate financing.
This is because young companies need money at the beginning to set up and expand their business model and to finance prerequisites for growth.
In addition to equity capital and the classic bank loan, innovative financing models such as crowdfunding are becoming increasingly widespread.
Many investors make smaller amounts available, which together, however, result in substantial financing.
That is why we want to adapt the rules for these investments, for example with regard to prospectus requirements or self-disclosure, so that they become less complicated and more attractive without neglecting investor protection.
Modern legal framework for modern business models
We Free Democrats want a contemporary legal framework for traditional and new business models such as the so-called share economy.
With its new business models, the share economy offers citizens additional choices to traditional products and services.
To harness the innovation potential of the share economy, we need a suitable framework that gives them the freedom to develop.
That is why we want to update existing regulations, for example on passenger transportation (including the cab market) or the use of residential space.
In the Passenger Transportation Act, provision is to be made in the future for the states to allow municipalities or certain regions to authorize passenger transportation services outside of a cab concession award.
In the future, a passenger transport license must also be issued to any applicant who has a police clearance certificate with no relevant convictions and passenger insurance.
We want to simplify the rental process for private landlords who do not rent out their property full-time in order to ensure the contemporary use of residential space.
Homesharing, i.e. the repeated short-term rental of the apartment occupied by oneself during one's own absence or parts of it during one's own presence, is not to be equated with professional vacation rental.
Consequently, the existing regulations should be reviewed and adapted in favor of less bureaucracy and more proximity to citizens.
At the same time as a modern legal framework for new business models, however, traditional companies also need more room to maneuver in order to be competitive.
That's why we want fair rules for everyone: clear rules for the newcomers and less bureaucracy for the established ones.
So in the end, it is the customers - all of us - who decide the fair competition for the best product.
Making opening hours more flexible
We Free Democrats are committed to flexible store opening hours.
In our modern, digitalized reality of life, fixed statutory opening hours seem antiquated.
To make it possible for traditional retail stores to sell their goods around the clock rather than just online providers, we are advocating flexible store opening hours: Every store should be able to decide for itself when it opens and closes.
We want to lift the general ban on retail sales on Sundays.
We also want to lift other bans, such as offering services on Sundays and holidays.
Simpler rules for small and medium-sized enterprises
We Free Democrats want simpler rules for small and medium-sized enterprises.
This is because small and medium-sized enterprises, craftsmen and freelancers offer most people in Germany a job or training position.
As a rule, they have neither legal nor tax departments.
The more complicated tax, social security or labor law becomes, the more it acts as a tactical disadvantage in competition with large corporations.
This is where we want to remedy the situation.
Simpler social security law
We Free Democrats want to simplify the rules in the area of social security obligations.
Therefore, we demand the withdrawal of the early payment of social security contributions.
This is because currently employers must estimate the expected social security contribution for the current month and deduct it before the wage payment is due.
In the following month, the declarations are then to be corrected according to the actual charges.
The result is that, in effect, 24 rather than twelve monthly statements must be prepared each year.
For young companies in particular, this is a huge burden.
If, on the other hand, the due date for social security contributions coincides again with wage payments, the bureaucratic burden can be halved at this point.
ACTUAL taxation in the sales tax
We Free Democrats want to enforce the principle of ACTUAL taxation for sales tax in Germany.
As a rule, companies in Germany are subject to the so-called SET taxation.
In this case, companies must pay the sales tax for an order to the state, regardless of whether the customer has already paid.
Therefore, at the moment, a company can apply to pay VAT only after the customer has paid - the so-called ACTUAL taxation, which we want to make a principle.
The prerequisite for the application for ACTUAL taxation is currently that the turnover of the company in the previous year did not exceed 500,000 euros.
However, with regard to start-ups, this threshold is too low.
Digitization and the dynamics of new products can quickly push sales above this threshold.
Therefore, as long as the principle of ACTUAL taxation does not yet apply, we want to increase this threshold significantly.
Subsidy brake for the federal budget
We Free Democrats want to introduce a subsidy brake for the federal budget and review all government subsidies.
To this end, all subsidies are to be determined separately from the federal budget in the future and gradually phased out.
After all, the state intervenes far too often in economic processes by paying companies and consumers money or granting tax breaks for certain behavior.
Such subsidies usually benefit only a few and harm the common good.
For example, the purchase premium for electric cars.
Only large automotive groups benefit from this.
It is the taxpayers who have to pay for it.
Medium-sized company clause for the federal government
We Free Democrats want to introduce a binding middle-class clause at the federal level.
Accordingly, all laws and regulations are to be examined with regard to their impact on small and medium-sized enterprises.
After all, SMEs are the backbone and the future of the German economy.
More than 99 percent of all companies in Germany are small and medium-sized enterprises.
Around 60 percent of all employees subject to social insurance contributions work there.
Most apprentices also learn in small and medium-sized companies.
New laws and regulations must therefore do justice to this special significance of small and medium-sized enterprises in Germany.
Foreign trade policy for small and medium-sized enterprises
We Free Democrats have understood that the global upheavals are of great concern to medium-sized industrial companies in particular.
We therefore want to enable small and medium-sized enterprises to serve new markets quickly and unbureaucratically.
We therefore need a "small ticket" solution under the Hermes guarantee program to cover orders under five million euros.
We are calling for a noticeable reduction in foreign trade bureaucracy so that, for example, identical and time-consuming duplicate checks by BAFA and customs are eliminated in export control.
We want to draw on the experience of industry in the respective country when negotiating double taxation agreements and ensure that foreign orders do not increasingly turn into loss-making transactions in retrospect as a result of aggressive taxation abroad and deter SMEs in the long term.
Agriculture that pays
We Free Democrats want the positive developments in agriculture to be used so that agriculture can generate its revenues on the market with a secure future.
We will critically monitor greening as a link between direct payments and public services with a view to practicability and bureaucracy.
We want to make it possible for agricultural and forestry enterprises to set up a tax-exempt risk compensation reserve so that they can make independent and self-determined provisions for the crises typical of the "workbench in the open air".
This makes them less dependent on expensive public liquidity and rescue programs.
The recent price crises in the industry have also shown that we must once again ensure fair competition and market-based pricing throughout the food retail value chain.
To this end, we want to strengthen antitrust abuse supervision and merger control, modernize the rigid supply relationships between cooperatives and producers by reforming cooperative law, and strengthen internal cooperative democracy.
Exploiting the opportunities of digitization
Digitization is the most revolutionary change in our lives since the transition from an agrarian to an industrial society.
We Free Democrats see ourselves as advocates of the new opportunities offered by digitization.
We focus primarily on the potential for greater prosperity
and better living and working conditions.
Digital Single Market for Europe
We Free Democrats want the European digital single market.
Because according to the European Commission's estimate, this could generate 415 billion euros a year and
create hundreds of thousands of new jobs in Europe.
However, unlike what we are used to in Europe with goods, services and capital, there are obstacles to crossing borders in the digital domain.
Member states all have their own digital market with different regulations.
We want to change this by removing regulatory barriers without compromising the principle of freedom of contract.
In a common single market, for example, it cannot matter from which location consumers access Internet sites, for example to book a hotel for a vacation or to store in an online store.
Unjustified access barriers are erected in the digital single market.
Open Data and Open Government Strategy
We Free Democrats are calling for an open data and open government strategy for Germany.
Open data and open government mean that non-corporate or non-personal administrative data is published in machine-readable form and made freely accessible.
Such disclosure leads to greater transparency as well as greater opportunity for public participation.
Because only if citizens are informed can they also participate in the public discussion.
For companies, publicly available data can provide valuable information on sales markets and location decisions and enable novel and attractive offers for customers.
According to studies, this can generate up to 43 billion euros in value added and 20,000 new jobs.
We must seize this opportunity.
Making competition law fit for digitization
We Free Democrats want to make competition law fit for digitization.
In rapidly growing digital markets, the expected economic power of the merged company must also be taken into account.
One indicator of this is the transaction value, which reflects sales and profit expectations for the future - for example, when companies that are still small in terms of sales are bought for billions as they open up access to data and communication channels.
We are therefore in favor of merger control by the national and European antitrust authorities taking effect not only when certain turnover thresholds are exceeded, but also when specified transaction values are exceeded when a company is acquired.
Here's an example: The provider of the app "WhatsApp" had about 50 employees and even posted losses on annual sales of about $10 million.
Nevertheless, Facebook acquired it in 2014 for $22 billion because it already had access to around 450 million users and their data at the time.
Modern copyright
We Free Democrats want a modern copyright law that also takes into account the legitimate interests of users and investors.
Effective copyright protection is a necessary condition for creative activity and for investment in its economic exploitation.
Copyright conveys a protection similar to ownership.
In the course of digitization, it is becoming a key right for the creation of creative content and must ensure, especially in the digital world, that the proceeds from the exploitation of creative works accrue to the authors and other rights holders.
Complex works, whose creation often requires a large number of contributors and high investments, would not be possible in the digital world without copyright protection.
We therefore want a copyright law that enables simple rights acquisition and the unbureaucratic and transparent participation of authors in the exploitation of their works.
This also opens up the possibility for start-ups to easily and legally securely acquire the necessary licenses to be able to earn money with their investments and with the dissemination of intellectual achievements.
We Free Democrats are focusing above all on technical solutions that
make it possible, better than today, to automate the authors' decision on the "whether" and "how" of a permitted use and to give the authors a share in the exploitation of their creative creations.
We recognize the role of collecting societies in simplifying the administration of rights,
but we believe that competition should be strengthened here, including in the form of joint remuneration rules for rights holders.
Promoting network neutrality and innovation
We Free Democrats are committed to net neutrality.
This means that all data packets on the Internet have equal rights.
This ensures that no opinion is discriminated against and that new ventures are granted market access.
We want to protect this equality of opportunity while enabling new quality-assured services.
Their non-discriminatory design must be safeguarded under competition law.
Modern mobility needs modern infrastructure
Mobility is part of personal freedom.
Every individual, society and the economy, depends on a modern transport infrastructure.
But traffic jams, broken roads and missing connections are omnipresent.
Freedom also includes being able to decide for oneself which means of transport to use and to try out new mobility concepts.
Let's clear the way.
Investments in transport infrastructure
We Free Democrats want to increase federal investment in transportation infrastructure, ending years of underfunding there.
Today, we are losing far too much of our lives and working hours because roads, bridges and railways are not being renovated or upgraded: Every year, the state collects over 50 billion euros in taxes and duties from road traffic.
But only about one-fifth of that goes to transportation investments.
In view of crumbling roads and bridges, that is too little.
The federal government must provide significantly more funding for transportation routes.
And not only for federal highways or trunk roads, but also for rail-based public transport.
We also want the federal government to pay two billion euros into a fund for the rehabilitation of transport infrastructure in each of the next 20 years.
After all, local and state governments alone cannot eliminate the backlog of road rehabilitation projects.
The planning of important transport projects in Germany takes too long and is often inefficient and expensive.
We Free Democrats want to optimize the planning processes and increase transparency in connection with the use of the right of association.
Calculations and forecasts show that the passenger car toll decided by the Grand Coalition is disproportionate.
It is expected that administrative costs will even exceed revenues.
That is why we reject the passenger car toll.
Separation of network and operations in rail transport
We Free Democrats want to make the network division of Deutsche Bahn AG independent and thus separate network and operations.
After all, only genuine competition on the rail network will ensure that it is used efficiently and that customers receive the best offers.
At the moment, however, Deutsche Bahn can put other competitors at a disadvantage.
This is because it operates almost the entire German rail network.
There is thus an incentive to make it more difficult for competitors to gain access to the rail network in favor of their own transport companies.
The Monopolies Commission noted this several times in its special reports.
That's exactly what we want to change.
To this end, we will also separate network and operations at Deutsche Bahn in terms of ownership.
Subsequently, the operating companies are to be floated on the stock market, while the infrastructure and network companies will remain the property of the federal government.
Profits of infrastructure and network companies are reinvested and not used to balance the federal budget.
Digitization offensive in the transport sector
We Free Democrats are committed to a digitization offensive in the transport sector.
In this way, we want to put transport in this country back on the fast track with more digitization.
Whether on the road, rail, over water or in the air - intelligent transport systems and Mobility 4.0 with fully automated and autonomous driving offer great opportunities everywhere:
Innovative new developments in transport must not be hindered by existing monopoly regulations.
We Free Democrats see autonomous driving as an opportunity for self-determined mobility and social participation for those whose mobility is currently restricted.
Drones are an opportunity especially for rescue operations in rural areas.
Therefore, we call for the abolition of the currently existing legal restrictions on drones in connection with rescue missions.
We also demand that local and long-distance public transport must make its current timetable data available in standardized, machine-readable form, freely usable by the public.
Traffic control must also finally be modernized to avoid unnecessary congestion.
Among other things, we want to drive forward the expansion of intelligent traffic control systems: Traffic lights are to be increasingly controlled on demand and equipped with countdown displays, and green waves are to be implemented effectively.
We are in favor of allowing long trucks, provided the route is structurally suitable for them.
We reject a general speed limit on freeways and the further reduction of general speed limits (such as 30 km/h in urban areas).
Use of public-private partnerships in transport projects
We Free Democrats are in favor of public-private partnerships (PPPs) in the transport sector.
In this process, the state and companies cooperate
so that taxpayers can benefit from the efficiency, speed and flexibility of private-sector companies.
Economic viability must determine whether the project is implemented as a state-owned or PPP project.
By activating private capital, the rehabilitation and expansion of the transport infrastructure, which has been underfunded for years, can be advanced more quickly.
However, this must not be allowed to circumvent the debt brake for public budgets.
Accessibility
We Free Democrats demand more accessibility.
The opportunity to participate in all facets of life is a basic prerequisite for a self-determined life.
To enable older people and people with disabilities to participate in social life without hindrance, we need to break down barriers.
This also applies to digital offerings.
At the same time, digital offerings and systems are to be used to remove or reduce barriers.
To achieve this, urban development programs for accessibility must be implemented efficiently.
Accessibility is essential in the public sphere.
In the private sector, it is sufficient for many of those affected if some of the subsidized apartments are converted to be barrier-free and others to be barrier-free.
In this way, a greater effect can be achieved with limited resources.
This also means that the state must use open and free formats.
For us Free Democrats, accessibility is an attitude.
That's why we welcome every step in every area that removes obstacles and thus contributes to greater accessibility.
But we Free Democrats define accessibility more broadly: accessibility in the mind as well.
For example, we oppose any kind of discrimination, especially against older people.
Age limits must be a thing of the past.
We want a prejudice-free society with opportunities for everyone.
Broadband means gigabit
We Free Democrats want the federal government to sell its direct and indirect shareholdings in Deutsche Telekom AG and Deutsche Post AG in full.
After all, these former state-owned enterprises are now internationally active companies that can stand up to competition as global players.
They do not need to be and should no longer be controlled by the state in this form.
The guarantee for the Bonn site can be maintained in a different way.
In addition, there is a conflict of interest for the federal government: as the regulator of the telecommunications and postal markets, it would have to ensure fair competition.
As a shareholder in the largest companies, on the other hand, he has an interest in a high dividend and therefore an incentive to favor these companies in the regulatory process.
The proceeds from privatization could be used to strengthen the necessary infrastructure for the gigabit society so
that Germany can finally catch up with other European countries in terms of technology.
We therefore intend to invest the proceeds from the sale of the shareholdings in full in the expansion of the fiber-optic network.
Providers of so-called over-the-top content, such as WhatsApp or Skype, are to be obliged to protect consumer rights to the same extent as traditional telecommunications providers.
This includes, among other things, the obligation to maintain telecommunications secrecy.
Culture gives roots and future at the same time
A lively discourse without restrictions is the basis for a free culture.
But in many countries, the cultural life of citizens is restricted, made accessible only to a minority, and censored.
We Free Democrats want to safeguard the diversity and freedom of cultural life in Germany and make it accessible to everyone in our country.
This explicitly includes the protection of minority and regional languages of the EU Language Charter.
Let's strengthen liberal culture!
Strengthening cultural education
We Free Democrats are committed to strengthening cultural education.
The cultural (mediation) offer must not be limited to children and young people, but applies to people of all ages and with very different life backgrounds.
We aim to establish a ten percent share of the annual budget of public and publicly funded cultural organizations for cultural education.
This can ensure that cultural life in Germany retains its social relevance.
No state interference in property rights - Cultural Property Protection Act
We Free Democrats reject any unnecessary state intervention in property rights.
Therefore, we demand a withdrawal of those parts of the Cultural Property Protection Act (KGSG) that do not concern looted art.
We strongly advocate a free turnover of artworks and the greatest possible international mobility of artists.
An acquisition fund shall be established for the purchase of important works of art by the public sector.
We will continue to promote the restitution of looted works of art by supporting the institutions responsible for this.
Foreign cultural policy
We Free Democrats are committed to foreign cultural policy.
The diverse and open cultural life in Germany is a special flagship of the Federal Republic.
Art and culture therefore rightly deserve a special place in German foreign policy.
In addition to representative functions, they take on important tasks in international dialogue.
We therefore want to continue to promote the work of intermediary organizations such as the Goethe-Institut and the Institut für Auslandsbeziehungen.
Deutsche Welle plays an important role in this.
At the same time, we support the idea of developing a joint European Institute of Culture.
Coming to terms with the German dictatorships as an ongoing task
We Free Democrats know that coming to terms with and communicating the injustices of the two German dictatorships of National Socialism and the GDR remain an ongoing task.
We want to provide the memorial sites with sufficient funds and reach out to future generations through innovative mediation concepts.
Especially in school, it is necessary to convey why and how these dictatorships could come about, in order to let the up-and-coming citizens recognize current and future developments in these directions.
We want to turn the Stasi Records Archive into a modern, user-friendly archive within the structures of the Federal Archives, which will secure and facilitate long-term access to the files for victims and researchers.
We would like to further develop the office of the Federal Commissioner, especially in its significance for the victims of the SED dictatorship.
Modern agriculture
Advancement through one's own efforts must be possible everywhere, in the countryside as well as in the city.
50 percent of the population lives in the countryside.
Time for sensible policies that safeguard biodiversity and species-appropriate animal husbandry while supporting agriculture and forestry instead of hindering them!
Self-determination of farmers
We Free Democrats support agricultural entrepreneurs who can pursue their work in a self-determined and knowledgeable manner.
Therefore, we advocate for a practicable and agile fertilizer law.
The principle of nutrient supply to agricultural crops that is appropriate to needs and location will remain the yardstick for fertilization for us in the future.
Farmers must remain able to fertilize after withdrawal and balance.
We want to press ahead with the implementation of the National Action Plan for the Sustainable Use of Plant Protection Products without compromise.
This is because sufficient availability of various agents for crop protection and stock protection is essential in terms of a reliable supply of food.
In public discussions about certain active ingredients, what counts for us are not sentiments but comprehensible facts and, not least, the opinions of the Federal Institute for Risk Assessment.
We want to deal openly and transparently with new research directions in green biotechnology such as "genome editing".
We reject blanket bans and instead call for a fact-based, open-ended assessment of new technologies.
We also see great opportunities in digital innovations for agriculture: if,
If, for example, sensors can be used to measure the nutrient content in the soil and drones can be used for precise fertilization and pest control, farmers can control the use of fertilizers and pesticides much more specifically.
Ensuring sustainable forestry
We Free Democrats want to secure the future of sustainable forestry with its diverse functions for the economy, ecology and local recreation.
The National Forest Inventory, which records forest stands and their condition in Germany, shows that Germany's forests are managed in a near-natural way: German forests are managed in a near-natural way.
Therefore, municipal and private forest owners deserve policies that make it easy for them.
For this reason, we want to continue funding under the joint task of agricultural structure and coastal protection in order to balance the common good and support forestry associations to strengthen small private forests.
We want to promote the use of wood as a climate-friendly raw material through a targeted innovation and research program.
With a view to ensuring a reliable supply of wood as a raw material, the goal of the national biodiversity strategy to take five percent of Germany's forest area out of forestry use and leave it to its own devices needs to be put to the test.
Species protection and sustainable forest management in conjunction with old-growth and deadwood concepts, as well as other measures of contractual nature conservation, are by no means mutually exclusive.
Safeguarding biodiversity
We Free Democrats want to secure the future of biodiversity.
In doing so, we give preference to voluntary measures and property-friendly contractual nature conservation.
With this in mind, we plan to further expand the federal "Biological Diversity" and "Reconnection" programs launched during our time in government to preserve and connect habitats.
The hunting law should continue to place trust in the expertise and self-determined actions of hunters and respect the right to land ownership.
In addition to the legitimate interests of near-natural forest management and the regulation of game populations that this requires, we also want to control predatory and invasive species to protect healthy populations.
We therefore strictly reject an extension of the factual prohibitions in the Federal Hunting Act.
We want a fishery that conserves stocks and safeguards nature and animal welfare.
To this end, the bottom trawl fishery should be restricted.
However, we consider general fishing bans for recreational fishing (for example in Natura 2000 areas in the Exclusive Economic Zone of the North Sea and Baltic Sea) to be disproportionate.
The staple food fish is endangered by overfishing of the oceans.
We see modern and sustainable aquaculture as a key to solving this problem.
Therefore, the framework conditions for such aquacultures should be de-bureaucratized.
Species-appropriate animal husbandry and animal nutrition
We Free Democrats are committed to species-appropriate animal husbandry and animal nutrition.
We want to achieve desirable improvements in livestock farming through targeted agricultural investment support.
Rigid regulatory requirements or overly ambitious animal welfare certifications, on the other hand, overburden small farms in particular and thus accelerate structural change.
When it comes to the protection of pets, we follow the principle of "steering instead of prohibiting".
In this sense, we want to improve the expertise of pet owners.
We firmly reject models such as positive and negative lists that prohibit the keeping of certain species.
This is because they only lead to the criminalization of animal keepers and to a gray market, which ultimately only makes effective animal protection more difficult.
We want to harmonize the patchwork of cormorant regulations in Germany and launch a nationwide strategy for regulating the stocks.
We need population management for the cormorant that keeps species conservation in mind and serves the interests of people.
Modern environmental protection
Advancing through one's own efforts means acting responsibly for oneself and one's natural environment.
We counter the widespread symbolism and prohibitionist policies with optimism for progress through freedom and responsibility.
At the same time, we focus on the protection of natural resources.
Innovative circular economy
We Free Democrats want to improve the framework conditions for an innovative recycling and resource management and are increasingly focusing on waste avoidance and recycling.
The market-based principle of product responsibility, whereby the manufacturer of a product bears responsibility for its subsequent disposal, must be further strengthened.
In contrast to the general trend of calling again for a stronger role of the counties and municipalities, we trust above all in the efficiency and competitiveness of private waste management companies.
Blue growth
We Free Democrats are committed to "blue" growth because ecology and growth do not have to be mutually exclusive.
We want to protect the climate, the environment and resources intelligently - through innovative technologies and effective production processes.
It's not just about throwing away less, but reusing more.
This also opens up better opportunities for emerging markets.
Combat marine pollution
We Free Democrats are committed to addressing the international problem of plastic waste in the oceans.
To this end, it is necessary to create guidelines and incentives with international partners that serve this purpose, but also to pursue compliance with already existing laws more consistently.
Regional and global efforts are needed to reduce pollution in our oceans.
This also requires constant active cooperation between the relevant authorities worldwide.
In addition, illegal ship-generated waste must be punished much more severely.
Water protection
The Free Democrats stand for the protection of the most important foodstuff, water.
Above all, the protection of groundwater is existential for this.
Therefore, inputs (e.g. residues from agriculture, industry, mining as well as pharmaceuticals) must always be reduced where a hazard exists.
The polluter pays principle applies.
Flexible retirement provision for modern employment biographies
Advancing through your own efforts means taking life into your own hands.
This includes not only giving people their choices so that they can write their own employment biography in a self-determined way.
This also includes giving them more options to flexibly adapt their pension provision and retirement to their life path.
Let's get flexible!
More flexible transition to retirement
We Free Democrats want to enable all older people to make a flexible transition into retirement.
To this end, we want to abolish a politically fixed retirement age and supplementary income limits.
Whether 63, 67 or even 70 - rigid age limits for retirement have long since ceased to do justice to different lifestyles.
Flexible retirement in particular creates the necessary freedom to reconcile family and work.
Many older people today are fit and active for longer.
They want to pass on their experience or even try something new again.
Others, on the other hand, are no longer able or willing to work in old age.
Therefore, the simple rule should apply in the future: From 60, everyone decides for themselves when to retire.
Those who retire earlier receive a lower pension, those who retire later receive a correspondingly higher pension.
The only prerequisite for earlier retirement is that the income from the statutory pension and other old-age provisions is above the basic security level - in other words, that the subsistence minimum is secured.
As a consequence, it must be ensured that older people who work longer are not "penalized" in pension taxation by increasing the taxable pension portion.
The basis for the statutory pension must be the same in the east and west of our country.
The amount of the pension is calculated on the basis of the average life expectancy of the respective generation and may change over the years.
This year-specific factor ensures solid financing and a fair balance between the generations.
In this way, each generation bears its own costs and does not burden future generations with them.
We reject political intervention in the long-term pension formula.
This also includes a so-called pension guarantee.
Those who do not want to retire immediately but still work part-time should also have it easier than today.
At the moment, many people still have to accept pension reductions if they combine partial retirement and part-time work or if they want to work again after full retirement.
This makes working in old age unattractive for many.
That is why we want to abolish all supplementary income limits in addition to pension payments.
This allows everyone to make the transition to retirement as flexibly as they want.
And the constant discussions about raising the fixed retirement age are also superfluous.
Irrespective of this, we are committed to strengthening pensions for reduced earning capacity.
The federal government's current changes are not an effective solution.
After all, anyone who becomes unable to work due to a stroke of fate after years of paying contributions must not become a welfare case.
Retirement provision according to the modular principle
We Free Democrats want to organize old-age provision according to the modular principle.
Because the practical thing about building blocks is that you can always combine them in new and versatile ways.
This means that everyone can flexibly put together the pension plan that suits their life path.
It must become quite self-evident that an individual combination of different elements makes up the later retirement income.
It is essential to adjust the pension level in the statutory pension system to the fact that people in Germany are getting older and at the same time fewer.
Supplementary pension provision is indispensable as the only alternative to drastically rising contribution rates.
Company and private pension plans must therefore become more attractive.
For example, by making products more consumer-friendly and comparable.
In addition, supplementary pension provision should be placed on a broader footing.
To this end, all areas of subsidized pension provision should be expanded to include the option of investing in infrastructure, equities and other corporate investments.
In this way, the middle of society could also participate more in the opportunities offered by globalization and digitization.
Our professional life is also becoming more and more colorful.
Especially in the digital world of work, many new fields of activity and business ideas await.
Therefore, the professional situation of many people will also change more frequently.
You can switch more often between employment and self-employment, full-time and part-time, and domestic and international.
All of this must be possible without disadvantages for one's own retirement provision.
Those who want to switch from employment to self-employment, for example, must not be disadvantaged, but must be able to keep their Riester subsidies in the "pension building block," for example.
This should therefore simply be available to everyone in the future.
We Free Democrats want to preserve the professional pension funds and the possibility of establishing further pension funds in the long term.
Increasingly, former self-employed people are dependent on basic security benefits, which taxpayers have to pay for.
In order to prevent this risk, self-employed persons should in future make provision for basic old-age insurance.
This should lead to a level of protection above the basic security level.
All self-employed persons who are not compulsory members of an occupational pension scheme should have the freedom to choose their own form of provision.
In addition to this freedom of choice, we want to create far-reaching transitional provisions and grace periods for each start-up.
More overview through voluntary pension account
We Free Democrats want to offer all citizens a personal retirement savings account.
It is intended to clearly summarize how much pension one will receive in total later from statutory, company and private pension plans.
Anyone who wants to can easily set up this account online on a secure citizen portal.
Of course, everyone must retain control over their data and be able to rely on the highest standards of protection.
We believe that such a retirement account will lead to better and more comprehensive retirement planning.
After all, if you want to make adequate provisions, you need an overview of all the entitlements you have already accumulated.
The standardized pension account makes this easy: With just a few clicks, anyone can quickly determine how much their retirement income will be from all the elements of their "pension construction kit".
In this way, the account creates transparency at all times and reveals possible pension gaps.
Strengthening company pension plans
We Free Democrats want to strengthen company pension plans.
The current federal government's reform has fallen short.
It is limited to companies that are included in a collective bargaining agreement.
This will make it even more difficult for many employees, especially in small and newly established companies, to build up a company pension plan.
The benefits of the reform, such as liberalized investment rules and subsidies for low-income workers, are to be extended to all employees of all companies.
The payout of pension contracts must not be subject to contributions in health and long-term care insurance, because this represents an unfair double burden.
We want such a solution for all concepts of occupational and private pension provision.
The employee should be enabled to have the new employer pay into the existing pension contract in a new amount, if necessary, in the event of a change of employer.
Given the now more frequent changes in employment, waiting periods should be limited to two years.
Companies that still give guaranteed direct commitments to employees should be relieved of their existing pension obligations.
To this end, we want to extend the calculation period for the discount rate under commercial law from ten to twelve years and standardize the measurement of pension provisions in the commercial and tax balance sheets.
In view of the low interest rates, the current regulations lead to high burdens and unfair taxation for companies, which makes it difficult for them to continue to make direct commitments to company pension plans.
This is exacerbated by the fact that pension provisions are only taken into account for tax purposes up to the amount that would have had to be set aside at a market interest rate of six percent.
As a result, companies cannot claim a portion of their pension provisions under commercial law for tax purposes.
The state thus helps itself at the expense of companies by taxing fictitious profits.
To prevent this from happening in the future, we want to align the valuation of pension provisions under tax and commercial law.
Broader investment opportunities for capital collection agencies
We Free Democrats want to make it possible for life insurers, pension funds and provident funds to invest more and more easily in start-ups, shares or infrastructure projects.
This is because voluntary private pension provision will be indispensable in the future to maintain the standard of living in old age.
However, the European Central Bank's ongoing low-interest-rate policy is significantly reducing returns, as insurers, pension funds and provident funds are still limited in their investment options and therefore invest a large part of the capital they manage in fixed-income securities.
This makes private pension provision unattractive for savers.
However, especially in the case of long investment periods, as in the case of old-age provision, shares and alternative forms of investment could offer opportunities for a higher return.
The long-term planning horizon makes it possible to withstand temporary market fluctuations.
Life insurers, pension funds and provident funds should therefore be able to invest more in equities, infrastructure projects and company shareholdings, and the supervisory law must be adapted to this end.
This also offers the opportunity to mobilize capital for new business ideas or for Germany's underfunded infrastructure.
Activating the welfare state
Many great ideas, products and companies have been created because people pursued their goals and dreams.
Other people have limitations or have stumbled trying to move forward in their lives.
They often depend on society's help to get a fresh start.
Providing this help in an uncomplicated and fair manner is a matter of course in an open society.
The welfare state of the present, however, is bureaucratic, confusing and expensive.
Let's help rather fair, transparent and uncomplicated!
The promise of keeping up with change through continuing education
We Free Democrats are committed to the promise that all citizens will be able to keep up with the digital transformation through continuing education.
Digitization is changing our lives - and shaping the working world of tomorrow.
As with major upheavals in the past, we will not run out of work this time either.
Many jobs will change dramatically, and some professions may not even exist in the future - but just as many new jobs will emerge that we can't even imagine today.
The wave of digital start-ups is already showing us the huge job potential that exists.
But people must be accompanied in the change by good framework conditions and qualification, because the need for further training is and will be enormous.
We need a promise to all citizens that we will be able to keep pace with the digital transformation.
That is why lifelong learning must move even further from being a buzzword to becoming a reality.
This can improve opportunities for advancement
and avoid the risk of unemployment.
More and more companies are supporting the continuing education of their employees - but for two-thirds of the workforce, there is still a lot to do.
Therefore, labor market policy must also provide greater support for the continuing education of employees.
For example, it should be possible for all companies to receive a maximum of 50 percent funding for sensible continuing education measures within the framework of the BA's existing budget - unbureaucratically, in line with demand and oriented toward the market.
We do not want to spend more money, but ask with every euro whether it could not be better invested in qualifications than in transfer payments.
In order to support all citizens, regardless of their employment, in investing in their own further education on an ongoing basis, a simple and unbureaucratic model for educational savings must also be promoted through taxation, similar to building society savings.
Second chance - support for (re-)entry
For us Free Democrats, the will to succeed and the courage to fail are two sides of the same coin.
That is why we want to give everyone a second chance if they have failed economically or personally.
Failure or the threat of it can have many causes: the devaluation of qualifications in structural change, entrepreneurial failure, the failure of private life plans, illness or long-term unemployment.
We want to empower everyone to jump in again and again.
Those who are fit for work and have lost participation in work should not be permanently alimented, but should receive help to have another chance to participate.
This is a central issue of fairness.
The goal must always be to get back into a job as quickly as possible.
And if it makes sense on the basis of the personal situation to use unemployment as an opportunity to gain better qualifications, that is the right thing to do - and is already fully possible today with "unemployment benefit for further training".
On the other hand, extending the duration of unemployment benefit I is counterproductive.
Because only those who have managed to re-enter the labor market can also move up and advance.
Whether entering or re-entering the labor market, we defend a flexible labor market and the autonomy of collective bargaining and must not further restrict temporary work or fixed-term contracts, for example.
Flexibility in the labor market not only creates opportunities for entry, but also reduces job losses during crises.
In addition, we advocate for an overall concept of empowerment for adults.
Elements of this overall concept include the opportunity to retrain and reskill, assistance in reconciling family and work, effective debt counseling and, if necessary, psychosocial support (for example, in the case of addictions).
In the future, it will be necessary to make it easier to promote the basic skills of our time (IT basics, English)
and to reduce bureaucracy in degree-oriented retraining, especially in order to make it easier to catch up on dual vocational training.
In addition, special regulations should be found here so that people without professional qualifications also have the financial opportunity to leave helper jobs behind.
In addition, daycare centers must finally become more flexible and reliable so that single parents in particular no longer have to rely on the support of the solidarity community in such large numbers on a permanent basis.
Reduction of superfluous regulation in temporary employment
We Free Democrats want to dismantle superfluous regulations in temporary employment.
After all, Germany will continue to need a flexible labor market in the future.
The global economy is changing rapidly.
Project orders are increasing as a result of digitization.
Companies must respond flexibly to this in order to remain competitive.
Temporary employment is an important tool for this.
Companies can use it to absorb order peaks or find specialized skilled workers at short notice.
At the same time, employees benefit from temporary employment.
This gives many people an entry-level opportunity in the labor market.
The figures from the German Federal Employment Agency show this quite clearly: around two thirds of all temporary workers had not previously been in employment.
One in four has no vocational qualification.
For well-trained people, temporary employment in the digital world can also open up new paths - between self-employment and years of working for just one company.
Abuse has been successfully prevented in recent years: The collective bargaining partners have already found solutions to ensure that the wages of temporary workers on longer assignments are aligned with those of the permanent workforce (equal pay).
Nevertheless, the grand coalition has bureaucratized here.
The unnecessary legal regulations on the duration of temporary employment and remuneration lead to uncertainty and expense.
We want to change this.
Citizen's income
We Free Democrats are committed to greater transparency and simplification in tax-funded social benefits.
Currently, there are many different social benefits with very different requirements.
These benefits are often not sufficiently aligned with each other and with the tax system.
Who is entitled to which benefits is often not clear for the persons concerned and also for the administration.
The system is difficult to navigate and even partially penalizes people for taking up work.
For example, if the discontinuation of a supplementary social benefit means that less money is left over at the end despite working.
We Free Democrats therefore advocate the introduction of a liberal citizen's income.
Tax-financed social benefits, such as the standard benefit and the accommodation costs of unemployment benefit II, basic security in old age, social assistance for subsistence, child supplement and housing benefit, are combined in one benefit and at one state agency.
The liberal citizen's income makes it easier for all people who depend on society's help and no longer makes them run from office to office.
Getting a job is also more rewarding than it is today.
Self-earned income should only be counted as a percentage and to a lesser extent than today.
We want to build a solid ladder to financial independence: Particularly for people who have a hard time on the labor market, a part-time job in a mini- or midi-job is often the first step.
However, especially for people on the current unemployment benefit II ("Hartz IV Aufstocker"), it is hardly worthwhile to work more hours and thus earn more.
This is because the supplementary income regulations are demotivating and throw sticks between people's legs.
That is why we want to reform them as a first step.
In particular, it must become more attractive to switch from a mini-job to a midi-job and to increasingly expand the number of hours there.
This is the central legislative lever in reducing long-term unemployment that we must finally pull.
The goal is to make it worthwhile again to move forward step by step and at some point to stand entirely on your own two feet financially.
That is why we Free Democrats are backing the liberal citizen's income, because it makes our own efforts worthwhile again.
Therefore, the liberal citizen's income is not unconditional.
In order to keep mini-jobs attractive in the long term, the FDP advocates that the mini-job limit (today 450 euros) be set at 60 times the statutory minimum hourly wage (that would be €530.40 today) and that it develop dynamically with it.
Midi jobs should be adjusted accordingly.
New start in support for the long-term unemployed
We Free Democrats are calling for a new start in job promotion for the long-term unemployed.
This is because a large number of people have been unemployed for a very long time and are no longer reached by the traditional means of employment promotion.
To this end, we want to combine the existing financial resources in the basic benefits for the unemployed in order to make the principle of "training on the job" fruitful for the long-term unemployed and to better support work subject to social insurance contributions for those affected instead of unemployment.
Specifically, financial benefits from the federal government and local authorities (unemployment benefit II, costs of housing and heating, health insurance contribution) are to be combined with a wage paid by the employer that is commensurate with productivity.
For the previously unemployed, this means a job and more income than before.
The employer may also hire job seekers with reduced productivity.
The funds available to date for the labor market integration of the long-term unemployed will continue to be used for the accompanying promotion of job-specific skills and for psychosocial support measures.
We know that this concept has limitations and requires a targeted and precise selection of those affected.
The mistakes of previous models of wage subsidies must be avoided.
However, we see this path as a way of entering the primary labor market for those unemployed who cannot be brought into the primary labor market either with qualification measures and case management or with work incentives of the citizen's income.
Reform of the social security codes
We Free Democrats are committed to a sensible linking and interlocking of the various social security codes.
Particularly in an aging society, services for health and care, but also for people with disabilities in the event of illness or the onset of the need for care, must be better interlinked.
In addition, the social security codes should be streamlined.
This is because the lack of clarity leads to increasing bureaucratization, nonsensical controls and growing uncertainty among doctors, nurses and patients.
We want to make future social elections more democratic, transparent and effective.
We want to abolish one-size-fits-all lists and enable real choice.
The possibility of online participation must be created
and to ensure that the lists are drawn up simply and transparently.
Retirement provision must be worthwhile
We Free Democrats believe it is right to count only part of the income from private and company pension plans toward the basic old-age pension.
Even beyond the envisaged limits, pension provision is only to reduce the benefits from basic benefits on a percentage basis.
After all, voluntary pension provision must always pay off for everyone.
This affects, for example, many people who have been unemployed for a long time, worked part-time or earned little.
It cannot be the case that income from voluntary pension provision is fully offset against basic benefits - i.e. fully deducted.
We think: The incentive for additional old-age provision against old-age poverty must be maintained.
Those who make an effort and provide for themselves must have a retirement income above the basic security level.
And he must have more than the one who has not provided.
More self-determination for people with disabilities
People with disabilities should have freedom of choice about the individual organization of their own lives.
We demand the right to request and choose services for participation, e.g. free choice of place of residence and form of living, cost-neutral within a given budget.
We advocate for better participation opportunities in the primary labor market.
We want to make the personal budget easy to use and unbureaucratic, so that everyone can decide for themselves what they want to do.
People with disabilities should be entitled to all social security benefits regardless of the type of housing.
This must also apply to long-term care insurance.
Sensible immigration law
In an open society, it doesn't matter where someone comes from.
It is important where he wants to go together with us.
As an aging society, we rely on skilled and hardworking people coming to us from other parts of the world.
At the moment, however, there are no clear rules specifying the required qualifications.
Let's change that!
Clear rules through an immigration law
We Free Democrats want to create an orderly immigration law that, if possible, is summarized in an immigration code.
A clear distinction must be made between individual political persecutees, war refugees and permanent immigrants.
The fundamental right to asylum for individual political persecutees is inviolable for us.
We want to create a separate status for war refugees, a temporary humanitarian protection limited to the duration of the war.
This status is to be granted in a straightforward manner once the person's identity has been established, thereby massively reducing the burden on the asylum system.
As a rule, war refugees are supposed to return to their home country after the war has ended.
Permanent immigrants we want to choose ourselves like any other immigration country.
Germany is dependent on the immigration of qualified and hard-working people if we want to maintain our prosperity in the future.
To this end, we want to reform the Blue Card so that workers can come to us who can earn a permanent living on the basis of an employment contract concluded with an employer based in Germany.
We also want to create a points system where people from all over the world can apply to immigrate to Germany based on their level of education, age, language skills and professional qualifications.
Refugees who have integrated themselves appropriately should also be given the opportunity to change their legal status and thus have a chance to immigrate.
Of course, only if they meet the same criteria as skilled workers from abroad.
An orderly immigration law also includes functioning repatriation arrangements.
Those who do not have the right to stay must be consistently deported.
This must be ensured on a nationwide basis.
The tendency to deport already integrated refugee families due to the lack of an immigration system and asylum procedures that take far too long, while resourceful people take advantage of our system, is irresponsible from a humanitarian point of view, dangerous from a socio-political point of view and also a big mistake in economic terms.
We Free Democrats want to promote immigrants' talents, harness their potential and vision for the labor market,
and attract strong individuals to actively participate in society and volunteer work.
The current system of integration courses as a state minimum offer for already immigrated people does not meet the requirements of our modern immigration society.
We Free Democrats therefore call for a new, modular integration program that enables individual support according to personal needs in different stages.
Dual citizenship
We Free Democrats want Germany to have an immigration law and finally also a modern citizenship law from a single source - just like other successful immigration countries.
The existing challenges in integration strengthen us in this conviction.
For far too long, conservatives as well as the political left have ignored the need for binding integration.
Conservatives did not want mandatory integration because they did not recognize that Germany is an immigration country.
Leftists refuse integration because they persist in the naive belief that every immigrant is an enrichment per se and that integration succeeds by itself.
Both were a serious miscalculation.
We Free Democrats advocate binding integration, with the goal of immigrants becoming constitutional patriots and identifying with our open society.
We Free Democrats want dual citizenship to be possible in principle.
Therefore, German citizenship should no longer be revoked upon acceptance of another citizenship of another state, but only upon application of the person concerned.
Immigrants must be able to become German citizens without having to give up their roots and property in their country of origin, for example.
There must be binding conditions and a clear set of rules for naturalization.
The prerequisites are, in particular, good language skills, an unlimited residence permit for at least four years, the ability to secure one's own livelihood for the family, impunity, a passed naturalization test and, above all, an unrestricted commitment to the legal system of our Basic Law.
For us Free Democrats, it is clear that naturalization should be both the motivation and the goal of the naturalization process.
As before, dual citizenship is to be acquired by birth in Germany, but up to a maximum by the grandchildren of the first naturalized citizens.
This also creates consistency to the regulation in the case of emigrants.
In principle, all countries of origin outside the European Union should be treated equally in citizenship law.
Germans who cannot renounce their second citizenship for legal reasons must be able to keep their German citizenship.
Multiple citizenships must also be registered by the registration authorities.
Better recognition of foreign professional and educational qualifications
We Free Democrats want to accelerate the recognition of foreign professional and educational qualifications.
After all, rapid access to the labor market is doubly important: it is a cornerstone of successful integration
and provides the German labor market with urgently needed skilled workers.
Anyone who is recognized as a refugee in Germany or wants to come to Germany via controlled skilled labor immigration should therefore quickly learn what their degree counts for in this country.
However, too much time still passes in the recognition process because there are very many individual regulations and different responsibilities of the federal and state governments.
We want to change this by, among other things, speeding up administrative practice through more personnel and ensuring the nationwide comparability of foreign degrees.
In addition, immigrants and potential employers are to be given a legal right to prior counseling so that they can be specifically shown the path to recognition of their qualifications.
Especially those refugees who have a permanent perspective of staying must also be given faster access to the labor market.
Work bans and other market entry barriers such as priority examinations for Germans must therefore be lifted.
We also want to introduce an exemption from the statutory minimum wage for refugees, as we do for the long-term unemployed.
Test English as a complementary language of communication and work
We Free Democrats want to test English as a supplementary language of communication and work in public administration.
After all, contact with authorities is a regular feat for many foreigners.
It takes time to master the German language confidently enough to navigate the German bureaucratic jungle on one's own.
We do not want foreign specialists and company founders to be deterred by initial language barriers.
With English as a second language in administration, we therefore want to make it easier for immigrants to manage their administrative affairs and find out about their opportunities and obligations in Germany.
Equal opportunities for all - regardless of gender
When advancing through your own performance, only what you can do counts.
It should make no difference where you come from or what gender you are.
It should not make a difference in moving forward whether one has chosen to have a family or not.
Much remains to be done here.
Let's try harder!
Equal opportunities for women and men
We Free Democrats are committed to equal opportunities for women and men.
We want every man and woman to find suitable framework conditions to fully develop their own potential and to shape their lives according to their own ideas.
We are committed to ensuring that all parents are free to decide which working model they choose.
To help fathers and mothers better reconcile work and family life, we want to promote flexible childcare options, including in companies.
We want to abolish one-sided models, such as tax class V.
Flexible labor market for fair opportunities
We Free Democrats call for a flexible labor market that offers fair opportunities to both men and women.
A study by the German Institute for Economic Research shows that the biggest obstacle to "women in the boss's chair" is breaks in working life or phased part-time work.
To overcome these hurdles, we are committed to flexible working time models and digital workplaces.
This makes it possible to work independently of time and location, making it easier to combine family and job.
Furthermore, we want to encourage women even more to conquer classic male industries, whose jobs are usually better paid than those that many women traditionally take.
In this way, the wage gap between the sexes can be narrowed.
In the same way, societal obstacles must be removed when men take up supposedly female professions.
More women in management responsibility
We Free Democrats want more women in leadership positions, both in business and in the public sector.
Women are highly successful in corporate and other leadership positions, and mixed teams work more productively and successfully.
We therefore expect companies in Germany to significantly improve the proportion of women in management positions and will also work to achieve this in the public sector.
However, we reject a statutory quota: this degrades women to placeholders and does not honor them according to their achievements.
Instead, we rely on incentives for companies, binding reporting requirements and transparent voluntary commitments.
Self-determined in all situations
The meaning of all politics is freedom.
The most tangible form of freedom is a self-determined life.
This also applies to a world in which many life situations are changing - through technology, demographic change or modern medicine.
Today, however, many people have the impression that politics wants to educate and patronize them rather than provide a framework for self-determined decisions.
They are concerned that, whether in the digital or analog world, there is more and more unfounded surveillance that threatens their privacy.
So let's stop watching!
Let's ensure that people can act independently in all situations.
Data protection in the digitalized world
Digitization is both an opportunity and a challenge for the free, self-determined decision of each individual.
For example, if you cannot defend yourself against the misuse of personal data and the state fails to provide you with the means to do so, your free, self-determined decision is at risk.
Let's protect the self-determined decision!
Power of disposal over personal data
We Free Democrats want citizens to have control over their personal data.
No one should be able to use them against their will ("opt-in").
This requires transparency: everyone must know who stores and accesses personal data, when and why.
Those who have decided to give government or private agencies access to them must continue to maintain control ("right of access").
It must be possible to verify whether users are complying with the legal framework.
Sensitive data should only be stored outside the reach of German authorities and courts on servers outside the scope of the EU General Data Protection Regulation if the level of data protection and data security there essentially corresponds to that of the EU Data Protection Regulation.
Cybersecurity
We Free Democrats want to ensure cybersecurity.
Protecting the digital infrastructure effectively is a government task of the first order.
Encryption technologies must be further developed in close cooperation with the companies active here, as must the security of storage and access systems.
Self-determination on the Internet of Things
We Free Democrats want data-related business models and self-determination on the Internet of Things not to be mutually exclusive.
Where non-personal data is collected and stored in or by machines, not only the manufacturers of the equipment and service providers of the services should have a right to use the data, but also the users of the machines themselves.
We want to create a right to use this data that enables all stakeholders to use the data obtained for their own benefit.
In this way, we want to reconcile social progress with consumer protection and data sovereignty.
Our goal is to ensure that innovation remains possible without unintentionally sacrificing privacy.
Privacy protection
For a self-determined life, people need to rely on keeping private things private.
Anyone who wants to protect their most intimate area of life from being viewed by companies or the state should not be forced to do so, tricked or spied on anyway.
Let's keep private things private!
No collection and storage of personal data without any reason
We Free Democrats fight against any collection and storage of personal data without any reason - be it due to data retention, air passenger data collection or automatic license plate recognition with permanent data storage.
Because more stored data does not create more security.
Apparently, the problem is not a lack of data either, but a lack of personnel to follow up on the tracks: A large proportion of the terrorists who carried out assassinations in Europe in recent years were known to the authorities - and yet they were able to commit their crimes.
In order to prevent this, it is not necessary to collect even more data of blameless citizens without any concrete reason.
It makes more sense to specifically identify threats and monitor them seamlessly.
Against complete surveillance of innocent citizens
We Free Democrats do not want uninterrupted surveillance of innocent citizens, whether by German security authorities or foreign intelligence services.
That's why we want to significantly restrict both the options for radio cell searches and inventory data retrieval.
Both are to be possible in principle only if a court permits it.
This is because both encroach deeply on fundamental rights: Radio cell interception allows law enforcement authorities to collect the traffic data of all mobile subscribers who have been in a defined area during a specific period of time.
By means of inventory data disclosure, authorities can determine, for example, who owns a telephone number or to whom an IP address was assigned at a certain point in time for the purposes of criminal prosecution and danger prevention.
Together with the newly formulated data retention, this can be used to create exact movement profiles.
For us, this is an unreasonable encroachment on the fundamental rights of many people.
Even the fight against terrorism and crime does not justify the complete surveillance of blameless citizens.
Freezing traffic data for specific reasons instead of data retention
We Free Democrats do not want telecommunications companies to store everyone's traffic data without any reason - even against their will.
We therefore firmly reject the data retention that forces them to do so.
We are convinced that free communication between people is not compatible with this obligation to store data across the board.
For effective law enforcement, it is sufficient if traffic data stored by telecommunications companies for other reasons can be used in specific cases of suspicion.
If a law enforcement agency suspects that it needs this data to investigate a crime, it should therefore be able to order that it be temporarily "frozen".
Whether the data is actually made available to the investigators ("unfrozen") is then decided by an independent court, in particular in compliance with the principle of proportionality.
Cash is coined freedom
We Free Democrats are committed to the unrestricted use of cash as a means of payment.
Cash is part of our freedom.
It allows us, for example, to store money without government control and supervision, to conduct business without bank fees, and performs a valuable task in educating our children.
After all, the best way to learn how to handle money is with bills and coins.
There is no evidence that banning or restricting the holding of cash would combat terrorism or crime.
We Free Democrats therefore call for the preservation of cash.
Effective safety authorities
People want freedom and security.
But those who sacrifice freedom for security will lose both in the end.
That is why we want effective security authorities who understand security as the protection of freedom.
They should be objectively enabled to fulfill their legal mandates with adequate equipment and professional organization.
That is better than symbolically discussing tighter laws every day, which in the end only cost freedom
and which no one effectively implements anyway.
Budget priority for police and justice
We Free Democrats demand budget priority for police and justice.
Significantly more money must be made available for these two classic sovereign tasks of the state.
Together with education, science and infrastructure, they must take priority over ideological and expensive prestige projects that cost a lot of money but do nothing for people.
A state that gets bogged down in trivialities but neglects its core tasks loses its ability to act.
This also has consequences for the rule of law: investigations are discontinued due to work overload and the duration of proceedings increases.
It is high time for a rethink at the federal and state levels.
We Free Democrats are convinced that reasonable staffing and material resources for the police and judiciary are the most effective weapons in the fight against criminals.
State-of-the-art equipment and technology for the judiciary and police
For the police and judiciary, we Free Democrats want state-of-the-art equipment.
More speed is therefore needed in the digitization of the police and judiciary.
In this way, procedures can be accelerated and superfluous bureaucracy reduced: Online complaints and electronic file management (e-justice) save time and money and facilitate the exchange of information, for example between the Federal Office for Migration and Refugees and the courts.
A police force equipped with smartphones or tablets can check personal details or record reports directly in the field.
Judges and public prosecutors need ongoing training in the IT sector in order to be able to combat cybercrime effectively.
The rule of law must be better organized than its enemies.
This requires state-of-the-art technology.
After all, the offenders have them too.
Relieve safety authorities of incidental issues
We Free Democrats want to relieve the security authorities of side issues.
We subject their activities to a comprehensive task critique.
The police, in particular, must be given the necessary freedom for their central tasks - the protection of life, limb and property of citizens.
In many areas of police work, it is possible to reduce bureaucracy and reduce the workload: the blood test for accident-free driving under the influence of alcohol could be abolished, cannabis could be released in a controlled manner, or responsibility could be shifted to other authorities for disturbances of the peace, traffic accidents without injuries, escorting heavy transports and property protection.
We want to examine all of these avenues.
The same applies to so-called "victimless crimes," i.e., crimes with no injured party.
Here, it must be clarified whether prosecution is necessary at all.
In addition, we will take a look at the ever-growing administrative and white-collar criminal law.
This trend must be stopped and, if possible, reversed.
Reform of the security architecture in Germany
We Free Democrats want a reform of the security architecture in Germany.
Because at the moment too many authorities are responsible for our security: the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution, the Federal Criminal Police Office, the State Offices for the Protection of the Constitution, the State Criminal Police Offices, the Military Counter-Intelligence Service, the Customs Criminal Police Office and others.
We want to streamline and strengthen these structures.
Clear delimitation of competencies without duplication of responsibilities is the goal.
At the same time, security authorities must be able to cooperate more closely and share information more easily when appropriate legal conditions exist, such as an initial suspicion of a crime.
This is necessary for the protection of the population.
For this, there must be a functioning coordination office and uniform (among other things, training) standards at the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution and the state offices.
In particular, the use of undercover agents and its design, as well as the regulations on the exchange of important information, must not differ between federal states.
This is because anti-constitutional efforts do not stop at national borders.
In addition to increased coordination and cooperation, the possibility of division of labor should also be explored, especially due to lower performance of the smaller state offices.
For example, Hamburg could take on special tasks and in return would be relieved in other points by, for example, Lower Saxony and Schleswig-Holstein.
We Free Democrats know: A democratic state in particular must protect itself.
This makes well-organized intelligence work essential.
More efficient control of safety authorities
The security authorities need more efficient control.
For them, too, there must be no lawless spaces.
That is why we want to strengthen the parliamentary control body and the so-called G 10 Commission.
The Control Board is assisted by a Parliamentary Intelligence Commissioner, who is elected by the German Bundestag and takes over the investigative work.
Both - the control body and the commissioner - receive sufficient material and personnel resources to fulfill their control function professionally.
They shall be granted unimpeded access to the intelligence services at any time without registration, as well as free on-site inspection of files.
In addition, the control body is to be given the rights of an investigative committee, if necessary, along the lines of the defense committee, and is to be able to summon intelligence officers at the request of at least a quarter of its members.
In the future, he may no longer be denied information.
This includes full information on the cooperation of the Federal Intelligence Service with foreign services.
The PCGr is to be able to report unlawful measures as well as to order the publication of confidential documents by resolution.
Moreover, the control body should include not only domestic politicians, but also members of the Foreign Affairs and Defense Committees.
We want to extend the G 10 Commission's remit to cover all telecommunications surveillance - including outside Germany.
These measures are not directed against the intelligence services, but strengthen the legitimacy for their work.
After all, the privacy of blameless citizens and the trade secrets of law-abiding companies must be safe from spying.
In our opinion, a state that denies its citizens legal control over their actions and conceals restrictions on their freedom violates fundamental principles of the rule of law.
Therefore, every EU citizen should be informed of surveillance measures against him or her as soon as possible, but in any case after 30 years at the latest, and the regular legal process should again be open to him or her.
Using video surveillance responsibly
We Free Democrats want to use video surveillance responsibly.
The expansion of video surveillance is no more a panacea than it is a suitable means of countering terrorism.
Video cameras would not have prevented the attack on the Christmas market in Berlin, for example, but video recordings are certainly helpful in the follow-up to an attack and in the pursuit of fugitive perpetrators.
The FDP therefore advocates examining in each individual case whether a significant gain in security or a significantly improved possibility of prosecuting threatening crimes can be expected from the installation of further video surveillance technology.
We reject blanket video surveillance.
A prerequisite for the use of recording devices is that recordings are automatically overwritten after a short period of backup (for example 48 hours), so that they can no longer be reconstructed if there is no comprehensible reason for permanent backup by then, for example because they are used in a criminal investigation or for tracing purposes.
The focus should be on replacing outdated video technology that does not provide usable images of crimes due to poor quality.
The tendency to allow more video surveillance by private agencies in order to be able to use the recordings thus obtained for government purposes is viewed critically by the FDP.
Ensuring the safety of citizens is an original task of the state, and it also remains the task of the state to provide the material resources and personnel capacities required for this purpose.
Video surveillance must also not be a substitute for officers on the street and for the consistent enforcement of legal options already in place to provide security.
Respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law
We Free Democrats demand respect for fundamental rights, the rule of law and its laws from everyone.
With inner liberality and tolerance, there can be no discount for anyone.
The values of our Basic Law are not negotiable.
They guarantee gender equality, the protection of minorities, sexual identity and freedom of religion, which also includes the freedom to live completely free of religion or to take a satirical look at religions.
Even though deliberate vilification of people of other faiths or who think differently is not conducive to peaceful coexistence, we consider the blasphemy paragraph 166 of the German Penal Code (StGB) to be superfluous and want to abolish it.
There must be no tolerance for intolerance.
The order of the Basic Law is open to all who share its values - regardless of religion or ideology.
We expect from religious leaders a clear rejection of any religious justification for terror and violence and a commitment to respect and tolerance for those of different or no faith.
In our republic, group-based hostility toward people such as anti-Semitism and Islamophobia has no place.
Within the framework of this order, each person must be free to live as he or she sees fit; even if this may contradict the traditions of the majority society.
For we reject on principle when a majority tries to impose its culture on the individual, but respect each person as he is.
Freedom of religion and equal treatment of church, religious and ideological communities
We Free Democrats are committed to religious freedom and the equal treatment of church, religious and ideological communities.
For the freedom of the individual includes the search for the meaning and values of one's own life, which many people find in their personal beliefs and worldview.
Therefore, everyone should be able to practice his religion or follow his atheistic or agnostic convictions.
We therefore also reject, for example, a general ban on voluntary concealment, unless this is necessary in individual cases, for example in public facilities, for personal identification purposes or in accordance with assembly law.
At the same time, any private pressures that force women to behave in a certain way must be pursued more consistently.
and protection against domestic violence should be improved.
For us, the orientation to the Basic Law is central to any practice of religion.
Where the Basic Law as the objective set of values of our society is disregarded and laws are violated, tolerance and respect end.
There must be no understanding of religious or ideological fundamentalism.
In this context, we also reject influence from abroad through the funding of religious associations and institutions, such as by Turkey and Saudi Arabia with regard to certain mosque communities.
Modern working world
Living self-determined also means working self-determined.
Many companies and many employees have long since gone further than the state in this respect.
Many regulations of the industrial age slow down people and companies to work in a more self-determined and flexible way.
Let's change that!
Promotion of long-term accounts
We Free Democrats want to promote long-term working time accounts to enable more sovereignty in shaping one's professional life.
Both the world of work and our private lifestyles have changed in recent years and decades.
Very few of us start a job directly after completing our education, staying in that job until we retire.
Today, most people change their place of work or employer after a few years and look for new challenges at work or in their private lives.
To enable everyone to follow their own individual path in life, we need more freedom and more flexible instruments for this purpose.
A crucial element for this can be a long-term account - for example, for more breathing room in the "rush hour" of life, in balancing work and family, for postgraduate studies, or if you want to take a break with a sabbatical.
A long-term account (also called a value credit or time value account) works like this: During a work-intensive phase, employees accumulate overtime, bonuses, remaining leave and special payments.
These are converted into a value credit in the long-term account.
You can also save money through tax-free deferred compensation of parts of your salary and employer contributions.
All of this is already possible under the Flexi II Act, but penetration is still very low, especially in medium-sized companies.
The long-term account is to become independent of the employer, so that it can be transferred more easily than today and the credit can be used for all forms of time off.
Existing restrictions, for example in combination with parental allowance, are to be eliminated.
On the part of companies, we need to reduce bureaucracy and simplify implementation, for example with regard to reporting requirements and the accrual of vacation entitlements during sabbaticals.
In addition, there should be more freedom in the investment of capital.
In this way, we are making a big push for more time sovereignty and flexibility and making it easier to implement individual lifestyle ideas.
More flexibility in the regulation of working time models
We Free Democrats call for more flexibility in the regulation of working time models.
The digital world of work opens up greater scope for the modern world of work - in other words, when and where work can be done.
At the same time, a rethinking is taking place: Away from the time clock, towards project-oriented work.
Forms of work such as trust-based working time put the tasks in the foreground, not the hours spent at work.
That is why we want to make the Working Hours Act more flexible by abolishing the current limit on maximum daily working hours of eight or ten hours, as well as the eleven-hour rest period in non-safety-related areas.
Instead, only the maximum weekly working time of 48 hours is to be stipulated, as also provided for in the European Working Time Directive.
We do not believe that legal regulations and de facto barriers to mobile working, such as outdated regulations in the Workplace Ordinance, make sense.
We need to reduce bureaucracy in occupational health and safety for home office workplaces.
As an employer, the public sector should take the lead in this area and proactively offer its employees the opportunity to work from home, provided that there are no urgent operational reasons for not doing so.
The freedom of contract between employer and employee must also be preserved.
Project-oriented work is calling previous regulations of labor law into question, and highly qualified, mobile people increasingly want free forms of work organization.
Policymakers must follow these trends and not interfere with the freedom of contract between employer and employee by imposing more and more restrictive requirements.
Old regulations of the industrial society also no longer fit into the new reality and must be reviewed for their suitability.
For a future-proof working world, these and similar regulations must remain in yesterday.
Positive criteria for self-employed
For us Free Democrats, freedom of contract between client and contractor must be preserved.
Modern positive criteria are needed to prevent freelancers from being classified as bogus self-employed, for example in the IT, engineering, management consulting or fee-based doctors sectors.
This is because the negative criteria applied to date in the status determination procedure are out of date and no longer fit a modern project economy.
The current procedure is lengthy, unpredictable in its outcome and thus offers neither procedural nor legal certainty for the parties involved.
For freelancers and self-employed persons, legal certainty must be created through positive criteria, in that the existence of a single or a combination of several criteria makes self-employment verifiable in a guaranteed manner.
In statutory health insurance, we want to base the assessment of contributions for the self-employed on actual income - anything else is unfair.
The patient in focus
The right to self-determined decisions does not only apply to the sunny side of life.
In emergencies or illness, the ability to decide freely is particularly important.
However, hardly anything in Germany is as thoroughly regulated as our healthcare system.
Narrow specifications take the focus off people.
A thicket of regulations restricts one's choices.
Let's put people back in the center!
More competition between health insurers
We Free Democrats want statutory health insurance funds to be able to compete more closely with each other on the services they offer.
After all, competition of this kind helps to ensure that patients receive good care and benefit more quickly from medical advances.
Bureaucratic, centralized solutions hinder efficiency- and innovation-enhancing competition, which must be flanked by a clear competition and antitrust law framework.
To this end, we want to expand the legal scope for contracts between health insurance funds and service providers in order to strengthen innovative forms of care.
The recipient's choice of service provider must not be restricted.
Contracts for hospital services must be possible beyond integrated care.
To this end, we want to introduce the instrument of quality contracts on a permanent basis and remove the previous restrictions to a few indications.
This is because these contracts enable health insurance funds to agree higher quality requirements with hospital operators in return for additional incentives, thereby promoting high-quality care for patients.
In addition, proof of cost-effectiveness should be waived for integrated and for purely outpatient contracts of special care if a special quality of care is achieved.
Free choice of health insurance
We Free Democrats stand for personal responsibility and solidarity in the health care system, in which the freedom of choice of the insured is guaranteed by the diversity of health insurance funds.
To this end, we advocate not only strong private health insurance (PHI) but also free statutory health insurance (SHI).
We reject the idea of a state-run compulsory insurance scheme disguised as "citizens' insurance.
State-organized and rationed allotment medicine leads to a drastic deterioration of care for the population in the long term and exacerbates the demographic problems of the statutory health insurance system.
Every citizen should be able to choose freely, regardless of income, whether he or she chooses to be insured by the statutory health insurance or by a provider of private health insurance.
We Free Democrats want to simplify the options for switching between statutory and private health insurance.
In doing so, we want to preserve the offerings of both systems, ensuring that each person has the opportunity to choose the model that best suits them and their lifestyle.
We also want to simplify the options for switching between statutory and private health insurance.
Both health insurance schemes must be developed in a future-proof manner.
Likewise, there must be return paths from private health insurance to statutory health insurance.
There is a need for reform in both systems.
If the market is opened up, private health insurance must be obliged to insure every applicant in the basic tariff.
At the same time, the possibility for every insured person to take age-related provisions with them when changing insurers within private health insurance must be improved.
The statutory health insurance funds are to be given more autonomy in terms of tariff options and service offerings in order to meet the increasingly individual needs of their policyholders.
There should be no discrimination or distortion of competition.
Consequently, the financing of so-called noninsurance benefits from federal subsidies, for example maternity and pregnancy benefits or family insurance for children and spouses, must also apply to all insured persons or to none.
Insurance companies should compete with each other in a fair and transparent manner.
To ensure this, the efficiency and distribution mechanism of the health care fund must be quickly and thoroughly reviewed to eliminate any market distortions and inequities that have arisen.
Above all, the morbidity-oriented risk structure compensation (MorbiRSA), on the basis of which the money from the health fund is distributed to the individual health insurance funds, must be placed on a manipulation-proof basis.
Strengthening outpatient care
We Free Democrats want outpatient medical care and setting up one's own practice with the assumption of long-term responsibility for patient care close to home to become more attractive again.
The general practitioners and specialists in private practice form the basis of the comprehensive and high-quality outpatient medical care in our country.
Demographic developments and the increase in the proportion of older people in particular require a good range of services in this area.
Outpatient medical care and a focus on the home environment also facilitate the involvement of nursing and other health care professionals.
Here, the focus is on the patient.
So far, centralized forms of care have only proven practicable in isolated cases.
The statutory reimbursement regulations currently make it difficult to transfer treatment methods from the hospital to the outpatient sector.
The necessary procedures in self-governance must be accelerated.
Inpatient reimbursement must be maintained for the duration of the decision-making process to ensure that no patient is left unattended.
Abolition of budgeting
We Free Democrats want to abolish budgeting in the health care system.
It has led to underfunding of medical care as well as a hemorrhaging of health care in rural regions and social hot spots.
Currently, citizens pay additional contributions without being able to directly influence the type and quality of treatment.
At the same time, they are deprived of examinations and therapies through budgeting and hidden forced rationing.
This creates dissatisfaction and uncertainty among patients and is a drastic form of injustice.
We want citizens to have a say in their treatment and for services and costs to be transparent.
Only in this way do patients have the opportunity to monitor the services provided in terms of their necessity.
To this end, they should have the freedom to choose between different tariffs and deductibles.
We want people to be empowered to better self-manage by providing information.
Clear hardship and overburdening rules must be established so that health care costs do not overburden anyone.
Safeguarding obstetrics in Germany, strengthening midwives
We Free Democrats maintain that women who give birth should be allowed to decide for themselves whether they want to give birth in an obstetrics clinic or in a birth center if there are no medical reasons to the contrary.
The system must not continue to exploit people's idealism, as is the case with midwives and other medical professions.
Staff and freelance midwives are a mainstay of health care for the birthing mother, and this must be adequately supported.
Strong inpatient care
We Free Democrats demand that the federal states once again fulfill their responsibility for hospitals.
The investment backlog is considerable: major cities and buildings have not been adequately financed for years.
As a result, hospitals are often forced to alienate funds from their purpose that are intended and necessary for medical and nursing services to patients.
To this end, we Free Democrats are relying on an incentive system whereby those states that meet their investment obligations receive a subsidy from the federal government.
In addition, there must be meaningful profiling and centering among hospitals.
Emergency care must be maintained nationwide.
Economic disincentives in the fee-per-case system must be eliminated: Quality of outcomes and innovation should be better rewarded.
Less bureaucracy means more time for care
We Free Democrats want the patients and not the bureaucracy to be the priority in the medical and nursing professions.
We therefore want to reduce the amount of bureaucracy and documentation so that more time is available to devote to people in need of care.
One approach to solving this problem is the increased use of IT and assistance systems.
In this way, we ensure humane accompaniment.
Social appreciation of nursing care
We Free Democrats demand more social appreciation and recognition of professional care.
Nurses bear great responsibility, are professionally qualified and are physically and mentally challenged.
This must be reflected in the compensation they receive for their work.
In this way, we promote the attractiveness of the profession.
In addition, we call for integrative education for nurses.
Integrative education means a common first year of education and specialized subsequent years.
We reject a generalized one-size-fits-all education.
In this way, we receive competent care for children, the sick and the elderly.
We also want to promote family-friendly working time models.
Fair competitive conditions for pharmacies
We Free Democrats want to maintain the nationwide supply of prescription drugs around the clock as well as qualified advice for patients.
We advocate fair conditions between domestic pharmacies and domestic and foreign mail-order pharmacies and would like to strengthen owner-operated pharmacies in Germany.
We reject a blanket mail order ban on prescription drugs, because every patient should have the freedom to choose from whom they obtain their prescription drug.
We believe that a differentiated offering is absolutely necessary, which on the one hand enables patients to use digital offerings, and
on the other hand ensures the quality of care that has so far been very well guaranteed by domestic and foreign pharmacies.
Further market access barriers such as the ban on third-party ownership must be abolished.
We Free Democrats are therefore calling for the German Medicines Act, the German Drug Price Ordinance, and the German Social Code V to be amended to create a fair framework for the supply of prescription drugs between owner-operated pharmacies in Germany and mail-order pharmacies in Germany and abroad.
To this end, this care system in Germany must be further developed in dialog with patients and pharmacists.
To strengthen the owner-operated local pharmacy, we Free Democrats also advocate, for example, the introduction of billing options for special services, especially individual consultation.
In addition, a safeguarding surcharge for pharmacies in remote locations would lead to the preservation of efficient structures throughout the country.
In addition, emergency services must be adequately remunerated
and bureaucracy in the pharmaceutical sector urgently reduced.
Patients should also be given the opportunity, if prescribed, to opt for medicines that have not previously been available on the German market due to price regulation.
To this end, we want to repeal the transfer of the SHI reimbursement amount as the maximum price for self-payers in the Pharmaceuticals Act.
Expansion of palliative care and hospice care
We Free Democrats want to further expand palliative care and the hospice system in order to offer people individual options for taking a self-determined path at the end of life.
In addition to the establishment of new hospices, palliative care in hospitals, nursing homes and homes for the elderly should be expanded.
Nursing homes in particular need a palliative care premium to catch up with the much better staffing and funding situation in hospices.
Significantly more people spend their last days and weeks in nursing homes than in hospices - it is their home.
Most people want to die at home.
Therefore, a nationwide promotion of specialized outpatient palliative care (SAPV) in networked teams of physicians, nurses, psychologists, physiotherapists, pastoral care workers, social workers and volunteers is needed to make it easier for the dying and their relatives to say goodbye to life.
These SAPV teams should be able to flexibly fulfill their important task with telemedical support and a minimum of bureaucratic burden.
The new § 217 StGB must be abolished again.
The threat of punishment for assisting the suicide of a seriously ill person creates a considerable gray area for palliative care physicians, impairs the relationship of trust between physician and patient, and violates the right of self-determination as the core of human dignity.
The medical professional code of conduct differs greatly from state to state in some cases.
Therefore, we call for uniform federal regulation under which circumstances physician assistance in suicide is sanction-free.
Controlled release of cannabis
We Free Democrats call for a controlled release of cannabis.
According to estimates, around four million people in Germany consume cannabis.
This criminalizes countless people and ties up immense police resources that would be better used, for example, in the prosecution of burglaries.
The prohibition of cannabis makes it all the easier to turn to harder drugs because of the illegal contact with dealers.
We advocate allowing possession and consumption for persons of legal age.
Because only with a controlled sale in licensed stores the quality can be controlled and thus the passing on of contaminated substances can be prevented as well as the protection of minors can be guaranteed.
If cannabis is taxed in a similar way to cigarettes, up to an additional one billion euros could be raised annually.
This additional money is to be used for prevention, addiction treatment and counseling.
Modern law for marriage and family
The most important decisions are often the most personal.
Who we love, how we love, how we live, how we raise and educate children - all must be free in this.
The state and society cannot prescribe happiness.
Happiness can only be found by each and everyone for themselves.
Let's give everyone this freedom!
Marriage opening
We Free Democrats call for the opening of marriage for all.
Same-sex marriage has already been recognized in half the EU, the U.S., Canada, South Africa, and even in parts of Central and South America.
In Germany, however, people still oppose a piece of progress that changes nothing at all for many, but everything for some.
We Free Democrats want to implement the principle of "equal duties, equal rights" for all couples - including full adoption rights and free access to reproductive medicine.
The legal framework for rainbow families must be improved.
Parenting agreements should be able to be effectively concluded even before conception.
Multi-parent families are a reality and must also be reflected in legal parenthood.
If the child is conceived with the help of a sperm bank, the mother's registered partner should also be able to legally be the second mother from birth.
Child Benefit 2.0
We Free Democrats want to combat child poverty and therefore place children at the center of family policy support.
To this end, we want to combine the child-related benefits to which parents have been entitled up to now into a "child benefit 2.0" and thus create an independent entitlement for the child.
After all, equal opportunities and access to education are the basis for personal advancement and a self-determined life.
Today, however, children in Germany still have unequal starting chances in life.
One reason for this is that family-related benefits are regulated in an overly complicated manner due to the numerous conditions, entitlements, and eligibility requirements and do not sufficiently counteract child poverty.
For example, family-related benefits such as child benefit, childcare allowance or advance maintenance payments are offset against benefits under SGB II.
We want to change that: The bouquet of child-related benefits will be bundled into one benefit package and paid out by a central office.
This "child benefit 2.0" consists of the following components: The income-independent basic amount, the income-dependent child allowance (Flexibetrag), which takes into account the economic situation of the parents, and the vouchers for benefits for education and participation.
This should make it possible, for example, to join a sports club or learn a musical instrument at a music school without red tape.
This new regulation of child benefits is intended to ensure that the benefits reach the children.
If legal guardians misappropriate money here, the child's independent entitlement makes it possible to have the money managed elsewhere, for example by relatives or the youth welfare office.
In addition, the bundling of services eliminates unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles.
Alternating model
We Free Democrats want to make the so-called "alternating model" the rule as a model for regulating the care of minor children after separation and divorce of the parents.
This means joint care of the children with a time distribution between one third / two thirds up to a half division.
If the parents cannot agree on the habitual residence of their children when they separate, a family court decides.
We believe that the alternating model takes better account of the best interests of the child and therefore want the courts to apply this as the standard model in the future.
Therefore, in line with science, international legal norms and the recommendations of the Committee on Anti-Discrimination and Equality of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we demand a new legal basis: In future, in the event of a dispute, the family courts must generally assume that joint parental care of separated children is generally in the best interests of the child (priority of the principle of dual residence, analogous to parental custody).
In individual cases, this assumption may be subject to judicial review.
Other arrangements for the benefit of the child may be necessary.
Accordingly, we also want to review maintenance law, the law of legal representation of the child, social law, tax law and pension law and adapt them where individual solutions of parental care and child residence require it.
Grandparents provide children of divorce with the support they need through regular encounters.
We also want to strengthen their rights in dealing with their grandchildren.
Introduction of the community of responsibility
We Free Democrats advocate the introduction of community of responsibility as a legal institution alongside marriage.
At a time when traditional family structures are not always sustainable, especially in old age, there is a growing need for new forms of mutual security - beyond kinship or love relationships.
That is why we want to introduce into the Civil Code, in addition to marriage, the legal institution of community of responsibility with flexible modules for the assumption of responsibility between two or more persons.
In order to maintain legal clarity with respect to other obligations, these persons may not be married, partnered, or related in a direct line.
Favorable treatment by the state in tax and social law, but also in inheritance law, is only justified if the partners assume full maintenance and support obligations like married couples.
Using the opportunities of reproductive medicine to start a family
We Free Democrats call for an open approach to the possibilities of modern reproductive medicine.
All people, regardless of marital status, must be given access to reproductive health services.
The child's welfare depends on the love of the parents, not on the method of procreation.
The state should stay out of intimate affairs and allow free choices that are ethical.
Egg donation and non-commercial surrogacy are already legal in many EU countries and should also be allowed in Germany, subject to conditions.
Rejection of homophobia and transphobia
We Free Democrats consider homophobia and transphobia to be just as unacceptable as racism and anti-Semitism.
They are the soil in which violence and discrimination thrive.
We stand for diversity and appreciation in society.
Tolerance and acceptance are to be strengthened in particular with concrete measures for education, promotion of self-help and diversity management, but also by raising awareness among government decision-makers.
The Federal Magnus Hirschfeld Foundation should be provided with additional funds for this purpose.
In order to eliminate legal discrimination based on gender identity or sexual orientation, we want, for example, to abolish the outdated ban on blood donations for homosexual and bisexual men and finally update the Transsexuals Act so that civil status and name changes can take place without discriminatory hurdles.
Health insurance companies should uniformly cover the costs of all gender reassignment treatments for transsexuality.
We also call for the anti-discrimination catalog in Article 3 (3) of the Basic Law to be adapted to that of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights and thus for the characteristics of sexual orientation and age to be included.
Rehabilitation of the victims of § 175 StGB
We Free Democrats expressly welcome the government draft for the rehabilitation of the victims of § 175 StGB (a. F.), which, however, does not go far enough in view of the injustice committed.
In particular, an additional victim's pension must be introduced.
Ensure freedom of the press and freedom of expression
Self-determination requires information.
Only those who know what is happening around them can make sovereign decisions.
That is why we are committed to freedom of the press and freedom of expression.
Because the competition of ideas and the quality of reporting are the best protection against disinformation and manipulation.
Fake News
We Free Democrats are committed to freedom of expression and freedom of the press.
Beyond false factual claims, fictitious or distorted news that can be found on social networks and some press portals are also covered by freedom of expression and freedom of the press.
This must apply precisely when opinions other than one's own are disseminated.
For us, this means that we reject any form of government control or verification of the accuracy of news or reports.
We also reject the introduction of a criminal offense of disinformation.
Hate postings
We Free Democrats demand that the police and public prosecutor's office prosecute postings on social networks more consistently.
To this end, these authorities must be adequately funded and staffed.
The operators of the offers may not be assigned these tasks.
They are not a censoring authority.
The state's monopoly on the use of force must apply everywhere.
At the same time, operators must meet their responsibilities and develop strategies for dealing with hate postings.
Reform public broadcasting
We Free Democrats call for a redefinition of the mission of public broadcasting, combined with streamlining.
However, fee payers should not finance duplicate structures, as is unavoidable with 60 independent radio programs and evident with similar programs on television.
That's why we want to push ahead with a fundamental modernization of public broadcasting that focuses its structure and offerings on the needs of the people who pay for it.
We call for a refocus on education, culture and information.
This also means that public broadcasters must be given the opportunity to keep their own and commissioned content in the media libraries for longer, provided the rights are available and they are adequately remunerated.
By specifying the basic service mission with a focus on public value and a clear description of tasks, the FDP would like to ensure that the broadcasting fee not only remains stable, but can also be reduced to half in the medium term.
Modernization of our democracy
For us Free Democrats, liberal democracy thrives on committed citizens who can have a say.
Self-determination in all areas of life means democratic co-determination below representative democracy.
Our republic needs committed and courageous citizens who take responsibility beyond participating in elections.
We strengthen liberal democracy as a way of life by promoting voluntary and civic engagement, the selective use of professionally moderated civic participation
and support the trial expansion of direct democracy instruments at municipal and state level.
Strengthen parliaments - end permanent election campaign
We Free Democrats want to free parliamentary work from the permanent election campaign so that effective legislation and control become possible.
For this reason, legislative periods are to be extended to five years across the board and election dates in the states are to be bundled more closely than before.
Freedom and human rights worldwide
Freedom is not selfishness.
No one can claim it for himself alone.
It is a principle of order for all that does not stop at borders.
That is why we Free Democrats pursue the goal of strengthening freedom and human rights worldwide.
Even the best end does not justify every means.
We stand for the primacy of diplomacy, talk, exchange and "change through trade" over military intervention.
But if Europe's security or the ending of mass, permanent and most serious human rights violations require it, then Germany must also be prepared to make a military contribution.
We will not be able to close our eyes to this against the backdrop of the changing world situation.
We are convinced that Europe is a continent of freedom.
and human rights.
That is why we are counting on the European Union to increase its ability to act and strengthen its assertiveness, but not to get bogged down in the minutiae.
So let's stop watching!
Let's make sure that freedom
and human rights are strengthened worldwide!
International policy from a single mold
To many, it seems as if the world has come apart at the seams.
But fear is a bad advisor and must not determine our actions!
Our compass is prudence instead of panic, reason instead of populism, a clear view forward instead of disorientation.
Let's be reasonable!
Europe and the USA - Strengthening the Western Community of Values
We Free Democrats are committed to the transatlantic partnership.
Transatlantic relations, which can also withstand strain, are one of the great peacemaking elements in Europe and the world.
Because of their many advantages, they are a core component of liberal foreign policy.
Donald Trump's election as the new U.S. president has raised questions, and his initial actions have also caused irritation.
But justified criticism of the policies of the new U.S. administration must not turn into anti-Americanism.
In view of the possibility that the U.S. could play a less active global role, the Free Democrats believe that strengthening the European Union is essential.
To achieve this, the EU must more than ever overcome its differences, set foreign policy priorities on the basis of its common values and strengthen its own ability to act in security policy.
We Free Democrats want Germany to assume more responsibility internationally in line with its economic strength.
Sustainable international security can only be achieved if the areas of foreign, defense and development policy are thought of in a networked way.
That is why we want Germany to invest three percent of its gross domestic product in international security in the long term.
To this end, we want to achieve a gradual and seamlessly coordinated strengthening of the federal budget in the areas of foreign policy, development and defense.
We also want to ensure that Germany confidently stands up for free trade,
which has a positive impact on employment, income
and growth on both sides of the Atlantic.
The USA is one of the most important export markets for the German economy, and transatlantic economic relations are an engine for global growth.
Against this background, the transatlantic dialogue must be given a new foreign policy priority.
In addition to civil society and economic contacts, this includes regular parliamentary and government consultations with the U.S. at the ministerial level, as already exists with France, Spain, India, Brazil and China.
At the academic level, in addition to university exchanges, student exchange programs, which have been in decline for years, are to be strengthened and expanded.
In addition, the exchange of skilled workers between and within companies must be made less bureaucratic and expanded through visa facilitation.
All of these measures build trust while providing tangible benefits to people in both countries.
Clear stance towards Russia
We Free Democrats call on the Russian government to immediately end the occupation of Crimea, which is contrary to international law, and the war in eastern Ukraine.
These violate not only the prohibition of the use of force under Article 2(4) of the Charter of the United Nations, but also the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine.
Furthermore, we observe the increasing repression of the opposition and civil society in Russia with great concern and
advocate clearly naming and condemning these human rights violations.
For us, the principles of the European peace order apply, to which Russia has also committed itself: The sovereign equality of states, the inviolability of their borders, the peaceful settlement of conflicts, as well as the free choice of alliances, democracy and respect for human rights.
For us Free Democrats, these principles are non-negotiable.
Therefore, as long as President Putin continues his policy of intervention, sanctions against Russia must be maintained and Russia's readmission to the G8 ruled out.
In the event of renewed military escalation, sanctions against Russia must be further tightened.
In return, sanctions can be eased or lifted if the Russian government makes substantial concessions.
As neighbors on the European continent, Germany and the EU are closely linked to Russia - economically, culturally and politically.
Especially in difficult times, it is essential to stay in conversation with each other.
Whether at the political level, as in the OSCE or the NATO-Russia Council, or through civil society contacts: Dialogue creates trust, trust creates security.
In the medium term, our goal must be to return to a reliable partnership with Russia through dialogue and confidence-building measures.
Commitment to NATO
We Free Democrats are fully committed to NATO, because NATO is an unrivaled security alliance and should continue to stand as a guarantor of our security in the future.
This means that we fully support the recent decisions of the Wales and Warsaw alliances: strengthening NATO's deterrence and defense posture, accompanied by simultaneous dialogue with Russia.
Furthermore, we want to strengthen and further develop the Atlantic Alliance.
This includes, on the one hand, further increasing the defense budget until 2024 and, on the other hand, spending these funds on the urgently needed capabilities and resources that Germany needs to provide for its own security.
The latter will also primarily benefit the European Union: We want to strengthen the European pillar in NATO and thus contribute to strengthening the EU's ability to act.
We also want to work for more intensive cooperation between NATO and the EU.
We want to prevent competition between European security institutions.
Only complementary action by NATO and the EU will help ensure an adequate response to current and future security challenges.
Germany must be more aware of its responsibility as a European middle power.
This includes greater participation in deployments and missions, but also in mission-like commitments, such as participation in the NATO Response Force or increased forward presence in the Baltics and Poland.
Increased cooperation with the EU's eastern neighbors
We Free Democrats call for increased cooperation with the EU's eastern neighbors.
Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia have adopted association agreements under the EU's Neighborhood Policy.
This path of deepening cooperation with our eastern neighbors must be further developed.
Therefore, the EU should strategically adjust its policy and work more closely with partners on security policy who have opted for the European orientation.
We want to demand and promote democracy and economic transformation in these countries.
Continuation of Germany's commitment to the Middle East peace process
We Free Democrats are committed to an undiminished continuation of Germany's involvement in the Middle East peace process.
The basis of our policy and reason of state remains the commitment to Israel's right to exist.
We advocate a negotiated two-state model with fixed borders in which Israel and an independent Palestinian state can live side by side in security and peace.
In doing so, we expressly want to draw on the good experience gained in the European peace and unification process.
End EU accession negotiations with Turkey
We Free Democrats want to end the EU's accession negotiations with Turkey in their current form
and place relations with Turkey on a new basis of close security and economic cooperation.
For us Free Democrats, a Turkey ruled in an increasingly authoritarian manner by President Erdogan cannot be a candidate for full membership in the EU.
The basis for membership in the EU is and remains the Copenhagen criteria.
In particular, Turkey clearly does not currently meet the conditions required therein for a functioning constitutional state.
However, as a NATO member and a neighbor closely linked to the EU, Turkey is and will remain an indispensable partner, just as Turkey, conversely, remains dependent on cooperation with the EU.
How mutual relations between the EU and Turkey may develop in the medium and distant future remains an open question.
All the more so as the EU itself is in a process of change towards models with different depths of integration, which could offer new forms of integration into common European structures in the future.
Dealing with the Brexit
We Free Democrats regret the Brexit decision of the British citizens, but now want to deal pragmatically with the situation.
Because we respect that decision.
The task now is to negotiate the terms of the withdrawal with London in a process based on partnership.
In doing so, we also want to take appropriate account of the interests of Scotland and Northern Ireland.
Should they decide to leave the UK, the doors of the EU should be open to them again, just as they were to the UK.
It is important to maintain the UK as a strong partner of the EU, but not at any price: cherry-picking or abandoning fundamental principles of the single market is out of the question for us.
It is particularly important that the EU and the UK provide clarity on their future relationship before spring 2019 so that the next European Parliament elections can be held on a new basis.
Exploiting the opportunities of free trade
We Free Democrats want to take advantage of the opportunities offered by free trade.
We reject growing tendencies toward protectionism.
Everyday life has become diverse: pasta from Italy, jeans from Turkey and smartphones from Korea or China.
All this is normality and an enrichment for our lives.
World trade is the biggest driver of prosperity and creates the foundations for employment and income.
Cross-border trade is most likely to unleash the potential for inclusive and sustainable prosperity if legally binding rules for global value chains are in place.
We Free Democrats are therefore committed to strengthening multilateral, rights-based trade relations.
To this end, we want to strengthen the World Trade Organization (WTO) as the central place for creating a fair global world trade system.
Many people are afraid that free trade will jeopardize the high level of consumer and labor protection in this country.
But if we reduce trade barriers
and at the same time take our high standards of human rights, food and environmental safety as a legal basis, we have a unique opportunity to give globalization fair rules.
Free trade agreements can establish the legal framework to make these high sustainability standards the basis of our trade.
Germany is the world's strongest exporter and at the same time also the most export-dependent economy and needs free trade based on legal principles.
Fear of free trade must therefore give way to optimism and hope for progress and peace.
Maritime policy as a task for the future
We Free Democrats call for a focus on maritime policy as a task for the future.
Seas and oceans play an important role as a source of food, raw materials and energy as a transport route or recreational area as the world's population grows.
The maritime economy has enormous potential in sectors such as wave, tidal and offshore wind energy, aquaculture, blue biotechnology, marine mining and maritime tourism.
Yet we know more about the Moon and Mars than we do about Earth's deep sea.
We therefore support the expansion of marine research
and stand for a sustainable maritime policy that reconciles economic use, environmental protection and safety.
The consequences of climate change as well as overfishing, plastic waste, marine pollution and piracy pose a threat to the largest habitat on earth.
That is why we are committed to ensuring that Germany plays a pioneering role internationally - both in the field of innovation and research and in the economic development of the oceans.
Promotion of international arms control and disarmament
We Free Democrats want to drive forward international arms control and disarmament.
The proliferation of nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons is a threat to international security.
More states are on the verge of becoming nuclear powers, existing nuclear powers want to rearm, and the importance of nuclear weapons seems to be increasing again in global security policy.
Existing disarmament regimes threaten to stagnate in the process, and the international norm of nonproliferation of weapons of mass destruction is weakened.
We therefore need a new diplomatic push for arms control and disarmament.
Germany should take a leading role here together with its close partners.
Data privacy and security thought internationally
Globalization and digitization have made countries more networked than ever before.
But this also enables new forms of industrial espionage and cyberattacks and requires new strategies for data protection and cybersecurity.
Let's ensure digital security across borders!
Improving national and European cybersecurity
We Free Democrats want to see an improvement in the national and European cyber security strategy.
Advancing digitalization is increasingly increasing the importance of cyberspace for global communications, economic innovation and strategic infrastructure facilities.
Likewise, the relevance of cyberspace for intelligence services and foreign armed forces as well as industrial espionage and organized crime is increasing.
The German federal government alone registers around 20 highly specialized cyberattacks on the federal government's networks every day.
The number of cyberattacks on large German companies is much higher, as illustrated by the approximately four million automated attacks per day on Deutsche Telekom's infrastructure.
Therefore, a coordinated strategy for the protection of private companies and public institutions alike is needed at both national and European level to counter these new threats.
We Free Democrats want to remove the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI) from the responsibility of the Federal Ministry of the Interior and place it as a subordinate authority under the technical supervision of the newly created Digital Ministry.
However, national solutions cannot stand alone in the long term.
In cyberspace, too, it is worth pooling European capabilities.
In the global context, we want to push for the conclusion of an international freedom of information agreement that will secure the freedom and independence of the Internet in the future as well as curb surveillance and censorship of the Internet.
Better protection of data transferred to the USA
We Free Democrats are committed to better protection of data transferred to the United States.
The U.S. remains a central player in the digital world.
Countless Internet companies, including the largest in the world, have their headquarters here.
However, personal data is significantly less protected when connected to, transferred to, and stored in the U.S. than it is within Europe.
With the agreed "Privacy Shield" as the successor to the "Safe Harbor" regulation, there is only inadequate protection.
We therefore call for effective data protection to be included in free trade agreements such as TTIP.
Free trade agreements are an opportunity for the opening of the world market and international cooperation.
But they also offer the opportunity to strengthen the enforceability of data and consumer law internationally.
Following the failure of the Safe Harbor agreement between the EU and the U.S. and the current discussion about the legitimacy of the Privacy Shield successor agreement, a legally secure and technically enforceable solution for transatlantic data exchange that respects European data protection standards must therefore be found as quickly as possible.
No-Spy Agreement between EU States
We Free Democrats want a no-spy agreement between the member states of the European Union.
This commits all members of the European Union not to spy on each other.
This is because mutual espionage among European partners contradicts the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, the rules of the internal market and, above all, trustful dealings with one another.
Restore order to asylum policy
The large movements of refugees in recent years have presented Germany and Europe with a challenge that has so far been met with chaos and organizational failure on the part of the state.
There was reaction instead of action.
Constitutional means and clear rules can bring order to immigration and asylum policy.
Let's get this back on track!
Human right to asylum
We Free Democrats consider the human right to asylum to be non-negotiable.
We therefore also clearly reject any form of fixed upper limits on the granting of asylum.
Such an upper limit would contradict the Basic Law.
Effective mechanisms for deciding on the need for protection need to be further developed.
Applications from asylum seekers from safe countries of origin are to be decided as quickly as possible in the registration zones, the so-called hotspots.
At the same time, however, it is crucial that conflicts, poverty, hunger, and the lack of rule of law be addressed locally.
The top priority is the resolution of armed conflicts.
In order to spare people the life-threatening flight, we would like to make it possible to file asylum applications already abroad.
A visa for humanitarian reasons should also be granted according to the Swiss model if it is obvious in the individual case that the life and limb of the applicant are in immediate, serious and concrete danger.
European solutions
We Free Democrats want to solve the refugee issue in close cooperation with neighboring European regions.
If countries such as Lebanon or Jordan take on a special responsibility for taking in refugees, we want to support them in creating special economic zones in addition to significantly increasing financial contributions for the establishment and operation of the school and healthcare systems,
to improve the situation of refugees.
There, investments from the EU are to be simplified and trade barriers for exports to the EU are to be removed.
We also want to create more incentives for regular migration from the affected regions.
Germany and the EU must increase the number of labor market and training visas.
In addition, the countries concerned must be educated about regular migration routes and must promote them.
Fair key for the distribution of refugees in Europe
We Free Democrats want to enforce a fair key for the distribution of refugees in Europe.
In order to master the refugee crisis, the participation of all EU member states is needed.
That is why we are calling for the Dublin III Regulation to be replaced by a fair distribution key.
Refugees with prospects of staying must be distributed according to binding quotas.
A country's population size and economic strength are used to calculate the quotas.
The individual decision must also take into account criteria such as family ties or language skills.
Countries that refuse to show this kind of solidarity should have to pay into a fund.
The fund, in turn, is intended to provide financial support to host and border states outside the EU in dealing with the refugee crisis.
European coordinated development cooperation
We Free Democrats are committed to effective and efficient development cooperation that is coordinated at European level and focuses on the quality of the resources used rather than on their quantity.
In this context, we attach importance to better differentiation in the selection of partner countries.
More attention must be paid to the criteria of need, performance, readiness for development and efficiency of the measures.
New cooperative ventures to integrate the German and local private sector and development partnerships with new donors are needed.
We call for more coherent approaches within the German government and the European Union, especially between economic, foreign, trade and development policy, and in coordination with European development cooperation.
This includes a review of the impact of agricultural export subsidies.
In addition, a coordinated foreign, security, trade and development policy is needed that increasingly focuses on crisis prevention and conflict management as the most important means of combating the causes of flight.
Europe remains our future
We Free Democrats are convinced Europeans.
For history has shown the dead ends into which aggressive nationalism leads.
The European project has brought peace and prosperity to our continent.
But no one can overlook the fact that individual parts are still not perfect today.
Therefore, let's make Europe stronger by fixing its weaknesses!
Reforms for a better EU
We Free Democrats call for institutional reforms for more transparency and efficiency in the EU.
The European Parliament is to be elected according to a uniform electoral law with cross-state lists and top candidates.
It must be upgraded to a full parliament with the right of initiative.
One seat in Brussels is sufficient for this purpose.
This saves time and money compared to parallel operation between two parliamentary seats.
The EU Commission can be reduced to 16 commissioners.
In this regard, clear and easily attributable portfolios should be assigned that correspond to EU responsibilities.
Furthermore, the Commission should only take care of those things that are better regulated at the European level and leave the rest to the national levels.
The Council of the European Union must develop into a modern second chamber.
There, each member state can publicly present its position.
With these reforms, we are creating transparency and efficiency, the most important building blocks for successful integration.
Part of being a strong community is upholding the principle of subsidiarity in the EU.
That is why the European Commission's proposals for a social pillar of Europe are not purposeful.
We are emphatically opposed here to any influence by the European Union within the framework of binding legal acts.
Each member state must remain responsible for its own labor market policy, its social security system and its financial support for the socially disadvantaged.
For this reason, we are giving a clear rejection to a common European unemployment insurance scheme in particular.
Europe of different speeds
We Free Democrats want European integration to be simplified by a "multi-speed Europe".
Even after Brexit, with 27 member states in the future, European integration remains a difficult process given the diversity and differences among the member states.
Therefore, we want to create differentiated opportunities for different depths and speeds of further integration.
Member states that do not want to participate in the further development of the EU, or want to do so only more slowly, should not hold the others back.
If further steps in European integration are not supported by all member states, we want to make more use of the possibilities of "enhanced cooperation" to advance integration at different speeds.
Therefore, the European Public Prosecutor's Office project must now finally be completed and implemented quickly.
To enable other countries to gradually catch up at a later stage, they should be able to catch up on the previous integration steps.
We are convinced that the European unification process must be continued, towards a decentralized and federally structured European Union.
This path is the declared counter-model to Europe's relapse into nation-state parochialism on the one hand, or the creation of a centralized European superstate on the other.
Effective protection of the EU's external borders
We Free Democrats want effective protection of the EU's external borders.
Only in this way can we effectively control who enters the EU while keeping the borders between EU member states open.
The border agency FRONTEX is to be expanded from its current intergovernmental structure into a genuine European border guard with its own authority to act and control by the European Parliament.
It needs centralized command and control, a sufficient number of effective operational personnel, and state-of-the-art surveillance and response capabilities.
Like all EU actors, FRONTEX is bound by the European Charter of Fundamental Freedoms, because internal security in Europe must never be achieved at the expense of human rights.
Therefore, it should also perform high seas emergency rescue tasks in the Mediterranean to prevent further deaths from capsizing tug boats.
Genuine Common Foreign and Security Policy in Europe
We Free Democrats want a genuine Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) in Europe.
We stand by the goal that Europe bears joint responsibility for peace, freedom and security and want to strengthen the EU's CFSP.
Only if we stand united on issues of global agreements will the European voice carry weight.
The High Representative of the EU for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy should have a key position as "EU Foreign Minister" in this context.
Only if we succeed in giving a European response at the right moment, even on contentious issues, will we be taken seriously as a peace power.
That is why we are committed to the consistent development of joint capabilities, even beyond the European treaties.
Individual EU states should be able to act together under enhanced cooperation if it increases their capabilities and security.
Rather, individual EU states should also cooperate if it enhances their capabilities and security.
Exploiting European synergies in armaments development and procurement
We Free Democrats want more European synergies for defense development and procurement.
Arms development and procurement is not only politically highly explosive, but also extremely costly.
In order to save money and deepen the European partnership, there should also be a functioning single market for the defense industry with uniform procurement rules.
If the member countries work together, money does not have to be spent by each country individually, but the one-time and central investment is sufficient.
If the European armies use the same equipment, joint training and military integration can be further advanced in subsequent steps.
The European Union needs a European Army
We Free Democrats want to see the establishment of a European army under joint supreme command and parliamentary control.
To this end, we are gradually striving for closer integration and the expansion of the joint capabilities of the armed forces of the member states willing to integrate, and thus the creation of a European Defense Union.
The first step in this direction would be to make use of the Permanent Structured Cooperation in Defense instrument that already exists in the EU Treaty.
The establishment of European, multinational formations is part of this,
as is progressively integrated common military equipment.
This allows costs to be optimized and technical and tactical compatibility to be increased.
Strategies, training and operational procedures need to be aligned and integrated at EU level.
A joint headquarters could emerge from the staff elements of the five existing supranational corps.
In all these steps, interoperability with NATO forces and instruments must be further strengthened in parallel.
Only together can the EU continue to guarantee security for its citizens in the future, especially in the face of a President Trump who is making U.S. behavior increasingly unpredictable.
Human rights apply worldwide
Human rights apply worldwide, but the reality in many countries of the world still looks different.
Freedom
and human rights are fundamental principles that do not stop at borders.
Let's demand it!
Universality of human rights
We Free Democrats are committed to the universality of human rights and reject any attempts to relativize their applicability.
We oppose any discrimination based on gender, religion, skin color, ethnic origin, sexual orientation, disability, age or any other status.
The oppression or attacks on other people and population groups are always attacks on the freedom of the whole society.
For example, we resolutely oppose discrimination against lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgender people and intersexuals in foreign and development policy
and are committed to promoting LGBTI projects around the world and to cutting development cooperation if punitive measures are taken against LGBTI people.
Value-oriented development policy
We Free Democrats call for a value-oriented development policy that focuses on quality rather than quantity of the resources deployed,
and has a particular focus on the rule of law, good governance and a social market economy.
Our actions are based on the United Nations' 2030 Sustainability Agenda and the Paris Climate Agreement.
Swift implementation of the 2030 Agenda requires a coherent approach within the German government
, particularly between economic, foreign and development policy, and in coordination with European development cooperation.
To this end, we Free Democrats are focusing on new partnerships and cooperation with all relevant partners, especially with the private sector.
The focus must be on the least developed countries, especially in Africa, the continent of opportunity.
The most important basis for poverty reduction is education, training and qualification as well as the chance for an economic perspective for the individual.
We must focus more on and promote the opportunities offered by innovations, digitization and new technologies for developing countries.
Action against fundamental and human rights violations in the EU
We Free Democrats advocate measures against EU states that permanently violate fundamental and human rights.
We are watching the domestic political developments in some EU countries with concern.
Anyone who questions the constitutional separation of powers is attacking the very foundation of the rule of law.
Those who tighten political control of the media show that they think little of freedom of opinion and freedom of the press.
The EU is founded on common values such as the rule of law, human rights and democracy, which are binding on each member under Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union.
We are committed to reforming the rule of law control in order to be able to impose effective sanctions for persistent violations of our values, even below the threshold of vote withdrawal.
For only if we ourselves are convinced of the efficacy of our values and assert them in the face of headwinds will we strengthen Europe as a community of values.
Worldwide recognition of the International Criminal Court
We Free Democrats are committed to the worldwide recognition of the International Criminal Court (ICC).
The ICC has jurisdiction over the most serious human rights violations where domestic law enforcement is unwilling or unable to bring the crimes to justice.
Numerous countries have not signed or ratified the Court's statutes, undermine its jurisdiction, or even rescinded their membership for political reasons.
As Free Democrats, we strongly support its work and strengthening.
Only through it can individual public officials also be held consistently accountable
and the principles of the rule of law be applied worldwide.
Decisive fight against terror
International terrorism threatens freedom and human rights worldwide.
Germany and its partners must take a firm stand against this.
Let us be steadfast!
Better international cooperation to combat terrorism
We Free Democrats want better international cooperation to combat terrorism.
International terrorism does not stop at national borders and is the problem of the entire international community.
Therefore, it is not only the task of a few countries to counter this threat.
The international community must stand together here.
The exchange of data and consistent cooperation between intelligence services that is necessary for counter-terrorism must therefore be organized.
In addition, European bodies such as Europol and the office of the Union Counter-Terrorism Coordinator must be upgraded.
To this end, Europol is to be expanded into an EU federal police force and an EU intelligence service is to be established, both of which will be accountable to the EU Parliament.
In addition, cooperation at the level of public prosecutors' offices and courts must be strengthened by strengthening Eurojust so that judgments can also be reached more quickly and effectively.
Only in this way can the rule of law provide clear answers.
It is important that an exchange is not misused for the purpose of monitoring all EU citizens without any reason or suspicion.
We reject a tightening of the German weapons law because it does not bring more security.
It is about protecting the rights of all citizens.
Combating Islamist terrorism
We Free Democrats have recognized that the fight against international Islamist terrorism, such as against the so-called Islamic State and Al-Qaeda, is a global challenge.
In order to resolutely counter this threat situation, it is necessary to cooperate closely with foreign intelligence services, to dismantle the financial base of terrorist groups
and to cooperate in legally legitimized military measures.
At the same time, regional forces that oppose Islamist terrorist groups must be strengthened
and supported with advice, training and equipment.
Effective measures against radical Salafism
We Free Democrats call for effective measures against radical Salafism, an ultraconservative denomination within Islam.
In doing so, we also rely on cooperation with all those Muslims and corresponding associations who want to combat intolerance, violence and religious extremism.
Our goal is a nationwide approach that combines repression and prevention.
A prerequisite is more intensive monitoring of violent Salafist extremists by the Office for the Protection of the Constitution.
On the basis of the findings, everything legally possible must be done to effectively prevent Salafist aspirations: Bans on gatherings and associations, consistent criminal prosecution, restrictions on the departure and re-entry of dangerous individuals, and targeted monitoring, for example by means of electronic ankle bracelets.
In order to counteract the radicalization of young people, no room must be left for Salafist propaganda.
That is why comprehensive prevention is needed in schools, mosques, youth centers, but also in Internet forums and social networks.
The efforts and investments made to date are far from sufficient to achieve this.
In the area of social media in particular, more educational work needs to be done that reaches young people at a low level.
The so-called Islamic State invests many times more than the state's countermeasures.
The training of multipliers and professionals to identify and prevent radicalization must be strengthened.
Another important component is the involvement of reformed returnees and dropouts in the educational work.
They can give an authentic account of their experiences, the false promises and the reality in the Islamic State.
The parents of radicalized young people, who are now numerous, should also be involved in the educational work.
With better educational opportunities and a stronger teaching of values, the breeding ground for Salafism can also be removed.
Security policy with a sense of proportion
Freedom and human rights cannot always be defended peacefully.
The use of force must always be the last possible resort within the narrowest limits, when everything else has already been tried.
Let's make sure we do!
Further develop parliamentary reservation for joint EU and NATO missions
For us Free Democrats, the Bundeswehr is and remains a parliamentary army.
The Parliamentary Participation Act has proven its worth in creating legal certainty for armed missions of the Bundeswehr abroad.
In light of the envisaged increased creation of joint EU and NATO forces, we want to further develop the parliamentary prerogative of the German Bundestag, taking full account of the requirements of the Federal Constitutional Court, in such a way that joint deployments of multinational forces by the EU and NATO are facilitated in a constitutional manner.
Modernization of the Bundeswehr
We Free Democrats are committed to a modern Bundeswehr with mission-oriented structures that is capable of both alliance and national defense as well as international missions.
To achieve this, the Bundeswehr must be better equipped.
The processes for procuring new equipment fundamentally belong on the test bench.
The past has repeatedly shown that there have been quality, schedule and cost deficiencies in larger projects.
The modernization process of the Bundeswehr must be further advanced and adapted to the new requirements.
In doing so, we also want to increase the attractiveness of military service.
This is because the Bundeswehr competes with other employers for the best applicants.
To continue to meet staffing needs and attract young people to the demanding service, the attractiveness of the service must be continuously improved.
Decisive factors here are modern and sufficient equipment, workload, training opportunities, transfer frequency, care in the event of wounding and, last but not least, the compatibility of family and service.
No arms deliveries to crisis regions
We Free Democrats do not want any arms deliveries to crisis regions.
This is because arms exports to conflict regions can further destabilize already unstable regions.
This sustainably increases insecurity and threats for the people in the affected areas and can also hinder the chances of peace and conflict resolution.
It should therefore remain a cornerstone of German foreign policy to exclude arms exports to conflict regions.
Decisions on arms exports should continue to be made by the German government as part of its core executive responsibilities.
However, we demand that an arms export law clearly specifies the existing national, European and international export guidelines and thus leads to more transparency in government action and better involvement of the German Bundestag.
Politics that can do the math
Politics must shape.
But it is not a wish-fulfillment concert.
Things need to be addressed in a way that works and is fundable.
In short, we need a policy that can do the math.
Measured against this, many things in Germany are getting out of hand: The burden of taxes and duties on citizens is not only higher in Germany than elsewhere, but continues to rise - and this despite the fact that the state has more and more money at its disposal.
We want the state to be more economical with citizens' money.
We want him to invest it more smartly than he has so far.
We want to strike a new balance between citizens' revenues and the state's revenues.
Fair balance between citizen and state
A policy that can calculate pays attention to a fair balance between the burdens on citizens and the revenues of the state.
Things are out of balance here in Germany.
Let's restore the balance!
Fair share of growth for citizens
We Free Democrats want citizens to once again have a fair share of the gains in growth and prosperity.
For more than ten years, the tax and contribution ratio has grown steadily.
A huge gap is opening up between citizens and the state: The wage level rose by just 23 percent from 2005 to 2015.
By contrast, federal, state and local tax revenue increased by almost 50 percent over the same period.
With high taxes in times of low interest rates, politicians are driving a wedge between citizens and the state.
This leads in particular to the expropriation of the middle class
and lower income earners.
That is why we want a fundamental rethink of tax policy.
The state must not be the only one to benefit from growth and prosperity gains.
We want to restore the balance between private and state and therefore end the excessive redistribution from private to state.
We consider a relief volume of at least 30 billion euros to be an appropriate target figure - especially in view of the additional tax revenue of more than 110 billion euros predicted by the tax estimate by the end of the legislative period in 2021.
We want to be responsible for a serious tax and budget policy.
We therefore link the implementation of our tax demands to the actual occurrence of the additional tax revenues forecast by the tax estimate.
We reject the introduction of new taxes - such as the wealth tax or financial transaction tax.
Fair income tax
We Free Democrats want a fair income tax rate.
Today, the tax burden increases for small
and middle incomes.
This is anti-performance and unfair.
An average earner may not pay nearly the highest tax rate.
Therefore, we want to "shift the rate to the right" so that the next tax rate in each case only increases at a higher income.
We want to flatten the so-called middle-class bulge and thus create a more performance-based tariff.
We want to retain the splitting system for married couples and registered civil partnerships and relieve the burden on families and single parents by raising the child allowance and making care costs fully tax-deductible up to the maximum amount.
We also want to improve the tax treatment of services in the home (especially nursing and care services) and thus make it easier to reconcile family and work, strengthen the role of private households as employers, and combat undeclared work.
A tax reduction of 50 percent instead of 20 percent is to be allowed as a deduction from tax liability for costs incurred.
This will provide equal relief for all families.
We also want to introduce more extensive tax deductibility for statutory maintenance payments.
For employees, we want to increase the lump sums
and further simplify the tax return overall.
Burden limit for taxes and social security contributions
We Free Democrats want to establish a burden limit for direct taxes and social security contributions in the Basic Law.
Only if citizens have enough of their income left over can they fulfill their wishes and afford their own retirement provision.
Moderate tax and contribution rates create this necessary freedom.
The total load limit should not exceed 50 percent.
No stealth tax increases due to cold progression
We Free Democrats want to change the income tax scale so that the state no longer benefits from secret tax increases.
According to calculations by the ifo Institute, the state has received an additional 70 billion euros in tax revenue since 2010 via the so-called cold progression.
Over the same period, a family of four that increased its annual taxable income of 40,000 euros by 20 percent saw its annual tax burden rise by 40 percent.
According to the ifo Institute, this family has lost more than 3,000 euros on the bottom line since 2010 due to the cold progression alone.
If there is no regular correction of the income tax rate, taxpayers will have to bear considerable additional burdens in the coming years as well.
By 2030, the annual additional revenue for the state will increase to 65 billion euros.
We want a permanent start to a regular adjustment of the tax rate, including allowances, exemption thresholds and lump sums, in line with inflation - in other words, the rate will be "put on wheels."
Abolish solidarity surcharge as promised
We Free Democrats want to abolish the solidarity surcharge.
The solidarity surcharge was and remains a special tax that is not designed to be permanent.
Its introduction in 1991 was justified by politicians on the grounds of financing German unity.
Already since 2011, the Soli revenues have exceeded the annual expenditures from the Solidarity Pact.
The solidarity pact expires at the end of 2019.
Then the levying of the solidarity surcharge can no longer be justified.
The abolition of the solidarity surcharge is a question of political credibility.
We want to abolish the solidarity surcharge by the end of 2019.
Fair inheritance tax
We Free Democrats want savings and asset accumulation to pay off.
A sustainable approach to wealth is good: for each and every citizen, their families and society.
The transfer of acquired property and assets and the continuation of family businesses must not be hindered by tax regulations.
Effort must be worthwhile.
For companies, taxing the substance of the company is harmful.
We therefore reject the reintroduction of the wealth tax and a further tightening of the inheritance tax.
This is how we keep entrepreneurs in Germany and secure jobs here at home.
We want inheritances between spouses or registered partners to be exempt from inheritance tax in the future.
Allowance for real estate transfer tax
We Free Democrats want to see relief for citizens in the purchase of residential property.
We Free Democrats want to introduce an exemption amount of up to 500,000 euros for natural persons in the real estate transfer tax.
That's because the states' tax hikes make it nearly impossible for middle-class families to buy homes.
The allowance shall apply to the acquisition of residential real estate by natural persons.
It is only through this that the tax arises.
This is necessary because the real estate transfer tax burden has increased significantly since 2006, making it difficult for many to purchase their own property.
Since then, some federal states have even almost doubled their real estate transfer tax rate: from three and a half to six and a half percent.
With a purchase price of 300,000 euros, there is then almost 20,000 euros in addition for the land transfer tax.
With the proposed exemption amount, the real estate transfer tax in this case would drop to zero, i.e., it would not be incurred at all.
In this way, we want to make it easier for people to realize their dream of owning their own house or apartment and at the same time make provisions for old age.
Because if you don't pay rent in old age, you have more freedom.
Adhere to rules
A policy that can do the math sets fair rules.
Rules also apply to the state and politics.
However, Germany and Europe have been all too happy to ignore their own rules in recent years in order to make things easier for themselves.
But the easiest way must not be the goal of politics.
The goal must be the right way!
Stabilize euro sustainably
We Free Democrats want to strengthen the credibility of the non-assistance clause enshrined in European law.
This states that neither the European Union nor individual members must be liable for the debts of another member state.
Its purpose is to ensure that member states bear the consequences of their economic and fiscal policies and thus maintain budgetary discipline.
Those who lend money to countries should use their own creditworthiness as the basis for determining how high the interest rate is expected to be and not the creditworthiness of others.
Only in this way can the interest rate act as an economic debt brake.
However, with its approval of the third bailout package for Greece, the Grand Coalition has significantly called into question the credibility of the no-strings-attached clause.
This is because it approved financial aid even though Greece's debt sustainability was not assured.
We want the commingling of responsibility through joint liability to remain excluded.
For this reason, the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) must not be misused as a permanent emergency helper; ESM financial assistance may only be granted strictly in accordance with the rules laid down for this purpose.
In order to avoid creating the wrong incentives in the long term, we also want the ESM's lending capacity to be continuously scaled back and phased out in the long term.
ESM assistance is also not intended to be permanently supplemented or replaced by further measures of the European Central Bank.
We strictly reject government financing through the printing press.
In addition, we want to create a sovereign insolvency regime for the euro area so that, in the event of a lack of debt sustainability, an orderly debt restructuring becomes possible as a way out of the hitherto endless rescue routine.
This is the only way to avert the danger of the monetary union becoming a permanent transfer union at the expense of European taxpayers.
Create procedures for orderly sovereign insolvencies in the euro area
We Free Democrats want to create a procedure for orderly sovereign insolvencies in the eurozone.
This allows members of the monetary union to restructure their debt in a rule-based procedure if they are no longer politically or economically able to restore their debt sustainability.
In contrast to a disorderly procedure, creditors receive planning certainty and disincentives on the financial markets are reduced.
This is because insolvency proceedings make the default of a state as a debtor a realistic scenario, which increases creditors' risk awareness.
An effective insolvency mechanism requires that a politically independent body be responsible for overseeing the process.
Binding rules should provide certainty for all parties involved as to when the process begins and that it can be completed quickly.
To prevent individual creditors from blocking debt rescheduling negotiations, the rescheduling clauses in European government bonds must be adjusted accordingly.
Moreover, it is imperative that the procedure be linked to a clear macroeconomic reform program.
Financial assistance from the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) is to be granted for a limited period and only subject to strict conditions.
The principle that clearly applies here is solidarity versus solidity.
An automatic extension of sovereign debt maturities at the start of the process could also help reduce financing needs.
Regulated exit procedure from the euro area
We Free Democrats want to adapt the European treaties so that member states can leave the euro area in accordance with a regulated procedure without losing their EU membership.
After all, if a country is permanently unable to restore its competitiveness and debt sustainability within the monetary union, it may be sensible and necessary to leave the euro.
With the return to its own currency and the possibility of devaluing it, this state can increase its competitiveness.
However, states shy away from this path because it has so far been legally linked to withdrawal from the European Union.
We want to end this coupling.
No privileging of government bonds in banking regulation
We Free Democrats want to end the preferential treatment of government bonds issued by central governments of the European Economic Area in the European regulation of banks and insurance companies and replace it with market-based approaches.
The regulatory fiction of the risk-free nature of bonds issued by euro area countries was a major cause of the European sovereign debt crisis.
Even today, this non-market practice leads to misallocations on the capital market: For example, equities or corporate bonds are placed at an unfair disadvantage in the competition for investor funds.
Government bonds must therefore also be backed by equity capital and a large exposure limit must prevent cluster risks.
In addition, the possibility of multi-year extensions of government bonds should be created so that the risks are reflected in the interest rate level at an early stage and creditors are deprived of the opportunity to free themselves from risks at the expense of the community of states.
Consistent application of the bank resolution mechanism and sensible bank regulation
We Free Democrats are committed to ensuring that the European bank resolution mechanism consistently applies the so-called "bail-in" rules and the sequence of liability they provide for.
This means that in the event of insolvency, a bank's shareholders and creditors are initially held liable.
Only then can resources of the common resolution fund be drawn upon, into which the European banks pay.
State recapitalization may only be used in absolutely exceptional cases and as fiscally neutral loans if the existing funds are insufficient and financial stability is at risk.
For only through strict implementation will the European bank resolution mechanism gain credibility and send the necessary signal to banks and their creditors that they will not be constantly rescued at state expense.
We reject the communitarization of deposit insurance in Europe.
We Free Democrats want to see differentiated banking regulation, with relief for small and medium-sized credit institutions.
Regulation has been tightened in recent years.
This is correct in principle, but hits small and medium-sized institutions disproportionately hard, although they are less exposed to risks than large credit institutions.
Automatic Sanctions for the Stability and Growth Pact
We Free Democrats want the enforcement of automatic sanctions to comply with the European Union's Stability and Growth Pact.
This is because the control and sanction mechanisms that have existed up to now do not work.
Scientific studies show that EU members continuously violate the euro stability criteria without incurring financial sanctions.
To ensure that the Stability and Growth Pact does not remain a mere declaration of intent, we need new rules that tangibly encourage the EU member states to exercise greater budgetary discipline.
The key point for us is that sanctions are automatically enforced when the excessive deficit procedure is closed.
Because if sanctions are constantly suspended for political reasons, they have no credibility.
In addition, the blocking of support funds by the EU Commission should be possible as a sanction measure.
Budget effectively
A policy that can do the math pays attention to revenues and expenditures.
What is self-evident for every citizen must also apply to the state and politics: Don't spend more money than you have.
Let's act on it again!
Debt reduction
We Free Democrats are committed to ensuring that Germany reduces its old debts instead of resting on its "black zero".
If the interest rate level were to rise again one day, the high mountain of debt might break our back financially.
After all, it was primarily the low interest rates and record tax revenues that enabled a balanced budget in recent years.
It would even have been possible to achieve budget surpluses to reduce debt if the federal government had not immediately used the additional revenues for newly created expenditure items.
The mountain of debt remains high.
At 71.2 percent of gross domestic product, Germany's debt-to-GDP ratio in 2015 was above the 60 percent mark under the Maastricht criteria, which are designed to ensure the economic stability of the euro area.
Germany must therefore set a good example and reduce its debt quickly.
Sustainable debt reduction is also a question of intergenerational justice.
After all, the interest rate level may change again in the medium term.
Rising interest payments, together with many other payment obligations on the part of the state, will then increasingly reduce the budgetary scope for spending - and thus also the future opportunities of our children and grandchildren.
Everyone is liable for their own debts
We want each level of government - local, state, federal - to be liable for its own debt.
That is why we want to strengthen individual responsibility in German federalism and create an insolvency code for regional authorities based on the Swiss model.
Today, local authorities stand up for each other in a budget emergency as a last resort.
This results in a de facto joint liability.
Those who manage well must share the risks of those who manage poorly.
This in turn overrides the disciplining effect of the capital market, for example through interest rate premiums.
However, we want to create incentives for sound budgeting and clear rules in the event of over-indebtedness.
The examples of Switzerland and Canada show that personal responsibility for the debt of the cantons and provinces leads to more solid public finances.
In the event of over-indebtedness, an insolvency code regulates the restructuring of debts, enables creditors to participate in an orderly manner and secures the ability of the municipality, state or federal government to act in the provision of public goods and services.
Measures to prevent breaches of the debt brake
We Free Democrats want to put the federal government and the states in a position to counteract possible violations of the debt brake at an early stage and in a sustainable manner.
The debt brake stipulates that the federal government has had to have balanced budgets since 2016 and the states from 2020.
Apart from a few exceptions, new borrowing will then no longer be permissible for the federal states.
For the federal government, new structural debt is limited to 0.35 percent of GDP per year.
In the long term, therefore, the trade tax should be replaced by a municipal surcharge with its own right of assessment on corporate income tax and on the previously lowered income tax, as well as a higher municipal share of sales tax.
In the meantime, the trade tax base was to be adjusted for non-profit-related additions and thus aligned with the income and corporation tax base.
In addition, we want to introduce effective options for legal action, such as a suspensive effect of legal action in the event of alleged breaches of the debt brake.
In addition, the Stability Council is to be given stronger powers to monitor and control the implementation of the Länder debt brakes, for example by means of rights of appeal against Länder budgets.
In the future, new debt may only be approved by a two-thirds majority in parliaments.
Framework conditions for a strong economy
A policy that can do the math makes for a strong economy.
This is because only what has been earned beforehand can be distributed.
When the economy is doing well, the state and society also benefit more.
The social market economy, with its core principles of ethics, liability and individual responsibility, forms the foundation of our economic order.
Ethically responsible behavior is an indispensable prerequisite for the long-term stability and social acceptance of this order.
We need the right framework conditions for this.
Let's get them ready!
Improved depreciation conditions
We Free Democrats want to improve depreciation conditions.
For us, a fair tax system provides the necessary impetus for innovation,
Economic growth
and employment in Germany.
We therefore want to reintroduce declining balance depreciation for movable assets, also to accelerate technological change.
For digital assets such as hardware and software, we want uniform and shortened depreciation periods of no more than three years to fairly reflect the short technological cycles of these assets
and strengthen investments in digitization.
We also want to increase the limit for immediate depreciation of low-value assets.
The tax environment for investment in housing is also not attractive.
We want to improve conditions here and increase straight-line depreciation from two percent to three percent.
Introduction of tax-based research funding that is open to all technologies
We Free Democrats want to introduce tax-based research funding that is open to technology.
As a result, companies in Germany are to receive a certain percentage of their personnel expenses for research and development (R&D) as a tax credit (research premium).
Research and innovation are thus indirectly promoted via the tax system.
After all, the strength of our economy lies in the innovative power of our companies, in cutting-edge technologies, products and services.
And all the more so in the digital age.
Therefore, R&D investments are crucial for future competitiveness and
thus jobs and prosperity.
Existing funding instruments, such as project funding with direct funds, are not sufficient here.
They are too unattractive, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, because of the many requirements and excessive bureaucracy.
Tax-based research funding, on the other hand, is unbureaucratic, since project applications and approval procedures are not required.
Moreover, companies can benefit equally, regardless of the industry or the type and content of the innovation ideas.
Many other OECD and EU member states already have this instrument.
The German government's Commission of Experts on Research and Innovation has also been recommending the introduction of tax-based research funding for years.
We want to do this so that German companies no longer have a locational disadvantage.
We want the research premium to be offset against tax liability or - in the event of a loss - paid out as negative income tax.
This injection of liquidity particularly helps start-ups and companies in renewal or crisis situations.
Improved conditions for Germany as an industrial location
We, the Free Democrats, are concerned that important key industries in Germany are being burdened by a deterioration in the political framework and by requirements and restrictions that are excessive by European standards.
As a result of the wrong energy policy, Germany is losing companies and employees in the energy-intensive industries in particular.
This particularly affects the chemical, steel, metal, textile, construction and raw materials industries.
We want to work for better investment conditions in Germany as a business location so that investment activity does not continue to decline in industry, which is increasingly building new plants and sites abroad.
We want to enable these important industries to continue to enjoy competitive production conditions in Germany in the future,
because they are associated with more than one million highly qualified jobs with above-average wages.
Germany is an industrial location and Germany must remain an industrial location.
Strengthen entrepreneurial freedom
We Free Democrats want to strengthen entrepreneurial freedom and reduce bureaucratic burdens.
During this legislative period, additional burdens have arisen, including the Minimum Wage Documentation Requirements Ordinance, the Workplace Ordinance and the Equal Pay Act.
Securing SME financing
We Free Democrats want fair competitive conditions in the banking market so that private individuals and small and medium-sized enterprises can continue to obtain appropriate financing in the future.
The tightening of regulatory requirements in the wake of the global financial crisis is costing Germany alone around nine billion euros a year.
The burden of additional bureaucracy hits small and medium-sized financial institutions in particular, which essentially have to meet the same regulatory requirements as large international banks (one size fits all).
We want the principle of proportionality enshrined in EU legislation to be given greater weight in both European and national banking supervision.
Smaller banks with lower-risk business models are to be relieved of regulatory reporting and disclosure requirements.
We call for the rapid implementation of the Federal Reserve's proposed "Small Banking Box" that specifies the relief.
Maintain international competitiveness
We Free Democrats are committed to Germany's international competitiveness as a business location.
Efficient ports and airports are just as strategically important for Germany as an exporting country
as high transport capacities, intelligent logistics solutions and high-performance infrastructures.
After all, our prosperity depends to a large extent on trade with other countries, 90 percent of which takes place across the seas.
Only a strong maritime industry keeps the know-how in our country that is necessary for future competitiveness; it is thus a key industry for Germany.
Modern ports and airports and efficient roads, railways, waterways and shipping secure our access to international markets.
They must therefore be developed further and not restricted in their capacity and importance.
Free access to financial and capital markets is essential for the German economy.
Germany as a financial center faces intense global competition.
We reject unilateral burdens and national go-it-alone approaches as
well as distortions of competition through subsidies or state-supported companies in other countries.
Instead, we are focusing on the further development of European and globally valid economic and regulatory standards.
Germany is one of the world's largest consumers of raw materials with high import dependencies.
Therefore, a secure supply of raw materials is fundamental for our country.
We want to conclude further international raw material partnerships and at the same time reduce trade barriers.
With a view to the economic and sustainable extraction of imported as well as domestic and maritime mineral resources, we want to create the necessary investment and planning security.
Important contributions to security of supply can also be made by innovations in resource efficiency, secondary raw material extraction, and biological resources in the bioeconomy.
We therefore want to promote appropriate approaches in research and development in a targeted manner.
Entitlement to binding information in tax law
We Free Democrats want to create real legal certainty in the future through a right to binding information in tax law by the tax authorities.
The focus must be on enabling citizens or entrepreneurs to foresee the tax consequences of a planned economic decision with as little effort as possible within a reasonable period of time.
Clear international rules for fair tax competition
We Free Democrats want all companies - including and especially large international companies - to make their contribution to financing the community as a matter of course.
Today, it is precisely international corporations that exploit international tax law for aggressive tax planning.
We are committed to developing concepts both at the international level of the Group of 20 most important industrialized and emerging countries (G20) and at the level of the European Union that ensure fair taxation for all companies but do
not jeopardize Germany as a business location.
Intergenerational justice
A policy that can calculate does not only focus on today.
Politics on credit, which distributes electoral gifts today that tomorrow's generations will have to pay for, is unjust.
Let's budget generationally!
Introduction of generational accounting of laws
We Free Democrats want future generations to be relieved.
That is why we want to strengthen the sustainability assessment of laws on the basis of sustainability indicators, anchor it effectively in parliament and supplement it with generational accounting.
This involves comparing society's benefits for future generations with its burdens: for example, spending on education, infrastructure and social security on the credit side and burdens from government debt, pension burdens and obligations from intergenerational contracts on the debit side.
This creates transparency, especially because implicit debt is also recorded, i.e. future payment obligations resulting from promised government benefits.
Generational accounting thus contributes to sustainable financial planning and should therefore be used in assessing the impact of legislation.
The switch to double-entry bookkeeping in municipalities and public corporations (Doppik) in the budgets of the states and the federal government is an important first step here.
Debt brake 2.0
We Free Democrats want to anchor a "debt brake 2.0" for the social security systems in the Basic Law.
This is because services of interest to society as a whole must not continue to result in high contributions for contributors.
A "debt brake 2.0" is to stipulate that non-insurance benefits will in future be financed entirely from the federal budget and no longer from the social insurance funds.
This is necessary to ensure the sustainable financing of the social security systems.
This is because they are burdened by many non-insurance benefits.
These include benefits paid to uninsured persons, benefits paid to insured persons that are not covered by contributions, or benefits that do not correspond to the purpose of the respective social insurance.
At the same time, we want to prevent the current debt brake from being circumvented by reaching into the social security coffers to hide additional social benefits.
In this context, we are not seeking a general reduction in benefits, but are calling for their correct allocation: general social policy tasks should be assigned directly to the federal budget.
Certain noninsurance benefits may also continue to be paid by the social insurance institutions, for example, to avoid bureaucracy.
In return, however, the federal government must reimburse them in full from federal funds.
Ending the ECB's low interest rate policy
We Free Democrats call for an end to the ECB's low interest rate policy.
This is because the low interest rate policy shifts burdens into the future and thus harms intergenerational justice.
Moreover, there are no incentives to push ahead with structural reforms and stop running up debts.
The reason for the low interest rate policy is primarily the low growth in the EU, which is due to the massive reform abstinence in Europe.
New start in the energy transition
A policy that can do the math reconciles what is desirable with what is feasible.
The energy turnaround is the exact opposite example of this: The desirable is being pursued without regard to the feasible, and it is not being achieved.
So let's dare to make a fresh start with the energy transition!
Completion of the European internal energy market
We Free Democrats want to make the energy transition a pan-European project centered on the goals of economic efficiency, security of supply,
and environmental protection.
To this end, the liberalization of the internal energy market must be completed
and the trans-European network expansion strengthened.
Electricity should be produced where site conditions allow the lowest cost.
EU emissions trading as a market-based control instrument for the cost-efficient avoidance of emissions must emerge strengthened from the forthcoming reform and be extended to other sectors (for example, housing and transport).
Competition and market economy for the energy mix of the future
We Free Democrats are committed to a diverse energy mix and are open to new technologies, even if fossil fuels cannot be dispensed with in the foreseeable future.
For us, renewable energies are an important element in the energy mix of the future.
They already have a share of around 30 percent in the German electricity market.
This means that the objective of the Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG) to achieve the market introduction of renewable energies has long since been implemented.
Many existing plants and new construction projects can be operated economically today at suitable locations without subsidies.
In the future, the rules of the market with all its opportunities and risks must also apply to renewable energy sources.
After all, sustainable and subsidy-free business models can only be implemented in technology-neutral competition under market-economy conditions.
Therefore, in the future, it should not be laws and expansion targets set by politicians that decide which energy source and which technology is used to contribute to the energy supply.
Instead of expansion targets for renewable energy sources planned far into an uncertain future, the market selection process should set the guard rails for investments in the grid and power plant capacities.
The pace of renewable energy expansion must match the state of development of transmission grids, power-to-X technology and distribution grids in a merging European internal energy market, as well as the development of storage and control technologies.
That is why we want to end the EEG's permanent subsidy system with feed-in priority and compensation.
Systems with a funding commitment enjoy grandfather status.
Economically viable expansion of power grids
We Free Democrats are in favor of an economically viable network expansion that promotes the interests of citizens, but also of companies, in high security of supply and low electricity prices in a single European electricity market.
With the phase-out of nuclear power and the rapid expansion of renewable energy sources, the load on the power grids has increased considerably.
If no action is taken now, the costs of the energy transition will rise even further.
For the existing supply of renewable energies, grid bottlenecks must be eliminated primarily through new lines and improved technologies (for example, digitization).
To avoid rising costs in the future, renewable energies must be better integrated into the market, i.e. in line with consumption and capacity.
In line with the "polluter pays" principle, we are calling for more responsibility for grid stability on the part of all energy producers.
The current system of network financing must be reformed so that citizens and companies are finally relieved.
In grid expansion, too, burdens must be reduced to the unavoidable level.
For example, we want to relieve the burden on citizens with regard to the network surcharge.
To this end, the operators of generation plants are to bear the costs of grid connection (at least in part).
Open capacity markets instead of planned capacity markets
We Free Democrats want to achieve security of supply through competition and are opposed to government intervention to provide sufficient power plant capacity.
We do not want a state-determined capacity and climate reserve that merely cures the symptoms of the failed energy transition.
We advocate that renewable energy sources assume system responsibility in the future and ensure the security of their electricity supply themselves.
In open power markets, all electricity suppliers should be required to secure the power promised to consumers under all conditions through supply guarantees.
In this way, the required power is provided efficiently in a market economy.
By making supply guarantees tradable, we also want to enable small providers to guarantee supply.
This makes a planned capacity market superfluous.
We Free Democrats want to support the interests of citizens in energy policy.
More and more people are expressing resistance to the generation of energy by wind turbines in particular, because this often entails a drastic reduction in the quality of life for local residents as well as massive encroachment on nature and the landscape.
Therefore, the minimum legal requirements for the erection of such turbines must be changed in such a way that, as the size of wind turbines increases and the associated impact increases, the distance to the nearest residential area, breeding grounds, etc. also increases accordingly.
We believe that this is guaranteed by the so-called 10H rule: Here, the distance to residential areas is at least ten times the total height of the wind turbine.
In addition, the distance limits to breeding sites and feeding habitats of endangered bird species should be bindingly based on the recommendations of the Länderarbeitsgemeinschaft der Vogelschutzwarten (Helgoland Paper).
The special privilege under building law for wind turbines in outdoor areas is to be abolished.
Climate compatibility and efficiency
Protecting the climate is too important to be approached in a bureaucratic and planned economy.
Nevertheless, these strategies dominate with devastating consequences: Costs get out of hand without adequate success.
Let's change the strategy towards a market economy!
Global climate protection policy
We Free Democrats advocate a sensible, internationally coordinated policy based on the Paris climate protection agreement and reject national go-it-alone approaches.
We want to further develop emissions trading as a global climate protection instrument
and win international cooperation partners for this purpose.
We will only succeed if we set ourselves realistic long-term goals and refrain from unnecessary market intervention.
Technically, there are many ways to protect the climate.
In our view, all socially accepted technologies and energy sources that can hold their own in a market economy and ensure a secure energy supply are equally suitable.
For this reason, we also reject technical requirements for greenhouse gas reduction at the level of the European Union and advocate the abandonment of subsidies for abatement technologies.
Strengthening EU emissions trading for climate protection
We Free Democrats want to use emissions trading as a central control instrument in climate protection to harness the innovative power of the markets, initially in the EU and as quickly as possible worldwide.
To date, the German energy turnaround has cost more than 150 billion euros without any real reduction in emissions.
A myriad of climate protection targets and instruments for different areas of life and sectors make climate protection unnecessarily expensive and block the funds for alternative greenhouse gas reduction options.
Better drivers of climate-friendly innovation are a global price for CO2 emissions, reliable long-term emissions targets,
and corporate flexibility in trading emissions allowances.
That's why, as a first step, we want to strengthen EU emissions trading by expanding it to other sectors, thus making it fit for future cooperation with other international emissions trading systems.
However, global economic sectors such as shipping and aviation also need global agreements.
At the same time, we reject interventions in the pricing of emission allowances on the market, such as minimum prices.
The proceeds from the auctioning of emission allowances are not to be used to fill subsidy pots.
Reduce electricity tax
We Free Democrats want to ease the burden on electricity consumers and therefore reduce the electricity tax to the European minimum level.
Today, the electricity tax accounts for a significant share of the price of electricity.
The electricity tax was supposed to protect the climate and fund pensions.
Both have proven to be illusions.
Electricity savings through high electricity prices do not result in greenhouse gas reductions under the conditions of European emissions trading.
A sustainable financing of pensions requires a sensible pension reform, not plugging the financing holes with the electricity tax.
For the competition of new technologies
We Free Democrats are open to new technologies, especially in climate protection.
No one can say today what the energy supply will look like in 50 years.
We therefore fundamentally reject long-term plans to implement specific emissions targets for each sector of the economy by means of restrictive requirements.
Permanent subsidy systems such as the Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG) hinder the implementation of new ideas and must therefore be abolished.
We Free Democrats want to exploit the potential of linking electricity, heat, mobility and raw materials and their infrastructures ("sector coupling") to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in a market economy.
We reject a planned implementation by the federal government.
This is because we do not see state investment guidance, such as the forced introduction of electric cars by banning internal combustion engines, as an appropriate climate protection strategy.
Digitization in the energy market must also be driven forward with market-based principles instead of state coercion.
Smart meters are currently a prerequisite for load-based electricity tariffs.
They help to better manage supply and demand, while enabling cost savings for customers.
High data protection standards must be strictly observed when introducing smart meters.
Here, too, the following applies: Sustainable and subsidy-free business models can only be implemented in technology-neutral competition under market-economy conditions.
Only new technologies that survive on the market offer economic opportunities and new fields of employment.
And also opportunities for a secure energy supply, more efficient energy use and reduced greenhouse gas emissions.
No solo efforts in climate policy without benefits
We Free Democrats want energy policy not to become a policy of prohibition.
Today, the goals of energy policy are being forced on people with more and more new regulations, subsidies and compulsory levies.
We want market-based incentives and not an ideology of renunciation and prohibition with state control.
We reject unilateral national initiatives such as the Climate Protection Plan 2050.
It prescribes specific savings targets for individual sectors in Germany without having
a significant climate effect.
In doing so, it makes people's lives more expensive
and endangers jobs.
With such planned paternalism, we deprive ourselves of the necessary openness to technical progress.
In addition, common European climate targets have been set.
This means that every additional ton of CO2 saved in Germany can be emitted in other European countries.
Germany's solo efforts in climate policy are therefore ecologically ineffective.
Germany's climate targets must therefore be brought back into line with the common European targets.
An uncomplicated state
Life is already complicated enough.
Nobody needs a state that makes things more complicated than necessary.
That is why we are advocating a change of perspective in politics: In the future, things should not be regulated in a way that makes it as easy as possible for the authorities to achieve their goals.
In the future, things should be regulated in a way that makes it as easy as possible for citizens to achieve their goals within the framework of the law.
Efficient and uncomplicated management
An uncomplicated state makes it easy for people and companies.
It saves time, nerves and administrative procedures.
Let's make Germany uncomplicated!
Reduce bureaucracy by turning government agencies into one-stop stores
Citizens and companies should no longer have to go to different authorities to get things done, but rather to just one point of contact where everything that needs to be done can be done - preferably online.
This means that all data only has to be entered once, and previously different logon processes at different offices are synchronized.
Therefore, we call for the expansion of the so-called Single Body.
To this end, the points of single contact under the Services Directive (2006/123/EC) are to be extended to all administrative areas.
To achieve this, the IT infrastructure of the public sector in Germany must be dynamically developed further.
This includes the consolidation of IT structures and the further digitization of administrative processes in the authorities as well as between the authorities, citizens and the business community.
The medium-sized IT industry should be given special consideration in this context because of its high innovative capacity and regulatory significance.
Introduction of the "Once-Only" principle
We Free Democrats demand that companies and citizens only have to transmit information they pass on to authorities once if they want to.
For small and medium-sized companies in particular, forms and administration take up an unnecessary amount of their valuable time.
This time-killer is exacerbated when the same information is requested by different entities.
We therefore call for more transparency among the authorities: once companies and citizens have passed on information, the authorities should also ensure that it is passed on to other relevant bodies on their behalf ("once-only" principle).
Transparent regulations are created for the transfer of data regarding the reason, scope and purpose of the transfer as well as the corresponding storage periods.
The data records are to be stored decentrally at the accessing authorities.
If employers are required by law to release data, this must be done in the least bureaucratic way possible for employers.
Already today, the many electronic procedures between employers and the authorities are complicated by the fact that employees can object to the electronic transmission of data.
This means employers must fill out paper forms if employees want to do so, even though electronic procedures already exist.
This counteracts the hoped-for advantages of electronic data transmission.
The restriction must therefore lie with the duty to provide information, not with the type of data transmission.
Innovation principle in addition to the precautionary principle in political decisions
We Free Democrats want the innovation principle to apply to political decisions in addition to the precautionary principle.
This means that the impact assessment does not only look at possible risks of a measure.
Equally intensive efforts must be made to determine what opportunities will be lost if the action is not taken.
Simplification of documentation requirements for the minimum wage
We Free Democrats demand a simplification of the documentation requirements for the minimum wage.
The nationwide minimum wage was introduced in Germany on January 1, 2015.
In the process, legislation imposes bureaucratic burdens on employers that, in many areas, far outweigh the additional wage costs.
The documentation requirements lead to a paper war, especially for small and medium-sized companies.
The associated compulsion to control prevents a flexible organization of the working day.
For example, home office solutions are made more difficult by law.
Bureaucracy reduction through "one in, two out" principle in legislation
We Free Democrats want to reduce the burdens placed on citizens and businesses by too much regulation.
To this end, we propose a time limit on laws and the "one in, two out" principle.
New regulations are to be adopted only if, at the same time, twice as many consequential costs are cut back elsewhere.
In addition, new regulations are to be given an expiration date so that it can be checked whether they are proving their worth.
Making the right use of digitization
A straightforward state uses all the opportunities offered by digitization to become faster, more user-friendly and less expensive for its citizens.
Let's finally get going with this!
Introduction of a digital ministry
We Free Democrats call for the introduction of a digital ministry.
Digitization is one of the key challenges of the present day.
This makes it a complex cross-cutting task.
We want to put an end to the wrangling over competencies between five ministries when it comes to digitization.
We are committed to ensuring that the threads come together in one hand.
These synergy effects lead to a leaner and more efficient government.
Nationwide fiber optic network
We Free Democrats want high-performance Internet everywhere in Germany through nationwide gigabit infrastructures in both the fixed network and mobile communications.
Fiber optics transmit data significantly faster than the widely used copper cables.
Even if copper cables are retrofitted by means of so-called vectoring, they do not come close to achieving the transmission speed of fiber optics.
The expansion is to be tendered in regional clusters so that expansion is also attractive in rural areas.
All providers must be able to lease capacity on new fiber-optic lines.
This allows for true competition down to the land while refinancing over the coming decades.
State-of-the-art digital infrastructure
We Free Democrats want to bring the digital infrastructure - of private and state agencies - up to the state of the art and protect it effectively.
Unauthorized access to personal data by third parties is not only a loss for the company concerned, but above all for the customers affected.
Therefore, we advocate for provider liability in the event of negligence, for example, if the state of the art was not used.
We Free Democrats demand a basic right to encryption.
To this end, the further development of encryption technologies, the security of storage systems, and qualified access and authorization logics must be driven forward more strongly.
We reject legal restrictions or bans on cryptographic security systems as well as the use of backdoors and government involvement in digital gray and black markets.
Free WLAN in public spaces
We Free Democrats want to enable more free WLAN in public spaces, buildings and public transport.
To the extent permitted by European law, WLAN operators will no longer be held liable as "Stoerer" (interfering party) for copyright infringements committed by users.
At the European level, we are working to ensure that WLAN operators are no longer held liable for the omission and removal of legal infringements by users.
User-friendly identification with the ID card
For us Free Democrats, everyone must be able to participate in digitized life - securely and easily.
We want to further develop the ID card into a user-friendly and secure digital identification.
Whether vis-à-vis public authorities, in the healthcare sector, in exchanges with banks, companies or users among themselves - secure, digitally verifiable identification should be able to be used everywhere.
It could replace all other credentials and identity cards.
E-Health
A good health care system is literally quality of life.
Many opportunities remain untapped here because we are not leveraging the potential of digitization through e-health.
Let's seize the opportunity and make our healthcare system less complicated and smarter at the same time!
Expansion of digital health services
We Free Democrats are committed to the further expansion of digital health services and to improved framework conditions for a secure digitization of the healthcare system
that is oriented toward citizens as its users.
Because digital services make for a more efficient, faster and safer healthcare system.
So-called e-health systems, where relevant data is collected and harnessed, offer a variety of ways to introduce improvements in healthcare.
With decentralized storage at and under the control of the respective citizen, these systems enable rapid access in an emergency, insofar as this is also maintained and desired by the patients.
Serving people also includes protecting their data.
The state must always guarantee the sovereignty of individuals over their data.
Patients determine their data and who may access it, when, for how long and for what purpose.
For this reason, every access must be documented so that any attempts at misuse can be swiftly punished.
Digitization combines the goal of reducing bureaucracy with the streamlining of diagnostic, documentation and coordination processes
and expands research opportunities to combat diseases.
In doing so, we advocate for the technical possibilities of voluntary, direct and secure data exchange between stakeholders in the healthcare system
while ensuring the highest possible level of data protection and security.
Release brakes on housing construction
A state that makes things unnecessarily complicated should not be surprised when nothing happens.
Few areas of life have been as heavily regulated in recent years as housing.
The consequences: Costs are rising and far too little is being built.
Let's release these brakes and provide more living space!
Create more living space
We Free Democrats want to combat the housing shortage in major German cities.
But you can't manage shortages.
More living space is simply needed.
To this end, we want to make new housing construction more attractive and, for example, increase the annual depreciation rate for buildings from two to three percent.
This creates incentives to build because investments can be claimed against tax more quickly.
Abolish rent control
We Free Democrats want to abolish the so-called rent brake.
This is because it is in fact a brake on housing because it prevents investment in more housing.
At the moment, private individuals in particular are carefully considering whether investments are still worthwhile.
Yet, according to the 2011 Building and Housing Census, they provide about two-thirds of rental housing and usually don't want to earn horrendous returns either.
As landlords pull out of the market, housing supply continues to tighten.
It does not improve the chances of affordable housing.
1:1 implementation of the EU Residential Real Estate Credit Directive
We Free Democrats want to implement the EU Housing Credit Directive in such a way that individual consumer groups are not unnecessarily disadvantaged when building new homes or converting existing ones.
This is because the EU directive stipulates that the value of a new building or renovation can be a decisive criterion in an examination of creditworthiness, instead of looking solely at the debtor's income.
However, the German implementation excludes this possibility.
Young families before parental leave or pensioners in particular lose out if their income alone is used in the calculation and they therefore no longer receive funding.
That is why we want to reduce the restrictive legislation of the Grand Coalition to a 1:1 implementation of the EU Directive.
Earmarking of federal funds for housing promotion
We Free Democrats call for earmarking federal funds for housing development.
Thousands of apartments are lacking, especially in German metropolitan areas, and the need is growing from year to year.
To combat this bottleneck, the federal government provides around 500 million euros annually.
Instead of being used to build urgently needed housing, however, some of these funds are sinking into the coffers of the states and cities.
We therefore call for earmarking of federal funds: money that is made available for the construction of housing must also be used for this purpose.
Housing promotion
Housing construction is stimulated to the extent necessary when each tenant is able to pay.
This is ensured by an appropriately designed housing allowance that is adjusted annually to the local rent trend.
It immediately benefits every tenant as soon as he has found an apartment of an appropriate size at a reasonable rent or has to accept an increase in the rent of his apartment due to rising comparative rents.
From a social-liberal point of view, "subject promotion" with housing subsidies therefore deserves preference over "object promotion" through an allegedly "social housing subsidy."
This spreads the illusion of entitlement to an apartment with a subsidized "cost rent."
It makes no sense to issue a "Wohnberechtigungsschein" to half the population and only be able to provide social housing for a very small portion of the population.
This is obviously political social fraud, which we Free Democrats do not want to participate in.
We want to limit eligibility for social housing to those segments of the population who remain unsuccessful on the open housing market even with a housing subsidy because landlords do not accept them despite their ability to pay.
Never enough good ideas
You can never have enough good ideas.
We, too, have only been able to present part of our ideas for Germany here.
We invite all citizens in Germany to discuss these and many other ideas with us.
They can all be found at fdp.de/themen.
