A. Direction decision for Germany
Globalization and the knowledge society are the challenges of our time.
They are perceived by many as a threat.
We are convinced that globalization, i.e. worldwide trade and business, and the knowledge society offer the greatest opportunities for our country - if we recognize them and want to take advantage of them.
We want to make the citizens of our country the winners of this development.
We want our values of democracy
and a social market economy to continue to prevail in these times.
We want politics to once again contribute to recognizing and exploiting Germany's opportunities.
This must be the goal of a major joint effort by our country.
But this cannot be achieved with a policy of "business as usual.
Where do we stand? - the heavy legacy of red-green
7 years of Red-Green have plunged Germany into a deep crisis.
The social, economic and financial foundations of our country are acutely endangered.
For the first time in over 50 years, the ability of the Federal Republic of Germany to guarantee its citizens prosperity, participation in general progress and social security seems to be in question.
It is undoubtedly true: the roots of many problems go back a long way.
But the wrong policies of the Red-Green Party have dramatically exacerbated the existing problems.
Germany has lost its economic dynamism under the Red-Greens.
The average growth of the last 7 years has almost halved compared to the years 1990-1998.
In the Europe of 25, Germany ranks last.
Even in 2004, the year of the biggest global economic boom in the last quarter century, no new jobs subject to social security contributions were created in Germany on balance, the national debt was not reduced by a single euro and the social security reserves were further eroded.
This year, growth will in all likelihood again remain below 1%, threatening a return to the virtual standstill of recent years.
There has never been such a long period of stagnation in the history of the Federal Republic.
Germany is draining its substance, and we have mass unemployment.
In the last three years alone, 1.5 million jobs subject to social insurance contributions have been lost.
Almost 5 million people are officially unemployed, the highest number since the Federal Republic came into existence.
In addition, there are more than 1.3 million people in employment service assistance programs and hundreds of thousands more who have withdrawn in disappointment.
The numbers of long-term unemployed and unemployed young people have risen at an above-average rate;
almost nowhere else in the industrialized countries are there so few older people over 55 who can still participate in the workforce;
almost nowhere else are there so many low-skilled workers who cannot find regular employment.
Unemployment in the new federal states is still twice as high as in the west.
In eastern Germany alone, the number of jobs subject to social insurance contributions has fallen by 17% since 1998.
Under the Red-Green federal government, the placement successes of the public employment service have almost halved, while at the same time federal spending on labor market policy has more than doubled.
Hardly any other country adheres to such rigid labor market rules, such a high tax burden on wages and such a centralized employment service.
It is therefore not surprising that Germany is one of the few OECD countries that have failed to create more employment in the last five years.
The devastating result of 7 years of Red-Green is also that 1 million more people live in poverty.
Germany's technological performance is dwindling.
Almost all key figures in this area are worse than in the early 1990s.
The share of research and development in gross domestic product has fallen to 2.5%, while the Scandinavian countries spend over 4% on this in some cases.
At the end of the 1990s, German industry was still increasing its innovation spending by around 10%, but it is now declining rapidly.
Red-Green wanted to double federal spending on research and science; in real terms, it has fallen over the past 7 years.
The report on technological performance states that without the automotive industry, Germany could no longer be called a high-tech country.
Migration and relocation of companies and jobs continue.
At 40,000, the number of company insolvencies this year is almost 50% higher than in 1998. The
crisis is hitting the social security systems in particular.
The finances of the social security systems are in tatters, and their performance is threatened.
Although the Red-Green Party has reduced the financial reserves of the social security funds by more than 23 billion euros since 1998, increased federal subsidies by more than 30 billion euros, reduced benefits and increased co-payments, contribution rates have not declined on balance but remain at around 42%.
The federal government has not achieved sustainable reorganization and stabilization in any branch of social insurance.
The pension insurance system is already threatened with a new billion euro shortfall by the end of 2007, while the minimum reserve for long-term care insurance will be undercut by 2008 at the latest.
The savings effects of the healthcare reform are also already diminishing again.
The real challenges resulting from demographic changes are yet to come.
Public-sector debt is rising rapidly.
Since 2002, public finances have gone completely off the rails.
This year, for the first time, tax revenues are no longer sufficient to cover current expenditures for interest, social security and personnel.
The federal investment ratio has fallen to a historic low of less than 10%.
The structural deficit of the federal budget alone is between 50 and 60 billion euros.
Despite historically low interest rates, the interest burden will grow to around EUR 50 billion over the next four years, roughly twice as fast as tax revenues.
This is the balance after 7 years of Red-Green: / Our society is struggling with increasing tendencies toward division.
The losers come from all sectors of society.
They are unemployed people who want to work but don't get a chance.
Workers who fear for their jobs and are overburdened with taxes.
Medium-sized entrepreneurs and start-ups shackled in bureaucracy and missing tax fairness.
Elderly people and pensioners who see the reward for their life's work at risk and no longer have planning security.
Young people whose future prospects are burdened by debt and a lack of innovation.
Families with children whose scope for making their own decisions about their lives has become increasingly narrow.
Red-Green had its chance.
It was not used.
What's more, the high expectations that many people had when the red-green coalition came to power were bitterly disappointed.
The 7 years of Red-Green were 7 lost years for securing the future of our country.
The acute economic and financial crisis is constantly worsening due to the inability to act and inactivity of the red-green coalition for months now.
The election programs of the SPD and the Greens are backward-looking, unfinanceable and unserious.
All this shows: Only under the leadership of the CDU/CSU does Germany have a chance for a better policy.
Where do we want to go? - Seizing opportunities instead of "business as usual
A policy of "business as usual" misses Germany's opportunities.
But our country cannot afford another lost year.
Germany is at a crucial crossroads where we are courting people's trust in a policy that has the courage to take a directional decision:
a decision for more growth.
We want to create growth in a comprehensive sense: growth in knowledge, in skills, in participation, in reliability, in trust.
Economic growth.
Equity Growth.
Innovation growth.
Such growth moves Germany forward.
It is sustainable.
It is a prerequisite that we recognize and exploit Germany's opportunities.
This is how we can stop the downward trend of our country.
In this way, we can set the course for the future and success once again.
On this basis, we are asking the citizens for a mandate for this policy:
We are asking for a mandate for a policy that secures and creates jobs.
For us, anything that puts more people to work is a priority.
After all, mass unemployment denies millions of people participation in society, undermines social security and the state's revenue base.
We will measure every measure by whether it promotes jobs or endangers jobs.
We are asking for a mandate for policies that create better futures for our children.
We are committed to helping our children and grandchildren with consolidated households.
and first-class education systems to give them the best possible start in life.
We must not allow children and families to continue to be restricted in their development opportunities
and we are living at the expense of future generations.
We will therefore do everything we can to ensure that our children have a good and secure future.
We are asking for a mandate for policies that enable new capacity for action by the state and citizens.
Because the state is overburdened.
We will therefore do everything in our power to make it strong again for its core tasks and to
create scope for citizens to develop themselves and take the initiative.
We ask for a mandate for a policy that sees Germany's role and responsibility as a strong partner in Europe and the world.
Because Europe and European integration must be led out of the crisis.
We will therefore do everything we can to strengthen Germany's role as a shaper and mediator in Europe and the world.
What guides us? - Reliability and clarity
Say what you want to do and do what you say - clarity and reliability must once again become maxims of political action.
Only in this way can politics successfully shape change.
This is the only way we can break the cycle of promises, expectations and disappointments.
This is the only way we show: We take people seriously.
We have respect for their wishes and concerns.
What is disrespectful, however, is a policy that leaves people with the impression that the honest man is the stupid one.
Disrespectful is a policy that expects more of people than of itself.
Disrespectful is a policy that does not trust people with anything, just like a policy that demands something that cannot be provided.
A society that excludes people when they have failed professionally or privately is disrespectful, as
is a policy that ostracizes people when they are successful.
Familiar rituals do not do justice to the country's situation.
We all have to do more for Germany.
And everyone has to start with themselves.
Thus, the turn for the better is possible.
The effect of a policy of clarity and reliability for new opportunities is shown by a look at our European neighbors.
Many of these countries are more successful than Germany because their governments have set a different course.
We are convinced that Germany can do what others can do.
Confidence in our country and in ourselves also comes from our experience.
The German economic miracle emerged from the ruins of the Second World War.
From the decline of 40 years of socialism in the GDR, German unity emerged and freedom triumphed throughout Europe.
The Union continues to build on these successes today.
It makes a big difference today, as it did in the past, who governs, both federally and in the states.
Because where the Union governs, people are better off.
Better policies produce better outcomes for people.
Better policies - that means having the courage to set a fundamental course.
Only a policy without fear can set the right course for the age of globalization and the knowledge society, even if resistance has to be overcome.
Better politics - that means strength to consensus.
It does not rely on images of the enemy, but creates new common ground after controversies.
Better politics does not get lost in arbitrariness, but is guided by a compass that combines value-basedness with realism and is thus a source of strength for movement and progress in the interests of the people.
It has always been the great strength of the CDU and CSU to align society toward a common goal.
Together with the citizens, we will once again set out on the path to a better future for Germany:
from a society trapped in the attempt to distribute "less" equally to a society that concentrates its energies on generating "more".
We want a Germany that produces top-quality products so that we can pay high wages.
We want a Germany in which people stand up for each other and everyone can rely on a strong community to provide protection and security against major life risks and against internal and external dangers.
We want people to be proud of their homeland again.
We are convinced that a change for the better is possible in Germany.
Our goal is not to better distribute the shortage.
Our goal is to return to more employment, growth and security.
B. Our goals - our measures
1. right of way for work
In Germany, around 1.5 million jobs subject to social insurance contributions have been lost in the last three years.
Over 1,000 every day!
This robs many people and their families of their livelihood and prospects.
It ruins public finances and social security systems.
That is why our most important goal is to create work.
Because: Social is what creates work.
1. 1 Innovation creates work
Where do we stand?
Hostility to technology has driven cutting-edge technologies and industries (chemistry, biotechnology and genetic engineering, nuclear research) with promising, prosperity-securing jobs abroad.
Technological standstill, however, leads to economic decline.
At the same time, Eastern Europe, China, India have caught up.
They compete with us for markets and jobs.
Sales and top wages can only be generated on the world markets through top products and top technologies.
What do we want?
"Made in Germany" must once again become the sign of an efficient society worldwide.
Only new ideas create new products and bring new jobs.
That is why we will consistently promote innovations.
Germany is to become a land of ideas, where top researchers and Nobel Prize winners research future technologies, and
where daring company founders develop premium products and launch them on the market.
We are opening up the best development opportunities for the cutting-edge technological fields of the future in Germany: biotechnology and genetic engineering, materials research, medical technology and optics, nanotechnology, mechatronics and transport technology, aerospace technology, information and communications technology, energy and environmental technology.
Technology transfer must be managed with modern "cluster policy".
We will create the necessary and responsible legal framework for the development of biotechnology and genetic engineering.
We are increasing annual investment in research and development by 1 billion euros in addition to the Excellence Initiative that has been agreed.
This will be financed by reducing subsidies.
Our goal: Germany must invest a share of 3% of its gross domestic product in research and development each year from 2010 - this is the humus from which work and progress grow. -
We are improving the networking of university and non-university research,
integrating it more closely into European research policy
and strengthening competition in the science sector.
This will improve our chances in the race for the most promising ideas.
- We are clearing the way for modern broadband network infrastructures as the basis for the future of Germany as a location for industry and research, as well as for the development of modern and innovative services.
Our aim is to provide incentives for the construction of new broadband networks by ensuring that investments in this area are not hampered by government regulation.
1.2 Fewer regulations, more freedom
Where do we stand?
A thicket of rules and regulations has become a brake on growth and employment in Germany.
Since 1998, there have been 1000 more laws and regulations at the federal level.
German companies have to spend a total of 46 billion euros a year just to fulfill bureaucratic obligations.
What do we want?
Deregulation, the reduction of tasks and the reduction of bureaucratic costs for the economy are indispensable building blocks for
entrepreneurial activity to flourish, for new jobs to be created and for Germany to become more attractive as a business location in international competition.
Job creation must take priority over other concerns.
We are scaling back the stifling of economic activity by federal legal requirements and relieving our economy of bureaucratic costs.
We give special statutory priority to job creation in important planning projects, for example in the area of building law and road construction, when weighing them against other objectives.
We exempt start-ups from statistical obligations.
We will abolish full statistics as far as possible and replace them with representative samples.
We relieve small businesses of accounting obligations.
We are dismantling excessive federal standards.
We limit the obligation of companies to appoint representatives to what is necessary and reduce verification and documentation requirements.
We abolish the right of associations to take legal action in planning procedures, unless this is required by European law.
We are reducing state tasks and strengthening individual responsibility instead of state faith.
Not everything that is desirable is also fundable.
The state must confine itself to its core tasks.
We want to transfer more testing responsibilities to entrusted contractors.
We are committed to systematically simplifying and deregulating existing EU law.
New EU regulations should only be adopted after a thorough regulatory impact assessment.
We are now only transposing EU law such as the Anti-Discrimination Directive into national law on a 1:1 basis.
In this way, we prevent one-sided burdens on the competitiveness of the German economy.
We want to limit bureaucratic EU regulations, such as the Chemicals Directive, which unnecessarily burden the economy, to truly unavoidable regulations.
We will reduce bureaucratic hurdles for volunteering and civic engagement.
We will also improve the framework conditions for charitable foundations and sub-foundations.
We are expanding eGovernment into a comprehensive offering for businesses and citizens.
The goal is to make all federal government offerings available online by 2009.
We want to make state administrative services accessible to citizens around the clock without having to go to the authorities.
It is not the citizens who should run, but the data.
1.3 New opportunities for employees: flexible labor market
Where do we stand?
More than 5 million registered unemployed in spring 2005 - a sad record in the history of the Federal Republic of Germany.
The reduction in employment continues.
Germany suffers from growing base unemployment - in contrast to countries with less regulation.
In particular, the share of long-term unemployed is higher than in almost all other countries.
What do we want?
We want to finally give the unemployed in Germany a chance again.
We want to get people into work.
The international comparison shows: Longer working hours and
less regulation bring more jobs.
Social is what creates work!
We legally secure company employment alliances.
Right of way for work and job security also means enabling faster adjustment to changing conditions in difficult economic times.
If employers and employees are only able to form company alliances to save company sites and jobs when bankruptcy is already imminent or plans to relocate become concrete, it is often too late.
Company alliances must be formed while the company still has the strength to go on the offensive in competition.
That is why we will create a legal basis for company alliances for work.
We will therefore amend the favorability principle in the Collective Bargaining Act to allow employees and employers to conclude individual agreements that deviate from a collective bargaining agreement if this serves to safeguard or increase employment.
A deviating agreement is considered more favorable if it is approved by the works council and 2/3 of the workforce.
We will insert a provision in the Works Constitution Act that allows deviations from the collective agreement to safeguard and increase employment during the term of the collective agreement, also by works agreement.
Here, too, the works council and 2/3 of the workforce must agree.
We create new opportunities for work through flexible protection against dismissal.
Those who have jobs should retain their protection against dismissal.
Those looking for work are to be given new opportunities:
The Dismissal Protection Act is suspended for new hires in companies with up to 20 employees.
In other companies, it only takes effect after two years for new hires.
When concluding the employment contract, a severance payment, the minimum amount of which is set by law, may be agreed in return for waiving an action for protection against dismissal.
We give recipients of unemployment benefit II new opportunities for work and employment.
We create additional incentives for employers to hire them.
In the first two years after hiring an ALG II recipient, the following shall apply: The salary can be up to 10% below the collective wage agreement.
This will create more jobs for simpler activities.
For employees, we ensure an adequate living through a balanced combination of wages and supplementary social benefits.
We want to finance work instead of unemployment.
We support the possibility of part-time employment for child-rearing and care.
Part-time can create more flexibility for employers and employees alike.
In smaller companies, an enforceable legal right to part-time employment can pose difficulties.
A claim to part-time work should therefore only exist if a child is being cared for or a close relative is being cared for.
We facilitate temporary employment.
An employment contract limited to up to two years may be concluded again with the same employee, provided there is no close connection between the employment relationships.
This removes the restriction of fixed-term contracts to new hires.
We will optimize the implementation of Hartz IV.
Hartz IV is causing considerable problems for the federal, state and local governments and is generating enormous additional costs.
Above all, we will review the organizational structure and give all municipalities the option to perform this task.
We will create experimentation clauses for the countries so that regional circumstances can be better taken into account.
We want people to have jobs in the primary labor market.
We therefore want to introduce a combination-wage model that both makes it worthwhile to take on simple jobs through a balanced combination of wages and social benefits,
and enables companies to create new additional jobs for simple activities.
1. 4 Reducing non-wage labor costs for more jobs
Where do we stand?
The contribution rate for unemployment insurance is at record levels internationally.
High non-wage labor costs drive jobs out of Germany.
Around 4 billion euros a year must be injected into the Federal Employment Agency from tax revenues, with many subsidy programs delivering only unsatisfactory results.
More and more, unemployment financing is reducing competitiveness and opportunities for investment in new jobs.
What do we want?
The unemployed should find work in the primary labor market.
The more competitive Germany's economy is, the easier it is to achieve this.
Reducing non-wage labor costs is a crucial step in this direction.
We will permanently reduce non-wage labor costs
and combine this with forward-looking structural changes in the social security systems.
In return, we will increase the value-added tax from 16% to 18%.
The reduced VAT rate of 7%, which applies to food and local public transport, for example, will be retained for reasons of social balance.
When distributing the revenue from the VAT increase between the federal and state governments, the states will take into account the financing needs to reduce non-wage labor costs.
We are reducing the contribution rate for unemployment insurance by 2 percentage points from 6.5% to 4.5% from January 1, 2006.
In return, we will increase the value-added tax by 2 percentage points from 16% to 18% from January 1, 2006
and implement structural changes in the Federal Employment Agency with corresponding savings.
All labor market policy measures are put to the test.
3 What proves ineffective and inefficient will be abolished; what leads to work will be continued.
We encourage the unemployed to become self-employed,
but abolish the Ich-AG.
For already approved Ich-AGs, grandfathering applies.
The Ich-AG has proven to be an ineffective labor market instrument.
Too many start-ups only aim to grab government subsidies instead of establishing themselves on the market with promising business ideas.
We advocate making the contribution-based nature of unemployment insurance benefits more visible.
Anyone who has paid into unemployment insurance for a long time should be treated differently from someone who has only paid into the solidarity fund for a short time.
We can finance that in a revenue-neutral way.
1.5 Corporate culture with a future
Where do we stand?
Individual management decisions have shaken confidence in the social partnership between capital and labor that has evolved over time:
inappropriate severance payments by management on the one hand and mass layoffs of employees on the other do not go together.
Blanket criticism of companies damages the international confidence of investors in Germany as an investment location.
This does not benefit workers, but drives away capital and labor.
What do we want?
Only a renewal and further legal development of the social partnership will ensure sustainable employment in Germany.
It is not short-term profit maximization but long-term corporate security that is in the well-understood interest of investors and employees.
Where employees and employers share success and failure, earnings and jobs grow.
We want to increase employee participation in company profits with improved profit-sharing instruments at both individual company and collective bargaining level.
We want a new balance of flexibility and security for companies and employees, for example by hiring work teams for special product and process developments on a temporary
basis, whereby employees can share in the profits on a task-related basis.
We want equality for women in the professional world.
This presupposes in particular that family and career can be better reconciled.
Creating family-friendly corporate structures is one of the central tasks of successful management.
We promote long-term corporate strategies by strengthening ownership rights.
In addition to the already adopted obligation to publish the salaries of individual members of the Management Board of listed companies, this includes the establishment of a framework for Management Board salaries, including share options, by resolution of the Annual General Meeting.
Stock options as remuneration components must be held for at least ten years in order to exclude speculative intentions.
We want a limited number of supervisory board mandates for supervisory board members.
We advocate fair competitive conditions for companies in Europe.
There must be no unfair tax and subsidy race at the expense of German jobs and public budgets.
Mere relocations of operations are no longer to be subsidized.
We are committed to significantly reducing the funding gap with EU high-assistance areas.
1. 6 Taxes: simple, competitive and fair
Where do we stand?
German tax law stands for complexity, confusion, excessive tax rates and entrenched vested rights like nowhere else in the world.
It has a performance-inhibiting effect and misdirects people's economic performance.
It is a serious barrier to investment for domestic and foreign investors.
Its lack of transparency leads to injustice and disenchantment with the state among citizens and businesses, employees and entrepreneurs.
What do we want?
A new, sustainable tax law is one of the central goals of our policy.
People need to be able to see that taxes are fair.
Companies urgently need an internationally competitive tax system so that they invest in Germany and create jobs.
The state must finally be able to rely on predictable revenues again in order to be able to finance the tasks of the community.
To achieve this, Germany needs a new start in tax policy.
The focus is on simplification
and with it performance equity.
To this end, we will eliminate exemptions as far as possible and, in return, increase the basic tax allowances and lower the tax rates.
There is no scope for net relief for the time being in view of the crisis in public budgets.
The rule is therefore: simplification before relief.
We will fundamentally reorganize the taxation of companies.
The reform of corporate taxes will be designed to be neutral in terms of legal form and financing and will lead to internationally competitive rates.
We will achieve this goal in several steps that are cost-effective for business and administration to administer.
As early as January 1, 2006, we are taking the first tax policy measures to quickly promote work and employment.
The measures will be fully counter-financed by reducing tax subsidies and exemptions.
The counter-financing measures will focus on closing tax loopholes.
We will close tax loopholes and dismantle tax-saving schemes.
In particular, we will abolish the lucrative loss-offset options for fund models (such as media, wind power, ship and aircraft investments) and special rules in the entrepreneurial sector.
In this way, we are simplifying tax law and generating additional revenue of around EUR 3 billion for the federal, state and local governments as early as 2006.
We are thus creating more justice.
We will ensure that the top tax rate is no longer just on paper, but is actually paid by top earners.
In this way, we achieve much more for a fair tax system than the SPD, which sticks to the current law and wants to introduce a special "tax on the rich".
Without closing tax loopholes, the SPD's "wealth tax" would even provide new incentives to use tax avoidance opportunities.
According to the SPD's own figures, only 1.3 billion euros in revenue will be generated, and with the promised exemption for businesses, only a fraction will actually be received.
Our measures are much fairer and more effective.
As a further element of counter-financing, we are increasing the taxation of disposals of shareholdings by corporations.
In order to facilitate the generation change in medium-sized companies, inheritance tax is deferred in the event of a business transfer and is waived entirely if the company continues to operate for at least ten years.
We relieve small companies of bookkeeping obligations.
We are increasing the limit up to which actual taxation can be applied in sales tax law to one million euros in annual sales. -
We are implementing a reform of income and corporate income tax as of January 1, 2007. ¾
In the case of wage and income tax, we are reducing the entry tax rate to 12% and the top tax rate to 39%.
These are the lowest tax rates in the history of the Federal Republic of Germany.
In return, a large number of tax exemptions, tax concessions and exemptions will be eliminated or restricted to the same extent.
These include reducing the commuter allowance to an appropriate level of 25 cents up to a maximum of 50 distance kilometers and phasing out the tax exemption for Sunday, holiday and nighttime bonuses evenly over six years.
We will replace declining-balance depreciation with straight-line depreciation. ¾
We will introduce a uniform basic allowance for each person, whether adult or child, of 8,000 euros.
The basic child allowance can be transferred to the parents if it is not exhausted by the child's own income.
In this context, an employee family with two children will remain income tax-free up to an income of around EUR 38,200 per year, taking into account the new basic child allowance and other lump-sum deductions.
Compared to today, that's about 5,000 euros more for this family.
In connection with the introduction of the basic child allowance, an impact on child benefits must be examined, taking into account the child bonus. ¾
Tax returns and tax assessments will be simplified. ¾
Marital splitting as an expression of the special constitutional protection of marriage and family will be retained.
It is not a tax benefit, but an expression of the community of life and responsibility that is marriage. ¾
We will introduce a final withholding tax on capital income.
This simplifies the tax procedure.
Those who are not subject to income tax are not charged.
The inflow of capital to Germany is becoming attractive again.
Relocation out of Germany is no longer worthwhile.
The need for account inquiries in the tax area is eliminated. ¾
As a further step toward comprehensive corporate tax reform, we reduce the corporate income tax to 22%, counter-financed in the entrepreneurial area. ¾ We
retain the trade tax until we have developed a sensible alternative in agreement with the municipalities and the business community.
- We will adopt a new tax code for income tax and corporate tax in this legislative period.
The aim is above all simplification, transparency
and thus greater fairness.
The taxation of partnerships and corporations is combined in a legal form-neutral manner for sole proprietorships as well as for partnerships and corporations.
In this context, we are also examining the introduction of a capital gains tax.
Our goal is a corporate tax law that is attractive in international competition.
1.7 Promoting SMEs and start-ups
Where do we stand?
Small and medium-sized enterprises generate half of the taxable sales, employ around 70% of the workforce and train around 80% of all apprentices.
In the last two years alone, Germany has had to cope with almost 80,000 corporate bankruptcies.
The total supply of apprenticeships, which is decisively shaped by the SME sector, fell by almost 7% between 1998 and 2004.
What do we want?
Right of way for work also means, above all, promoting small and medium-sized businesses, skilled trades and start-ups.
Concepts for SMEs therefore run like a red thread through our government program, for example in the deregulation of the labor market, tax reform, cutting red tape and energy policy.
In addition, we want to provide concrete support for small and medium-sized businesses, skilled trades and start-ups:
We specifically relieve businesses with up to 20 employees of numerous regulations.
This includes the review of thresholds as well as accounting and statistical obligations.
We are fighting wage and social dumping in the wake of the EU's eastward expansion
and undeclared work.
Abuse of the freedom to provide services and freedom of establishment has increased in the context of eastward enlargement.
The extension of the Employee Posting Act to all sectors and statutory minimum wages via the back door cannot prevent abuse of the European freedom to provide services.
That is why we are focusing on fast, effective and cross-border controls and will improve cooperation between the relevant agencies, regulatory authorities and chambers to combat abuse of the freedom of establishment.
We are improving the framework conditions for more training in Germany.
We will continue the training pact.
The goal must be to create greater leeway in apprenticeship pay so that training pays off again for companies.
We rely on voluntarism and a sense of responsibility instead of an apprenticeship levy; it creates bureaucracy but not additional apprenticeships.
We will improve the supply of credit to SMEs by strengthening equity capital formation and creating a framework for lending that is suitable for SMEs.
We are streamlining the provisions of the German Banking Act and reducing the existing overregulation of banking supervision to the necessary level.
We create internationally attractive conditions for venture capital to promote the creation of innovative companies.
He who dares wins.
And with it, the country wins - innovations,
jobs,
growth.
The innovative strength, especially of small and medium-sized enterprises, is to be promoted through increased cooperation between business and science.
1.8 Energy: sustainable and competitive
Where do we stand?
Almost nowhere in Europe is energy as expensive as in Germany.
This is the result of ideological energy policy.
This burdens private households, increases production costs, costs jobs and accelerates de-industrialization.
The phasing out of nuclear energy is environmentally
and also technologically devastating.
The resulting electricity supply gap in Germany can only be closed with additional fossil power plants and more harmful CO2 emissions.
This fundamentally contradicts climate protection goals.
It also threatens the German nuclear industry, until now Germany's technological flagship with great export potential.
What do we want?
A secure, affordable and ecologically compatible energy supply is of paramount importance for Germany as a modern industrial location and lays the foundation for competitiveness, prosperity and jobs.
We want an energy policy with common sense and a sense of proportion.
This includes the economical and efficient use of energy.
Above all, we need a diversified energy mix of oil, coal, gas, nuclear energy, as well as biomass, hydro, wind and solar power.
Without nuclear energy, a global solution to the CO2 problem is currently unthinkable.
Wind and solar energy alone will not be enough to meet the dramatic increase in energy demand and the global climate protection targets.
We continue to rely on renewable energies, but are reducing their subsidies, some of which are exorbitant.
Our goal remains: Renewable energies should achieve at least a 12.5 % share of German electricity consumption.
We focus on the economical and efficient use of energy.
Particularly in the renovation of old buildings, there is untapped and highly economical potential for rational energy use.
In order to leverage this important potential, we want to develop existing financial incentives in a market-based manner and transform them into a non-bureaucratic and technology-neutral market incentive program for energy-efficient refurbishment in buildings.
We need nuclear power in Germany, too, and are setting the course for orderly disposal.
The operating life of German nuclear power plants will be based solely on ensuring the highest possible level of safety at each plant.
The higher return on investment resulting from longer nuclear power plant lifetimes must also be reflected in lower electricity prices.
- We want open energy research that leaves nothing out.
Ideological blinkers set Germany back in international competition.
1.9 Efficient infrastructure ensures mobility
Where do we stand?
Traffic congestion in Germany continues to rise.
Road freight transport performance in Germany alone increased by 15% between 1998 and 2003.
Despite massive increases in traffic in Germany and additional revenue from the truck toll, federal investment in transport infrastructure has fallen steadily in recent years.
Whereas the 2003 Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan, for example, assumed that 4.2 billion euros would be needed to maintain, expand and build a new rail network, the current budget for 2005 is only 3.5 billion euros.
What do we want?
Mobility is the basic prerequisite for a successful economic order based on the division of labor and a key factor for growth
and employment.
We need systematic and sustainable planning to improve transport infrastructure and mobility.
We accelerate the construction of important infrastructure measures by simplifying planning and shortening planning times.
The Transport Infrastructure Planning Acceleration Act, which is due to expire at the end of 2005, will be improved by efficient regulation for the whole of Germany.
We are expanding the transport infrastructure efficiently
and promoting competition on the railways.
The German Unity transport projects are being completed swiftly.
Germany will be better integrated into the European transport network, and the rail reform will be continued.
We are implementing a Transrapid line in Germany as a project that is significant in terms of transport and, in particular, industrial policy.
We are promoting new forms of infrastructure financing, for example by making greater use of the opportunities offered by public-private partnerships (PPP projects) with polluter-pays financing.
We direct the revenue from truck tolls to an independent company for the financing of transport infrastructure.
Our principle is: road finances road.
1.10 Advancing the new countries
Where do we stand?
In the new federal states, the renewal process has come a long way in the past 15 years.
The new Länder have become a modern and attractive location.
Measured against the difficult initial situation, the balance sheet for Reconstruction East is largely positive.
The people in the new federal states have every right to be proud of this.
The gradual alignment of East Germany's economic strength with West German levels has stalled under the Red-Green coalition.
Structural change there has lost considerable momentum in the past 7 years.
Schröder had promised to make the reconstruction of the East a "top priority.
Instead, the federal government managed the shortage rather than giving new impetus to eastern Germany.
The eastern German states could be in a better position today - without the Red-Greens.
What do we want?
Only if the economy in the new federal states grows significantly more strongly again can Germany return from being at the bottom of the league in Europe to being the engine of growth.
That is why we will provide targeted support for new companies and new products in the new states
and do everything we can to open up new markets for eastern German products as well.
We are giving eastern Germany new prospects.
Our measures for more growth and employment will give new impetus to the reconstruction of the east:
156 billion euros in solidarity pact funds have been pledged for the period 2006 - 2019.
This commitment applies unchanged and in full.
We advocate the continuation of the European Union's support for particularly disadvantaged regions in the 2007 to 2013 funding period.
The future lies primarily in high technology.
We will promote the expansion of cutting-edge research, paying particular attention to ensuring that new products and processes are rapidly developed to market and production maturity.
New large-scale scientific equipment and research facilities of international standing are also a priority in the new federal states.
In federal tenders, we will ensure that lot sizes are calculated in such a way that medium-sized companies also have a good chance of being awarded a contract in public tenders.
By means of opening clauses in federal regulations, we want to make it possible to develop and implement our own solutions.
Our guiding principle is federal competition for the better concept.
This applies in particular to planning and approval law, with a view to facilitating the settlement of companies.
Growth-inhibiting federal laws that tighten European regulations or are based on insufficiently provable limits will be abolished.
We secure the necessary allocations for transportation road construction.
Above all, we will resume the transportation projects that have been planned for a long time but were delayed or stopped by the Red-Green Party.
We want people to have jobs in the primary labor market.
We therefore want to introduce a combined wage model that makes taking on simple work worthwhile through a balanced combination of wages and social benefits,
as well as enabling companies to create additional jobs for simple activities.
We maintain the goal of establishing a victims' pension for people who have been harmed by GDR arbitrariness.
1.11 New perspectives for agriculture and consumer protection
Where do we stand?
Agriculture, forestry and the food industry provide around one in nine jobs in Germany.
National political solo efforts and excessive bureaucracy are a burden on the competitiveness of our agriculture, forestry and food industry.
Red-Green ideologies, unpredictable zigzags and political neglect have led to a loss of confidence, investment backlogs, many closures and high job losses.
Agricultural production has migrated to other countries.
What do we want?
We want to do justice to the great importance of agriculture, forestry and the food industry with a new policy of reliability.
We will strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture and reduce bureaucracy.
Agricultural businesses should be economically successful, generate sufficient income and create jobs.
This creates dynamism, a willingness to invest and new perspectives for the entire rural area.
We want consistent 1:1 implementation of EU law and the elimination of national go-it-alone measures.
At the same time, rules and regulations must be reduced to what is absolutely necessary and feasible in practice.
We will simplify support programs and administrative burdens step by step
and focus them on the goals of competitiveness, investment and innovation.
We are committed to the interests of our farmers
and for the protection of consumers for fair competitive conditions at European and international level, in particular by taking account of environmental protection, animal welfare and hygiene standards in WTO rules.
We want to retain sufficient political capacity to act to safeguard the European agricultural model of economically, ecologically and socially sustainable agriculture.
- We want to create a reliable long-term perspective for farmers.
That is why we are looking into integrating the agricultural social system into the overall reform of the social systems.
We stand by the unanimous decision of the heads of state and government in October 2002.
We want to give farms planning security and therefore advocate mandatory co-financing of EU payments in the further development of EU agricultural policy.
We will improve consumer information.
The labeling regulations must be practicable and understandable to the layperson.
We want to engage the business community to provide better consumer information.
2. future for families - education and upbringing
Where do we stand?
While many fellow citizens in Germany overwhelmingly regard starting their own family as a personal goal in life, fewer and fewer people are realizing their existing desire to have children.
Germany is at the bottom of Europe in terms of birth rate!
In recent years, the federal government has increasingly relativized the importance of marriage and family.
What do we want?
The family is the most important form of living together.
We stand by the special protection of marriage and family.
People want to live in happy personal circumstances.
This can be marriage, family and other forms of living together that provide meaning, security and happiness.
Because we want the future, our benchmark is: Priority for families and children!
That is why we are creating better framework conditions for families and children.
This is precisely our policy in the countries in which we govern:
Prosperity for all requires education for all.
The participation of all in education and training is the mandatory prerequisite for ensuring that no talent remains unused.
No one should become a modernization loser and no one should have to hide their talents.
Everyone should be able to develop their performance and talents so that more growth, prosperity and innovation can develop in Germany again.
Equal educational opportunities for all children require a family-friendly climate in our society that strengthens and encourages parents in early childhood education and upbringing.
Language is the key to education.
For this reason, the CDU/CSU-led governments in the states responsible are expanding preschool language support for all children and all-day programs in line with demand.
They are important for better reconciliation of family and work.
This is the only way to even out unequal opportunities at the start of school.
Germany's competitiveness depends not least on its elites.
Our country needs elites in all areas of cultural, research, economic, craft and social activities.
We need world-class researchers as well as skilled workers.
The CDU and CSU advocate the targeted promotion of highly gifted children and young people from all social groups and strata.
It is the task of education in family and school to provide young people with a clear value orientation.
The school must contribute to the students' ability to find answers to the question of God and to binding ethical standards.
This task is especially given to denominational religious education, which - in accordance with the principles of the respective religious community - offers students answers to questions of meaning that the state cannot provide.
We adhere to the provision of our constitution that religious education is to be taught as an ordinary subject;
it must not be supplanted by "values education" taught solely under the responsibility of the state.
In this, the churches have our support.
We value the educational achievements of parents more highly in social insurance and tax law.
We will increase the basic allowance to 8,000 euros and introduce a basic child allowance of 8,000 euros.
The basic child allowance can be transferred to the parents if it is not exhausted by the child's own income.
In this way, we relieve the burden on families in particular.
Under our tax reform, an employee family with two children will remain income tax-free up to an income of around 38,200 euros a year, taking into account the new basic child allowance and other standard deductions.
Compared to today, that's about 5,000 euros more for this family.
In connection with the introduction of the basic child allowance, an impact on child benefit must be examined, taking into account the child bonus.
As of January 1, 2007, we will introduce a child bonus of 50 euros per month as a reduction in pension insurance contributions for newborn children.
In this way, we honor the future contribution of families to the intergenerational contract in our society.
Through our health care reform, all children will be covered tuition-free.
The costs are borne from tax revenue.
We will do more to promote the compatibility of family and career.
The states led by the CDU/CSU will, within the scope of their responsibility, push for the expansion of childcare to improve the compatibility of family and career.
We are in favor of the possibility of part-time employment for child rearing and care.
Part-time work can provide more flexibility for employers
like employees.
In smaller companies, an enforceable legal entitlement to part-time employment can cause difficulties.
An entitlement to part-time work should therefore only exist if a child is being looked after or a close relative is being cared for.
3. reliable social security
3.1 Medical progress for all
Where do we stand?
Medical-technological progress and demographic developments are causing rising costs in the healthcare system.
At the same time, the revenues of the statutory health insurance system are declining as a result of high unemployment and the increasing number of pensioners in relation to wage earners.
Against this backdrop, the financing of the statutory health insurance system is in massive jeopardy.
The last health care reform did not noticeably reduce non-wage labor costs.
But reducing non-wage labor costs is critical to new jobs.
What do we want?
Health is a high good.
For this reason, the following principle applies to us: What is medically necessary must be provided within the framework of statutory health insurance for all insured persons - irrespective of age, gender, state of health or financial capacity.
There will be no two-tier medicine with us.
The CDU and CSU will create a fundamentally new, future-proof system of statutory health insurance that
ensures high-quality health care for all, that
can respond better to changes in the population structure,
that avoids further burdening the labor factor,
and that exploits the considerable growth opportunities in the health care industry:
the solidarity-based health premium.
The health insurance funds receive a health premium as a cost-covering contribution for each adult insured person.
First, the health premium is fed by the personal premium of each insured person.
For insured persons with low incomes, social compensation automatically takes effect.
One thing is clear: when the solidarity-based health premium is introduced, no one will pay more than before.
Second, the health premium is fed by the employer premium.
This employer's share is fixed.
It remains permanently limited and thus decoupled from the development of medical costs.
In the case of pensioners, the pension insurance institutions pay the employer's contribution.
Children are insured free of charge; the
amounts required for this are financed from tax revenues.
We strengthen competition among service providers.
We are creating genuine competition among health insurers for insureds.
The health insurance funds must offer different tariffs that are much more strongly oriented towards the wishes of the insured than has been the case to date.
We aim to make it easier to switch from one private health insurance to another by allowing age-related provisions to be transferred.
Competition among doctors, hospitals, drug manufacturers and pharmacies must also be significantly strengthened.
The "citizens' insurance" propagated by the SPD and the Greens is not a suitable alternative to the solidarity-based health premium.
If all citizens have to pay into a uniform compulsory insurance scheme, competition will no longer take place.
Citizens' insurance does not lead to a decoupling of labor and health care costs; if health care expenditures increase, labor costs also increase, as they have in the past.
Citizen insurance does not provide an answer to the problems of population development.
This form of insurance acts like a special tax on small and medium incomes.
The income threshold places a much heavier burden on them than on higher incomes.
That is unfair.
3.2 Securing care humanely
Where do we stand?
Long-term care insurance has been draining its substance since 1999, since when current expenditure has been higher than contribution income.
Whereas today we have around 2 million people in need of long-term care, by 2020 there will already be around 2.6 million, and by 2050 the number will double.
What do we want?
In the future, long-term care insurance must once again provide reliable and affordable coverage for the risk of long-term care.
We will maintain and further develop long-term care insurance as an important instrument of social security.
Home care should have priority over inpatient care.
The elderly should be able to live in their familiar surroundings for as long as possible.
We give priority to preventive and rehabilitative measures over nursing measures.
We will sustainably improve the organization of prevention and rehabilitation as part of integrated care.
In the case of social long-term care insurance, we are starting to introduce capital coverage in this legislative period.
3.3 Reliable pension
Where do we stand?
Today, only 700,000 children are born in Germany each year, compared with more than 1.3 million in 1964 - twice as many as today.
At the same time, the duration of pensions increased in line with life expectancy.
Fewer and fewer contributors have to pay for more and more beneficiaries.
Mass unemployment leads to massive shortfalls in contributions.
At the same time, the pension insurance contribution and tax financing are at record levels.
What do we want?
Statutory pension insurance will always be an important pillar of old-age security, but it urgently needs private supplementation to safeguard living standards.
To stabilize pension insurance in the long term, it is necessary to extend the working life.
We therefore advocate shorter training periods and earlier entry into the profession.
In addition, we want to improve employment opportunities for older people.
As soon as conditions on the labor market permit, a gradual increase in the retirement age will also be considered.
Three guidelines must apply to the necessary reforms: Demographic stability,
family-friendliness,
intergenerational equity.
From January 1, 2007, we will introduce a child bonus of 50 euros per month for newborn children as a reduction in pension insurance contributions.
This benefit is available for children up to the age of 12.
In this way, we are honoring the future contribution of families to the intergenerational contract in our society.
The child bonus is financed by abolishing the homeowner's allowance.
The pension insurance contribution rate is to be based on the current contribution level in the longer term.
We are giving greater priority to private and occupational pension provision.
We will fundamentally simplify the complicated regulations governing the current subsidization of private pension provision.
Less bureaucracy and thus higher returns increase the attractiveness of this important pillar of private pension provision.
In addition, we also want to include owner-occupied housing in private pension provision.
4. solid public coffers - contribution to intergenerational justice
Where do we stand?
Germany, for decades the anchor of stability in Europe, is sinking into unparalleled public debt.
Germany lives on substance, we afford more than we afford!
The national debt is at an unimaginable record level of 1.4 trillion euros.
Since 2002, Germany has continuously violated the European Stability and Growth Pact.
New federal debt alone has increased by almost 200 billion euros since 1999.
This means that the federal government has to pay over 100 million euros per day in interest only.
This money is sorely lacking for necessary investments in the future.
The federal government has the lowest investment ratio since 1949.
What do we want?
We are ending the disastrous march into the debt state.
We will pursue an honest, sustainable budget policy that will once again secure opportunities for a good future for us, our children and grandchildren, give the state back its ability to act and create room for future investments.
Government spending must therefore once again be geared to revenues and not vice versa.
Experience and international comparison teach us: Sound finances are a lasting basis for jobs and prosperity.
Sound finances are also the most important contribution to maintaining intergenerational justice: It is
a question of morality whether we allow today's consumption to be financed by the debts we leave to our children.
Proper government budgeting is the most effective policy for families with children.
The recovery of public finances can only be achieved through a triad of measures:
First, ironclad austerity, strict spending discipline, no tinkering with the European Stability and Growth Pact.
Second, a consistent growth policy through rapid and far-reaching structural reforms.
Third, bold shifts from consumer spending to investment, research, education and innovation.
Germany needs a show of strength from everyone!
No policy area can be excluded from the outset.
However, we will ensure that all measures are socially just!
By the end of the legislative period after next, i.e. from 2013, our goal is zero new debt and a balanced federal budget.
We want to ensure that Germany again complies with the European Stability and Growth Pact within the new legislative period.
To this end, a federal consolidation pact is adopted.
The necessary consolidation will continue until a sound and sustainable federal budget is in place.
Negotiations on the federal consolidation pact will take account of the budgetary situation of the federal and state governments.
We are saving and reducing subsidies and financial assistance.
We will coordinate the socially responsible phase-out of subsidized mining with the German coal industry, the state of North Rhine-Westphalia and the Saarland.
We will make across-the-board cuts in other remaining subsidies in several steps and eliminate tax breaks and exemptions on a broad scale.
No one must be left out when it comes to saving money:
That is why we will abolish pension entitlements for federal ministers and parliamentary state secretaries after only two years in office, pay ministers' pensions only at age 65 instead of the current 60, and reduce transitional allowances.
For us, it's a matter of setting a good example when it comes to saving.
5. we are shaping a Germany worth living in
5.1 Safe habitat for people and nature
Where do we stand?
In three decades, Germany has set internationally recognized standards for the protection and development of nature and the environment.
Water quality, air pollution control, designation of nature conservation areas - great progress has been made everywhere.
Under the Red-Green coalition, an absolutization and idealization of individual environmental concerns has spread, which not only prevents technological progress and the establishment of industry and jobs,
but also obstructs the achievement of important environmental policy goals.
One example is the phase-out of CO2-free nuclear energy.
What do we want?
There are still major tasks in environmental protection and nature conservation, especially noise abatement and climate protection.
But environmental protection must be affordable.
Environmental policy has limits where it unreasonably hinders people's development opportunities.
Germany can no longer afford to hinder investment through procedures that have lasted for decades.
We will also take this into account in our environmental policy, which is designed to ensure sustainable habitats.
We focus on sustainable nature conservation that preserves biodiversity.
We are continuing to develop cooperative nature conservation and contractual nature conservation, and the Natura 2000 Directive is being implemented with a sense of proportion.
We are stepping up efforts to protect the climate at national and global level.
We want to further develop the climate protection agreements into a "Kyoto Plus Initiative" that also involves the world's largest CO2 producers as well as emerging and developing countries.
By establishing a "Climate Alliance Germany," we want to promote cross-generational climate protection.
In energy policy, we are committed to a climate-friendly energy mix.
We are taking initiatives for better air quality and less noise through revenue-neutral funding for the retrofitting of particulate filters and a long-term "Noise Reduction Program Germany 2030".
We strengthen the individual responsibility of business and citizens in environmental protection.
We will enable more market and competition in the environmental sector and anchor cooperative environmental protection and integrated product policy in an "Environmental Pact Germany".
We give more weight to people's interests in work in planning laws and in settlement decisions.
We maintain a balance between the preservation of natural resources and the economic well-being of people.
5.2 Consistent fight against terror, crime and vandalism
Where do we stand?
Terrible attacks after September 11, 2001, in Madrid and most recently in London have shown the extent to which Europe is also threatened by Islamist terrorism.
This is one of the greatest challenges for the Western community of values.
Organized crime (drug and arms trafficking, human trafficking, forced prostitution) is also increasingly taking on international dimensions.
The legislative and organizational measures taken to date are not yet sufficient to achieve this.
What do we want?
All people in Germany should be protected from terror, crime and vandalism.
The protection of life, limb and property of citizens is the very task of the state.
Zero tolerance for crime and vandalism!
To protect citizens from crime and the dangers of international terrorism, existing legal loopholes must be closed quickly and weaknesses in the organizational structure of the security authorities must be eliminated.
We defend law and freedom against terror and organized and transnational crime.
We will permit the use of the Bundeswehr to defend against terrorist threats.
We will create a joint information and analysis center as well as joint anti-terror files for the police and intelligence services, introduce stricter security measures to protect against foreigners urgently suspected of terrorism, criminalize sympathy advertising for criminal and terrorist organizations, enable effective leniency programs, improve the collection and storage of telecommunications and connection data, introduce a visa warning file, transfer the technical supervision of visa issuance to the responsibility of the Federal Ministry of the Interior, and consistently deport foreign criminals.
We fight crime effectively and give federal and state police forces and the judiciary the necessary legal powers of intervention to do so.
This includes DNA analysis.
It must become the fingerprint of the 21st century.
Sexual abuse of children must be fundamentally punished as a crime.
To better protect women from trafficking, we will punish johns of forced prostitutes.
We will introduce a criminal provision explicitly criminalizing the sexual exploitation of trafficking victims.
We are taking consistent action against the high level of child and juvenile delinquency.
We will ensure that general criminal law is generally applied to adolescents.
We will increase the maximum juvenile sentence to 15 years, expand the possibility of preventive detention for adolescents, and introduce subsequent preventive detention in juvenile criminal law.
5.3 Federalism Reform: Strong Germany, States Capable of Acting
Where do we stand?
Our current federal system is characterized by lengthy and complicated decision-making processes.
Instead of clearly defined competencies, we have a participatory federalism that leaves the federal and state governments less and less room for maneuver and blocks quick decisions.
What do we want?
Germany needs a modernization of the federal system.
We want a reform of federalism that will also make Germany more capable of acting in the international competition for modernization.
We want to equalize power constraints and reduce mutual blocking opportunities.
We are committed to unbundling responsibilities and increasing the expediency and efficiency of task fulfillment.
We are reducing the proportion of laws requiring approval in the Bundesrat.
In return, we want to strengthen the countries' ability to shape policy in entire policy areas.
This applies above all to the area of organizational and personnel sovereignty of the Länder and to education.
We are reducing mixed financing while at the same time providing financial security for the continued responsibilities of the federal states.
In the future, the federal government will not fund into the exclusive responsibilities of the states.
We are improving the suitability of the Basic Law for Europe.
To this end, we will first and foremost abolish framework legislation
while at the same time preserving the Länder's current scope for action.
The federal government will then be able to implement EU law "in one go" in the future.
In addition, we want to see improved participation by the Bundestag and Bundesrat in European lawmaking
and greater control of the principle of subsidiarity so that European decisions are also taken as closely as possible to the citizen.
We strengthen the federal government's ability to act in the fight against international terrorism.
5.4 Promote art and culture
Where do we stand?
Germany is a cultural nation.
Art and culture are inseparable from the identity of the Germans as a nation.
They arise from the creative will of people and the creativity of artists, whose prerequisite is the freedom of art.
What do we want?
We know that the state is not responsible for art and culture, but for the conditions under which they can develop.
We are committed to promoting art and culture as a public task in which local, state and federal governments participate.
We will further develop the framework conditions for culture - while respecting special responsibilities of the federal states.
These include, above all, the federal government's responsibility for foreign cultural policy, the promotion of projects of national importance, the national culture of remembrance, social insurance for artists, and copyright law.
The framework conditions for the German film industry must be improved in order to ensure its international competitiveness.
5.5 Limiting immigration, strengthening integration
Where do we stand?
Germany is a hospitable and cosmopolitan country.
Many of the foreigners living here have integrated and are contributing to the community.
However, there are also immigrants from foreign cultures with considerable integration deficits.
Far above-average unemployment rates, many migrant children without school-leaving qualifications, the formation of ghettos and a development of parallel societies and a frequently self-chosen separation of foreign youth from German society are alarm signals for social peace in the country.
The Immigration Act alone cannot remedy the structural integration deficits.
What do we want?
We want foreigners who are with us legally and permanently to live integrated in our society on the basis of our culture and legal system.
But integration is not a one-way street.
Learning the German language is elementary for success.
Foreign parents must do everything in their power to ensure that their children have a share in our country's opportunities for life and work.
We will limit immigration into the labor market to shortage occupations and to foreigners who can contribute to excellence in science and research, business and culture in Germany.
We will consistently drive integration forward.
We will consistently demand that foreigners participate in integration courses and use the legal instruments to do so.
We want spouses joining them to acquire sufficient German language skills before entering Germany.
We will lower the age at which children can join their parents so that children of foreigners have a better chance of integration into work and society by attending school in Germany.
But we will also set an example of successful integration, for example through naturalization ceremonies in which we welcome foreigners as fellow citizens into the midst of our communities.
We will actively promote and protect the human rights of girls and women from the Muslim cultural sphere living in Germany.
Forced marriage is prohibited.
Coercion into forced marriage becomes a separate criminal offense.
6. Germany: Partner in Europe and the World
6.1 New trust in Europe
Where do we stand?
European unification is the key to lasting peace, freedom and prosperity on our continent.
Nevertheless, the European Union is currently in a deep crisis, which became visible in the rejection of the EU Constitutional Treaty in France and the Netherlands and in the failure of the last summit.
With national solo runs, the wilful weakening of the European Growth and Stability Pact and unilateral partisanship in the European Council, Red-Green has divided Europe and damaged its credibility.
What do we want?
We need a European policy that regains lost trust in European peace and integration policy.
We want to strengthen the Europe of the citizens, return German European policy to the path of fair cooperation between larger and smaller states, and give the people on our continent renewed hope for their future.
We see Europe's current crisis as an opportunity for European policies to regain credibility and win the support of the people.
We prevent further centralism and take back competencies.
Not every problem in Europe is also a task for Europe.
The European Union's plethora of tasks must be limited to what is necessary, and the principle of subsidiarity must be the yardstick for EU action.
This includes a clear demarcation of responsibilities between the European Union and the member states, regions and municipalities.
European legislative acts must be better assessed in terms of their necessity and their consequences for citizens, business and administration.
In addition, we will only implement EU regulations on a 1:1 basis in the future.
We will work for the progress contained in the Constitutional Treaty, in particular the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the provisions on the institutions and on improving the delimitation of competences, as well as on improving the European Union's foreign policy.
We want to noticeably strengthen the role of national parliaments by applying the subsidiarity early warning system even before the Constitutional Treaty enters into force and extend the German Bundestag's domestic participation rights in EU decisions.
We call for a strict interpretation of the Stability Pact, which has been watered down against our will, so that it can regain its disciplining effect.
We want to secure the value of our money.
We will work for a frugal EU budget that takes into account Germany's limited capacity.
The European Union must also make savings and thus support the consolidation of national budgets.
Member States' contributions to the EU budget must become fairer and be based on their respective economic prosperity.
The spending structure of the EU budget must also be improved by concentrating and partially returning tasks to the member states.
We are committed to a privileged partnership with Turkey.
We reject full membership because this would overstretch the European Union's integration capacity.
With a privileged partnership, not an unrealistic prospect of accession, we want to do our utmost to promote the democratic, constitutional and economic development of Turkey, with which we are closely linked in terms of security policy within NATO.
We will only admit countries that are ready to join the European Union.
The planned accessions of Bulgaria and Romania must strictly comply with the accession criteria.
We will therefore not make a decision on ratification of the accession treaties until the EU Commission's progress reports are available.
We want to begin accession negotiations with Croatia as an economically prosperous country with deep roots in Europe as soon as any remaining doubts about Croatia's cooperation with the International Criminal Court have been dispelled.
We use the proven friendship between Germany and France again for a positive perspective of Europe.
We will once again shape Franco-German cooperation in a way that does justice to the trust of the other EU partners, integrates their interests, and avoids gestures of paternalism and dominance.
Trusting and close relations with all neighboring states and EU members are of elementary importance.
The German expellees and the German ethnic groups in Eastern Europe have an important bridging function in the cooperation with our Eastern neighbors even after the Eastern enlargement.
In the spirit of reconciliation, we want to set an example with a Center against Expulsions in Berlin to remember the injustice of expulsion and at the same time to outlaw expulsion forever.
6.2 Responsibility for peace, freedom and development
Where do we stand?
In recent years, the German government has gambled away international trust and damaged Germany's standing in the world without an overall foreign and security policy concept - by systematically undermining our ability to form an alliance in NATO, by an unprincipled policy on Russia and China, by a visa policy that violates German interests and ultimately comes at the expense of the people.
What do we want?
Germany's responsibility for European unification,
for the transatlantic partnership,
for the existence of Israel is at the core of Germany's reason of state.
German foreign policy must return to this basic consensus.
European unification
and Atlantic partnership are not opposites but the two most important pillars of our foreign policy.
We are revitalizing transatlantic cooperation with the USA.
European identity and European self-confidence do not need to be distanced from the USA, but rather a partnership based on trust.
They prove themselves in powerful engagement in the resolution of international conflicts and the fight against international terrorism.
A good transatlantic relationship of trust does not preclude differences of opinion, but instead of polemical name-calling it relies on dialogue in a spirit of friendship.
Germany has a particular interest in Russia's stable and lasting integration into Euro-Atlantic structures and in the success of the country's difficult political and economic modernization.
We want good relations with Russia - but not over the heads of our neighbors.
We must also not overlook Russia's problematic domestic developments.
For us, NATO is and remains the most important security network for Germany.
We will strengthen NATO with a more reliable German contribution and by intensifying the political dialogue.
In order to strengthen the European pillar of the Atlantic security partnership, we are committed to increasing and improving the European Union's capabilities and options for action.
We believe that a significant improvement in the international division of labor
and also in the relevant instruments of the United Nations is essential.
The most important instrument for Germany's external security is and remains the Bundeswehr.
The balance between the ability to deploy in crises around the world and the still elementary task of national defense has been lost.
Their efficiency must be increased in view of our country's economic situation with scarce financial resources.
Our security is not only defended in distant regions and "in the Hindu Kush".
Homeland security and national defense must therefore no longer be neglected.
In this sense, national defense remains the core constitutional task of the Bundeswehr as a conscript army.
This also requires their presence in the area.
An evolved, equitable conscription system must take into account the intertwining of internal and external security.
Service must therefore also be made possible in the area of civil protection.
Compulsory military service strengthens the Bundeswehr's support among citizens, makes it easier to recruit qualified junior personnel, and ensures that the Bundeswehr can continue to grow in times of crisis.
Development cooperation is an indispensable part of a strategy for stabilizing crisis regions.
For the CDU and CSU, development policy is an increasingly important independent policy area that rests on three pillars:
responsibility for those suffering from poverty and for creation on the basis of our Christian view of humanity;
the defense against global threats
and strengthening our strategic, political, scientific and economic partnerships.
Germany's development policy will serve the interests of the recipient countries as well as our own.
The consequences of the worsening development problems in Asia, Africa and Latin America directly endanger peace and prosperity in Germany and Europe in the course of globalization.
We will work to improve the coherence of our development, foreign, security, foreign economic and foreign cultural policies, to increase the efficiency of our development policy instruments,
and to strengthen good governance and self-help forces in the countries and regions concerned.
This requires a concentration of our measures on certain countries and key sectors
and the even more intensive involvement of all those active in development aid - the churches, non-governmental organizations and political foundations - as well as closer cooperation with the German private sector.
We stand by our commitment to increase German official development assistance to 0.7% in the medium term, as soon as the state of the economy and budget allows.
C. The Union for Germany
In a joint effort, we can succeed in seizing Germany's opportunities.
Our foundation is the Christian image of man.
Our motivation is Germany.
Our commitment is to the well-being of people.
Our guiding principle is unity and justice and freedom.
Germany is at a milestone.
That is why we are calling on the citizens of our country: Let's make more of Germany together.
