Time to act!
For social security, peace and climate justice
Election program for the 2021 federal election
Contents
Introduction7
It comes down to all of us.
It depends on you7
We leave no one behind7
What moves us7
A new policy for all who have long deserved it9
The courage to change13
Good work, good wages - democracy also applies in the workplace!15
Wages that are enough for a good life.
Putting an end to low pay16
Working hours that fit life17
Good working conditions, fewer burdens18
No restructuring on the backs of employees: Further training entitlement for all19
Equal rights for seasonal and private household workers20
Stop Union Busting, Strengthen Resistance, Expand Co-determination21
Strengthening trade unions21
Good pension, good life: Solidarity-based employment insurance22
Social security for all25
Social rights: A fair insurance against unemployment25
Means-tested and sanction-free individual minimum income26
Immediate measures: Increase of standard rates and abolition of sanctions27
Overcoming child poverty: Child Basic Security28
Supporting families where they need it29
Self-determined in old age30
Stop the nursing crisis!
System change in health and care31
A new solidarity-based health insurance!33
Solidarity-based comprehensive long-term care insurance33
Relieve the burden on family caregivers!
34
Strengthen the public health service!35
Fighting health disparities!
36
Outpatient care: Good local, urban and rural care37
Break the power of the pharmaceutical industry!
Democratize health research!38
No profits with rent and land: Home for all!39
Stop rent madness and displacement.
Reduce high rents and build nonprofit housing.
End speculation with land39
Cap rents nationwide!40
Create social and non-profit housing!40
Housing is not a commodity.
Strengthening tenants' rights!41
Climate justice instead of displacement!42
Stop speculation - skim off profits!43
Put real estate companies on the chain!44
Housing is a basic right - housing first!
44
Making cities fit for the future - bringing life to villages!45
Good education: fair, tuition-free, for life46
Good Kitas47
A school for all: inclusive48
Well trained50
Good continuing education51
Good studies, good working conditions, good research52
Good science needs good work53
Investments in social infrastructure54
Transparent research and social responsibility55
Climate Protection Socially Just: For a Socio-Ecological System Change56
The ecological crisis is the great survival issue of the 21st century.
At the same time, it is a class issue56
Planning the ecological transformation56
Social-ecological investment offensive57
Investing in well-paying, climate-neutral jobs and infrastructure for a better life58
Job and Income Guarantees: Entry into a New Model of Prosperity59
Creating industrial jobs with a future60
Democracy in business.
Promoting cooperatives and the solidarity economy61
Equitable mobility:
Ecological and affordable for all - with good jobs62
Mobility for all - with less traffic62
Rail for all!
Social and ecological transport planning63
Socially and ecologically transforming the automotive industry65
Reduce air traffic65
Reduce freight traffic and put it on the rails66
Climate justice and energy transition67
Get out of coal, make transitions fair68
Invest in renewable energy, disempower energy companies69
Control electricity prices more tightly,
Making energy affordable for all71
Green hydrogen in the energy transition71
For sustainable agriculture.
Healthy food for all72
Protect biodiversity, animals and resources74
Protecting animals effectively: Animal Protection as a State Objective75
Protecting soils and oceans76
There is no planet B: Managing resources in the cycle77
More rights for consumers78
Consumer *inside protection for financial products!79
Self-confident East - strengthening East German interests79
Equal pay for equal work - What else?80
Recognizing Lifetime Achievement in the East - Equal Pension for Equal Lifetime Achievement81
More posts for the East -More plural visibility81
Reappraising the Treuhand past82
For an economic awakening East82
Reactivation of public infrastructure83
Against old and new Nazis84
Strong communities, good quality of life84
Redirect with taxes85
Reform income tax fairly88
Breaking the power of banks and financial markets89
Stop financial crime!90
For digitization that benefits people92
Strengthening employees and their rights92
Limiting the power of Internet corporations and platforms93
Expanding digital infrastructure for all93
Data security and data protection95
Protect fundamental rights96
Regulating digital payment systems97
Public administration democratic and digital97
Supporting school and learning digitally98
Digitization in healthcare99
Sustainable digitization: ecological and social100
For justice, self-determination and gender diversity101
Left Feminism - Time for a Self-Determined, Secure and Just Life101
Redistributing (care) work and time102
Never cut back on life - no cuts at the expense of women and families103
Ending violence against women104
Our Feminism: Solidary and International105
Reproductive justice: Free choice of life with and without children for all106
For physical and sexual self-determination and equality of all lifestyles106
Offensive and social for LGBTIQA*107
Strengthening Queer Communities: Rescue against the Corona Consequences107
Against poverty and social exclusion107
Combating discrimination108
Self-determined living in an inclusive and barrier-free society110
An Immigration Society Based on Solidarity112
Our Agenda against Racism: Social Offensive and Equal Rights for All113
Defending humanity: Saving people, clearing escape routes, fighting the causes of flight115
Strengthening democracy117
Stop right-wing terror and violence117
Strengthening the rights of minorities119
Security for all instead of a surveillance state119
Police in the constitutional state121
Ensuring the independence of politics123
Democratize democracy!
123
Better support for civic engagement124
Culture: Crisis-proof, diverse and accessible to all125
Strengthening media diversity, independent journalism and press freedom128
We defend freedom to and from religion and the separation of church and state130
Sport is not a luxury131
Ending the criminalization of drugs131
Without peace everything is nothing: For peace and disarmament.
Ban arms exports133
No foreign deployments of the Bundeswehr134
Disarm Bundeswehr instead of rearming - No Bundeswehr as worldwide
Deployment army134
Stop arms exports: No business with war!
135
No drones for war136
For a world free of nuclear weapons137
Cooperation instead of confrontation: For an inclusive security system137
Civil conflict management and crisis prevention138
Social justice worldwide139
Socio-ecologically just global economy139
Development through justice142
Climate justice global143
Fair taxes worldwide144
Strengthen UN and international cooperation144
Enforcing human rights145
For a Europe of solidarity!
147
Invest instead of blocking the future!
148
Europe-wide: Distributing wealth from top to bottom149
Democratically controlling the European Central Bank and using it socially and ecologically149
Transforming the economy149
Social Security and Good Work150
Democracy instead of lobbyist rule151
Human rights instead of Fortress Europe152
How we change the country153
Index156
Introduction
It depends on all of us.
It depends on you
The Bundestag elections will decide how all of us will fare in the coming years.
We stand up for your concerns, wishes and dreams to finally be taken seriously in this country.
We stand for a policy of reliability and honesty, but also of courage - we want to change.
The Corona crisis clearly revealed the injustices of capitalism: while some people had to fear for their jobs, their children's education and their health, large corporations increased their profits.
We are not resigned to these conditions and are ready to take on the profiteers.
Together, we can all make Germany more democratic.
and socially fairer.
We have it in our hands together.
Our economy must be transformed in Germany, Europe and worldwide in a more social, democratic and environmentally compatible way.
Our democracy will only be stronger if all people can participate in it.
Our future can only be one of solidarity if we begin to shape it in the here and now.
That's what this election is about.
A strong LEFT party is essential for this.
You have the choice.
In our program we show what proposals we have.
We invite you to be part of the change.
And it's a promise to you: DIE LINKE makes the difference.
We have the courage to dare to make the necessary changes.
For more justice, for
peace
and a secure future.
For you.
With you.
We leave no one behind
We leave no one behind.
It is about the realization of fundamental social and democratic rights and human dignity for all.
It is about all people, about their dreams and their right to a good life,
about the realization of the ancient human dream of a world of peace
and social justice, for which so many have fought and are fighting.
We want security and a future for all of our fellow human beings who become anxious and fearful when they think about their wages, rent, electricity bills or old age.
We want trust and social security for all those who have long been overlooked, disregarded and hurt because their concerns and needs count for too little.
We insist that things change because they can be changed.
We leave no one behind in overcoming the corona crisis.
We want to make society and democracy more crisis-proof.
We are concerned with justice and security.
People need recognition and social support again.
In everyday life, at work, in the community and in culture!
We are leaving no one behind in our efforts to combat climate catastrophe.
Climate change continues to indicate, at an accelerated pace, that the capitalist economy is associated with resource consumption and pollutant emissions, with sustained warming of the global climate, with incurable threats to biodiversity and the entire biosphere that can endanger life on Earth even in the short term.
We want a society that is equipped for a change for the better - socially and in terms of solidarity.
Because change needs hope that it can succeed, that everyone can participate and that no one feels excluded.
Change needs social security in a peaceful world.
But change also requires trust.
That's what we're promoting.
We can do it in solidarity.
What moves us
For more than a year, the Corona crisis has dominated our daily lives.
People are worried about their loved ones and their health.
While the pandemic affects everyone, it does not affect everyone equally.
Millions of people work hard and a lot - and get little in return.
This is especially true in the Corona crisis.
People at risk of poverty are at higher risk of losing income or becoming ill.
Even faster than before, social inequality between the global North and South has worsened.
Supported by the private disposal of pharmaceutical patents, the central industrialized countries have created a kind of vaccination nationalism towards economically disadvantaged countries.
We are concerned about all those who are suffering from this crisis of the century due to a virus, but we are also particularly concerned about all those who are now giving everything and getting very little.
Those who hold the store together and earn little have to work even harder.
Recognition must also be expressed on the pay slip!
This applies just as much to employees in retail, catering, daycare centers and social work, to cleaners and delivery staff.
But it's also about art and culture.
It's about all those who are trying to fulfill their dream of self-employment and are having trouble making ends meet.
Millions have been hit by this crisis of the century and they all now need a secure foundation and a social perspective for their livelihoods and their life dreams.
We need to change that.
We can only achieve this together.
For more than a year, people have known what it would take to get a handle on the pandemic, to protect lives and allow people to return to their daily lives.
But the federal government has failed to lead this country out of the crisis: in vaccine procurement, in test supply, in economic assistance.
The grand coalition has helped large corporations, but many people have fallen through the cracks of the rescue nets.
The cultural industry is down.
The government has failed in its pandemic response by putting the profit interests of business above health protection.
It has even already passed on some of the costs of the pandemic to employees.
Those insured by the public health insurance funds bear the bulk of the costs of health care in the pandemic.
To be sure, she was anxious to keep the infection numbers within a range that would not cause the broken health care system to collapse.
But the virus continues to circulate, more and more people fall ill and die.
The country lurches from one half-hearted lockdown to the next.
Sixteen years of Angela Merkel have put a veil over the social differences that so fissure our society, that cause unrest, that divide and have led to anger and powerlessness.
We address these differences and to criticize them.
And we want to overcome them.
It is about more social justice and it is about a fairer distribution of wealth in this rich country and in the world.
We can change that.
The coronavirus pandemic has exacerbated the crisis in our infrastructure
and public services of general interest.
For decades, savings have been made on what is now so urgently needed.
Rightly so, health has never had such a high priority as it does today.
All those who now work in the hospitals, every day, hour after hour, to ensure that no more people fall victim to the pandemic, need better working hours, and they need more pay.
Better salaries in nursing and hospitals not only help employees in concrete terms,
but are an investment in the well-being of society as a whole.
Staff shortages and permanent stress in the health and education systems, for example, must not be allowed to continue.
There is a shortage of caregivers in the health care system,
burdens are increasing, and incomes are not increasing with them.
It has been politically driven decisions that have led to such an unequal distribution of work and burdens in this society.
We are going to change that.
We together with you.
We want to fight with you to strengthen the common good and push back capital interests.
We are fighting for a new economic and social model.
Our alternative is ecological and democratic socialism.
A new policy for all who have long deserved it
Our goal: a new policy for a majority that has long deserved it.
We fight for a strong social infrastructure.
We want public services and administration in a rich country to be truly prepared for crises.
We want everyone to be able to count on receiving protection and help in a crisis.
We want recognition for those who keep society running, and in their wallets too: wages that are enough for a good life.
Our goal: a society of the good life for all.
We want work for everyone that is well paid, covered by collective agreements and fairly distributed.
We want a strong democratic and future-proof welfare state that is financed fairly and protects everyone.
We want a new public service for all, which organizes health, care, education, housing, local transport and energy supply publicly, so that they serve the common good and everyone has the chance to live their dreams.
We propose a left-wing program that leaves no one behind: a plan for rebooting from the pandemic.
A plan for a socially and climate-compatible transformation of the economy and infrastructure.
A plan for a renewed welfare state.
An offer for a crisis-proof society in which people feel safe and secure again.
A policy that would benefit the vast majority of people in this country.
Compliance with fundamental social rights is an indispensable prerequisite for a dignified life in a socially just society.
We are committed to upholding fundamental social rights at all levels of society.
Defend jobs in the crisis and create well-paid, climate-just work: As a result of the pandemic, many industries are facing layoffs and clear-cutting in inner cities.
We want to tie state support to guarantees for jobs and collective agreements - and at the same time set the course for a better future, for secure jobs and a functioning public infrastructure.
We want to significantly expand the equipment for education, training, health and care with an investment program and hire more personnel.
invest in broadband network expansion.
We want to provide investment funds for municipalities to invest in solar roofs, energy-efficient buildings and affordable housing, affordable mobility, culture, sports and attractive city centers.
In this way, we can prevent a clear-cut as a result of the lockdown - and at the same time set the course for the future.
We propose a public transformation fund that secures climate-just jobs for the future
and promotes an ecological change of course.
Our investment program for the future will enable us to create one million well-paid jobs by 2025,
helping to make the economy and infrastructure climate-neutral by 2035.
Good work, fair pay: The many people who keep the store running and yet barely make ends meet at the end of the month urgently need higher wages.
We want to raise the statutory minimum wage to 13 euros so that income from work really does protect against poverty.
Salaries for normal and low-wage earners must increase significantly.
To this end, we want to strengthen trade unions and make it easier to declare collective agreements generally binding.
Temporary work and permanent contracts, mini- and midi-jobs are depressing wages and weakening social security.
As far as possible, we want to transform these jobs into regular, fully socially secure employment relationships.
Stress and overload, while others are left without a job - that doesn't have to be.
Reducing working hours secures jobs in industry and in sectors transformed by digitization - it enables new prosperity for all.
We support the trade unions in their fight for a significant reduction in working hours towards a 30-hour week with full pay and necessary staff compensation.
We want to support this process by limiting overtime and reducing the statutory maximum working hours.
Good health care and dignified care for all: the corona crisis is also the result of neglecting important pillars of a functioning society.
It is wrong that hospitals have to operate according to flat rates per case and with a profit orientation.
Hospitals and nursing facilities each lack100,000 nurses to provide good care.
We want to take hospitals and care groups off the stock market.
We want to transfer private hospitals and care operations that do not operate on a non-profit basis to common ownership.
They must be organized according to need and common good.
We want to replace the system of flat rates per case with needs-based financing.
We want to increase salaries in the nursing sector, which will also help to combat the shortage of skilled workers.
We want to replace two-tier medicine with a solidarity-based health insurance system into which everyone pays.
We want to transform long-term care insurance into full insurance that covers all benefits.
The co-payments for the insured or their relatives, which today drive many people into poverty and despair, will be eliminated.
People must not be excluded from access to medicines and vaccines through patents just to keep pharmaceutical companies' profits high.
The pandemic in particular shows that pharmaceutical research is a public good.
Corona vaccine licenses need to be released to accelerate vaccine production.
For educational equity: Corona highlights the failures in education policy - in staffing ratios, digital equipment and inadequate safeguards.
Equally good education for all children is only possible with a development program for more educators, teachers and social pedagogues.
A legal right to a daycare place also means: the right to good care, small groups, well-paid and trained educators and no fees.
It should go without saying that it doesn't rain through the school roof, the toilets are clean and every child has a mobile device and access to data volume.
A new welfare state: A society that creates security and enables change is only feasible with sufficient and crisis-proof social security.
The pandemic has shown that benefits are far too scarce.
We want to ensure that no one has less than1,200 euros a month at their disposal.
That is our limit for a fair minimum income.
We want unemployment insurance that also covers solo self-employed workers.
The time of Hartz IV has expired.
We are fighting for a minimum income that is free of sanctions, i.e. cannot be reduced.
Away with old-age poverty: In 2000, the pension level was still 53 percent; if the German government has its way, it will drop to 43 percent.
This is a retirement poverty program!
We advocate a statutory pension that approximates the standard of living again - in East and West alike.
To achieve this, we want to reverse the pension cuts and lower the standard retirement age again.
We want to raise the pension level to 53 percent immediately.
Those who currently receive the current average pension of1,048 euros (net) will then receive just under 100 euros more per month.
We want to upgrade the pensions of women and all people who work for low wages so that their life's work finally counts as well.
And no one should have to live on less than1,200 euros net in old age.
Civil servants, members of parliament, freelancers and the self-employed should also pay into the statutory pension in the future.
We want new legal regulations to recognize lifetime work achievements.
Various former GDR citizens have had their pensions arbitrarily limited; we want to abolish this.
Gender justice - time for a self-determined, secure and just life: As LINKE, we stand for a feminism that goes to the roots.
First and foremost, this means distributing work and time fairly between the sexes.
We want a society in which everyone can live freely, safely and self-determined,
have time for family and friends and
at the same time pursue meaningful and well-paid work.
We want a society in which women can participate in political decision-making in the same way as men,
and in which life is not just about paid work.
No return on rent: Corona has forced many people to stay home or work there.
But fewer and fewer can afford their homes.
Rents have exploded in recent years, real estate capital is waltzing through cities promising returns.
We want to make rent caps possible throughout Germany.
Our aim is not only to slow down the explosion in rents, but to put an end to it and reverse it.
Particularly high rents must be lowered.
We want to take real estate groups off the stock market.
It is necessary to create at least 250000 additional housing units per year that are permanently affordable.
Reduce inequality: New Social Security, a fresh start out of the pandemic, and a climate-smart rebuilding program should be funded equitably.
We want to tax high wealth and inheritances more heavily.
Instead of a cheap tax on corporate profits, we want to tax profits like all income.
Our Basic Law provides for the possibility of a wealth tax; we want to levy it again and include multimillionaires and billionaires in the financing of a fair society with a progressive tax rate of up to five percent.
The revenues will enable the states to make urgently needed investments in education, health and housing.
Together with many experts, we consider the debt brake to be economically harmful and want to abolish it.
We propose to raise the tax allowances in the income tax:1,200 euros per month will be exempt from taxes.
This provides noticeable relief for low and middle incomes.
A new start for the East:
We want to finally make good on the Basic Law's promise of equal living conditions.
We are fighting for uniform collective bargaining areas and equal wages in this country.
The pension value for the East must be raised to the West level immediately.
As long as there are still strong wage differences between East and West, the conversion of East salaries should be maintained for pensions.
The equalization of eastern pensions must not be a disadvantage for current employees.
We want to strengthen people's stubbornness, spirit of optimism and solidarity in the East.
No more restructuring of the regions over the heads of the local people!
We propose social and economic councils that give people co-determination.
Digital can also be social: The Corona crisis shows what we have known for some time: Anyone who does not have fast digital access is effectively excluded from a large part of social participation today.
The digital divide in our society not only deepens the existing poverty, but also deprives all those where the Internet is too slow or where there is not enough money for a good connection.
Just as our schools and public authorities need to be made digitally fit,
all citizens, whether in urban or rural areas, have the right to fast Internet access.
Data sovereignty and digital access are part of a basic service guaranteed by the state.
We say: They must become enforceable basic social rights.
For us, this also means that digital participation must never replace social encounters without digital devices.
Social and climate-friendly economic policy: We must achieve the transformation to a largely carbon dioxide-free, energy- and resource-saving economy and infrastructure as quickly as possible if we are to have any chance at all of still achieving the1.5 degree target for limiting global warming.
LEFT economic policy is based on higher wages and secure working conditions as well as democratic decision-making on investments, with which we want to launch a public welfare-oriented and climate-neutral economy.
The industrial structure must become more regional, more crisis-resistant and less dependent on exports.
We want to support the necessary ecological transformation in industry, in particular the automotive supply industry, with a state industry transformation fund worth 20 billion euros per year.
This fund benefits companies that secure jobs, have good wages and nationwide collective agreements.
Decisions on public funding are to be made by regional economic and transformation councils, in which trade unions, environmental and social associations have equal voting rights alongside politicians and companies.
We particularly want to promote cooperatives.
Supporting the retail trade: Online retail, large supermarkets and delivery services have been jeopardizing the retail sector in cities for some time, and not just since the pandemic.
We want to create a legal regulation at the federal level so that states and municipalities can introduce rent caps for small businesses, crafts, cultural institutions, and social and non-profit organizations with legal certainty.
Working conditions in the retail sector are often characterized by poor pay, overtime and, temporary, precarious employment.
Collective bargaining coverage is declining.
Therefore, DIE LINKE demands good wages and working conditions for employees in the retail sector.
Secure jobs and co-determination: We want guarantees for jobs and incomes for employees.
In the crisis and when companies switch to climate-friendly production, a reduction in working hours with a further training offensive can safeguard jobs.
The training is paid for proportionally from a solidarity fund by the companies and the employment agency.
We want to introduce a continuing education allowance.
We want state funds that go to companies as aid payments or subsidies to be linked to long-term job guarantees,
Collective agreements
and binding investment plans for ecological conversion.
We tie public contracts to compliance with collective bargaining agreements.
We want veto rights for employees against cutbacks in companies and effective co-determination in decisions on site closures, mass layoffs and investments in the future.
Consistent climate protection and more quality of life, mobility, agriculture and energy turnaround: We want to expand local public transport, increase the frequency and improve the service - also in rural areas.
We want to reduce ticket prices to zero.
We create good jobs in the production of buses, trains and rails and for employees in public transport.
We are starting with model projects in 15 cities most polluted by exhaust fumes.
We are shifting short-haul flights and freight traffic to rail.
The railroads must be expanded and made affordable for all.
Our traffic turnaround ensures more mobility, but with less traffic.
We want to orient the energy supply to the common good and organize it in municipal utilities and cooperatives.
All energy should come from renewable sources as soon as possible.
We want to help municipalities with climate-neutral conversion
and the creation of good work.
This requires a training and qualification offensive in the skilled trades to meet the demand for skilled personnel in all areas.
We want to ensure good nutrition for all people
and transform the agricultural industry into crisis-proof ecological agriculture.
This is the only way we can guarantee long-term access to enough water and food.
Protecting farmland: We want to strengthen public ownership of agricultural and forestry land and effectively prevent land grabbing.
Among other things, we propose a public land fund that leases to sustainable, local farms on fair terms.
We want to promote cooperative and non-profit use and cap land prices.
In this way, we secure regional food production,
ecological restructuring
and the future of farmers.
Anti-fascism is a foundation of our politics, which is directed not least against the structures that breed fascism:
We oppose all forms of misanthropy and defend democracy - on the streets, in everyday life, in parliament.
We want to strengthen the forces in civil society that are committed to fighting racism, anti-Semitism, antiziganism and neo-Nazis with a Democracy Promotion Act.
The so-called protection of the constitution does not protect democracy, but often right-wing structures.
We want to dissolve the constitutional protection agencies in this form.
We want to promote anti-fascist work in civil society and establish an independent observatory.
We want to set up a committee of inquiry into right-wing terrorism and create investigative focal points against militant neo-Nazis.
We stand up for an anti-fascist culture of remembrance.
Against armament and war: Every weapon finds its war.
We want to ban the export of weapons and weapons factories.
Arms exports to countries that are involved in wars and disregard human rights must be stopped immediately.
DIE LINKE is committed to peace and détente policies.
We want to strengthen civil conflict resolution.
We will end Bundeswehr missions abroad and prevent new ones.
We want to support people from war zones in finding a legal and safe way to escape and advocate for a dignified life outside the war zone.
Especially in a pandemic, the money should go to health care - also internationally - and a fairer global economy,
not to tanks or drones.
Instead of upgrading the Bundeswehr with reference to NATO's 2-percent target, we advocate disarmament and détente
and rational, peaceful international relations; this includes Russia and China.
For us, humanity is indivisible: many people are discriminated against, excluded from social and political participation because of their physical condition, their origin, their poverty, their gender, their age, faith or sexual orientation.
Often they are exposed to psychological and physical violence.
But we want a country in which everyone lives together on an equal footing
and participates in democratic decision-making.
We oppose exclusion, discrimination and violence with our model of an inclusive and socialist society.
That is why we advocate for the right to stay and equal rights.
We want to fight the causes of flight, not refugees.
Misery and death at Europe's external borders must come to an end: Rescue at sea and compliance with the United Nations Refugee Convention must be a matter of course.
We want to evacuate the camps where refugees are locked up in inhumane conditions and fight together for the full restoration of the right to asylum.
Fighting for more democracy:
The Corona crisis has highlighted the shortcomings of existing parliamentary democracy at all levels.
We want crisis management with more democracy, not less.
Parliamentary rights must be strengthened.
All restrictions must be democratically decided, controlled, transparent and regularly reviewed.
Courage to change
Our program for a socio-ecological turnaround that leaves no one behind is not modest.
We stand for a social development in which the domination of capital is overcome by democratic, social and ecological forces and the society of democratic socialism is created.
This federal election is about the future.
It is about deciding the path this country is taking and beginning to take.
This requires big ideas and the courage to change.
We want to have a say.
Our proposals are feasible.
Because things cannot go on as they are.
This election will be about who ends up paying for the cost of the pandemic.
We want a wealth levy and fair taxation of multimillionaires and billionaires to address the costs of the crisis.
We want wages that are enough for a good life.
We want to cap rents
and increase pensions so that pensioners and future generations can live well in old age.
We want everyone to be able to afford good nutrition.
It is about equal living conditions and equal life chances for all children, about justice in education and good schools and daycare centers in all parts of the city.
We are concerned with equal rights for all.
Everyone who lives and works in this country - and who often has a hard time finding a place to live.
Who are affected by racism in everyday life and social structures.
It's about social security for all and being
able to be different without fear.
We are facing major upheavals.
We see this as an opportunity.
We know that the majorities in this country are in favor of more justice,
for social security
and for climate justice.
Here lies a responsibility for us LINKE in the class struggles to be expected: to also use the potential of changes.
We stand for a social awakening after the pandemic - after years of cutback policies and decades of ecological destruction: common good before profits.
Solidarity worthy of the name,
instead of enrichment and corruption.
We need a social awakening.
A new dawn for social security
and a functioning infrastructure,
for peace,
for social
and for climate justice.
The necessary transformation of our economy must not take place at the expense of employees and the population at large.
Neither in this country nor elsewhere.
We want an economy where no worker has to choose between their job and the future of their children.
We want a society in which workers and employees can afford climate protection.
The protection of livelihoods needs a foundation: social security.
Without security and trust, we cannot make our society climate neutral.
A socio-ecological transformation therefore needs just transitions.
We want to create job and income guarantees and one million well-paying and meaningful carbon-neutral jobs.
We can tackle the climate catastrophe together if we do it radically, realistically and justly.
We want to set the course so that our infrastructure and economy, municipalities and industry become climate-neutral by the middle of the next decade.
We no longer have time to just wait for better times.
More than ever, it is about left-wing politics in the here and now,
about a departure for more social democracy
and more climate justice.
We stand for the realization of long overdue social, democratic and ecological changes.
We don't just say how things could be done better.
We also want to do things differently.
Change needs experimentation.
We are focusing on a new culture in political action.
Those who always think they alone are right cannot change the world.
This is especially true for democratic parties and for progressive majorities.
We therefore rely on social alliances and movements.
We trust in more democracy through open dialogue with civil society initiatives and citizens' councils.
We want more participation through referendums.
For us, living democracy means learning from contradictions and criticism.
We ourselves want to remain self-critical as we move forward and change, and become more adaptive, more willing and more determined when it comes to taking up demands from current movements and working them out further.
Pressure from the street needs addressees and multipliers in parliament.
Politics in institutions needs the fuel of social awakening to move forward.
We stand alongside trade unions, social movements, tenants' initiatives, Fridays for Future, Black Lives Matter, Seebrücke, anti-fascist groups, queer initiatives, social associations and the peace movements.
We stand for indivisible solidarity with majorities who keep this society running every day with their paid and unpaid work, with heart and hope.
We take an unequivocal stand against racism, anti-Semitism, anti-gypsyism and any form of misanthropy, against agitation and violence from the right.
We want a socio-ecological
and peace policy change.
We want a new political beginning in our country.
That's what we stand ready to do, and that's what we want to do.
DIE LINKE is willing to compromise when it comes to stride length.
But the direction of the step must be right.
We will not take a step in the direction of social cuts,
rearmament,
privatization
or combat missions of the Bundeswehr.
Our direction is social justice,
Peace
and environmental protection.
Let's walk this path together.
We don't want to talk about people, we want to achieve something together with them.
We want to awaken curiosity and a desire for change in those whose lives are made better by left-wing politics.
We want to win over those who have long since stopped expecting anything from elections.
We want change today.
We make the difference.
That is THE LEFT.
Join in, it's worth it.
Good work, good wages - democracy also applies in the workplace!
DIE LINKE fights to ensure that all working people can live well and securely from their work.
Working conditions must be geared to people and their families, not to the profit interests of entrepreneurs.
The business associations are using the crisis to restrict workers' rights, further depress wages and impose overtime.
When companies get huge economic aid in the Corona crisis and then lay off workers or close sites, we say no!
DIE LINKE stands by the side of the employees and their unions.
We want to defend jobs and collective agreements and expand collective bargaining coverage, abolish the Hartz IV system as an instrument of pressure on wages, stop layoffs and turn the world of work upside down:
Good work that fits in with life must be the rule for everyone, rather than the exception.
To achieve this, we want to implement the following key demands: Wages that are enough for a good life!
We are abolishing the low-wage sector and strengthening collective agreements.
We create a legal right to a full-time position for all employees.
Social security in all employment relationships!
We are pushing back temporary employment and safeguarding all activities through social insurance.
This includes employees through platforms, solo self-employed, and seasonal employees.
Working hours that fit life!
More staff instead of permanent stress.
We support the trade unions in their struggle for a significant reduction in working hours in the direction of a new normal working relationship with 30 hours per week.
We advocate for a right of co-determination in staffing levels and an anti-stress ordinance.
Right to further qualification
with social security!
We create a further training entitlement for all and secure income during further training periods with a further training allowance.
Expanding workforce and public participation in economic issues.
Companies that receive public aid may not at the same time pay dividends to their shareholders or bonuses to their board members.
Wages that are enough for a good life.
An end to low wages
The statutory minimum wage is increased to 13 euros.
Supplements for Sunday, shift or overtime work as well as special payments may not be offset against the minimum wage.
All exceptions to the minimum wage must be eliminated.
Compliance with the minimum wage must be enforced through the obligation to record working hours electronically and more frequent checks.
The number of inspectors at the Customs' Financial Control of Clandestine Employment must be doubled to15,000.
The federal government should establish an official reporting portal against minimum wage fraud.
Collective bargaining agreements must apply to all companies and industries.
To achieve this, the unions' bargaining power must be strengthened and it must be easier to declare collective agreements generally binding.
The latter must be possible at the request of a party to the collective agreement.
The employers' veto right in the collective bargaining committee must be abolished, and it must be considered a "public interest" to strengthen the scope of collective agreements and prevent undercutting competition to the detriment of wages and working conditions.
In addition, it should be possible to extend complete pay scales regulated in collective agreements to companies not bound by collective agreements by means of a legal ordinance in accordance with the Employee Assignment Act.
All collective agreements that have been declared generally binding - even if only for a regional area - must also apply to employees temporarily posted to Germany.
End wage dumping through work contracts and temporary employment.
We want to ban temporary work.
Until temporary work is banned, temporary workers must receive the same wages as permanent employees from day one, plus a flexibility allowance of10 percent.
The awarding of contracts for work and services and the use of temporary labor must be tied to the approval of the works council and compliance with the collective agreements in force in the core company.
To prevent the abuse of work contracts, the burden of proof must lie with employers in future.
The Employee Leasing Act must be tied to the workplace rather than the person of the employee.
It must come to an end that employment agencies and job centers force the unemployed into such undignified working conditions.
We want a legal right to a full-time position.
In order to enforce equal pay for women and men, the right to information in the Pay Transparency Act must be supplemented by a right of action for associations.
Unions must be able to sue for equal pay for their members.
In the event of transfers to companies not bound by collective agreements and in the event of outsourcing, the existing collective agreements in their current version must remain protected indefinitely and also apply to new employees.
A federal collective bargaining law must make compliance with collective bargaining agreements a mandatory requirement for public contracts and also include subcontractors used by contracted firms.
We want binding upper limits for managers' and board members' salaries: they may not be more than twenty times the lowest salary in the company.
Managers' salaries can rise if the lowest wage groups are raised.
Annual salaries in excess of half a million euros may no longer be tax-deductible.
Social security in every employment relationship
All employees are entitled to social security, regardless of their origin and type of employment relationship:
Stop time limits!
Non-cash fixed-term contracts must be deleted from the Part-Time Working and Fixed-Term Contracts Act without replacement, and permissible non-cash reasons must be strictly limited.
In the case of public funding, the temporary nature of budgetary or project funds should no longer be a permissible reason for the temporary nature of employment contracts.
The third employment contract with the same employer must be for an indefinite period.
We want to transform mini- and midi-jobs into jobs that are subject to social insurance contributions.
From the first euro, companies must be subject to a full social security obligation.
Platforms must fulfill employer obligations and pay social security contributions for employees working through them.
The concept of a company and the concept of an employee must be updated and adapted to today's employment relationships and company structures so that labor rights and the works constitution apply to all economically dependent employees.
Clients must also pay social security contributions for solo self-employed persons who work as small entrepreneurs, freelancers, craftsmen, showmen and tradesmen.
To this end, we are creating nationwide industry-specific minimum fee regulations that counteract ruinous price competition and protect solo self-employed workers.
Qualification and further training offers especially for solo self-employed persons must be improved.
All social security exemptions must be eliminated for foreign seasonal workers.
Working hours that fit life
Good life consists of more than work.
Many workers are getting sick from too much work and overtime, while millions are excluded from gainful employment or involuntarily pushed into part-time work.
It is time for a new normal employment relationship.
We want to distribute work fairly in society and between the sexes.
If work were distributed more equitably, instead of overtime and constant stress, more than a million jobs could be created in short full-time 30-hour work weeks.
Such a redistribution of working time increases the quality of life for all.
We want to limit the statutory maximum working time to a maximum of 40 hours per week.
We want to impose stricter limits on exceptions to the maximum daily working time of 8 hours.
We reject a reduction of the required rest periods of11 hours.
Employers must record the beginning, end and duration of the daily working time as well as the duration of the granted rest breaks on the day of work performance.
Business trips and work performed during free time must be fully counted as working time.
Stronger controls by occupational health and safety authorities must be required by law.
Work on call is removed from the Part-Time and Fixed-term Employment Act.
Works and staff councils need a mandatory right of co-determination in staffing levels to prevent regular overtime and performance compression.
We want a right to a temporary reduction in working hours for all employees.
There needs to be a legal entitlement to family-friendly working hours for all those who take on responsibility for raising and caring for children (see chapter "Supporting families where they need it").
We need a legal right for all employees to a six-week caregiver leave with continued payment of wages by the employers (see chapter "For a Left Feminism").
We want to gradually increase the minimum vacation entitlement in the Federal Vacation Act from 24 to 36 working days (including Saturdays).
Each and every employee shall be entitled to at least six weeks of vacation.
Holidays that fall on a weekend shall be made up by substitute holidays during the week.
All employees should be able to do part of their work at home through a right to home office, provided the nature of their work permits this.
The conditions for home office must be regulated by collective agreement or by company/service agreement.
Occupational safety and statutory accident insurance must also apply without restriction in the home office.
There must also be a right to breaks and a right to end working hours in the home office!
However, employees may not be required to work from home.
Right to sabbaticals: Employees should have the opportunity to take a sabbatical year twice in their working lives, combined with a right to return.
Good working conditions, fewer burdens
Work must not make you ill.
The level of performance in companies must be such that health is maintained throughout a person's working life.
The Occupational Health and Safety Act obliges companies to design work in such a way that the risk to mental and physical health is avoided as far as possible.
However, it often fails to be enforced.
We want to create protection against permanent stress and overwork:
We need a regulation to protect against hazards caused by mental stress at work (anti-stress regulation).
Works councils must be able to more easily enforce the rules of the Occupational Health and Safety Act on the prevention of mental stress as well as holistic risk assessments and, above all, remedial measures.
The co-determination rights of works councils must also extend to the prevention of stress.
Employees need an individual "right of veto" in the event of overwork that poses a health risk, in order to also protect employees in companies without a works council.
The occupational health and safety authorities must be better equipped in terms of funding and personnel and be better integrated with minimum wage monitoring in order to enable effective and regular monitoring.
Controls need to be more frequent.
It should be mandatory that they take place on the store floor and not on the record.
Fines for violations of employee health protection must be increased significantly.
It must be made clear in the Occupational Health and Safety Act that it is a criminal offense to continue to endanger the health of employees despite prior warning from the authorities.
Workforces must be given two hours of consultation time per month during working hours to exchange information on work design, working hours, co-determination and occupational health and safety, for contacting occupational health and safety authorities and for developing co-determination initiatives.
The recognition of occupational diseases must be facilitated.
This includes mental illness.
We call for a rebuttable presumption rule in favor of the insured to facilitate the presentation of evidence in occupational disease proceedings.
Independent counseling centers must be set up to support insured persons in asserting their claims.
Disability pensions need to be improved.
Employees with heavy workloads must be able to retire earlier (see chapter "Good pension, good life").
Good work and income to live on, also for people with disabilities.
People with disabilities are disproportionately affected by unemployment - due to lack of accessibility and other discrimination.
We fight for an inclusive labor market without special structures.
No restructuring on the backs of employees: further training entitlement for all
Companies use the introduction of new technologies and products, climate protection and digitization as an opportunity to restructure on the backs of employees, lay off workers or blackmail the workforce.
At the same time, the ecological transformation and digitization are leading to new fields of activity and changing the demands on employees.
Companies must not shift responsibility for training and continuing education onto employees and the general public.
Training measures that are in the interest of the companies must also be financed by them.
Employees whose jobs are eliminated must be protected.
We want a social and ecological transformation with job and income guarantees for employees.
Veto right against clear-cutting, co-determination on the future.
Employees and works councils also need co-determination on economic issues.
This applies in particular to operational changes, site changes and redundancies.
Mandatory co-determination rights are also required in matters relating to occupational health and safety, in-house environmental protection, the planning and design of activities and working conditions, changes to workplaces and the intensity of work.
The right of works councils to negotiate with the actual decision-makers must also be clarified in international corporations.
It must not be the case that companies undermine democratic co-determination rights through holding structures in which the local management acts only as a recipient of orders.
Works councils need an enforceable right of co-determination and initiative for in-company training and further education - and in the realignment of companies.
Companies with more than100 employees are required to carry out qualified personnel planning, which includes further training planning for employees.
All employees must have a legal right to temporarily reduce or temporarily suspend their working hours for the purpose of further training.
Employers must pay partial wage compensation of at least 70 percent of net salary and social security contributions during part-time educational leave.
The state must support educational part-time work for employees by taking greater account of pension entitlements and the amount of entitlements to ALG I.
For low-wage earners, full wage compensation must be guaranteed through government subsidies.
To ensure that all companies contribute equally to the financing of further vocational training, DIE LINKE proposes a further training fund into which all companies in a sector would pay.
Vocational schools and universities must be required by law and enabled to provide continuing vocational education offerings that
are open to all employees, regardless of previous educational attainment.
Further training programs offered by the employment agency and job center must be expanded.
The goal of rapid placement of the unemployed must be eliminated; instead, priority must be given to maintaining qualifications and continuing education.
For the period of further training, a further training allowance amounting to 90 percent of the last net salary is paid.
The period of further training is not counted towards the entitlement to unemployment benefits (cf. chapter "Social guarantees").
Companies that do not provide training must pay a training levy (see chapter "Well trained").
Equal rights for seasonal employees and employees in private households
Violations of occupational health and safety and good working conditions are particularly serious for mobile workers from abroad.
By linking the right of residence to the employment contract, they are particularly at risk of extreme exploitation and find it more difficult to assert their rights.
We want equal protection rights for all and equal pay for equal work.
Equal pay for equal work from the first day must also apply to seasonal workers and employees posted from abroad.
To prevent wage fraud, companies must be required to keep electronic time records that employees can view.
At the same time, we need legal residence status for all workers here, so that controls serve to protect workers and do not become a disadvantage to them.
Termination of employment shall not result in the loss of the right of residence.
Access to information about existing labor rights must be facilitated, and initiatives that advise mobile workers in their native languages must be more strongly promoted.
There must be a clear limit on allowable costs for employer-provided or arranged accommodations.
These are to be based on the applicable non-cash remuneration values from social security law.
Deductions for room and board must be transparently presented on the pay stub to allow employees to verify.
Compliance with hygiene standards in the accommodations must be regularly checked by the supervisory authorities.
All statutory exemptions from social security coverage for foreign employees must be eliminated.
We want to put an end to social dumping when employees are posted to Germany: In the future, social security contributions should be paid in the destination country and registration should have to be applied for one week before the assignment begins.
DIE LINKE wants to strengthen the rights of employees in private households.
Work in private households (including cleaning, care, childcare) is to be organized primarily through certified agencies, public welfare or municipal providers.
They must guarantee collective agreements, permanent employment, the right to a contractual minimum number of hours, occupational health and safety, and continuing education for employees.
In order to reduce exploitation, workers in private households without the right to work and reside must be given the opportunity to legalize.
The exploitation of mostly Eastern European workers in 24-hour care must end.
Care must be organized in accordance with labor law.
Stop Union Busting, Strengthen Resistance, Expand Co-determination
DIE LINKE wants to strengthen democracy in society, in the workplace and in the economy.
The last significant reform of the Works Constitution Act was in 1972, when
there was no temporary work, no outsourcing and no relocation abroad.
There were no permanent contracts, mini-jobs or on-call work.
Forms of employment such as crowd- and clickwork were unknown and employers could not avoid socio-political responsibility disguised as platforms.
Our working world today is characterized by digitalization, globalization, deregulation
and the need for ecological restructuring.
We want to facilitate works council elections and safeguard the ability of works councils to work.
We want to create special prosecutor's offices with sufficient staff for criminal offenses in labor law and works constitution law,
as well as tougher sanctions against employers and law firms that specialize in preventing union organizing.
We want the possibility of direct establishment of works councils by the labor court in cases of union busting in first-time works council elections.
We want to adapt the concept of a company and expand the concept of an employee.
Additional employee representation structures should be able to be determined by collective agreement or works agreement.
We want to extend mandatory co-determination to questions of work organization, staffing levels, precarious employment and qualification.
The transformation of the world of work is a comprehensive societal restructuring with serious implications for labor relations.
It does not take place in a class-neutral way, but as a distributional dispute, inseparably linked to the property question.
Therefore, the extension of mandatory co-determination to economic issues is central.
Employees and their works councils should be able to take the initiative in investment decisions, production depths, relocations, closures of plants and parts of plants, rationalization projects and new working methods and control mechanisms.
This is the only way to get employees on board with the upcoming transformation,
This is the only way to curb precarious work,
This is the only way to realize climate and environmental protection in the companies
and digitalization in the interests of employees and the common good.
DIE LINKE is committed to making it easier to elect works councils.
Protection against dismissal must be extended to all organs of the works constitution and prolonged.
The same co-determination rights must apply to employees in the public sector.
We want to introduce genuine codetermination on a parity basis in the supervisory board of all private, public and public-sector companies with 500 or more employees.
In these companies, the owners and the employees must be equally represented.
The chairmanship is assumed by another person on whom both sides must agree.
Issues of significant importance to the workforce - such as relocations - must be confirmed by employee vote.
Strengthen trade unions
Trade unions must be given a comprehensive right of collective action to ensure compliance with collective agreements and statutory provisions, as well as the right to collective complaints in accordance with the protocol of the European Social Charter.
In defense of the right to strike, the anti-strike paragraph160 of SGB III must be abolished.
The Collective Bargaining Unity Act must be withdrawn, as it entails a restriction of the right to strike.
Solidarity strikes with workers in other companies and industries and political strikes to achieve social improvements and to defend democracy and peace must be included in the right to strike.
The right to strike must also apply to civil servants.
OT memberships ("without tariff") in employers' associations must be abolished.
Workplace co-determination rights and the right to strike must also apply without restriction to church, diaconal and Caritas employees.
Section 118 of the Works Constitution Act must be deleted.
The work of store stewards must be regulated in a similar way to the work of works councils.
Good pension, good life: Solidarity-based employment insurance
We want a statutory pension that restores the standard of living and protects against poverty.
For many people, this is the basis for a carefree and self-determined life.
We reject demands that those who live longer should retire later.
Pensions must not be "secured" via capital markets - then they are insecure.
Old-age provision must be financed equally by companies and employees.
As recently as 2000, the pension level was 53 percent; now it is set to drop to 43 percent.
This is a federal government program for old-age poverty!
We want to end the pension cuts and restore the guarantee promise of the statutory pension insurance.
Three central measures are the starting point: We want to raise the pension level back to 53 percent.
In monetary terms, this means that anyone who currently receives the current average pension of 1,048 euros will then receive 1,148 euros, or just under 100 euros more per month.
The pension level of currently 48.4 percent (without revision effect) can easily be raised to 53 percent within one election period.
With average earnings of 3,462 euros, this costs employees and employers only about 33 euros more per month.
The contribution for a private Riester pension (124 euros) can be waived for this.
Average earners would therefore have 90.50 euros more in their pockets.
We are restoring wage-relatedness in the pension adjustment.
As a LEFT core project, we include all employed persons in the statutory pension insurance.
To this end, we have developed a concept that combines solidarity and social justice with financial solidity and stability.
We are thus strengthening the statutory pension insurance and preventing poverty in old age and in the event of reduced earning capacity.
Our concept of solidarity-based employment insurance offers statutory old-age insurance for the self-employed, freelancers, civil servants, managers and politicians who have not been insured up to now.
We want all employed persons to pay contributions to the statutory pension insurance.
As a guarantee, we are introducing a Solidarity Minimum Pension of 1,200 euros for all those who, despite the pension reform measures, have too low a retirement income to live on.
For those who today have to look back on long periods of poor wages, unemployment or illness are nevertheless entitled to a dignified life in old age.
The Solidarity Minimum Pension is therefore paid by the pension insurance scheme to all people of retirement age - in the case of reduced earning capacity as a supplement, in individual cases also as a full amount - who have a net income of less than 1,200 euros in old age.
The solidarity-based minimum pension is income and asset-tested.
It is financed from taxes.
Maintenance claims in accordance with the BGB are taken into account.
With asset allowances, we ensure that social hardship is avoided and that normal, owner-occupied residential property remains untouched.
Our promise is: No one should have to live on less than 1,200 euros in old age.
The Solidarity Minimum Pension is regularly increased on July1 of each year to the same extent as all other statutory pensions.
With our concept of solidarity-based employment insurance, we are setting the course for a fair, stable and inclusive old-age pension system of the future that is there for all working people.
It will be flanked by the following individual measures: The contribution assessment ceiling (for general and miners' pension insurance and for the old and new federal states) will first be standardized and then drastically increased in several steps.
The level of pension entitlements above twice the average is to be flattened (to the maximum extent permitted by the constitution).
Therefore, a "contribution equivalence limit" is to be introduced.
The private Riester pension has failed.
It cannot close the gaps in the statutory pension.
The contributions and subsidies go into the coffers of the insurance companies instead of into the wallets of the pensioners.
Millions of people with normal and low incomes cannot afford private pension insurance.
We are transferring the Riester pension to the statutory pension on a voluntary basis.
Those who have paid in should be able to keep their entitlements and transfer them to the statutory pension.
We will end the state subsidies of almost 4 billion euros per year and thus increase the subsidies to the statutory pension insurance.
In addition, it is to be made easier for insured persons and their employers to pay additional contributions into the statutory pension insurance scheme on a voluntary basis up to a certain limit.
Employees must not be exposed to risks on the capital market.
We reject the idea of releasing employers from liability in the context of funded occupational pension schemes and so-called target pensions.
This also applies to the waiver of pension guarantees in favor of a pure contribution commitment.
Instead of a company pension scheme financed primarily by employees, we want a company pension scheme financed primarily by employers (as a company social benefit).
Binding collective bargaining agreements are to form the basis for this.
We call for an immediate end to the double contribution of health insurance and long-term care insurance contributions for company pension plans.
One thing is clear: occupational pensions must not be free of social security contributions.
But they are to be paid in the accumulation phase, not in the retirement phase.
However, deferred compensation weakens the finances of the statutory pension scheme and reduces the pension entitlements of all insured persons - regardless of whether they make provision via the company or not.
Inequality is thus exacerbated.
That is why we want to abolish deferred compensation for the future.
We want to abolish the double taxation of pensions.
We want to raise the tax-free subsistence minimum to14,400 euros a year - small to medium pensions would thus be tax-free.
DIE LINKE demands an extension of the transition period until 2070, an extraordinary pension increase and a recalculation of the individual pension allowance.
After all, after decades of contributions, the pension must again secure the net standard of living.
Our neighbor Austria shows that a statutory pension system can protect against poverty, secure living standards and be affordable at the same time.
Instead of making part of the old-age provision dependent on the capital market, the statutory pension system in Austria was expanded into an employment insurance scheme.
We want to achieve the same in Germany.
We want to swiftly implement further improvements in pensions.
Our pension concept provides for: Solidarity compensation for low wages: We want to compensate for periods of low wages.
The so-called basic pension adopted by the grand coalition does not go far enough here.
We want to introduce and improve the "pension according to minimum earning points" for periods after1992 as well.
Full-time employees earning13 euros per hour would then generally receive a pension of around1,200 euros.
With a pension level of 53 percent, for example, a retail saleswoman with a salary of
2,200 euros gross after 45 years of work, almost198 euros more per month than under current law with the so-called basic pension - without an income test!
This would benefit women and those employed in eastern Germany in particular.
Training periods are better recognized and lead to higher pensions.
We value periods of unemployment, child-rearing and caregiving more highly so that they do not lead to poverty pensions.
For each child, three pay points - currently there are over102 euros of so-called maternity pension - are credited to the pension account.
It doesn't matter whether a child was born in 1960 or 2010, whether he or she was born in Frankfurt am Main or Frankfurt an der Oder.
This improvement must be financed entirely from taxes as a task for society as a whole.
All family caregivers acquire additional pension entitlements from their care activities for the entire duration of the care situation, even in care degree1, after reaching the standard retirement age and without reduction if professional care services are also used.
The benefit amounts will be increased.
For regularly performed voluntary and unpaid work of citizens in the organized recognized rescue service, fire protection, disaster control and technical relief organization (THW), appropriate contributions are paid by the state into the statutory pension insurance.
The pension only from 67 must be withdrawn.
Demands for an even higher standard retirement age are unrealistic and irresponsible.
We want to prevent working until you drop.
Everyone must be able to retire without deductions from the age of 65 at the latest.
That can be financed.
If people have paid contributions for 40 years, they should be able to retire without deductions from the age of 60.
People who fall ill should not have to fear another low pension: Access to reduced earning capacity pensions must be made easier.
The decided increase in the bonus period (the time that is "added on" because the insured person was unable to pay into the pension due to reduced earning capacity) for pensioners starting in 2019 must also apply to people who already received a reduced earning capacity pension in 2018 and earlier.
We demand that the unsocial deductions on reduced earning capacity pensions be abolished or compensated by a measure with the same effect.
Contributions must finally be paid into the pension fund again for the long-term unemployed.
We want to finally put an end to the discrimination of East German pensioners.
We demand the immediate adjustment of the "current pension value (East)" to the West level without disadvantaging future pensioners (see chapter "Justice for the people in East Germany").
We are fighting for the Jewish contingent refugees and ethnic German repatriates who have been living in this country for decades and who retired by 2012 to receive at least a one-time payment of10,000 euros per person from the hardship fund that is currently being created, which will not be offset against the "basic security in old age" and other social benefits.
We want to abolish the retroactive inclusion of GDR old-timers in the pension transition legislation and ensure that they receive their pensions promised by the federal government under the Foreign Pensions Act.
Social security for all
We want a strong, democratic welfare state that effectively protects all people against the life risks of illness, accident, old age, need for care and unemployment.
Corona has shown the gaps in our social security systems: For Hartz IV recipients, additional expenses for homeschooling and security masks, for example, are not affordable; the standard amounts alone do not protect against poverty.
Freelancers remain without social security.
Homeless people in collective shelters are at high risk of infection.
Social inequality has increased.
We want a democratic welfare state that gives social rights, strengthens social life through social services and public infrastructures, and provides good and predictable gainful employment that is secure and fits life.
We will not participate in a government that privatizes services of general interest or cuts social services, whose policies worsen the performance of public services.
These are the three pillars of our welfare state of the future: social rights for all that protect against poverty and enable social participation:
We strengthen the welfare state through social guarantees based on solidarity-based pay-as-you-go systems that effectively protect everyone against life's risks.
We guarantee a good standard of living for everyone in all phases and situations of life - including retirement.
We want guaranteed protection against poverty.
We are abolishing sanctions and degrading application procedures.
In summary, we want a guaranteed minimum income of 1,200 euros in every life situation where it is needed.
Social services and public infrastructures that provide access for all: Social services - for example, in health, care, education and social services - and public infrastructures - for example, libraries, theaters, swimming pools, roads, local transport - are therefore central to social cohesion in society.
As part of society's wealth, they are public goods that benefit all members of society and should therefore be designed with the common good in mind.
We understand these services and infrastructures as social property of all citizens.
A "new normal employment relationship" for good and plannable gainful employment that is secure and fits in with life: Meaningful gainful employment, shorter working hours and wages that are sufficient for a good, predictable and secure life.
In this way, we can also push back gender inequality.
Good work also secures tax revenues and insurance contributions for the expansion of the democratic welfare state.
Social rights: A fair insurance against unemployment
Unemployment in Germany has risen again as a result of the Corona crisis.
The increase was higher in the new federal states than in the old ones.
For many unemployed people, this means falling into Hartz IV.
Those who have paid into unemployment insurance for years are still at risk of poverty.
Long-acquired insurance claims are destroyed.
We want unemployment insurance that approximates the standard of living previously achieved.
Employees and employers pay into the insurance.
The goal of our improvements to unemployment insurance is to provide good coverage for as many people as possible.
This also includes employees who have so far been excluded from statutory unemployment insurance (for example, the self-employed and freelancers).
To this end, we are expanding the existing unemployment benefit and introducing a new unemployment benefit plus.
We want a right to gainful employment with an enforceable individual legal entitlement.
This also includes the right to refuse a specific gainful employment.
DIE LINKE is committed to strengthening unemployment insurance: All people - especially career starters - should receive a longer entitlement to unemployment benefit more quickly and long-term employees should be protected from having to switch to the Hartz IV system after a short time.
Reasonable job offers must be based on the principle of "good work".
Blocking periods and sanctions are abolished without exception.
In particular, employees should not be threatened with lock-up periods if they themselves give notice or reject specific job offers.
Qualification and further training are to be strengthened,
unemployment benefits are to be increased to a uniform 68 percent and an unemployment benefit plus (58 percent) is to be introduced, also financed by contributions, the duration of which is to be as long as the previous unemployment benefit, and permanent for those insured for many years.
Annual inflation compensation is intended to prevent a lowering of the standard of living due to price increases.
We want to permanently expand short-time work as a fast-acting means of securing jobs.
Short-time allowance is paid at 90 percent of the last income, and social security contributions are paid in full without interruption.
Companies that receive short-time working benefits from the German Labor Agency are not allowed to make redundancies
or pay dividends to their shareholders.
The employed, who are still excluded from the statutory unemployment insurance (e.g. solo self-employed and freelancers), will also be included in it.
Contributions and benefits are based on actual income; employers are required to make contributions in the same way as employers.
We want to give new perspectives to people who are currently unable to pursue regular employment.
To this end, we are creating a publicly subsidized employment sector with additional jobs that provide a livelihood, are subject to social insurance contributions and are covered by collective agreements.
The offers are voluntary for the unemployed.
Needs-covering and sanction-free individual minimum benefits
We want to abolish the Hartz IV system and replace it with good work (see "Good work" section),
better unemployment insurance (see above)
and a needs-based individual minimum income without sanctions.
To safely protect against poverty, it must currently be1,200 euros.
It applies to the unemployed, those in supplementary employment, the long-term unemployed and those unable to work without sufficient income or assets.
Special needs, for example for the chronically ill or people with disabilities, are granted under the Solidarity Health Insurance or the Federal Participation Act.
In areas with a tight housing market, higher housing costs are also covered in addition to the minimum benefit.
The amount of the sanction-free minimum benefit must be increased annually in line with the cost of living (inflation compensation).
Once during the legislative period, the level of the minimum income is reviewed, ensuring that social participation and protection against poverty are guaranteed.
We want to introduce an independent basic benefit for children (see below).
All persons currently residing in Germany have a right to social benefits that ensure their livelihood.
The Asylum Seekers' Benefits Act (AsylbLG) is abolished.
Asylum seekers and EU citizens living here are included in the individual minimum income.
Immediate measures: Increase the standard rates and abolish sanctions
As an interim step until the introduction of a sanction-free minimum income, we want an immediate increase in the current basic security benefits to 658 euros plus the assumption of housing and electricity costs in the actual amount.
In addition, we demand a flat-rate supplement of 100 euros per month for the duration of the corona pandemic for all recipients of Hartz IV and basic benefits.
We share this demand with many social associations and trade unions.
Durable consumer goods such as refrigerators and washing machines (so-called white goods) are not covered by standard needs.
Their acquisition must be fully covered if necessary.
The funds for mobility must correspond to real prices.
We advocate a social ticket for local public transport.
In the long term, we want free public transport for everyone.
All previous federal governments have deliberately reduced what people need to live.
This must stop.
We agree with many social and professional associations on this.
The costs of housing and heating must be covered to an extent that corresponds to the actual supply of housing on site (and not just that deemed "appropriate" by the Job Center).
Currently, municipalities often set reasonable housing costs far too low.
The contributions for memberships in tenants' associations are to be taken over by the Jobcenter.
The previous principle of so-called "need communities" is no longer up to date.
We want to replace it with individual claims (respecting the legal maintenance claims).
Digital connectivity has become a mandatory requirement for social participation in our society.
That's why we're calling for one-time benefits for the digital equipment of adults.
The ongoing actual costs for digital must be included in the standard rates.
School-age children on benefits are to receive a one-time subsidy for computers, printers and other IT equipment as an immediate measure.
The subsidy is to amount to 500 euros and is to be granted unbureaucratically.
We will transfer the IT supplement to our stand-alone basic child allowance as soon as it is established (see below).
Freedom from sanctions!
All sanctions, i.e. reductions of the subsistence level, must be excluded.
With its ruling of November 5, 2019, the Federal Constitutional Court has already drawn a necessary red line against the previous sanctions practice.
The basic right to social participation must also be implemented for recipients of basic social security benefits.
The current sanction regulations in SGB II and the benefit restrictions in SGB XII must be abolished.
The socio-cultural subsistence minimum is a fundamental right and must not be undercut by sanctions.
To ensure that legal assistance is also available to people with low incomes, we call for the expansion of legal costs and counseling assistance.
We want to abolish the co-payment for counseling assistance.
We want to change the criteria for approval and for the use of income and assets in favor of amounts that actually cover needs.
We want to abolish the four-year downstream review of the granting of legal aid.
We are also committed to free and independent advice centers.
A nationwide network of self-organized social counseling centers is needed to ensure that no one has to go to the office alone and to facilitate the exchange of information among those affected.
Their operation must be financed by federal grants.
Precarious employment and unemployment, high rents and illness drive people into the poverty trap and thus inevitably into the debt trap.
The 2020 reform of consumer insolvency proceedings is not sufficient.
We say: Get out of the debt and poverty trap!
People who have already been consistently registered in the "debtors' tower" (public debtors' register) for at least 72 months are to receive a shortened full discharge of residual debt of 12 months.
Schufa and other private information files should no longer be allowed to provide information about applicants' debts and current loans when they apply for housing.
For landlords, the declaration of freedom from rent debts must be sufficient as a control instrument.
We want to prevent debt before it arises.
To this end, we want to strengthen debt counseling centers and introduce mobile debt counseling in rural areas.
We want free legal help for every affected consumer without conditions.
Everyone in DIE LINKE is committed to the fundamental goal of safely protecting all people from poverty
and guaranteeing social participation.
This guarantee makes the idea of a basic income attractive to many.
Many others, however, consider this idea unsuitable.
For us, this goal is the reason to advocate for a sanction-free minimum income of1,200 euros for everyone who needs it: whether retired, on short-time work, unemployed or studying - no adult should have less.
We are conducting controversial social discussions on an unconditional basic income and will decide next year in a membership vote whether to change our stance on this.
Overcoming child poverty: Child Basic Security
Child poverty is always income poverty of the parents.
Good social infrastructure, good wages and social guarantees are important components in the fight against child poverty.
In addition, there is a strong child and youth welfare system and a poverty-proof basic child benefit system.
We eliminate child and youth poverty with two approaches:
financial support for material and monetary poverty,
infrastructural services (public transport, children's and youth recreational facilities, music schools, libraries, etc.) open doors and create participation in social life - low-threshold, barrier-free, close to home and, if possible, free of charge.
Together with social associations, trade unions and other social actors, we are calling for an independent basic child benefit.
It must be easy to understand, transparent and fair.
We are basing the design on the model of the Bündnis Kindergrundsicherung.
The height is graduated.
Starting at 630 euros for the poorest children, it is reduced to 328 euros depending on their income situation.
This corresponds to the increased child benefit that we are demanding for all children as an immediate measure.
It is paid monthly to all families regardless of income.
As an immediate measure, we are increasing child benefits for all children to 328 euros per month.
It is paid to all families regardless of income.
Children from poor families additionally receive a supplement of up to 302 euros, staggered according to age, as an immediate measure in addition to child benefit.
In addition, the actual accommodation costs as well as one-off and special needs (school trips, IT equipment, etc.) should also be taken into account for children.
The basic child allowance applies to all children and young people up to the age of 18 and to young adults up to the completion of their first school education (including high school graduation).
With our basic child allowance, we are replacing the existing bureaucratic, restrictive and non-transparent social security systems for children of low-income families.
The advance on maintenance payments remains in place.
The basic child benefit is a benefit exclusively for the child.
It is not counted as income of parents or other household members when receiving social benefits or within tax law.
We want to expand the offers for children and young people for participation in social life and for personal development - barrier-free, close to life and as free of charge as possible.
The municipalities must be given appropriate financial support to provide child and youth welfare services, sports facilities, indoor and outdoor swimming pools, cultural and educational facilities, and public transport services that are geared more closely to the needs of young people.
We want a real participation law for children and young people.
The current provisions in Paragraph13 SGB VIII are mere declarations of intent.
We want to make it a legal right to social participation.
Supporting families where they need it
Low wages and unemployment result in family, child and youth poverty.
The situation is particularly dramatic for single mothers and fathers who are on Hartz IV benefits.
LEFT family policy aims to enable all people to live a good, predictable life without fear of the future - for all family forms, regardless of origin, sexual orientation and gender identity (see chapter "Reproductive Justice").
To this end, we want to expand social and public infrastructures and services and introduce good social safeguards to make family and career more compatible.
Fee-free public childcare for children of all ages: Parents need childcare facilities that have flexible opening hours to ensure a work-life balance.
At the same time, employees need good working conditions, good wages and better care ratios.
Public childcare services, especially for children from the age of one, must be expanded so that their legal entitlement to educational support can be met (see the chapter on "Education").
Minimum parental allowance, longer duration: In order to better reconcile family and career, we want to extend the parental allowance to 12 months per parent (or 24 months for single parents).
The parental allowance applies individually and is not transferable to the other parent.
It is valid until the child is seven years old.
We also want to raise the minimum amount of parental allowance to 400 euros and, in the case of parental allowance plus, to 200 euros accordingly.
No offsetting of parental allowance against transfer benefits: Since 2011, parental allowance has been offset against Hartz IV benefits, for example.
In particular, families with little or no income who rely on government assistance have since been excluded from the benefit.
Working time models that enable mothers and fathers to reconcile their careers with family and private life.
Instead of a flexibilization of working time that is oriented only to operational requirements, employees need time autonomy and gainful employment that fits in with life and can adapt to the requirements of the different phases of life (cf. chapter "Work, family-friendly working hours").
Parents need special protection against dismissal until the child reaches the age of six.
More sick days for children: Due to the corona pandemic, sick days for children were extended by ten additional days per child for parents with statutory health insurance until the end of 2021 and by an additional twenty days per child for single parents.
We want a permanent extension of pediatric sick days.
This must also apply to employees in mini- and midi-jobs, the self-employed and freelancers!
Additional parental protection: We want additional parental protection of ten days paid time off for the second parent after the birth of the child.
Gender-equitable tax models instead of spousal splitting.
The unused taxable minimum income should be transferable between spouses or partners.
In custody and access rights, the focus must be on the best interests of the child and must continue to be examined on a case-by-case basis.
We want to anchor children's rights in the Basic Law.
More staff in youth welfare offices: Parents need expert advice and support.
These are tasks of the youth welfare offices that they are often unable to perform due to a lack of staff and under-resourcing.
We demand that youth welfare offices be adequately staffed and equipped.
This applies in particular to psychological personnel and mediators.
Self-determined in old age
How people want to live in old age, in well-deserved rest, active and socially engaged, involved in the family or in other relationships of solidarity, must be their free decision.
Older people must be involved in all areas of life that affect them - as experts in their own lives.
The ability of older people to participate in society must be guaranteed without restriction, taking into account the special features of this stage of life.
Communication, administrative and community services should be available in an age-appropriate and barrier-free manner.
We are fighting for a society based on solidarity in which the young and the old are not played off against each other.
A society in which people can age with dignity (see the chapter on "Pensions").
Create age-appropriate, non-profit (for example, cooperative), inclusive, and diverse housing and care options.
They should enable the coexistence of different generations, nationalities, religions, genders, people of different sexual orientation or empowerment.
Older people should be able to remain in their own homes and familiar living environment for as long as they wish.
Effective aids and concepts against social isolation and loneliness in old age.
Community outreach services for seniors and community meeting places are public and must be funded.
Good and age-appropriate health care, outreach and education without violating patient self-determination.
Individual decision-making authority through health care proxies and living wills is to be promoted regardless of social status.
Health and nursing care must be professional, close to the patient's home and made a mandatory municipal task.
We want to strengthen co-determination rights for seniors at the federal, state, district and local levels.
In particular, the rights of senior citizens' representatives are to be expanded and strengthened on a nationwide basis.
We want an independent participation law for seniors that establishes the legal right to full social participation, for example, the right to barrier-free housing and health care close to home in old age, and makes the municipalities responsible for this.
It is intended to take up the existing services and offerings from Section 71 of the Social Code XII and develop them further under the aspects of self-determination and self-empowerment.
Good infrastructure: Even in rural areas and in nursing homes, people must have access to public administration, retail and utilities.
Public transportation, on-call buses, and mobile utility services are to be expanded.
Fast Internet and hardware for digital participation are a prerequisite for a self-determined life in old age and should be expanded with public funding in line with the needs of the elderly.
Stop the nursing crisis!
System change in health and care
The Corona crisis made it clear to everyone that the health care system was organized incorrectly:
the hastily established emergency hospitals could not be operated in many places because there were not enough staff.
Due to the lack of sufficient protective clothing, many nurses and medical staff became infected.
This exacerbated the care shortage,
and in some cases violated basic rights of people in need of care.
The federal government could have known better after the spring.
But it has not increased hospital and nursing staff, it has not given the pharmaceutical companies clear guidelines for the production of the vaccine.
Even before Corona, the normal state of affairs in German hospitals was: hardly any time for attention, poor hygiene, more accidents and avoidable deaths.
The federal government has not presented a strategy on how to stop the nursing shortage in hospitals and care facilities.
The policies of federal governments that ensure private corporations and investors can make big money off our insurance premiums, co-pays, copays and exploitation of health care workers are endangering our health!
That must be an end to it!
We are all potential patients and people with care needs.
We expect to be well cared for in nursing homes, hospitals and in the outpatient sector.
DIE LINKE stands by the side of the employees who have been fighting for these goals for years.
The nursing emergency must finally be stopped!
100000 nursing staff more in the hospitals and 100000 nursing staff more in the nursing homes and 500 euros more basic salary!
The many trainees who have left the profession are to be won back with attractive working conditions.
We need a statutory staffing level for all professions in hospitals and in outpatient and inpatient care facilities!
In hospitals, we want to stop and reverse staff cuts and outsourcing.
We support workers' struggles for the reversal of outsourcing and privatization (for example, of kitchen and cleaning services or logistics).
It must apply: One house, one tariff!
The current financing of hospitals via the system of so-called flat rates per case (DRG) creates false incentives: diagnoses that are worthwhile are made more often.
Hospitals are being put under competitive pressure.
Individual health needs are no longer the focus.
We demand the abolition of flat rates per case!
The operating costs must be fully refinanced by the health insurance funds.
We want to transfer hospitals into municipal, public or non-profit ownership.
Profits from hospital operations must not flow into the pockets of owners and shareholders.
That is why we need a ban on taking profits.
Possible surpluses must remain in the company.
If profit withdrawals are no longer possible, private corporations lose the incentive to operate hospitals.
We call for a federal remunicipalization fund to prevent further privatization and support deprivatization efforts.
The planning rights of the federal states must be strengthened vis-à-vis hospital operators.
We facilitate and promote the creation of municipal hospital associations.
We want to enforce good working conditions in the care facilities.
To this end, the Long-Term Care Provident Fund is to be converted into a Long-Term Care Workforce Fund.
Medical treatment care, must also be fully covered by the statutory health insurance in inpatient care facilities and facilities for the disabled.
Additional nursing staff can thus be employed on a regular basis and better paid.
The basis for this must be a generally binding area-wide collective agreement, at least at the level of the collective agreements for the public sector (TVÖD/TV-L), for all employees, which also applies to private and church sponsors such as Caritas and Diakonie.
DIE LINKE calls for a needs-based, high level of skilled labor, including on the night shift in nursing facilities, to be implemented on a binding basis throughout Germany and to be effectively monitored for compliance.
Until the introduction of scientific staffing levels in nursing care for the elderly, a specialist staffing ratio of at least 50 percent applies.
Decent care cannot and must not be geared towards profit.
Currently, the majority of nursing home places and outpatient care services are privately organized.
The statutory entitlement to profit, the so-called risk surcharge, for which the state pays in case of doubt, must be abolished without replacement.
The cost spiral of ever-increasing co-payments must be broken.
Until full long-term care insurance is introduced, co-payments must be significantly reduced and capped immediately.
No transnational care corporations: we need licensing controls that include a domestic tax credit.
Care facilities must operate on a non-profit basis.
Good care is provided locally: local authorities must be enabled to bring care facilities under public or non-profit responsibility and democratic control.
DIE LINKE rejects the introduction of nursing chambers.
The federal and state governments must fulfill their obligation to invest and ensure the necessary infrastructure.
For comprehensive planning of the care landscape, we want to introduce care demand planning analogous to hospital demand planning.
We want to secure outpatient care services and solo self-employed caregivers by organizing them on non-profit platforms and enforcing employment relationships that are subject to social security contributions.
DIE LINKE is committed to strengthening qualifications
and improving pay in the health and medical professions.
Education and training in health professions must be free of charge and work performance during training must be remunerated.
In the case of continuing education, employees should be paid according to their basic occupation.
For psychotherapists in training and continuing education, this must apply throughout their practical work.
DIE LINKE supports the union's commitment to nationwide training regulations and apprenticeship pay in the healthcare industry.
We demand nationwide regulations for the recognition of curative education nurses as specialists in the care of the disabled.
A new solidarity-based health insurance!
The general welfare must be the priority in health and care - not the profit opportunities of individual corporations.
The actual need must be the decisive factor in planning our health and care landscape, not whether investors expect a return on investment.
Funding needs to be put on a new footing.
We need a solidarity-based comprehensive health insurance.
Everyone pays in, contributions are levied on all incomes, everyone is well taken care of.
Co-payments and co-payments will be eliminated in the future.
With the abolition of the income threshold, the contribution for health insurance will fall from around15 percent to around12 percent of gross wages.
Until the introduction of a solidarity-based health insurance system, contributions for the self-employed and others voluntarily insured in the statutory health insurance system (SHI) must be more closely aligned with real income.
For people with a monthly income of less than 6,200 euros, contributions will fall in absolute terms.
This concept will relieve the financial burden on the vast majority of the population, including many self-employed and pensioners.
Employers and insured persons each pay half, i.e. less than six percent.
An end to two-tier medicine: We want to abolish the separation between statutory and private health insurance.
Everyone pays into the solidary health insurance according to their total income (earned income, capital income and other income) and receives all medically necessary benefits, including full medication, glasses, dentures or physiotherapy.
Medically unnecessary treatment of privately insured patients for profit is a thing of the past.
Several hundred thousand people still have no health insurance coverage - almost fourteen years after the introduction of compulsory health insurance!
That is why we demand that all people living in Germany receive necessary health services without restriction.
People without health insurance must be able to be admitted without going into debt.
Contributions for the self-employed and others voluntarily insured in the SHI system must be based much more closely on real income.
We call for an end to the reimbursement of non-evidence-based treatments by SHI.
A solidarity-based comprehensive nursing care insurance
Long-term care insurance does not cover the cost of care; it is a partial benefit insurance.
More and more people cannot afford good care, have to go into debt or end up on welfare.
We want to fundamentally restructure long-term care insurance: With reliable, fair and future-proof funding, we can provide good working conditions
and ensure good care according to scientific standards.
The municipalities are relieved because fewer people become dependent on social welfare as a result of care costs.
We stand by the participation-oriented concept of care: there must be time for activating care and listening, for attention and support.
Care services include assistance for people with disabilities.
Assistance services should ensure participation in public life for as long as possible.
Our solidary comprehensive nursing care insurance covers all nursing care benefits.
People with care needs and their families do not have to pay a co-payment.
No care service may be refused for cost reasons.
Care services should be provided in high quality by well-paid professionals.
Family care and neighborhood involvement can be complementary and should not be provided out of necessity.
People who are dependent on social assistance receive the same benefits as all other people with care needs.
Private long-term care insurance must be transferred to the statutory system.
The financial burden must be shared fairly among all shoulders.
Civil servants, members of parliament and the self-employed must also pay into the solidarity-based health and long-term care insurance scheme in proportion to their incomes: even on income from capital gains and without an assessment ceiling that spares millionaires.
In this way, we are creating the financial basis for solidarity-based comprehensive long-term care insurance.
Against exploitation, workers in private households without the right to work and reside must be given the possibility of legalization.
Preference should be given to organizing care work in private households as regular employment through public agencies, care platforms, public welfare or community providers.
These must guarantee collectively agreed pay, permanent employment, the right to a contractual minimum number of hours, occupational health and safety, and further training for employees (see the chapter on "Labor").
For a vacation in EU countries, the costs of foreign nursing care benefits are to be covered by the German nursing care insurance.
Relieve the burden on family caregivers!
The gaps in our care system are filled by unpaid work of family members.
Most often it is the women - spouses and partners, daughters and daughters-in-law.
In everyday life, many carers struggle with constant stress, exhaustion and money worries.
Many limit their professional activities or give them up.
This reduces their income and their own pension entitlements and leads caregivers into old-age poverty.
The relief budget announced in the CDU/CSU and SPD coalition agreement was not introduced.
The greatest relief for both people with care needs and their family caregivers is professional day and short-term care that is close to home, non-commercial, and covered by a solidarity-based comprehensive care insurance, as well as relief services that are accessible without red tape.
They need to be expanded and brought together.
People with care needs and family caregivers should be able to decide for themselves which form of care and which support services they need and want in which mix in their lifestyle.
The interest groups of care-giving relatives and people with care needs need a seat with voting rights in all care committees at the federal level - such as the quality committee - and in all regional care conferences.
As part of the solidarity-based long-term care insurance system, we want to create an advisory council for people with care needs and family caregivers, which is to be consulted on all projects affecting them and is to be given the right to propose legislative initiatives.
Local care initiatives must be publicly funded on a permanent basis as part of self-help.
For more transparency, networking and self-determination, we need care platforms that employ care workers with social insurance and collective wage agreements.
The widespread 24-hour care provided by only one caregiver living in the household of the person with care needs is based on systematic violation of the Working Hours Act.
We reject current proposals to make this form of care subject to social insurance contributions through the employment model of quasi-employee self-employment.
They do not fix the fundamental problem, but perpetuate it and do not change the system of organized exploitation.
Eastern European caregivers must not be allowed to relieve the financial burden on family caregivers and cushion the German care crisis by foregoing minimum wages and social benefits!
DIE LINKE expressly recognizes the desire of older people for autonomy in old age and living in their own homes.
Support in managing everyday life through home care, which is necessary for this purpose, must be repositioned on the ground of the current labor law.
Currently, there are no true wage replacement benefits for family caregivers who are still working.
We want all employees to be given six weeks' leave with full employer-financed wage compensation the first time a family care case arises.
It must also be possible to reconcile care and work and prevent poverty when taking over home care for a longer period of time.
Together with the interest groups of caring relatives, social associations and trade unions, DIE LINKE is developing a concept for a leave of absence for working carers and relatives with wage replacement.
We want to abolish the thresholds in the Caregiver Leave and Family Caregiver Leave Act.
There needs to be a nationwide legal entitlement to family-friendly working hours for all those who take on responsibility for raising and caring for children, including a right to return to one's own job or an equivalent job (cf. chapter "Supporting families where they need it").
Strengthen public health service!
For years, savings have been made in the staffing and equipment of the public health service (ÖGD).
In the course of the corona pandemic, it became apparent how irresponsible this was: important tasks, such as school enrollment examinations for all children in a given year, were no longer being performed.
The capacity limits were quickly reached.
Instead of calling on the Bundeswehr for helpers, the German Federal Agency for Technical Relief (THW) must be better equipped to deal with extreme emergencies.
DIE LINKE wants a financial strengthening of the ÖGD and better coordination.
The work of the ÖGD must focus on the social component of health.
Pandemic and disaster preparedness plans must be updated and regularly reviewed for functionality at the municipal level by the ÖGD.
The social component of health must be at the center of the work of the ÖGD.
It must be given a leading role in prevention issues.
The federal government must provide funding for the creation of state health departments in the states.
The federal government must ensure that advance costs for materials and treatment capacity are fully covered.
We want the ÖGD to play a leading role in providing low-threshold vaccination services and in prophylaxis against infections in daycare centers, schools and companies.
In all federal states, a legal regulation is needed for a mandatory invitation and reporting system for participation in preventive medical checkups for children.
Menstrual hygiene products should be provided free of charge by public health departments (see chapter on "Feminism").
Fighting health inequality!
Health is a central prerequisite for the social participation
and self-determination of every individual.
It is well known that the social situation has a decisive influence on health: People who are poor get sick more often and die earlier.
The gap between rich and poor is widening particularly rapidly in Germany, with the result that inequality in health opportunities continues to rise.
Health is largely determined by people's living and working conditions.
This development was exacerbated by the corona pandemic and the federal government's handling of it.
Medical research and treatment of disease are driven by a gender data gap, with the male body as the norm.
As a result, women often receive, for example, a treatment and dosage of medication that is harmful or even life-threatening for them.
The link between social situation and health must be the focus of health policy.
On the one hand, this concerns access to good nursing and health care.
Even more important, however, is to see the promotion of health opportunities as a task for all policy areas, from education and transport to the environment, consumer protection and foreign policy.
We therefore want any legislative initiative to be examined by an independent body for its impact on health inequities.
We demand the introduction of the anonymous health card, which allows illegalized people to access health care.
We want to consistently remove barriers from the healthcare system.
This means not only removing barriers to accessing doctors' offices, hospitals and healthcare facilities, but also adapting examination techniques and communication to the special needs of older patients and people with disabilities.
Easy-to-use language, legible and understandable patient information, and appropriate counseling services must become a matter of course.
In order to give medical and nursing staff more confidence in dealing with people with disabilities in a natural, needs-oriented and non-discriminatory way, we are committed to implementing special modules in education, training and continuing education.
They are to be carried out by expert peer workers.
The self-determination rights of people with disabilities in care and in (partially) inpatient facilities must be guaranteed.
This also includes taking personal assistance to medical examinations and inpatient hospital stays as well as to visit preventive care and rehabilitation facilities, even if it is not organized through the employer model.
Patients must be at the center of healthcare.
What is a phrase for many, we want to fill with life.
No decision about health and care provision should be made without the active participation of patient representatives.
In order for self-help to secure its independence and meet the large associations and companies in the healthcare sector on an equal footing, it must be adequately funded.
The funding procedures must be transparent and unbureaucratic.
We strengthen the living will: Comprehensive self-determination must also be possible in extreme situations, and all young people should be informed of their rights in this regard at an early stage.
We want to place people with mental impairments on an equal footing before the law and in social insurance schemes, and give them access to an inclusive labor market.
We want a non-violent psychiatry and the abolition of special laws in this regard.
The spatial conditions and staffing must enable treatment without coercion and violence.
We want to promote a gender-sensitive view of health and illness in research and continuing education.
Patient data protection must also apply to privately insured young people
POC and people with a migration history are entitled to treatment free of discrimination and violence.
Outpatient care: Good local, urban and rural care
On average, Germany has a high physician density, but long distances and long waiting times have to be accepted in some cases, and not only in rural regions.
DIE LINKE advocates good, comprehensive, barrier-free and needs-based health care in cities and rural areas.
Criteria for good health care must be: Proximity to home and accessibility by public transport, short waiting times for an appointment and good emergency care, accessibility and age appropriateness.
In the medium term, regional care centers are to become the backbone of health care close to home.
They should coordinate outpatient as well as acute inpatient, emergency medical, psychotherapeutic, (community) nursing and other therapeutic treatments in a region and serve as a central point of contact for all patients*.
In this way, we want to provide care from a single source
and promote cross-professional working with family-friendly working hours.
The regional health centers form important interfaces with other areas of care such as youth welfare, integration assistance, addiction assistance and other services.
They should also work in a preventive and community-oriented way, especially with regard to the social, economic and ecological prerequisites of health.
We want inpatient and outpatient care to be planned and designed together according to the interests of the common good.
Psychotherapists, physical and occupational therapists, speech therapists, podiatrists, midwives and pharmacies must also be accessible everywhere.
We want to establish joint planning committees at the state level with the participation of patient representatives, states and municipalities, physicians, hospitals and health insurance companies.
We want to examine the possibility of limiting purchase prices for "cash seats" for physicians and psychotherapists.
We support model projects for new forms of care, such as the existing and emerging district health centers and polyclinics.
To enable them to fulfill their claim to integrated, multiprofessional and social-space-oriented care, we advocate the introduction of a new form of service provision in the Social Code.
We want a public liability fund to make midwives independent of private insurance.
Midwives should be the first point of contact for pregnant women and prenatal and postnatal care - as in the Netherlands.
Midwives are the accompanying and caring professionals during childbirth.
We support the midwives' association's call for an obstetric care strengthening law with the goal of one-to-one care during childbirth.
The cost of day-to-day operations in obstetrics departments must be funded by health insurers in a way that allows these departments to cover their holding costs and pay midwives based on performance with good staffing ratios.
In many regions, psychotherapeutic care falls far short of demand.
Demand planning urgently needs to be revised in this area in particular.
The financing of the therapy must also cover the need.
In this way, we want to make the questionable reimbursement practice of the health insurance companies obsolete.
By operating medical care centers, corporations are trying to create profit opportunities for themselves in the outpatient sector.
We want to reverse this development.
Break the power of the pharmaceutical industry!
Democratize health research!
The statutory health insurance funds in Germany spend over 41 billion euros on pharmaceuticals - with a rapidly rising trend.
For cancer, rheumatism and multiple sclerosis drugs, fantasy prices are paid in the first year after approval.
Drug prices must be effectively capped by law.
Patients are burdened by high co-payments.
They must pay for most non-prescription medications entirely out of pocket, even if they are prescribed by a doctor.
We want all patients to be provided with safe and effective medicines based on the latest scientific knowledge - regardless of their income or disease.
All drugs with proven benefits must be fully reimbursed.
A positive list must be introduced for this purpose.
Drug research not only determines whether drugs are developed that are really needed,
but also who owns the property rights,
which prices are called,
whether the research results are made transparent
and, last but not least, whether people in the Global South can gain access to innovations.
For DIE LINKE, pharmaceutical research is a public task.
We want to push back the influence of the pharmaceutical companies.
This concerns advertising and influencing of physicians, science and patient organizations.
We demand a transparent, legal regulation of donations from the pharmaceutical industry to medical professionals.
We want to fight corruption in the healthcare sector.
Results of drug studies must be published.
Negative study results must not be suppressed.
The production of medicines and medical devices must not be subject to the profit interests of shareholders.
The pharmaceutical industry must be committed to the common good and placed under democratic control.
Patents can be lethal.
The fact that an internationally unequal distribution of the Covid 19 vaccine was pushed through under the German EU Council Presidency is a scandal.
We want publicly funded research to be transferred to poorer countries and generic producers on social terms through equitable licensing (the socially responsible exploitation of patents).
Product development partnerships must be sustained and supported across the full breadth of the disease spectrum.
We want to expand WHO's competencies in this area.
All drugs must receive their approvals only through scientific studies.
Special paths without a scientific basis must be abolished.
We want to abolish discount agreements and other selective contracts.
In the future, research programs should be developed in a transparent and participatory process that involves the general public in addition to expert knowledge.
This is the only way to improve care and strengthen patient-oriented and interdisciplinary research.
Sovereignty for good health care instead of dependence on Big Pharma!
Corona has shown: Given the market failure in the global supply of much-needed Covid 19 vaccines and the threat of future pandemics, we can no longer leave the production of vaccines to corporations.
Therefore, we propose the establishment of public vaccine manufacturing (in the sense of Regional Vaccine Manufacturing Hubs),
globally coordinated by WHO and UN.
The cost of building production capacity for a rapid and sufficient supply of vaccines, amounts to a fraction of the cost of rearmament projects such as the Eurofighter.
We want to target funds to strengthen health sciences (public health) and non-commercial clinical research.
DIE LINKE demands that research on the therapy of long-term symptoms of a covid-19 infection ("long covid") be supported financially and according to need.
No profits with rent and land: Home for all!
Stop rent madness and displacement.
Reduce high rents and develop the non-profit housing sector.
End speculation with land.
Having an apartment where you can live well should be a given.
But land prices and rents have exploded in many cities, and are now rising sharply even in smaller towns.
This applies to apartments as well as small business premises.
Corona has exacerbated this situation.
The lockdown has shown that many apartments are too cramped and rents are often too high, even more so with unemployment and short-time work.
Moving into a suitable apartment is out of the question for many people:
Rents have doubled in many places within a decade.
Over 11 million people are overburdened by housing costs.
They have to spend more and more money on rent, which is then lacking elsewhere, in education, children, leisure time or necessary purchases.
50,000 people are already homeless and living on the streets in this country, and at least 650,000 people are homeless.
Even places of everyday cohesion such as daycare centers, cultural spaces and pubs are being displaced in many places as owners and investors try to squeeze more money out of their properties.
Public space is being commercialized and privatized.
High earners and large chains are turning more and more people into extras in an environment that is geared towards consumption, tourism and as much turnover as possible.
The reason for housing crisis, displacement and rent explosion is not simply that there is too "little housing" and the solution is not "build, build, build" - the population has not grown by leaps and bounds.
Nearly 2 million homes are vacant as financial capital searches for lucrative investment opportunities due to the unequal distribution of wealth and bubbles in the financial markets.
That's where the "concrete gold" comes in handy.
Construction is mainly in the luxury segment.
Where there is no profit to be made, however, there is no investment at all - in many places in the countryside, residential and commercial space is falling into disrepair.
Also for ecological reasons, smart mechanisms of redistributing existing housing and converting old stock into social housing would be preferable to new construction.
But the last federal governments have done nothing to counter this development.
What's more, they have systematically scaled down social housing, privatized public housing, and opened up cities and communities to speculation.
The rights of tenants are still far too weak.
The German government's "rent brake" is not working.
Construction Minister Horst Seehofer is spending three times as much money from tax revenues on "Baukindergeld" to help high-income earners buy property as he is on social housing.
Berlin, on the other hand, where DIE LINKE is in government, shows how it can be done: Cap rents with hard caps, bring apartments back into public ownership, promote social housing construction and make the real estate industry non-profit!
Rents in Berlin fell for the first time in years.
But the lobby of the real estate industry is trying to undermine effective tenant protection in the states and municipalities.
This shows that a change of policy is needed in the federal government so that people with lower incomes are no longer marginalized,
so that cities and communities do not become more deserted and are not misused as profit centers for the real estate industry.
Our cities and towns are meant to be homes and places for people to live, not extortion tools in the hands of realtors and real estate lobbies.
DIE LINKE is fighting in broad alliances for a reorientation of rent and urban development policy.
We stand by the tenants
and the many initiatives that campaign against displacement and for a right to housing.
We stand for livable cities and villages for all.
Our goal is clear: to stop the rent explosion and displacement, to
reduce rents again
and to build up a non-profit housing industry in the long term
- for a good home for everyone.
Cap rents nationwide!
We want to make rent caps possible throughout Germany.
Our aim is not only to slow down the explosion in rents, but to put an end to it and reverse it.
Particularly high rents must be lowered.
The government's rent brake is not working.
We support the "Rent Freeze" campaign and call for a rent freeze for existing leases throughout Germany wherever there is a tight housing market.
Rents must be frozen there.
Municipalities are to be authorized to determine that a housing market is tight.
We also want to simplify the conditions for small businesses:
The federal government must ensure that the states and municipalities can introduce legally secure rent caps for small businesses, crafts, cultural institutions, and social and non-profit organizations.
Create social and non-profit housing!
There is currently a shortage of more than five million homes for low-income people, many of whom live in single-person households.
Over the past 15 years, the number of public housing units has almost halved.
This is because subsidized social housing may in some cases be rented out again at a high price after just 15 years.
We want to counter this with 15 billion euros a year - by saving social housing construction, boosting municipal and cooperative housing construction, converting the existing housing stock to make it more energy-efficient and demographically stable, using subsidies and occupancy rights to make social housing more available, and building up a non-profit housing sector.
By reforming the Building Code, we will enable the public sector to actually enforce the construction of social housing against investors.
Convert former barracks into social housing: Since these buildings are in public hands, we do not want to leave them to the private sector, but to convert them into affordable housing and commercial space.
With the introduction of a new non-profit housing organization, we are tying subsidies and tax benefits permanently to rent caps,
an obligation to reinvest profits,
and democratic co-determination rights for tenants.
This will allow the creation of up to 250,000 social housing units and additional municipal and cooperative housing units per year.
For them, the rule is: once promoted, always bound.
In this way, we want to promote and democratize cooperatives more strongly.
We want to promote new forms of housing such as tenement syndicates and tenants' communities.
The federal government should support new rental housing syndicates with grants and interest-free loans.
Subsidies should be targeted to build housing that is affordable to low-income people.
Affordable and safe housing must be created for single women living in (old-age) poverty, for single parents and for women exposed to domestic violence.
We want a minimum percentage of social housing everywhere to ensure a mix of neighborhoods and to stop the trend toward the formation of parallel societies of the rich in inner cities and villa districts.
50 percent of the housing stock in public and non-profit ownership.
The Vienna model shows: Affordable housing in good condition and with high housing quality for the majority of people is possible.
In the long term, we want to take the housing stock completely off the market.
The protection against termination of commercial leases must be fundamentally changed.
There is a need for public commercial space providers to secure non-profit tenants*.
We want to abolish the general fixed-term nature of commercial leases.
We want to legally limit the termination by the landlord side.
We want to create affordable housing primarily in existing buildings.
Building codes need to be realigned for this purpose so that building in existing stock is made easier.
When making decisions on the permissibility of demolition and new construction measures, social objectives must be
and energy sustainability goals are becoming more important.
Housing is not a commodity.
Strengthen tenants' rights!
We want a broad ban on the conversion of rental apartments into condominiums.
The desire for homeownership must not come at the expense of those already living in the apartments.
Rental housing in communities with tight housing markets may not be offered as vacation rentals.
We want to create a Fairbnb alternative to providers such as Airbnb for non-commercial, private-to-private home exchanges that misappropriate living space, aim solely at profits and are listed on stock exchanges.
We want to cap the rents of micro-apartments and furnished apartments, which are used to circumvent the Mietpreisbremse and squeeze even more profit out of real estate.
The right to terminate for personal need may only apply to the immediate family.
Pretended own use is punished.
People who have lived in their apartment for a long time or are over 70 years old or suffer from a serious illness, as well as single parents, should no longer be allowed to terminate their lease because of their own needs.
We want to improve protection against termination: Once rent arrears have been paid, notice of termination may not be given.
Milieu protection must be expanded.
Effective controls, a public complaints office and significantly more staff are needed to effectively enforce the rights of tenants against rent-seeking, de-renting and other forms of abuse.
Landlords who violate the rent cap must be punished.
We want to make it easier to prosecute usurious rents.
Tenants should also be given a right of first refusal on their houses as a community and in commercial law.
Democratic tenant councils are needed in all public companies.
Nationwide, we want a new tenant co-determination law.
Collective tenants' rights and the right to strike are needed.
Climate justice instead of displacement!
Climate protection in buildings is crucial: this is where a large proportion of greenhouse gases are produced.
But up to now, energy-efficient refurbishment has all too often been used to increase rents and then also leads to displacement.
This damages the acceptance of climate protection.
Climate protection without rent increase!
We want to abolish the modernization levy, which serves to increase rents - not to protect the climate.
Surcharges on the rent are to be permitted only to the extent of the savings achieved in heating and hot water.
Poor people also have a right to energy-efficient housing.
In the short term, we want to introduce a climate component in the costs of housing and heating and increase housing benefit appropriately.
We want a nationwide climate check of all buildings by 2025.
With binding building-specific step-by-step plans that include energy efficiency levels to be achieved flexibly by a certain date, we want to guarantee a climate-neutral building stock by 2035
and create many new jobs.
This requires a comprehensive build-up of production capacities and qualifications.
This must include targeted support for training in the skilled trades, the creation and expansion of specialized courses of study, state-created production capacities and price controls to prevent deadweight and blockade effects.
The CO2 tax may not be passed on to the rent.
The renovation rate must be at least tripled
in a socially acceptable way, i.e. virtually neutral in terms of warm rents and protected by tenancy law.
Landlords who are unable to bear the costs of an energy-efficient refurbishment can come under the umbrella of the housing non-profit.
This gives them access to the full public subsidy for the cost of renovation and, in return, commits them to the non-profit management of their apartments.
We want to gear the funding backdrop to an immediate program of climate-friendly and socially responsible renovation of post-war housing developments (built between 1949 and 1978).
In addition to increasing the current programs of the Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW) to at least10 billion euros per year on a permanent basis, another5 billion euros per year are to be made available for this purpose.
Redevelopment consultants are to act in an advisory capacity (protecting tenants) within a social plan procedure in accordance with Section 180 of the German Building Code (BauGB) at climate support points and coordinate socially compatible neighborhood redevelopment concepts.
We want to set up further training and certification programs for craftsmen and construction companies in order to achieve good-quality, low-cost energy refurbishments.
We want to raise the standards for new buildings to the KfW 40 efficiency standard by law.
Subsidies that are currently still flowing into new construction efficiency subsidies must be completely redirected into socially responsible energy-efficient refurbishment.
In addition to increasing building efficiency, the residual energy demand must be covered gradually - but at a much faster pace - by renewable energy.
The central role for us is played by the heat pump.
The installation of fossil heating systems must be stopped as quickly as possible.
We want to make the use of geothermal energy possible even in densely populated areas: through geothermal plants operated by the state and local authorities, each supplying several residential blocks.
We will remove obstacles for ecological building materials in the building law.
At the same time, there is a need for a life cycle assessment for new construction projects in order to build more in existing buildings and save resources.
Stop demolishing affordable housing with structures worth preserving in favor of expensive new construction!
We will make ecological building materials (e.g. timber construction) mandatory in building law where it makes sense and is possible.
When awarding subsidies for energy refurbishment, consideration must be given not only to reducing energy loss per square meter, but also to reducing energy consumption in the production and processing of building materials throughout their entire life cycle.
The promotion of energy-efficient refurbishment must be expanded to include the use of sustainable building materials.
Building materials used must be clearly and traceably documented to facilitate remediation.
Building land in community hands!
One of the central causes of rising rents is the explosion in land prices.
Since1964 , land prices have risen by an average of more than1,800 percent.
In the past few years alone, prices in major cities have almost tripled.
In contrast, urgent measures are needed to stop the increasingly rapid speculation merry-go-round with land and to finally make affordable housing construction possible again.
Land prices for social housing must be capped for a specific purpose in the cities and for family housing in the countryside.
Only with affordable land are affordable rents possible.
We want to rule out the privatization of public land with a Land Security Act.
We only want to grant ground leases for public land.
In order to increase the share of public ownership of land, we are calling for a purchase program worth two billion euros a year, from which the federal government, states and municipalities will receive funds for the acquisition of land.
Real estate policy must be decoupled from fiscal policy so that the public sector can also stockpile land.
We want to commit the Bundesanstalt für Immobilienaufgaben (BImA) and the Bundeseisenbahnvermögen (BEV), which have hitherto been committed to the financial exploitation of public real estate, to social, ecological and charitable purposes.
We want to strengthen the municipalities' right of first refusal: It should be possible to exercise it everywhere without exception and within up to six months.
We need a price-limited right of first refusal that is not based on the speculative "market price" but on affordable rents (social income value) for the residents.
Stop speculation - skim off profits!
At the latest since the financial crisis, cities and municipalities have been massively targeted by speculators.
The price for the ever faster carousel of real estate purchases and sales is ultimately paid by tenants and the public sector.
We want to break the speculative cycle, in which the few enrich themselves at the expense of the many, with an anti-speculation law: Housing must no longer be an object of speculation on the stock exchange, and we want to withdraw the authorization of real estate and hedge funds.
We want to stop speculation with building land.
That is why we want to skim off non-performing gains from the increase in the value of land via a land value appreciation tax.
We want to put a stop to tax dodges in the mass purchase and sale of apartments, such as so-called share deals.
We will tax and skim off profits from speculation, company shareholdings and real estate sales more heavily.
In the future, we will prevent balance sheet tricks by, among other things, aligning the balance sheets.
Private real estate sales may not be tax-free even after ten years, except for an individual allowance.
We also call for a real estate register that can be viewed by the public.
The lack of transparency in the ownership structure must finally come to an end.
The misuse of residential and commercial space must be prohibited; we want to confiscate vacant residential and commercial space and put it to interim use.
We want to legalize the civil society reappropriation of misappropriated spaces ("squats").
We strive to ensure that, in principle, the occupation of housing that has been vacant for at least one year leads to a permanent right to live there, unless the owners undertake to make the housing available at socially acceptable rents.
Real estate groups are among the winners of the crisis.
They must therefore be given a higher-than-average share of the costs.
That is why we are calling for a one-time special levy on real estate income, which should primarily hit large corporations with more than 3,000 apartments.
Put real estate corporations on the chain!
We want to put a stop to large housing corporations like Vonovia and Deutsche Wohnen, which systematically practice rent profiteering.
DIE LINKE is therefore part of the campaign "Expropriate Deutsche Wohnen& Co".
With a socialization law, we want to improve the possibility of transferring apartments, land and property of large housing companies into public ownership.
To this end, we want to set up a remunicipalization fund.
With new housing legislation, we want to put an end to the business model of real estate funds that collect rents, distribute returns, hardly invest, and only bet on the increase of real estate prices.
A substantial portion of the rent is then available as a building renewal reserve not for financial market speculation, but for necessary maintenance.
Housing is a basic right - housing first!
No one should be without shelter.
As a short-term emergency aid until affordable rents are enforced, we want to increase and restructure housing subsidies.
The Corona crisis is not over: the moratorium on layoffs and evictions must be extended.
Rent arrears must be waived.
We will significantly raise the appropriateness thresholds for housing costs.
We want to ban evictions into homelessness as a matter of principle, and
we want to include the right to housing in the Basic Law.
We will put an end to the undignified accommodation of refugees, homeless people or seasonal and migrant workers in mass housing.
Every person has the right to their own apartment!
We want to embed the Housing First approach in addressing homelessness.
It means housing the homeless quickly and as a first step.
This also requires the further institutionalization of low-threshold counseling services and structures.
Making cities fit for the future - bringing life to the villages!
While rents are exploding in many places, apartments and houses are standing empty in some rural regions.
There is too little investment, and rental housing in structurally weak regions is less and less in line with demand.
It's not just since corona that stores have been dying in the countryside and in cities
and cultural desolation.
For socio-ecological restructuring and the revitalization of inner cities and village centers, we need a new orientation of regional policy and urban development funding from the federal government.
Investments are to focus on tasks for the future, such as building refurbishment, improvement of the living environment, age-appropriate and barrier-free conversion of buildings, and promotion of sustainable mobility.
We want to develop an infrastructure that is suitable for women and families in central and local locations with good accessibility.
Future-proof cities also means more beautiful cities without advertising.
We will advocate for a ban on commercial outdoor advertising in city centers.
We want to eliminate the municipal contribution to upgrading measures.
In order to ensure local supply in residential areas, we want to transfer vacant businesses into municipal or cooperative ownership and develop them into social centers.
The federal government is to provide financial backing for this through a remunicipalization fund.
Counties, cities and municipalities must be supported in building digital infrastructures.
Smart City must not remain a business model for large corporations.
New technologies belong in the hands of citizens to improve their participation in the development of their living environment.
We oppose the displacement of allotment gardens with an allotment garden protection program.
We want to build in a space-saving and ecological way.
We want to promote urban green spaces such as parks, allotments and community gardens (urban gardening) through investment.
We want to plan differently, away from land grabbing and urban sprawl and toward village and city planning that focuses on quality of life for all.
We reject a policy that promotes large shopping centers and malls in the interest of investors (see chapter "Mobility for all with less traffic").
We want to abolish the land-grabbing paragraph13b BauGB.
We want to finally cancel the unjustified old debts from GDR housing construction.
Companies in structurally weak regions in particular find themselves in economic difficulties and are unable to invest.
In this context, rental housing and an acceptable living environment must be secured in line with demand and the climate, especially in basic centers and settlement focal points in rural areas.
We want to strengthen the preservation of rental opportunities in rural areas through nationwide support programs.
This stops people moving away and relieves conurbations and cities with housing shortages.
City or village development is more than housing, it needs public spaces and places to meet as well as social and cultural facilities.
Residents must have a say in this.
This enables exchange, from which joint action and solidarity can grow.
An investment program for urban redevelopment is needed to overcome the one-sided focus on automobility and to improve the quality of life, for example through play streets.
Good education: fair, tuition-free, for life
We oppose social division in education, pressure to perform and underfunding with a different idea.
Access to education should reduce social disadvantages, not exacerbate them.
We want learning together in a spirit of solidarity instead of competition and grade pressure.
DIE LINKE is committed to an inclusive education system in which people receive individual support.
We want education and science that does justice to individuals and helps answer societal questions.
How do we stop the climate crisis?
How can we live and produce in such a way that everyone has enough to live on and the environment is protected?
With new challenges come new demands on education.
We want to open up universities,
strengthen continuing education and the legal right to vocational training,
and set up programs so that everyone has career prospects for the future.
We have known this for decades: Access to education in Germany is strongly dependent on social background.
The Corona crisis exacerbated problems that existed before.
While some children have their own room and a laptop for studying, others have to share both with siblings or solve tasks on their cell phones and hope that the data volume is sufficient for downloading.
The German education system reinforces the social division of society instead of counteracting it.
Those with wealthy parents have a better chance of graduating from high school and going to university.
74 percent of the children of academics go on to study, but only 21 percent of children without academic parents.
The proportion of Bachelor's graduates is15 percent, and only 8 percent of Master's graduates.
For many children, the decision as to which type of secondary school they will attend is already made after elementary school, and thus also which doors will remain closed to them in the future.
And far too little money is invested in education.
Unrenovated schools with poor facilities are a visible sign of this.
This particularly affects poorer neighborhoods, where families can hardly compensate for this through private spending on equipment or tutoring.
The debt brake has exacerbated these problems.
The need for refurbishment of schools alone is now estimated at almost 50 billion euros nationwide.
Around 35 billion euros would have to be invested in universities between 2017 and 2025 to reduce the modernization backlog.
Lecture halls and seminar rooms are often overcrowded and there are not enough staff.
And like other services, school cleaning has been outsourced in many places.
As a result, cleaning is outsourced to the cheapest suppliers, cleaners work under pressure and do not manage to finish in the allotted time.
Toilets and classrooms are dirty, students and teachers suffer.
We are fighting for more staff in education and training.
DIE LINKE demands a federal offensive for more teachers, educators and school social workers.
We need 100,000 additional teachers and 200,000 additional educators and school social work at every school!
We want to renovate and expand the buildings and
adapt them to the needs for inclusive education.
The education system is part of the public service and must be adequately funded by the state.
Privatizations - including of public educational institutions - must be stopped and reversed.
Education is more than preparation for the labor market.
The trend toward ever greater economization of education must be stopped
We want the federal, state and local governments to be able to work together on education.
The ban on cooperation means that this is only possible to a limited extent.
We want to lift the ban completely
and anchor education as a joint task in the Basic Law so that educational justice can be established for all children and young people.
We want a federal education framework law for all areas of education so that the same legal entitlements, social and personnel conditions can be ensured in all states and degrees are recognized everywhere, regardless of where they were earned.
DIE LINKE stands for good education that does not depend on one's wallet and origin.
We want real freedom of teaching and learning materials, free meals in daycare centers and schools, and free transportation for students.
Good Kitas
All children must be able to live and learn together with other children in day-care centers all day from the very beginning.
Regardless of whether and for how long the parents work.
Children need a legal right to a full-day place in a daycare center.
Especially during the corona-related daycare closures, it became clear how valuable early childhood education is for everyone.
The legal entitlement to a daycare place is still not being implemented everywhere.
This can lead to disadvantages that continue throughout the educational biography.
There is currently a shortage of 342,000 places for under-threes and soon up to 740,000 places for all children until they start school.
The groups are often too large.
Educators continue to be paid far too little.
With a narrow-track training of often only a few weeks, educational assistants are trained to retouch the massive shortage of skilled workers.
The federal government must make more money available to ensure the quality of the facilities and for the further expansion of daycare places.
We need a daycare quality law that focuses on the needs of children and employees when expanding daycare facilities:
DIE LINKE demands a nationwide standardized childcare ratio in daycare centers of at least one educator present for a maximum of three children up to the age of three and at least one educator for a maximum of eight children from the age of three.
We want good, tuition-free daycare centers (freedom from parental contributions).
All parents must be offered a place in a daycare center by the municipality.
All children should receive free healthy, hot meals every day, as is already practiced in some cities (see chapter on "Agriculture and nutrition").
We urgently need more educators for good education, upbringing and care.
There is currently a shortage of 191,000 educators.
Social and educational professions must be upgraded.
They deserve greater appreciation, better pay and working conditions.
This also includes the crediting of preparation and follow-up times as well as further training and a substitute in case of illness.
The care key must be adapted to the staffing level and time contingent.
We want to raise the training as an educator in early childhood education to university level.
People without a university entrance qualification should also have access to the education profession.
For the current training to become an educator, we want remuneration and the abolition of school fees to make the profession more attractive.
Employees in child day care are to be taken out of precarious employment situations and employed on a social security basis.
All-day care in elementary school:
In the coalition agreement, the grand coalition agreed on a legal right to all-day care for children of elementary school age from 2025.
The legal entitlement can only be met with rapid and substantial investment in the expansion of facilities and the training and recruitment of more staff.
A school for all: inclusive
The main cause of social division in education is the early division of students into different types of schools.
The Corona period has shown how different the students' prerequisites are: Some have their own room and a laptop, others have to share both.
Not all get valuable support at home.
Students* with disabilities struggle with additional barriers.
We want a school for all: a community school that leaves no child behind and counteracts social inequality.
The community school supports the children individually and comprehensively.
It is organized as an all-day school and offers all school-leaving qualifications.
Schools should be organized in such a way that social differences are not exacerbated, but rather evened out as much as possible.
We want a school that does without homework and makes private tutoring unnecessary.
Space and time must be created for this in everyday school life.
Teachers, school social workers, educators, school psychologists and medical professionals should work together in multiprofessional teams.
The community school is democratically organized with real co-determination of students.
Every student must have the opportunity to attend an all-day school, ideally a community school.
The legal entitlement to inclusive education and the right to learn together in a mainstream school belongs in every school law.
All schools must have barrier-free access for all children, which must not be limited to structural requirements.
They must have adequate equipment and qualifications in staff, assistance services, teaching and learning materials, and other aids for each child.
We want to implement a two-teacher system as one of the frameworks to make special schools obsolete.
Inclusion must not be made dependent on how much it costs!
The federal, state and local governments must launch an "inclusive education" investment program to comprehensively convert and equip educational facilities to make them barrier-free.
DIE LINKE wants an inclusive school where all children and young people are welcome and learn together with and from each other.
Inclusion is a task that does not apply to individual groups - neither to students with disabilities, nor to those of non-German origin, nor to those who are excluded from participation for other reasons.
Today, special needs are often identified.
However, too little and insufficient assistance is provided for these support needs.
That has to change.
Instead of imposing the label of special needs on more and more children, we want to gradually dismantle the multidimensional school system and provide comprehensive support for all children without pejorative labeling.
Thousands of refugee and immigrant children and young people are attending school or training in Germany.
We call for a program that is co-financed by the federal government and includes training and continuing education for additional teachers who teach German as a second language, an initial supply of school supplies for all children, additional language and literacy courses for refugee adults as well, and information on vocational training offered to refugees at the Federal Employment Agency.
The municipalities must be provided with the necessary funds for this.
In Germany, multilingual socialization is only valued for languages that are considered economically important.
We see multilingualism among children and young people with a migration background as an enrichment and an opportunity that schools should recognize and use for joint learning.
Including the mother tongue in the learning of other languages is important in order to acquire a secure footing in these languages.
The language of origin should be recognized as a first or second language in examinations.
We consider regional or minority languages as an expression of cultural richness and promote their offer in schools.
School social work must become an integral part of school work - at every school and on a permanent basis.
To this end, it must be anchored in youth welfare law as a regular task.
A school social work program guarantees the deployment of at least one school social work specialist per150 students.
These should be well networked with career and academic counseling centers to facilitate the path to higher education for students who do not come from academic families.
The lack of staff at schools leads to missed lessons and stress.
The staff must be able to compensate for shortages with regularly employed teachers.
This requires10 percent substitution reserve.
To end the staffing shortage in schools, significantly more teachers need to be trained and hired everywhere.
New, hybrid forms of learning, such as those practiced during the Coronalockdown, must not lead to a new social divide because not all learners have equally good learning conditions at home.
We want every child to have a laptop as part of their educational equipment and to be introduced to digital technologies at an early age.
Each child must continue to have access to a printer, including all supplies, as well as access to the Internet at home with a free educational plan.
The rulings of the social courts must finally be implemented.
This also applies to families who are just above the Hartz IV income.
The DigitalPakt Schule (Digital Pact for Schools), including all additional agreements on devices and administration, must be made permanent.
Hybrid forms of learning are no less labor-intensive than forms of face-to-face learning.
They are not suitable as a savings model.
We need more teachers for good teaching, also and especially in view of new forms of learning.
The IT infrastructure in schools must be managed by specialist staff.
Corresponding positions are to be created in the short and medium term.
The IT infrastructure of all schools and universities must be expanded with fast and powerful broadband connections, WLAN for all, learning and work spaces, and up-to-date hardware and software equipment.
Open Software and Open Educational Resources (OER) are to be promoted.
Media competence must be comprehensively strengthened: in preschool education, in schools and lessons, in the world of work, in civil society projects, and into old age.
Many students no longer learn to swim because many swimming pools are dilapidated and have to be closed.
This is where we want to redevelop.
School swimming and physical education must be secured again.
We want to invest in barrier-free,
energy-efficient and beautifully designed classrooms and sports facilities.
At least 50 billion euros are needed to renovate the schools.
Especially in so-called hotspot schools, the money is lacking.
We want to replace the Königstein Key as a distribution instrument for federal funding for education with a social index.
The social index is intended to distribute funds among the states and, within the states, among municipalities according to need, so that enough money gets to where it is really needed.
We want to prevent lobbying in schools and lessons.
For years, business players have been entering schools out of pure self-interest and increasingly helping to determine learning content.
Diversity in education suffers as a result.
Commercial advertising in schools must be prohibited by law.
In return, schools must be better equipped with teaching materials so that they do not have to resort to tendentious offerings from corporations and interest groups.
Education without the Bundeswehr!
The Bundeswehr should no longer be allowed to advertise or perform in schools or universities.
Instead, we need more political and peace education by teachers.
All teaching qualifications should be treated equally.
There is no reason to value teachers at elementary schools lower than teachers at high schools, for example.
Learners, teachers and parents should have a say about school.
We want to strengthen democracy, self-administration of schools and especially the co-determination rights of students in schools.
We want to bring school cleaning back into public hands across the board - for clean schools and good working conditions.
The pandemic demonstrated the importance of good hygiene standards in schools.
We are fundamentally opposed to public-private partnerships (PPPs).
They represent a particularly fatal sell-off of public property.
The same must apply to schools: public tasks in public hands.
Well trained
Every year, tens of thousands of young people in Germany are put off in their search for an apprenticeship.
They cannot find an apprenticeship with prospects or are stuck in endless waiting loops.
Almost two million young people have no vocational training.
Especially secondary school students and migrants are disadvantaged.
The economy is falling short of the target of 500,000 apprenticeships to be created annually.
Many employers complain about a lack of skilled workers and training companies are unable to find trainees.
But: The shortage of skilled workers is homemade, because many potential apprentices are not considered ready for training and are "parked" in waiting loops.
On the other hand, more than half of the trainees complain about too much stress, many also go to work sick or are exploited as cheap labor.
Due to the pandemic and the financial difficulties of some companies, many training companies have discontinued or significantly reduced their training programs.
This exacerbates the situation on the training market.
We want everyone who has started an apprenticeship to be able to finish it.
The federal government must provide funds and opportunities for this.
The conditions and quality of training must be improved and apprenticeships upgraded.
Here, too, we need more staff.
According to the German Education and Science Union (GEW), 160,000 teachers will need to be hired at vocational schools by 2030 to meet demand.
Now more than ever: DIE LINKE supports the right to a free and fully qualifying education for all.
Anonymized application procedures are intended to ensure that everyone has the same opportunities for training.
Trainees need a training allowance that is sufficient to live independently of their parents.
We demand a minimum training allowance that is 80 percent of the average collectively agreed training allowance for all sectors in the respective training year.
We support the trade unions and trade union youth organizations in their struggle for better collective bargaining solutions.
Training in professions that are not regulated on a dual basis, for example in all social, health and educational professions, must be better financed.
In principle, school fees are to be abolished and a training allowance based on the pay scale is to be paid.
We want to promote the construction of public trainee dormitories, especially in rural areas.
DIE LINKE demands unlimited employment after the end of training and the abolition of the probationary period for employment in the same company.
We want solidarity-based pay-as-you-go financing that makes all companies responsible for creating sufficient dual and high-quality training places.
At the end of vocational preparation measures, there must be a binding offer of training.
We want to abolish the "waiting loop" in the transition system.
People who have not completed training should be able to obtain a recognized vocational qualification - regardless of their age.
We want to abolish the "training maturity" criterion used by the Federal Employment Agency.
It blocks access to vocational training.
We want a fundamental reform of the Vocational Training Act (BBiG) that focuses on improving the quality of training and establishes a legal entitlement to fully qualifying training.
We want to strengthen the co-determination of trainees.
Their participation in the staff committees must be guaranteed.
We want a vocational training pact to ensure that long overdue investments are made for good quality at vocational schools.
And it needs significantly more staff.
Political education must also be part of vocational training.
Social work and socio-psychological accompaniment should also be strengthened in training.
Freedom of teaching and learning materials must be anchored in the Vocational Training Act - including textbooks for vocational school instruction.
Moreover, because the training market is still divided into so-called women's and men's occupations, the hurdles for young people to make an atypical career choice are great.
We want to counteract this: through gender-sensitive education and by upgrading areas in which wages are low and many women work.
Good further training
We are committed to lifelong, lifewide learning: as an offer, not an obligation, of self-optimization.
General, cultural, political and professional training is an important part of this.
It serves the development of the individual and professional training or reorientation and promotes social participation.
The right to continuing education must be secured by law.
Socio-ecological restructuring can mean that many people are given a future-proof perspective.
Continuing education plays a crucial role here.
New opportunities must be created here in continuing vocational training and at universities.
Adult education centers, which are often run by local authorities or are at least non-profit organizations, can offer a wide range of general continuing education courses independently of the profit interests of private education providers,
political education
and for catching up on school-leaving qualifications.
To this end, the adult education centers are to be strengthened financially so that they can expand their range of services and offer them free of charge.
It is important that offers of language support can be provided to immigrants.
A crucial prerequisite is good working conditions and good remuneration in all providers and areas of adult education.
In adult education, working conditions are often precarious.
We want to change that.
Teachers in continuing education need a generally binding collective agreement, based on the public service, for all areas of continuing education.
Honorary contracts are to be converted into permanent positions.
Honorary contracts, insofar as they are still necessary or desired by the employees, must be adapted to the TVÖD.
This also applies to teachers in language and integration courses.
Employment agencies and other public clients must consider the quality of education when awarding contracts.
and focus on good pay for teachers.
When the Federal Employment Agency awards training services, the applicable collective agreement provisions should be binding for all providers.
Adult education centers and other publicly funded continuing education institutions must be adequately and permanently funded.
Teachers should not have to shuffle from one temporary project to the next.
Rather, permanent positions must also be created for permanent tasks.
DIE LINKE wants to legally secure educational leave for all employees and all areas of continuing education nationwide, not just for continuing vocational education.
People who have not completed vocational training should be able to obtain a recognized vocational qualification.
To this end, retraining courses are to be extended in line with demand and access to external examinations is to be made easier.
We call for a continuing education allowance: Those who need or want to reorient themselves or gain further qualifications within the framework of socio-ecological transformation will be given sufficient time and funding to do so (cf. chapter "Social and ecological system change").
Good studies, good working conditions, good research
Studying is characterized by pressure to perform and time pressure.
This leads to stress among students and employees.
In addition, many students have lost their part-time jobs in the Corona crisis and do not know how to pay the rent.
This hits especially hard those who do not come from wealthy families.
Many are excluded from studying from the outset by barriers to entry.
Further, the pandemic-related closure of universities has further fueled the competition and isolation that has persisted for years in higher education.
This is politically intentional.
But it doesn't have to stay that way.
DIE LINKE is committed to a social, democratic, open and inclusive higher education and
science landscape.
We are on the side of initiatives and movements that are fighting for better conditions: for a permanent contract and fair pay for academic staff,
Good study and living conditions for students
and to ensure that the coronavirus crisis is also tackled with solidarity at universities.
Much remains to be done.
For years, colleges and universities have been expanding to become entrepreneurial universities under pressure from public funding systems.
The goal is to make knowledge, education and research economically exploitable.
Chronic underfunding means that the space for independent and socially critical research and teaching, and thus an essential function of science, falls by the wayside.
Research without third-party funding is hardly possible anymore.
DIE LINKE demands sufficient funding for universities
and research institutions by the state.
We want to open up the universities further.
It should be possible to study with a passed specialized baccalaureate, the general university entrance qualification, a completed vocational training or a comparable qualification.
We will abolish all forms of tuition fees for people with and without a German passport.
BAföG must be adapted to the realities of life and provide comprehensive funding for education.
Only 11 percent of students still receive BAföG at all, and only 8 percent receive the maximum rate.
We advocate for a repayment-free, parent-independent and needs-based BAföG that reaches everyone who needs it.
Educational decisions should be able to be made free of financial concerns or parental preferences.
The BAföG subsidy rate must be regularly and automatically adjusted to the actual and rising cost of living and housing.
We want to abolish the age limits for BAföG and adjust the duration of entitlement to the real average duration of studies.
Likewise, the linking of BAföG to performance reviews must be abolished.
Funding gaps must be closed.
People with tolerated stay permits, residence permits and humanitarian residence permits must have access to educational support when they start their studies or training.
Access and admission restrictions such as numerus clausus, selection interviews, IQ tests or job interviews must be abolished.
We are proposing a Higher Education Admission Act for this purpose.
Access to a Master's degree must be open to Bachelor's graduates everywhere.
To this end, Master's places must be expanded in line with demand.
The aim is to make it easier for refugees to take up studies.
To this end, additional study places must be created and educational qualifications obtained abroad must be recognized quickly and unbureaucratically.
Taking up studies must ensure a right to stay and protect against deportation.
We also want to enable scientists who have been politically persecuted to continue their scientific work at universities in Germany.
We want to simplify access for foreign students.
We want to transform the association uni-assist e. V. into a public law institution financed by the federal government.
We want well-funded and democratically effective student councils that organize the student body.
And an additional mentoring program for students from non-academic families.
We are calling for a further education program for socio-ecological restructuring that is co-financed by the federal government and a levy on companies: Anyone wishing to reorient themselves professionally should be given the opportunity to study at a university or gain an additional qualification in a social or ecological field in which more employees will be needed in the future. (see "Further training" section in the "Work" chapter)
The content of teaching and research is increasingly geared towards economic usability and corporate interests.
We want universities to take social responsibility and are committed to critical science and teaching,
in the sense of a socially just,
ecologically sustainable
and peaceful world.
Democratization of universities: We fight nationwide for constituted student bodies with a general political mandate.
University committees should meet in public where possible.
They must have equal representation so that all status groups, including students, have equal voting rights.
Instead of unilaterally strengthening the university management, we need to strengthen the university committees, which are democratically elected by all university members.
Bodies based on supervisory boards - such as university councils - should be abolished.
We want to strengthen the university's democratic exchange with civil society players, trade unions, citizens' initiatives and social associations.
Universities should be open places for social debate.
This must take precedence over the commercial use of university premises.
Good science needs good work
To this end, the scientific and non-scientific junior and middle management must be strengthened.
Permanent tasks must be processed in permanent positions.
We reject precarious work, teaching at dumping wages, and the exploitation of adjunct and non-academic employees.
We want to increase the fees for teaching assignments; they must also cover preparation and follow-up work.
Central teaching duties must be carried out in permanent, open-ended positions.
Deadline is frustration.
Approximately 90 percent of mid-level scientific employees are employed on a temporary basis.
We want to abolish the special fixed-term employment law for scientific staff: Permanent employment contracts must become the norm.
Instead of being dependent on individual professors, young scientists should belong to departments.
We want to create more permanent positions alongside professorships.
Qualifying positions of doctoral students must be compensated at 100 percent.
We need a comprehensive collective bargaining agreement for student employees as well as their representation in the staff council.
Student employees must be integrated into the TV-L in the medium term.
We support the TVStud initiatives in their request for their own collective agreements in the short term.
Empowering women: We want to enforce a 50 percent quota for women at every career level and further develop the female professors program into a program for promoting women at all career levels.
The universities are supported to a significant extent by non-scientific personnel in administration, building management and research operations.
Anyone talking about working conditions at universities must not neglect this part of the workforce.
Learning from the crisis also means recognizing that a workforce expansion plan is needed for university administration.
In university administration, too, our motto is: permanent positions for permanent tasks.
Tax funds for research promotion may only go to institutions that are bound by collective agreements.
This also creates incentives for the institutes of the Max Planck Society, Fraunhofer Society, Helmholtz Association and Leibniz Association to become members of an employers' association.
Investments in social infrastructure
The federal government must assume permanent co-responsibility for the basic funding of public universities.
We want to remove the time limit on the Future Contract and develop it into a permanent subsidy.
The excellence strategy fuels competitive thinking in science.
The elaborate application and selection process is detrimental to a socially responsible scientific culture.
Instead, we want to provide funding for studies and science across the board and in all disciplines.
We want to provide significantly better funding for universities of applied sciences.
Not enough money is made available for students at universities of applied sciences, even though there are more and more of them.
Sufficient funding is needed instead of "cheap places to study."
Universities of applied sciences are to be granted the right to award doctorates.
The joint task of university construction must be enshrined in the Basic Law again.
and a special program for the construction of new halls of residence will be launched.
Teaching is to be secured by basic funding that is based on the number of actual first-year students and the cost of the study place.
DIE LINKE demands a university social pact: money for more affordable places in dormitories, dining halls and help for student unions, which have fallen into difficulties due to the Corona crisis.
We want a financial support program for low-cost semester tickets for students.
In perspective, we demand ticket-free public transport for all.
The dual study program must be accredited under public law and lead to equivalent qualifications.
Dual students must receive a training contract with a minimum salary.
Access to the dual study program must be possible without a high school diploma.
Transparent research and social responsibility:
Cooperation agreements, sponsorships and other contracts that public education and research institutions conclude with private companies or foundations must be disclosed.
They have a direct or indirect influence on science.
The expansion of IT must go hand in hand with better training for student teachers and active teaching staff: Digital skills and teaching methods must become an integral part of the curriculum.
Even after that, there is a need for further training.
Expanding digital infrastructure: The federal and state governments are to provide additional funding for the faster expansion and development of digital infrastructures at universities through a university digital pact.
Instead of lighthouse projects, we need a digitization offensive for universities nationwide.
But technology alone does not make for good online teaching.
Teachers must be given easier access to continuing education and training for digital teaching and learning.
Digital media must not become a gateway for privatization of education by private commercial providers, companies or publishers.
Software used in educational institutions should be free software.
Research for peace instead of for war and the arms industry:
We demand the anchoring of civil clauses at all universities and all scientific institutions as
well as the promotion of peace research.
To counter the neoliberal mainstream in economics with critical thinking, we want to promote pluralistic approaches in research and teaching at colleges, universities and in policy consulting.
These include (post-) Keynesian,
Marxist,
ecological,
and feminist economic theories.
We call for the establishment of a research cluster on socio-ecological transformation with a heterodox research orientation within the framework of federal research and innovation funding.
Plural approaches must also be given greater consideration in the promotion of doctoral students.
The theoretical and research approaches should also be taken into account in the tendering and awarding of scientific consulting services by the public sector.
We need government-funded research support that addresses societal challenges by paying attention to critical and pluralistic research.
Research and science must contribute to solving social division,
Climate change
and environmental problems.
With this in mind, we want to strategically align the billions in federal innovation and technology funding, including non-university research funded jointly by the federal and state governments.
In addition to technical innovations, social innovations are particularly important.
We want to link this research landscape more closely with the work of the universities.
Climate Protection Socially Just: For a Socio-Ecological System Change
The ecological crisis is the great survival issue of the 21st century.
At the same time, it is a class issue.
It is by no means only about climate change: Environmental researchers assume that some of the nine planetary boundaries (i.e. physical boundaries of the ecological Earth system) have already been exceeded.
This concerns in particular global warming, mass species extinction, land use change, and the disruption of phosphorus and nitrogen cycles.
Each of these problems has the potential to strip our society of its material foundation.
The corona pandemic shows: The destruction of natural habitats is rapidly increasing the probability of pandemics.
We must stop this devastating process of nature destruction.
Climate change is also a medical and nursing emergency: the number of heat-related treatments and heat-related deaths is growing.
Air pollution exacerbates chronic diseases, drinking water reservoirs dry up.
The prosperity of the industrialized countries is inextricably linked to the exploitation of the Global South.
Dirty industrial processes and exploitative jobs have been outsourced to developing and emerging countries, while the products and profits migrate to the Global North.
Environmental degradation cannot be separated from social conditions under capitalism.
Studies have long indicated that the ecological footprint is extremely unevenly distributed.
This applies not only to the relationship between rich and poor states, but also to Germany itself.
While the richest are responsible for an above-average share of climate-damaging greenhouse gas emissions, the poor are most affected by environmental change and pollution.
Those who own assets can take shelter from heat, drought and flood.
The poor can't.
The destruction of nature threatens material livelihoods
and itself becomes a social issue.
Planning the ecological conversion
To stop the destruction of nature, resource consumption and emissions must be reduced to sustainable levels.
Ecosystems have carrying capacity limits that must not be exceeded.
Under the conditions of the "free" world market, sustainability is not possible in the long run.
Instead of an economy that works for profits, we need an economy that follows clear social and environmental goals, that can manage the remaining resources and that works for the needs of the people.
All the experiences of the last decades prove it: Technological successes - for example through the expansion of renewable energies or through better drive systems - are immediately offset by so-called rebound effects.
Combustion engines are becoming more efficient, but vehicles are getting heavier.
Digitization allows for more environmentally friendly forms of working, but at the same time has triggered an ecologically devastating mining boom.
Of course, green technologies are part of socio-ecological system change, but they alone will not stop the destruction of nature.
We therefore need political measures that cap and reduce resource consumption and emissions.
This applies most urgently to emissions that are harmful to the climate.
Binding ceilings must be enforced for them, setting clear guidelines for companies, but also for society.
Our planet has physical limits - this realization must finally prevail in business and politics.
Social-ecological investment offensive
In order to sustainably reduce resource consumption and emissions, we need a targeted restructuring of the economy and society.
With socio-ecological investments, we want to ensure that this restructuring does not take place at the expense of employees and the population at large.
We therefore propose an immediate program to combat the social and economic crisis, which at the same time sets the course for a better, climate-friendly future for all
and makes society more crisis-proof through a strong public, social infrastructure.
It's about recognition for those who keep society running - and a better life for all.
Climate protection
and social justice are inseparable for us.
Without social justice, no major transformation toward a carbon-neutral economy can succeed, because people will not even be empowered to implement climate protection in their everyday lives and to commit to it.
Without climate justice, there is no social justice now and in the future, because the climate crisis hits those who are socially poor first.
It is time to question the profit mechanism in principle so that the many have a future.
Resource consumption beyond this is neither possible nor necessary.
It is time that those who have had a hard time in recent years finally benefit from the necessary transformation to a climate-friendly and solidarity-based society: Employees in the low-wage sector, in industry or construction, in social services and the "system-relevant" infrastructure,
tenants,
people who care for their relatives and friends.
Our program for a socially just and climate-just society therefore focuses on wages that are sufficient for a good life.
We want to use investments to create entry points to a new model of prosperity that is socially just, climate-just and gender-just, with a fair distribution of work and wealth.
Instead of blind growth of profits, we want more time and less stress for everyone through shorter working hours with wage and personnel compensation.
The infrastructure in many municipalities and regions has been cut to the bone.
There is a lack of facilities, services and staff.
This affects low-income earners in particular and leads to stress in the everyday lives of many.
We want to change that with a socio-ecological investment offensive.
We want to create attractive services and public offerings for good work - inclusive, democratic and oriented toward the common good.
In doing so, we are focusing on a renewable energy and mobility turnaround for ecological and affordable energy supply
and mobility for all.
Here's to investing in affordable, energy-efficient housing built by well-paid workers.
Towards a climate-neutral conversion of municipalities,
of care close to home,
Functioning infrastructure
and a better quality of life.
The German government is watching jobs being destroyed in Germany.
This has nothing to do with climate policy, but everything to do with returns for the shareholders of the corporations.
Billions of taxpayers' money from aid packages and subsidies go to the corporations, without conditions, without job guarantees.
A massive societal debate about direction has long been underway: returns for shareholders at the expense of the workforce and the future of our children and grandchildren - or a "social, ecological and democratic transformation" (according to IG Metall).
The productive work and knowledge of employees in industry are an indispensable basis for a socially just and climate-friendly model of prosperity in the future.
At the same time, we need a different production model that enables sustainable lifestyles and a high quality of life for all.
A production that relies on armaments and expensive condominiums, that builds cars with more and more horsepower, energy and resource consumption, has just as little a future as the production of disposable products (for example, electrical and IT equipment with a shelf life of only a few months).
Investing in well-paying, climate-neutral jobs and the infrastructure for a better life
Rules and concepts are needed for the necessary restructuring of the economy - incentives, subsidies and tax breaks are not enough.
Only with massive public investment can we achieve the transformation to a climate-neutral economy and infrastructure in a decade and a half.
LEFT economic policy focuses on secure employment,
good care for all,
and to democratic decision-making on investments that are intended to pave the way for an economy that is geared towards the common good, meets needs and is climate-neutral.
Instead of privatization and public-private "partnerships" that cater to the profit of a few, we want to shape investments so that the tax dollars used benefit everyone.
The investments must noticeably improve people's quality of life.
There is a shortage of 100,000 nurses in hospitals and affordable housing in many large and medium-sized cities.
We want to change that.
We will invest over 120 billion euros annually in public services of general interest.
and infrastructure.
Higher income from taxes and social security contributions can refinance at least half of this expenditure.
More public investment at the local, state, and federal levels, and an equitable distribution of work, can create more than one million new short full-time (30-hour-per-week) jobs.
With the socio-ecological investment and future program, we are investing in: More personnel in care and health: We want to end the care crisis, which is damaging the health of care workers and endangering human lives.
To achieve this, we want to recruit 100,000 nurses in hospitals and 100,000 in care facilities and care services.
We want to make the public health service crisis-proof and expand it (see chapter on "Health and care").
Good education for all: We will hire 200,000 additional educators to guarantee all children a good daycare place and to ensure comprehensive all-day care.
We also want to create 100,000 new positions for teachers and social workers in schools.
We want to refurbish buildings,
Equipping daycare centers, schools and universities to meet future needs
and inclusion - 58 billion euros per year (see "Education" chapter).
We are creating a new start in social and non-profit housing.
We will create at least 250,000 affordable apartments per year whose rents ordinary employees can afford.
We are investing in a funding program for socially just ecological modernization of buildings (see chapter "Housing and rents").
Renewable energy transition: To save the climate, renewable energies must replace the fossil energy system by 2035.
Renewable energy is limited by resources and available land.
Therefore, the limitation of absolute consumption is necessary.
Funding under the Renewable Energy Sources Act is geared towards making it profitable for small operators and municipalities.
The big energy companies will be stripped of their power
and energy supply will be geared to the common good.
The energy transition in public and cooperative ownership can create more than 100,000 high-quality, well-paid jobs in the production, installation, and maintenance of these systems by 2030.
Investments in the energy transition strengthen the regional economy in particular (see chapter "Climate justice and energy transition").
We are expanding bus and rail services and drastically reducing prices.
We are introducing a 365-euro annual ticket for local public transport and gradually making it completely free of charge for users.
If people are no longer dependent on motorized individual transport, cars can be replaced by ecological means of transport.
We need fewer cars and models with a smaller environmental footprint.
This restructuring must not be left to the market and private corporations.
We are shifting short-haul flights and large portions of freight traffic to rail.
We invest in cycle paths, footpaths and urban redevelopment, promote short distances and create networked mobility (see chapter "Equitable mobility").
Strong communities with climate-neutral, social infrastructure for a better life: We relieve the burden on municipalities,
support disadvantaged regions
and invest in equal living conditions in east and west, in all regions of the country.
In the case of investment funds, priority will be given to structurally weak regions and socially deprived municipalities and urban districts.
We are creating access to fast Internet everywhere
and investing in accessibility: in transport, public buildings and housing.
Regional economic development and economic cycles create jobs,
social infrastructures make life easier.
The transformation of electricity, mobility and heating will create socially just and climate-neutral communities with a better quality of life for all: affordable housing, good healthcare close to home, short distances, less noise, more parks and urban gardening, playgrounds and sports facilities, affordable and climate-friendly local recreation facilities.
Rescue parachute for industrial jobs: Our Industrial Transformation Fund benefits companies that drive socio-ecological transformation
while securing jobs on good terms.
Socially and ecologically just in Europe: We want to align the European Central Bank with the goal of promoting good and meaningful work, full employment and socio-ecological transformation in the EU.
The ECB must make loan programs available so that the public investment banks of the member states can support a climate-neutral transformation of the economy by 2035 and invest in healthcare and education, renewable energies, rail and mass transit, and social and ecological housing (see chapter "Europe").
Job and Income Guarantees: Entering a New Model of Prosperity
It is also about a new model of prosperity: With the socio-ecological investment offensive and a general reduction in working hours in the direction of the short full-time (28 to 35 hours with full wage and necessary personnel compensation), we create secure and meaningful work for all and more time prosperity.
This will allow us to create over 2 million new, well-paying jobs with a future over the course of ten years.
Jobs that will be lost in the medium term due to digitization and rationalization, structural change and ecological modernization will be more than compensated for.
Ecologically destructive work or work experienced by employees as meaningless, poorly paid Mc-jobs, are replaced by good and meaningful work.
The people who keep society running are paid better.
This goes hand in hand with the upgrading of social professions.
Our socio-ecological system change is therefore also a path to greater gender justice.
A just transformation includes ensuring that employees who change jobs and industries can continue to gain qualifications without jeopardizing their income.
For the period of further training, we want to introduce a further qualification allowance that amounts to 90 percent of the last salary.
The training allowance is financed proportionally by the employment agency and a fund into which companies pay.
The period of further training is not counted towards the entitlement to unemployment benefits.
We want to open up universities of applied sciences and universities to employees in industry
and make them more attractive by offering their own further training opportunities for future professions and key qualifications in cooperation with works councils and trade unions.
Creating industrial jobs with a future
The future of industrial sites touches many regions.
Families and neighborhoods are affected, as are municipal revenues and their social infrastructure.
The German government's industrial policy follows the interests of capital: The profits of the large export corporations come first, not the medium-term future of employees, climate protection and the benefits for society.
The dependence of Germany's industrial structure on exports and the auto industry is a dead end in terms of economic and industrial policy.
The industrial structure must become more regional, more crisis-proof and less dependent on exports
- and make industry climate-neutral in the long term.
Unlike concepts of structural change in the past, it is not about subsidies for corporations and a certain "social cushioning" of the consequences of crises, but about a better future for employees in industry: meaningful and secure work, wages that are enough for a good life, less stress and more free time.
Our goal is for industry to produce in a climate-neutral, sustainable and energy-efficient way by 2035
and the industrial structure in Germany becomes less dependent on exports of cars, weapons, security technology and environmentally harmful forms of chemical production.
Together with the trade unions, we want to initiate a process of arms conversion (see chapter on "Peace").
It must be ensured that new, equivalent jobs are created in the affected regions.
Instead of subsidies for shareholder returns, we call for a rescue package for industrial jobs that ensures secure and meaningful work in the future:
no tax money for nothing in return.
Government funds (whether direct aid payments or hidden subsidies) must be tied to long-term guarantees of jobs, collective agreements and binding investment plans in order to drive forward the necessary ecological restructuring of production,
guarantee planning security and secure incomes for employees.
Veto rights against clear-cutting, co-determination on the future.
The workforce must have a say in decisions on relocations, closures and outsourcing, mass layoffs and decisions on investments in the future!
Works councils must also be given co-determination rights in economic matters, and all important company decisions must be confirmed by employee assemblies.
The German government, together with the workforce, trade unions, science, environmental and social associations, must develop a binding plan for the future of industry that ensures climate-neutral industrial production by 2035 and is
linked to job and income guarantees for employees.
The industrial groups must be obliged to initiate this restructuring - they must be committed to the common good in accordance with the Basic Law.
In financing the ecological modernization of production, we want to hold corporations and shareholders accountable.
As a reminder, Daimler, VW and BMW alone had retained earnings of almost 180 billion euros last year.
An industrial fund worth 20 billion euros a year: A government transformation fund worth 20 billion euros a year is to support the necessary ecological transformation, particularly in the automotive supply industry.
Only companies that secure jobs, have good wages and nationwide collective agreements benefit from this fund.
An investment program for a future-proof transformation towards a climate-neutral steel and basic materials industry, including the use of green hydrogen.
State aid must only be provided with democratic control
and in return for public ownership shares in the steel companies
and greater codetermination of the workforce.
We want a supply chain law that is both socially and climate friendly.
The law must anchor the Paris Agreement as well as independent environment-related due diligence obligations for companies (see chapter "Social justice worldwide").
We advocate a European carbon offset mechanism that puts a price on the import of CO2-intensive products.
In this way, we prevent the decarbonization of industry in Germany and the European Union from being at the expense of local employees and
leading to the relocation of CO2-intensive production to third countries.
Democracy in the economy.
Promote cooperatives and solidarity-based economy
We want to promote more democracy in industry as well: Funds for research and development, for strengthening a regional industrial structure are to be controlled by regional economic and transformation councils in which, in addition to the state government and companies, trade unions, environmental and social associations also have equal voting rights.
Democratic public and cooperative forms of ownership can be at the heart of a non-capitalist economy in the future.
Cooperatives and workforce enterprises build on the knowledge, experience and skills of employees and give them more opportunities to have a say in the nature and content of production.
In order to achieve the Paris climate targets, our living conditions, including the (defense) industry, must be transformed.
We are developing co-determination in companies into genuine economic democracy.
This is also necessary because impulses from politics and industry will not be sufficient to protect the climate at the required speed.
State subsidies must be prioritized for ecological modernization,
Regional structural policy in economically underdeveloped regions
and for cooperatives.
Cooperatives must be given equal consideration in all areas of state economic development.
We promote companies that are wholly or partly collectively owned by the workforce by giving them preference in the award of public contracts.
We want to anchor a binding proportion of basic research in the area of the solidarity-based economy in the Research Promotion Act.
In addition, we want to establish a socio-ecological chamber of commerce that supports regional lighthouse projects and business start-ups in the field of solidarity-based economy by providing advice and financial support.
In the case of companies in crisis, we also want to promote workforces that want to continue the company collectively:
State subsidies to companies and aid in economic crises must be awarded in the form of collective employee shares where the workforces are in favor of this.
When companies are sold, employees must be given the right to be informed in advance and the right of first refusal.
DIE LINKE is fighting to transfer public utilities, banks and insurance companies, energy corporations, pharmaceutical and medical companies, the postal service, telecommunications infrastructure and other key industries into public (or cooperative) hands and into forms of social ownership.
We want to disempower the large electricity companies and transfer them to public ownership.
The energy industry is to be organized through municipal utilities that are decentralized and democratic in the municipalities.
The socio-ecological transformation needs holistic projects and concrete places that bring together people from different sectors to develop solutions together.
We want to create centers that enable and promote active social participation in the transformation.
These transformation centers will provide training and education for Fair and Good Work according to the requirements of environmental and climate justice.
Fair mobility: Ecological and affordable for all - with good jobs
We want affordable and climate-friendly mobility for all.
The transport sector is the only one that does not save CO2 and is the driver of the climate crisis.
At the same time, there is no money for good alternatives such as buses, trains, pedestrian and bicycle paths.
Our vision: We are expanding bus and rail services.
We are making local transport more attractive and gradually making it free of charge.
Investments are being made in the railroads and rail travel is becoming cheaper.
Fewer cars are driving in cities, and more destinations are being reached by demand-responsive public transportation, walking and biking.
Delivery traffic is organized publicly
and working conditions are improved.
By 2030, the majority of people in cities and also in rural regions will no longer be dependent on cars, so their overall number can be significantly reduced.
The coronavirus crisis in particular has shown how important it is to increase the frequency of public transport services,
affordable prices,
good working conditions
and well-developed cycle paths - but almost nothing has happened.
In many places, transit agencies have experienced financial hardship/slippage because there has been less ridership.
Instead of investing in climate-friendly mobility for all, Lufthansa was bailed out with billions - without job security.
The burden of cars and trucks mainly affects those who cannot afford to move away from the main road.
Air pollution causes millions of premature deaths every year, 80,000 in Germany alone.
We want to change these conditions.
And we are not alone: citizens' initiatives against destructive transport projects, for better rail services or safe bike and pedestrian paths are active all over the country.
There is support from environmental groups.
The climate targets make a socio-ecological change in transport imperative.
Mobility for all - with less traffic
We want affordable and truly barrier-free mobility for all - with little investment of time and energy.
The focus for us is therefore on public mobility services.
Those who walk or bike need better conditions.
No one should be dependent on the (own) car.
Our goal is a jointly financed zero fare for public transport for all.
The first steps are significantly lower fares (for example, a 365-euro annual ticket), nationwide social tickets for low-income households, a social rail card, and free tickets for schoolchildren, trainees, students, and people in further education.
Fare evasion should be decriminalized and not punished more severely than parking tickets.
Local public transport must be
and barrier-free.
By 2030, we want to double the number of users (compared to before Corona).
We need much more funding from the federal government for this.
In addition to rails and vehicles
more jobs, good pay and good working conditions for employees.
Almost 200,000 employees will have to be recruited within the next ten years in the driving service, in maintenance and in other areas of the transport companies so that the expansion of the service and an ecological mobility turnaround can succeed.
We are in favor of municipal, democratically controlled local transport companies.
The priority of owner-operated companies must be abolished.
Instead of profits for Uber and Co, we want new mobility services exclusively under public (e.g. municipal) sovereignty as part of local transport in close coordination or cooperation with cab companies.
All offers should be bookable in a public platform (see chapter "Digitization").
We want a mobility guarantee for rural areas: connections between communities and to the nearest urban center at least every hour from 6 am to 10 pm.
Services such as citizens' buses or shared-call cabs as well as modern area-call bus systems and also cabs can be included or supplement the basic service.
Additionally, mobility stations should be established with a selection of shared transportation options.
We want to make cycling and walking more attractive and safer in everyday life: More space on the roads, more safe and intact cycle paths and footpaths and more bicycle parking facilities are needed.
This improves the quality of life and traffic safety.
We want to make the road traffic regulations more pedestrian and bicycle friendly.
Germany needs a nationwide cycling network.
Fast cycle routes with green waves must be created in cities and conurbations.
To this end, the federal government must provide sufficient earmarked funds for the municipalities.
DIE LINKE is committed to car-free city centers.
The municipalities are given considerably more leeway for this.
They must be able to independently shape the traffic turnaround on site.
We call for a women-friendly transport infrastructure, for example women's night cabs and safe stops and stations, so that women can move around in public spaces around the clock without fear.
We want a comprehensive program to research the social and technical preconditions as well as consequences of a socio-ecological transport turnaround towards a mobility oriented towards the common good.
Rail for all!
Social and ecological transport planning
The rail service and route network must be expanded nationwide and be affordable, so that all destinations can be reached comfortably by rail.
We are making rail tickets cheaper and introducing a social rail card that cuts ticket prices in half.
DIE LINKE advocates funding for the railroads that covers demand and for expansion.
We demand reliable, timed schedules
and barrier-free and user-friendly stations and trains with service personnel.
We are committed to good work for employees, with good wages and working conditions that do not make people ill.
We want to align Deutsche Bahn's business policy with the common good and environmental sustainability, rather than with net income.
Rail transport must be publicly organized.
All privatisations, spin-offs and splits of existing railroad companies and also the transformation of DB into a stock corporation must be reversed.
We want a democratic citizens' railroad that
also makes use of the competence and experience of the employees.
We want to increase public investment in rail infrastructure fivefold.
All rail lines that can currently only be used by diesel vehicles must be rapidly electrified or converted to alternative and sustainable drive technologies (for example, hydrogen or battery-electric drives).
Freight traffic must also return to the railroads at distances of less than 300 kilometers.
Adequate noise barriers will be built.
Their exteriors can be made available to local art projects.
With a reactivation program, we want to rebuild numerous rail lines that have been shut down in recent decades and thus reconnect entire regions to the rail network.
Mobility by rail must also be possible in rural areas.
Track access charges for passenger transport must be cut by at least half to get more traffic onto the railroads and make rail travel cheaper.
We are adapting the regulations on the DB Bahncard for local transport so that they apply to all tickets and fare levels of the regional transport associations.
In the future, we want to upgrade ICE lines to modern train paths for speeds of up to 250 km/h with at least hourly intervals.
Public transport in medium-sized centers and small towns should connect the ICE stations at least every hour.
DB should also serve all major cities with night trains (couchettes).
We are also campaigning for a Europe-wide night train network so that travel is comfortable even without an airplane.
and ecologically possible.
By 2030, all major European cities must be accessible by long-distance rail in a coordinated timetable.
We are against expensive and nonsensical prestige projects with which the railroads waste billions.
It makes more sense to invest the money specifically in route and network modernization to achieve the necessary capacity increases.
Instead of building new highways, we want to finance and democratically shape the expansion of public transport as well as bicycle and pedestrian traffic in the municipalities and regions:
When planning transportation projects, we want to fully involve citizens and interest groups from the very beginning and put real alternatives up for discussion.
We want to introduce citizens' councils at federal, regional and municipal level in order to democratize transport planning.
Stop new highway construction and expansion.
We want an alternative transport infrastructure plan that achieves the socio-ecological mobility turnaround and focuses on rail-based passenger and freight transport.
Federal structural and transformation grants are not to be used for new road construction and expansion projects.
We oppose all direct or indirect privatization of transport infrastructure.
Public-private partnerships (PPPs) also cause additional costs in the long term,
are a risk for the public sector
and restrict democracy.
We reject the federal government's Autobahn GmbH.
It enables privatization through the back door.
Highway rest areas belong back in public hands.
The privatization of Tank & Rast was and is a bad deal for travelers, employees and the public purse.
We want to transform the commuter allowance into a socially just mobility allowance
and additionally offer an incentive to use the environmental network.
We want to abolish the company car tax privilege so that high earners, employers and the automotive industry in particular do not continue to benefit at the expense of the general public.
and the environment.
To protect people and the climate, we finally need speed limits: 120 km/h on highways, 80 km/h on country roads and a standard speed of 30 km/h in built-up areas.
DIE LINKE wants to regulate and reduce environmental noise, road, rail and air traffic noise with a binding noise protection law.
Funding for noise abatement must be increased (see above).
Noise makes you ill!
Transforming the automotive industry socially and ecologically
The LEFT's socio-ecological transformation offers a way out of the crisis in the auto industry that benefits the workforce more than the federal government's policy of strengthening the big car companies, sticking to individual transport and only wanting to change the drive system.
Federal investment in rail infrastructure and local public transportation can create more than 200,000 well-paying industrial jobs over the next few years.
Priority is given to the production of vehicles for collective mobility concepts such as e-buses, trains and streetcars.
Change of drive: Phasing out the fossil combustion engine by 2030 at the latest is not only without alternative in terms of climate policy,
but also creates planning security for employees
and for investments in the future.
From 2030 at the latest, no more passenger cars with internal combustion engines may be newly registered or exported.
E-mobility must not lead to a return of nuclear power.
The energy supply must be provided by renewable energies
and in a public and cooperative ownership oriented to the common good.
We reject purchase premiums for cars.
The purchase of commercially used, purely electrically powered vehicles for craft businesses, social services, cab companies and other small businesses can be subsidized in exceptional cases depending on the individual business situation.
The state must coordinate the creation of an adequate charging network for electric vehicles - also with the countries of the EU.
We promote electromobility in public transport, i.e. for streetcars, trains, buses, also with overhead lines.
We want to expand research for longer service life and usability of vehicles, for energy-efficient electric vehicles, sustainable and environmentally friendly battery production and improved recycling, and for hydrogen fuel cell propulsion for (small) buses.
We want a ban on advertising for passenger cars with CO2 emissions above the respective current EU target value.
Sustainability must be a top priority.
No more clearing for highways.
We are in solidarity with the protests in Dannenröder Forst.
Reduce air traffic
Flying harms the climate.
Many routes could easily be covered by rail, but the German government continues to subsidize air travel and injected 22 billion euros into Lufthansa during the Corona crisis without achieving guarantees for employees.
We want to shift domestic German and European air traffic to rail as far as possible.
We want a ban on flights to destinations that can be reached by train in up to 5 hours and that are no further than 500 kilometers away.
Online conferencing can eliminate the need for many business trips.
We are committed to ensuring that airports that are necessary for transport policy continue to be operated under public management.
We want to transfer the federal holdings in Lufthansa and Deutsche Bahn to a federally owned company.
The latter must use its options to expand rail traffic
and, in turn, gradually reduce domestic flights significantly and to zero.
Jobs that are lost in air transport can thus be preserved by expanding rail and public transport.
We advocate a strict ban on night flights from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m., especially for areas close to cities.
This ban on night flights must be anchored in the Air Traffic Act.
Flight routes must be drawn up in a transparent, public, democratic and cross-state procedure.
One way to start reorganizing the airport system is to shut down loss-making regional airports.
We want to stop the expansion of further flight capacity.
We want to prevent social and ecological dumping competition in air traffic.
We want a uniform kerosene tax in the EU.
The full VAT rate is to be applied to airline tickets to foreign countries.
We want to abolish the billions of euros in state subsidies for diesel fuel, aviation gasoline and "biofuel.
We reject the allocation of public funds for the development of air cabs and delivery drones.
Reduce freight traffic and put it on the rails
The international corporations ensure that more and more transport miles are put into the products, because the most profitable conditions are used everywhere in the world.
Governments subsidize transportation while longer commutes cost businesses too little.
The price for this is high: accidents, noise, exhaust fumes, climate change and environmental destruction.
The costs of this are borne by the general public - they add up to several billion euros per year and are a burden above all on health insurance funds and the environment.
We want to reverse this trend and make transportation more expensive
and strengthen the regional economy.
We want to extend and increase the truck toll to all roads.
External costs such as air pollution and noise pollution must be included.
We want to prohibit the use of federal and state highways for trucks if a federal highway exists in parallel.
We reject the approval of Gigaliners (long trucks).
Similarly, we oppose federally funded projects to test and introduce overhead power lines for hybrid trucks with pantographs on highways and electronic drawbars for convoy driving by trucks and other commercial vehicles as a wrong turn.
We want to enforce longer rest periods and better working conditions for truck drivers.
We want to relieve city centers of delivery traffic.
The purchase of e-load bicycles is to be promoted, as are intermodal buses or streetcars that also transport parcels.
We want to support municipalities in developing local logistics centers
with good working conditions.
From there, distribution can take place, preferably on foot or by cargo bike.
There should be an increased purchase premium for shared cargo bicycles for all.
Large industrial and commercial areas should be required to have adequate rail sidings.
State aid for shipping must be linked to social and ecological criteria.
We want to ban flags of convenience for German shipping companies.
Competition between ports must be replaced by close cooperation.
Only cargo and cruise ships powered by diesel or environmentally friendly types of propulsion are to be allowed to enter the territorial waters of the EU.
This restricts the use of heavy oil, which is highly harmful to the environment.
DIE LINKE wants to ban the import of "biofuels" because they displace food production in countries of the Global South and destroy biotopes.
Regional vegetable oil fuels should only be allowed to be used in the agricultural sector and for public transport.
Climate justice and energy transition
To save the climate, a fundamental change in our society is necessary.
But the government is delaying the climate, energy and transport turnaround by setting the wrong course in the interests of corporations.
The coal phase-out comes too late.
With the policies of the Grand Coalition, the 1.5 degree target for limiting global warming cannot be achieved.
Although everyone knows that the climate cannot be saved in this way.
The CDU, SPD and Greens want to pass on the costs of the climate crisis to the people.
Yet it is the corporations that make profits with their climate-damaging business models: 100 companies are responsible for 70 percent of global industrial CO2 emissions.
DIE LINKE stands for a socio-ecological system change: for not exploiting man and nature.
For the fact that it is not the wallet that decides whether one can afford an ecological lifestyle.
Climate change is also an issue of rich and poor.
In Germany, too, a socio-ecological turnaround is a question of justice.
The higher the incomes, the higher the environmental impact caused and the CO2 emissions per household.
The price, on the other hand, will be paid by the poor, who will not be able to insure themselves against climate damage or will no longer be able to afford food as food prices rise.
We want a socio-ecological turnaround that benefits everyone through affordable energy, affordable mobility, healthy food and a better quality of life.
To achieve this, we want to disempower the large corporations
and align production with social and ecological goals.
A socio-ecological system change in Germany is also a question of global justice.
The countries of the Global South are particularly affected by climate and environmental degradation and are the least responsible for it.
Women and children in particular suffer disproportionately from the climate catastrophe and environmental damage.
Climate justice also means reducing raw material and resource consumption in this country and working for
a fair distribution of raw material and resource consumption.
In the climate crisis, too, corporations are the crisis winners.
The same corporations that received huge sums of taxpayer money for shutting down and dismantling nuclear power plants are now cashing in again for shutting down coal-fired power plants.
The same threatens with a future shift in power generation away from natural gas.
Our hope is the millions of people who have been on the streets in recent years, striking for climate justice.
We stand alongside the climate movement and support demands for a socially just climate change
towards climate neutrality by 2035. For
us, climate neutrality also means international climate justice.
Germany must not overspend its CO2 budget
or buy its way out of other countries.
With "business as usual," the residual budget will be used up in fifteen years at the latest.
The recent ruling of the Federal Constitutional Court points the right way: Politics must also take responsibility for the livelihood of future generations.
Our program for consistent climate protection and climate justice:
We accelerate the energy transition and switch completely to renewables as quickly as possible.
We want to phase out coal by 2030 at the latest.
We want to disempower the energy companies and bring about an energy transition in the hands of citizens, in public or cooperative ownership.
For a climate-neutral society, the phase-out of nuclear and coal must be followed by a phase-out of fossil natural gas combustion.
DIE LINKE wants a natural gas phase-out law with a binding phase-out path
and social protection for affected employees
and regions.
We want the Federal Republic to be climate neutral by 2035.
By 2030, emissions must be reduced by at least 80 percent compared to 1990 levels.
The goal must be enshrined in the Climate Protection Act.
Emissions trading does not provide effective climate protection.
We reject emissions trading as a leading instrument in climate protection.
Primarily, binding climate targets and emission limits must give clear guidance to corporations.
Subsidy programs and government infrastructure programs must support the conversion.
Electricity, gas, water, heating must not be turned off.
We want to ban energy freezes that hit low-income households and introduce a low-cost basic quota for electricity, water and heating fuels.
We demand that environmental and climate protection be included in the constitution as an extension of fundamental rights.
All political decisions and the disposal of property must be oriented toward the common good, which includes climate protection
and the reduction of social inequality.
Binding climate targets and emission limits must provide clear guidelines for corporations.
The state must not continue to support climate destruction with taxpayers' money.
We therefore call for divestment, i.e. the withdrawal of the state from financial assets, investments and subsidies that flow into projects that serve the fossil and nuclear energy industries.
Get out of coal, make transitions fair
We want to protect the foundations of life and implement the Paris Climate Agreement:
This can only be done if coal-fired power generation is ended by 2030 at the latest, not 2038, as the grand coalition decided in 2019 in the Coal Phase-out Act.
The gradual phase-out of lignite-based power generation must be accompanied by labor market, economic and social policy measures.
Local and regional employee representatives must be involved and dismissals avoided.
DIE LINKE demands the amendment of the national coal phase-out law with the following key points:
The gradual coal phase-out begins immediately.
The last coal-fired power plant must be taken off the grid by 2030 at the latest.
The construction of new coal-fired power plants and the development and expansion of opencast lignite mines will be prohibited.
The new hard-coal-fired power plant Datteln 4, commissioned in 2020, will be taken off the grid immediately.
Structural change in the opencast mining regions must not be carried out on the backs of the employees in the mining areas.
and the local population.
It will take 40 billion euros over the next few years to make the transitions fair.
We call for a gender-equitable structural change.
In regions particularly affected by structural change, we want to set up transformation councils to provide expert support for the social and ecological restructuring of the economy.
They should have the right of initiative over the money from the transformation fund and the regional infrastructure policy.
The councils must be adequately funded to ensure their ability to function.
They are made up of representatives of science, environmental and consumer associations, trade unions and half of directly elected citizens and representatives of the workforce.
We want to promote the effective participation of children and young people, especially in rural areas.
No more villages must be dredged for lignite mining, and
Hambach Forest must not be destroyed any further.
We call for the promotion of hemp cultivation in former lignite areas.
The cultivation of hemp is a promising chance to meet our demand for a socio-ecological change within the structural change of an ecological use of the mining area while at the same time offering job opportunities.
The German government must ensure that operators meet their obligations under mining law: Opencast mines must be made usable again and costs for mining damage must be borne by the companies.
Until the necessary phase-out of coal is achieved, the consequences of lignite mining must be limited.
DIE LINKE advocates a reform of the Federal Mining Act: Instead of corporate interests, the environment and local people must come first and have a say in decisions.
The ban on the construction and commissioning of new hard coal and lignite plants in Germany is supplemented by an analogous ban on the construction and commissioning of new hard coal and lignite plants abroad by companies based in Germany, including their subsidiaries.
The export and sale of hard coal and lignite production facilities and corresponding technology abroad will be prohibited by law, and federal subsidies and guarantees in this regard will not be permitted.
We stand by the climate movement and oppose the criminalization of climate activists.
In connection with the redefinition of the EU climate protection and EU energy targets for 2030, the German government must advocate a significantly greater reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared with 1990 and a significantly higher share of renewable energies in final energy consumption.
At the EU level, we support a reform of EU emissions trading that leads to an increase in climate protection targets in the emissions trading sectors to the Paris targets and excludes any abuse of the instrument.
We reject an extension of the emissions trading system to the heat and transport sectors.
Invest in renewable energy, disempower energy companies
The energy transition will only be successful if it is socially just.
and is shaped by the citizens themselves.
The supremacy of large corporations in energy supply must come to an end.
We want the energy supply to be close to the people
and organize them as part of public services of general interest.
Energy supply must serve the common good and be removed from the profit motive.
Unjustified industrial rebates in eco-taxes, network fees, emissions trading and the Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG) must be abolished.
They prevent the necessary structural change.
Renewable energies must be expanded in such a way that imports of fossil-generated energy can be dispensed with.
Electricity and heat networks must be transferred to public ownership and democratically controlled.
Large energy companies are being socialized.
If the coal phase-out is accelerated and a decentralized energy supply with storage systems is advanced, much less grid expansion will be required than is currently planned - driven by the profit interests of transmission grid and coal-fired power plant operators.
We want a structural reform of the EEG.
The share of green electricity must be increased to 100 percent as quickly as possible.
Tendering systems are expensive, risky, and burdensome for citizen energy projects; we reject them for projects up to 18 megawatts or five turbines.
The expansion of renewable energies must be steadily increased in the next legislative period and in subsequent years.
In the years up to 2025, we want to install at least 10 gigawatts (GW) of photovoltaics per year, as well as 7 GW of onshore wind energy and 2 GW offshore.
DIE LINKE supports a regionally oriented energy transition that is anchored in the population, for example energy cooperatives and bioenergy villages.
Institutions, facilities, businesses, cities and municipalities should be given the legal right to purchase the grids they use for power generation and self-supply.
Ecological energy generation and affordable energy prices can best be achieved in municipal utilities with direct democratic participation of the population.
At the same time, this creates the basis for promoting regional economic structures.
Investors must be obliged to offer the local communities a share in new wind power plants, photovoltaic power plants and energy storage systems.
As a result, the municipalities become co-owners.
They must participate in the financial returns of green power operators in this way or through operator levies on siting municipalities.
In order to drive forward the energy transition, we want to improve the legal framework for homeowners, tenants' associations, businesses and local authorities who want to take control of their own energy supply.
DIE LINKE supports tenant power concepts of an in-house power supply through photovoltaic systems on the roof.
We want a solar obligation for new buildings as well as for existing buildings after a comprehensive roof renovation and if there is a technical suitability for solar power generation.
Bioenergy from energy crops grown specifically for this purpose or newly harvested wood should no longer generally be considered ecological and should not receive government support as renewable energy.
Nuclear phase-out immediately: The phase-out of nuclear power must be enshrined in the Basic Law and all operating nuclear power plants must be shut down immediately.
Nuclear exports must be banned.
The corporations must bear the long-term costs of the nuclear industry.
We are committed to the nuclear phase-out in Europe and all over the world.
A pan-European nuclear decommissioning plan is needed.
The German state development bank KfW (Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau) is not allowed to promote nuclear power plants abroad.
We want to ban the import and export of uranium fuel.
The production of uranium fuel in the plants in Gronau and Lingen, which have so far been excluded from the nuclear phase-out, must be ended.
No storage in the "final repository" Schacht Konrad in Salzgitter.
For the nuclear waste to be retrieved from the scandalous Asse II waste repository in the Wolfenbüttel district, a fair search for a site for an interim storage facility at a greater distance from residential areas than has been planned so far is needed.
Nuclear waste storage cannot be imposed from above and without the participation of those affected and those active in the anti-nuclear movement.
This requires comprehensive co-determination and rights of appeal in all phases of the search procedure to be developed.
The costs for the decommissioning and dismantling of nuclear facilities must be borne by the nuclear companies.
The highest level of radiation protection and safety must apply
as well as comprehensive public participation that goes beyond existing nuclear law.
Public funds, including pension reserves and retirement funds, must be immediately withdrawn from investments in fossil-nuclear energy companies.
Public institutions must not invest in fossil and nuclear energy companies.
With their Fracking Permit Act of June 2016, the CDU/CSU and SPD approved fracking in sand rock (so-called tight gas reservoirs).
We want to ban fracking without exceptions.
Now that the decision has been taken to phase out coal and nuclear power, the task is to launch a roadmap for an ecological and socially acceptable phase-out of natural gas in order to achieve climate neutrality in 2035.
We are working to ensure that underground injection of CO2 (carbon capture and storage, CCS) is also banned.
CCS must not be available for greenwashing natural gas or hydrogen.
For residual emissions (these are CO2 emissions that cannot be prevented in the future and permanently, such as in agriculture or the cement industry), sinks are promoted to compensate, for example through peatland and forest management.
Control electricity prices more tightly, make energy affordable for all
Access to energy is a fundamental right.
DIE LINKE wants to prevent energy poverty.
Payment difficulties must not lead to people having to sit in the dark or freeze.
For the average consumption of electric power, water and heating energy, we want to create low-cost base rates.
Anything above the average consumption will be more expensive.
This creates incentives to save electricity.
Electricity prices must be monitored more closely
and socially fairer.
The responsible state authority is therefore to be assisted by an advisory board in which consumers, environmental and social associations, and trade unions are represented.
We want to introduce a uniform national grid charge across all voltage levels so that grid charges in regions with many green power plants are not higher than in regions with few green power plants.
We are calling for stricter competition and antitrust laws for electricity, gas and mineral oil companies.
We want to reduce the price of electricity for end customers by: financing the promotion of renewable energies to a significant extent via the federal budget instead of via the current green electricity levy (EEG levy) and reducing the electricity tax for private consumers*.
Housing benefit is to be paid on the basis of the gross warm rent and extended to include a component for electricity costs.
The heating, hot water and electricity cost components are to be combined in the housing allowance to form an energy cost component ("climate housing allowance").
This prevents energy poverty.
We want to set up an eco-scrapping premium for household appliances.
The electrical appliances to be replaced must be at least ten years old and the new appliances must have the best electricity efficiency.
The incentive bonus for replacing refrigerators in low-income households will be increased from 100 to 200 euros, and additional incentive bonuses will be paid for washing machines and dishwashers.
The cheapest and most environmentally friendly is still the kilowatt hour that does not have to be provided.
Standards are needed that specify the maximum energy consumption of products, production methods and buildings.
Only durable, repair-friendly, material- and energy-saving products may be manufactured.
An energy efficiency fund can support and socially accompany the transition to an efficient economy.
The existing building stock must be almost completely renovated to make it more energy efficient by 2035.
To this end, we want to expand socially just subsidy programs (see chapter "No Profits with Rent").
Green hydrogen in the energy transition
With the help of hydrogen, coal and natural gas can also be replaced where the direct use of green electricity is not possible.
Strategies to run cars and building heating systems on hydrogen in the future are neither social nor ecological: its production consumes too much energy.
DIE LINKE calls for hydrogen and its derivatives to be produced in the future only on the basis of green electricity and to be used exclusively where no more efficient alternatives are available, such as in the decarbonization of the steel industry, parts of the chemical industry, in aviation and maritime transport, and for reverse power generation during dark periods.
Where the electrolysis plants are publicly funded, they must be at least proportionately publicly operated.
We reject the import and promotion of hydrogen from nuclear power or fossil sources.
For sustainable agriculture.
Healthy food for all
Food is often transported hundreds or thousands of miles before it reaches the table.
The food chain is dominated by large corporations that make their profits at the expense of people and the environment.
Small and organic farms are having a hard time.
The agricultural sector is becoming increasingly export-oriented across Europe.
This contributes to the destruction of local agricultural structures in many countries of the Global South, but also here locally.
We want to promote socially just agriculture oriented toward the common good, with an emphasis on regional production, processing and marketing.
And: Good working conditions are needed in agriculture and food production.
Four large retail groups determine 85 percent of food sales in Germany and make fat profits,
while many farmers barely make ends meet.
We advocate good working conditions and incomes through nationwide collective agreements in agriculture, forestry and fisheries.
In agriculture, too, you have to be able to make a good living from your work - as a family worker, in seasonal work as well as full-time.
We want affordable and healthy food for all.
We want regional processing and marketing structures as a counter-strategy to the market power of slaughterhouse, dairy and retail groups.
We limit corporate power through effective antitrust legislation geared to the common good.
Links between business and politics must be disclosed - not only in agriculture - through a mandatory lobby register.
We promote peasant, cooperative and organic agriculture.
We will expand organic farming to at least 25 percent of agricultural land by 2030.
Cooperative farming, forms of solidarity farming and producer and marketing associations are to be given special support.
We want to make land available for regionally based farms and rural populations.
Farmland does not belong in the hands of non-agricultural investors.
We want to strengthen public ownership of agricultural and forestry land and transfer land owned by the Land Utilization and Management Company (BVVG) in eastern Germany into the hands of the federal states.
We want to introduce a public land fund that would provide long-term leases to sustainable, local farms on fair terms.
We want to promote young farmers and cooperative concepts.
We want to tackle this with a comprehensive reform of the regulatory, tax, subsidy and price regulations on land.
As a matter of principle, agricultural land is to be sold to farmers and non-profit land companies at prices that correspond to the capitalized value.
DIE LINKE is committed to a fundamental reform of EU agricultural policy.
From the coming funding period, payments are to be consistently linked to scientifically based environmental and social criteria.
and bound to animal welfare.
Only farms that implement these requirements should receive direct payments - whether large or small, organic or conventional.
There should only be money for concretely verifiable public services.
The creation and preservation of jobs subject to social insurance contributions should be supported
and yield-oriented investors must be excluded.
With higher producer prices, we want to reduce the dependence of farms on subsidies and ensure that food remains affordable through a fair distribution of profits in the value chain.
DIE LINKE wants to ban patents on life.
To safeguard genetic diversity, old plant varieties and animal breeds are to be preserved and free reproduction rights secured.
We want to strengthen GMO-free classical and organic breeding with higher research funding.
We want to ban the cultivation and trade of genetically modified plants, including those from new genetic engineering processes.
Cloning of animals must remain prohibited.
We want imported food produced from cloned animals and their offspring to be labeled.
We want to ban the cultivation, trade and import of genetically modified plants.
We want to advocate for a global moratorium on the release of gene drive organisms.
Glyphosate and neonicotinoids must be banned.
We want transparency and a strict set of rules for the approval of crop protection products.
Pesticides and pesticide active ingredients not approved in the EU may neither be produced in Germany nor exported.
Through an ambitious pesticide reduction strategy, farms are to be supported in the conversion to environmentally friendly arable farming.
We want to strengthen domestic production of animal feed, regional processing and marketing structures.
We want to promote farming systems that are particularly protective of the climate, soils, animals and plants (for example, organic farming, paludiculture, permaculture, agroforestry systems, deep-rooted crops).
To this end, we want to develop a comprehensive support and training program for farmers that not only provides financial support, but also creates knowledge for the socio-ecological agricultural transition.
We want livestock production that is land-based and related to domestic demand.
We are introducing inventory caps for regions and locations.
We reject mega stables.
We strengthen citizen participation in approval procedures for the construction of fattening pens.
We are initiating the transformation to socially accepted and climate-friendly animal husbandry.
At the same time, socially fair financing must be ensured.
We are making the groups that have profited to date pay an appropriate share of the conversion costs.
We want a ban on live animal transports that exceed the maximum of four hours.
Preference should always be given to the nearest slaughterhouse.
More frequent unannounced inspections and tougher penalties for violations are needed.
More regional slaughter options including mobile slaughter and pasture slaughter are needed.
Slaughter procedures must become less painful and less stressful.
We want to ban torture breeding and non-curative interventions on animals (beaks, horns, tails).
This also applies to the shredding of chicks, tethering for cattle and cage rearing.
Breeding sows must not be kept in crates.
Put an end to cruel castration methods!
The use of antibiotics in agriculture must be limited to sick animals after medical prescription, animal welfare controls must be tightened and violations must be punished more severely.
To prevent misuse, the prescription and sale of antibiotics must be separated.
Vital reserve antibiotics are not to be used in agricultural animal husbandry.
We want to strengthen agricultural research.
By improving epidemiological research, we aim to detect and contain the outbreak and spread of animal diseases more quickly.
To this end, we call for an interdisciplinary epidemiological center to develop, for example, an early warning system for pandemic risks.
We want to introduce free daycare and school meals nationwide that rely on regional and ecologically sustainable foods.
We want to strengthen school and self-harvest gardens.
This is also a contribution to short distances in the supply of food.
DIE LINKE advocates a simplification of food labeling:
A mandatory label on the front of the packaging should provide information on the sugar, salt and fat content of the product.
A binding, governmental labeling of animal husbandry helps so that consumers can also contribute to more animal welfare.
Food must be safe and not make people sick.
We therefore advocate for more and unannounced food inspections.
The results of food inspections must be published.
Placing contaminated food on the market must be punished more severely.
To reduce food waste, we advocate binding reduction targets along the entire value chain.
Supermarkets must be required to provide discarded but still edible food free of charge.
Protect biodiversity, animals and resources
The diversity of the earth's ecosystems seems almost endless.
They form the basis for all life on our planet and must therefore be resolutely and effectively protected.
It has long since ceased to be just a matter of protecting individual biotopes and species.
It is about the restoration, development and protection of the planet's ecosystems.
Often, short-term interests of companies and their lobby stand in the way.
This was prominently demonstrated by the disputes over the Hambach and Dannenröder forests.
Forests are being destroyed, and this in the midst of climate catastrophe.
The environment, nature and climate are being sacrificed to profits worldwide, with drastic consequences.
About 150 animal and plant species become extinct every day.
Through wildlife trafficking and uncontrolled human encroachment into natural habitats, we increase the risk of viruses spreading from animals to humans.
This can lead to new pandemics.
DIE LINKE stands for a turnaround as quickly as possible.
This is not possible without clear rules for companies and society.
We want to reduce subsidies that destroy nature and the environment and invest the money freed up in nature and environmental programs.
Nature conservation and biodiversity goals must be integrated into other policy areas in a binding way to ensure the conservation of nature and biodiversity.
For control purposes, the environmental administrations must be equipped with more specialized personnel.
To ensure compliance with EU nature conservation directives and their national equivalents, they must be supported financially.
We want to increase the federal "Biological Diversity" program.
We want to implement the UN Convention on Biological Diversity and realize a nationwide, coordinated biodiversity monitoring program (biodiversity monitoring).
It is intended to record the total population of animal and plant species and their development throughout Germany and to create the basis for more nature conservation at all levels.
Landscape planning is a key conservation tool, but needs improvement.
We want to realize nature conservation in the area.
We will provide more financial and human resources for landscape planning.
Study programs in areas such as landscape planning, environmental planning, landscape ecology should be expanded.
We advocate the legal anchoring and full extension of the right of environmental, nature and animal protection associations and individuals to take legal action in accordance with the Aarhus Convention.
Nature conservation areas belong in public hands and should be given to nature conservation and environmental associations on a leasehold basis.
We want to secure and expand the national natural heritage - financed by a natural heritage fund.
To meet the 2020 goal of 2 percent wilderness, areas beyond these lands must also be designated for wilderness development.
We want to create more biotope networks.
Insects must be protected as an important part of the ecosystem, preserved and biodiversity must be promoted.
To achieve this, the use of pesticides must be drastically reduced (see chapter "Agriculture").
The forest is a central and important CO2 sink and must be preserved.
This can be achieved with near-natural forest management, which relies on mixed forests with a diverse age structure and European tree species.
We will consistently pursue and combat environmental crime.
Protecting animals effectively: Animal protection as a state objective
Our treatment of animals often depends on profit interests.
Animals are subject to our actions, so we have a responsibility to reduce and avoid their suffering.
Current policies and laws do not reflect the wishes of the public or the scientific knowledge of animal sentience.
We are committed to a comprehensive reform of the Animal Welfare Act in line with the state objective of animal welfare enshrined in the Basic Law and to eliminating the enforcement problem and ensuring that it is enforced.
We want the democratization of animal welfare: decisions must be made in parliament and not via regulations.
We need higher standards without loopholes, more transparency in the animal industry (for example, through a publication requirement for administrative acts, etc.) and the implementation of independent controls and appropriate personnel.
On average, a barn is inspected only once every seventeen years.
This is also problematic for pest and disease control and environmental protection.
We demand the right to sue associations nationwide and the introduction of an independent federal animal protection commissioner, based in the Ministry of Justice, who is involved in legislation and educates parliaments and the public through campaigns.
Employees in relevant authorities need to be further trained and sensitized.
Cruelty to animals must be punished more severely.
We want to prohibit cruelty breeding, including in pets, and medically unnecessary interventions in physical integrity.
We demand a binding phase-out plan from animal testing with concrete steps and set deadlines.
Animal experiments of the severity level "most severe" and "severe" must be banned immediately.
In order to secure research locations in the long term, taxes should only flow into animal-free methods.
Husbandry standards in zoos, commercial and domestic settings must be minimized to meet the basic needs of each species.
Social animals should only be kept individually in exceptional cases.
We demand an immediate ban on dolphinariums, wild animals in circuses and a ban on keeping animals at fairs and similar places.
Animal trade (especially on the internet) must be strictly regulated, poaching and illegal wildlife trade must be fought.
The trade in fur must be banned.
We need real protection for wildlife through area-wide biotope connections and wildlife corridors and passages, including, for example, fencing along highways and speed limits to reduce wildlife accidents.
Natural and marine protected areas need to be expanded as habitats to the maximum.
Habitats for animals should also be preserved in cities.
We want to limit recreational hunting.
We want to prohibit the hunting of dogs and cats, as well as predators such as foxes.
Protecting soils and oceans
Natural and intact soils are the basis for an intact planet.
They form the foundation of the natural basis of life and are themselves treasures of biodiversity.
Soils fulfill a wide variety of functions, from carbon sinks, water reservoirs and pollutant filters to the basis for all human uses and a valuable archive of the earth's history.
The oceans cover 70 percent of the Earth's surface and have an enormous impact on climate.
Marine, aquatic, and terrestrial ecosystems harbor a vast array of creatures and habitats that are irreplaceable to life on our planet.
The consequences of the enormous destruction and degradation of soils, waters and oceans are already visible and threaten life on earth.
The use of soils, waters and oceans must finally become ecologically sustainable, because soil and ocean protection is also climate protection in action.
New sealing of soil must be significantly reduced.
New sealing may only be approved if it is accompanied by at least an equal amount of land unsealing in the region.
New roads may only be built if there is an independently determined need.
Unsealing potential must be recorded in land use and landscape plans.
A fund must be introduced to free polluted land from contaminated sites.
In Germany, approximately 90 percent of peatlands are degraded, accounting for up to 5 percent of our CO2 emissions.
The preservation or renaturation and rewetting of peatlands can make a major contribution to achieving climate protection goals and must therefore be promoted.
We want to better protect ground and surface waters.
The EU target of bringing all waters to good ecological status by 2015 was missed.
Rivers and groundwater are still used as waste dumps for the potash industry, for example.
Too many nutrients from sewage treatment plants and agriculture are discharged into rivers and groundwater.
The oceans are heavily polluted, and the climate catastrophe is clearly exacerbating the situation.
Together with environmental protection associations, we are calling for a marine offensive: no overfishing, effective protection of marine species and habitats.
Marine protected areas must be preserved and expanded - at least 50 percent of protected areas must be taken out of commercial use.
And more money and personnel are needed to implement measures.
We reject the privatization of water supply and access to sea and ocean areas (see chapter "International").
We want to drive forward the Water Framework Directive.
This includes the preservation or restoration of near-natural structures, the reduction of pollutant inputs from fertilizers and pesticides into rivers and seas and the protection of floodplain areas.
The National Action Plan for Plant Protection (NAP) is to be transformed into an effective plan for reducing pesticides in Germany.
We want to continue, implement and financially secure the federal "Blue Ribbon Germany" program.
Environmental pollution of water bodies due to improper disposal of pharmaceuticals is dangerous.
We want to (re)introduce the take-back system for medicines.
We are committed to protecting Natura2000 areas in the North Sea and Baltic Sea.
The protected areas should be free from fishing, military use, resource extraction and other economic interventions.
We want to promote alternative fishing methods to eliminate bottom-disturbing (trawls) and habitat-damaging methods,
and sustainable fishing with catch quotas based on scientific recommendations.
The military legacy on land and in water bodies must be eliminated.
In particular, former, hitherto uncleared military training areas and the legacies of two world wars in the North Sea and Baltic Sea represent time bombs whose defusing must finally be tackled with vigor.
Funding is to be provided from the Bundeswehr budget.
There is no planet B: Managing resources in the cycle
Global resources are limited; renewable raw materials also need time to renew themselves.
We need to get out of the throwaway society and into a circular economy.
n To protect natural resources and increase the use of recycled materials, we want to promote regional economic cycles and introduce a resource consumption tax for primary raw materials and disposable products.
We want to expand ecodesign requirements for products to create requirements for durability, updatability, upgradability, repairability, reusability, and recyclability.
We support the "top runner model" for the production of devices (the most sustainable device at a given time sets the new standard).
For repair services and dismantling, we want to reduce the sales tax to 7 percent.
Repair and reuse must take priority over recycling.
Waste treatment and waste disposal must be a public service.
It must not be privatized.
If privatization has already taken place, DIE LINKE fights for remunicipalization.
Waste should be disposed of and processed as close as possible to where it was generated.
We want to introduce a deposit system for energy-saving light bulbs, disposable cups, cell phones, televisions and other electrical appliances and batteries to increase the collection rate and improve recycling.
We want to introduce quantitative waste avoidance targets ("Zero Waste"),
achieve a decrease in absolute resource consumption
and get a grip on the plastic flood.
One contribution to this is to be made by standardized reusable systems, which are to be available in every store at least throughout Germany, and not only in the "to go" sector, but also in mail order and in business-to-business transactions.
The reusable systems are also to be created for food, detergents, cosmetics, etc.
Where these systems are operational, disposable packaging should be banned.
Any remaining plastic packaging must be designed in such a way that it can be recycled.
Wood is also becoming increasingly important as a building material.
To prevent wood poverty, we must also use wood as a resource sparingly.
We want a much better wood recycling system with a utilization cascade in which wood combustion for energy production is only at the very end.
Energy directly from the forest is not a contribution to climate protection.
More rights for consumers
Companies, banks and corporations have the upper hand over consumers and often use their power to the detriment of consumers.
DIE LINKE is not only focusing on transparency, but also wants to strengthen the rights of consumers.
It combines consumer policy with the social question, because the windy business practices are aimed especially at people with low incomes and senior citizens - who are particularly hurt by this rip-off in the wallet.
We want an independent consumer protection authority with strong enforcement powers.
Consumer protection associations are to be better funded and their rights strengthened.
To this end, they are also to receive income from the federal government from the fines imposed for cartel penalties.
Debt collection rip-offs must be stopped by clear fees capped by law and by increasing reminder requirements for companies.
More than 15 Euro collection costs or 5 Euro for claims up to 50 Euro are unserious.
We want to greatly curb the power of Schufa and other economic information files on people's everyday lives.
A Schufa inquiry should only be permitted for actual credit transactions, no longer for consumer contracts for everyday needs such as rent, electricity and cell phone bills.
A negative Schufa score must be deleted again after one year.
In addition, in the future, credit rating information will no longer be allowed to be provided by a private company, but only by the public sector.
Unfair telephone advertising must be stopped.
Contracts concluded by telephone may only become effective when consumers confirm the contract in writing.
We want to abolish cost traps such as two-year contract terms for fitness and cell phone contracts and automatic contract renewals.
Extortionate prices for consumer loans through imposed or foisted residual debt insurance must be ended.
Consumers must be protected against insolvency of tour operators and airlines.
To enable consumers to jointly defend themselves against corporate trickery and enrichment at consumers' expense, we are campaigning for class actions that lead directly to compensation from companies.
A legally guaranteed minimum useful life of five years is to become mandatory for durable technical equipment such as refrigerators, washing machines and vehicles, IT and electrical appliances.
In addition, IT products and household appliances must be easy to repair and upgrades must be possible at any time.
We call for product liability to be adapted to the digital age.
Consumers have a right to transparent information from public authorities and companies.
For this, we need a strong consumer information law.
We want consumers to have the right to short, clear and comparable information, for example about costs and contract terms for loans and investments, Internet contracts and insurance policies.
We want a stricter transparency standard for online marketplaces and online platforms.
We want a gradual restriction of product and brand advertising in public spaces.
Immediately we demand a ban on advertising in schools and daycare centers.
Consumer education must include social and environmental impacts.
Consumers must have the right to determine for themselves what happens to their data without being disadvantaged.
The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) contains important rights for this purpose, which have not been sufficiently protected and used to date.
Good consumer protection depends on whistleblowers who draw attention to abuses in companies, public authorities and other institutions.
We need a whistleblower protection law in Germany so that these people are protected and do not remain silent for fear of reprisals.
Consumer *inside protection for financial products!
Independent advice instead of penny-pinching.
We will abolish commission-based sales of financial and insurance products.
Fee-based advice and independent financial advice by consumer centers must be strengthened.
Keeping promises to consumers.
We require insurers and other financial services providers to honor the guarantees and commitments made for their products, even under low interest rate conditions.
In the case of traditional life insurance policies, valuation reserves and surpluses, to which consumers are generally entitled, may not be reduced.
Regulate the entire capital market and limit fees.
We subject the almost unregulated "gray" capital or credit market to effective uniform financial supervision and regulate it strictly.
Good financial consumer protection also includes limiting unreasonable fees and charges for banking services.
We also significantly limit prepayment penalties for early repayment of loans.
Self-confident East Strengthen East German interests
East Germany deserves more: more self-confidence, more visibility, more respect, more honesty.
But beyond the commemorative hours for the fall of the Wall, nationwide interest always fades quickly.
There is a lot to talk about.
The unfinished unity raises the question of the state of equality
and cohesion in the Federal Republic.
The question of participation - and of opportunities for advancement, regardless of origin and social status.
We need to talk about the East as a neoliberal testing ground for Bonn's policies, about the consequences of the Treuhand's radical economic restructuring and the loss of public infrastructure.
Decisions made by the Treuhand and the policies of so-called Reconstruction East still determine the development paths of East German society today.
Deindustrialization, mass unemployment and population decline were and are the consequences.
We need to talk about right-wing violence and organizing and the long history of its trivialization.
Talks about the weak anchoring of political institutions, skepticism about party democracy, about a lack of influence among East Germans.
Because the consequences are still visible today.
If one looks at differences in wages and pensions, at top functions and assets, at poverty or emigration - the old borderline between West and East Germany continues to stand out.
Many East Germans wish to be visible in other ways.
With what they have worked for and achieved, both in the past GDR and in the thirty years since.
East Germany stands for the courage to live of different generations.
Many, especially among the younger generation, are no longer willing to accept the structural disadvantages and keep quiet about the problems in the East.
Many know the feeling that their own abilities and achievements - or those of their parents - are not recognized.
Almost every second person in the East feels that his or her work is not valued.
For a long time, East German employees were prepared to perform even under tough conditions and to put their own interests aside: in the interests of the company and in view of the poorer prospects in the East for everyone.
The lost battles against the Treuhand were in the bones of many for a long time.
Now the willingness to strike and fight is growing again.
The struggle is about more than "just" wage levels and jobs:
Strikes have become a symbol for justice, recognition, more co-determination and self-determination.
They fight for their own rights, the obstinacy of the East and a new beginning for the East.
DIE LINKE is connected to the experiences and struggles of the people in East Germany.
We are the voice of the East.
In the federal states where we hold government responsibility, we are implementing this:
with the introduction of non-contributory kindergarten years and longer joint learning for more educational equality,
through more collective bargaining and through procurement laws with a tariff loyalty clause in public contracts for higher wages.
We are concerned with affordable housing,
shorter working hours, for example through additional public holidays, and
improving the quality of hospital care.
The democratization of universities, schools, municipalities and state politics in general is just as much a part of our government policy
as the goal of preventing the sale of land through the purchase of large farms by non-agricultural investors.
We are concerned with practical, solidary, just and democratic politics.
We are concerned with our own departure.
Equal pay for equal work - What else?
The persistence of unequal living conditions is not an accident of German unification,
but a political will.
Instead of preventing low wages, federal and state governments used them to woo investors for decades.
The result is corporate subsidiaries that exploit the East-West divide, but do not remedy it.
Every third (!) employee in the eastern German states works in the low-wage sector.
In the West, the figure is 16 percent.
This has an impact on lower purchasing power, asset accumulation and pension entitlements.
Half of the full-time employees in the new federal states are threatened with a mini-retirement, despite decades of work.
In a comparison of median gross wages (2019) in eastern and western Germany, 700 euros more gross was in the western pay packet.
In any month.
In Saxony-Anhalt, people work an average of 75 hours longer per year and receive almost 3,000 euros less in annual wages than in neighboring Lower Saxony.
Almost 4 million people have migrated from the East.
This has massively increased structural obsolescence in the east.
In the next few years, a huge wave of retirements in the eastern German states will have to be compensated for.
This requires perspectives, also for returnees and new immigrants.
Equal pay for equal work with equal working hours between women and men, in East and West - that is our claim:
The low-wage sector must be closed and the statutory minimum wage must be raised quickly to 13 euros.
Employees in eastern Germany in particular would benefit from this.
DIE LINKE is calling for a wage offensive in the east through more collective bargaining coverage and nationwide collective agreements in order to bring wages in the new Länder 100 percent into line with the level in the west by the end of the next legislative period in 2025.
We want uniform pay scales in the east and west.
The IG Bau trade union has proven that wage alignment is possible.
The East-West wage wall can be overcome where unions are particularly influential.
In comparable industries, the same working hours and vacation regulations must apply nationwide.
We want to make a minimum award wage based on the level of the lowest salary class in the collective agreement for the public service of the federal states (TVL) binding for awarding contracts.
Recognize lifetime achievement in the East - Equal pension for equal lifetime achievement
30 years after the end of the GDR, work and life achievements are still not worth the same.
Pensions are not to be fully equalized until 2024.
The equalization of pensions in the east must not be to the detriment of current employees.
Around 20 percent lower salaries and wages in the east mean fewer pension entitlements in old age.
Among people who (will) retire in the East in twenty years, the risk of poverty is twice as high as in the West.
Anyone who was 30 years old when the Wall came down will still have to reckon with disadvantages when they themselves retire in 2027.
The diversity of the GDR old-age security systems did not match the pension system of the FRG.
There were gaps or even deletions during the transition to German law.
Injustices that still exist.
This concerns the large group of scientific, technical, educational, medical and artistic intelligentsia.
Likewise, pension commitments for certain occupational groups were eliminated, for example, for GDR employees in the Reichsbahn, the postal service or in lignite refining.
Women are particularly affected, especially if they worked in the health care sector, were assisting wives or were divorced in the GDR.
Since the 1990s, groups forgotten by the Federal German legislature have been demanding the restoration of their entitlements.
They have had our support ever since.
DIE LINKE wants an immediate 100 percent adjustment of eastern pensions to the western level.
This means that the pension value (East) must immediately be raised to the West level of the general pension value.
Prevent pension cuts!
As long as the wages of East German employees are structurally significantly lower, the conversion must remain in place for pensions.
A legal correction of the pension transition remains necessary.
Adequate compensation payments can also be a way to finally recognize these claims, at least in part.
For periods of low pay, we want to introduce a general increase in the value of pensions for all employees in both East and West.
That is why we want to remove the time limit on pensions based on minimum earning points and improve them.
More posts for the East - More plural visibility
Even 30 years after the end of the GDR, the leading positions in the united Germany are firmly in West German hands.
In the East and even more so in the West.
The social transformation of the 1990s was more than a politically desirable and necessary change of elites.
Almost without exception, people from the former GDR moved into the second row, making way for new bosses from the West.
This state of affairs has become entrenched.
The new thematization of the disadvantages faced by East Germans is part of a hard-won emancipation process.
For decades, newspapers of West German publishers and West German editors reported from East German state radio stations, and mostly in a one-sided way.
The greater skepticism toward public broadcasting has one of its causes here.
For decades, the predominant theme was convergence with the norm of the West.
If you want to strengthen democracy, you have to involve everyone.
Leadership positions must be a reflection of a society, otherwise they violate the democratic principle of the equality of all.
This means more women, more East Germans, more migrants in the management levels nationwide!
It's time for policy-driven practices that end disadvantage:
We need a leap in gifted education to prepare and enable careers instead of masking underrepresentation.
We call for the implementation of the proposed Transformation Center in Eastern Germany as a research and support site for the working society in the digital and ecological transformation.
The civil service must become an engine to enable career paths for East Germans, with appropriate support instruments to lift up underrepresented groups.
This is what we are committed to.
We want to create visibility for discrimination instead of hiding it behind the formula of "unity." We call for the voluntary collection of birthplace and biographical data from federal and state agencies, higher education funding programs, foundations, and grant-making agencies.
Our goal is to relocate more areas of public broadcasting to the eastern German states with more decision-makers with an eastern biography.
We are fighting to ensure that federal agencies or companies in which the federal government has a stake relocate their headquarters to eastern Germany.
We want to locate newly emerging federal agencies in the east.
Reappraising the Treuhand past
While the East Germans were drawing their waiting numbers at the employment office, West German and foreign entrepreneurs were busy at the Treuhandanstalt.
You could get rich in the East if you came from the West.
94 percent of the GDR companies privatized by the federal government went into West German or foreign hands.
Together with associated land and real estate.
The majority of landlords of East German apartments have since been based in West Germany, or the apartments are now owned by real estate groups.
The work of the Treuhand not only has consequences that reach into the present, it was also accompanied by political and economic scandals.
Thousands of those who risked everything on the streets in Leipzig in 1989 were already standing on Leipzig's Augustusplatz again in 1991.
Profit interests of West German corporations stood above the fate of millions.
This disappointment continues to have an effect in the East to this day.
DIE LINKE is fighting for this injustice to be dealt with.
DIE LINKE wants a committee of inquiry into the Treuhand in the coming legislative period.
DIE LINKE also wants to take another closer look at the Unification Treaty.
Its content and effects need to be examined - also with regard to whether claims of East Germans were neglected or ignored in the implementation of the treaty, and whether they may still be enforceable.
To this end, we propose an inquiry commission.
For an economic awakening in the East
The East has undergone tremendous economic development over the past thirty years.
However, the economic performance of the eastern countries still lags behind the western countries.
Promising approaches that already existed, such as the solar industry in eastern Germany, were destroyed by the wrong political course set by the CDU and their respective coalition partners.
Tens of thousands of jobs in an industry of the future were thus recklessly put at risk.
We rely on a regionally anchored economy that is geared to the needs of the people in the respective regions.
This also applies to agriculture.
The East should no longer be the extended workbench of large West German corporations.
DIE LINKE is committed to public welfare-oriented and cooperative economic concepts.
Against the dominance of market-based exploitation and efficiency logic, we are committed to good care,
Public services of general interest
and stopping the privatization of public property.
Workers in East Germany have developed a new self-confidence in recent years.
Many went on strike for better wages and working conditions.
We stand in solidarity with and support the workers and trade unions, especially in the labor struggles in eastern Germany.
After reunification, the East lost its industrial base, including food processing and marketing.
We now want to drive forward a reindustrialization of the east in order to create well-paid and secure jobs in the long term.
We want to make the east a region of the future where climate-friendly industrial jobs are created.
We want to strengthen regional products, processing and distribution structures.
Production cooperatives and distribution cooperatives from the regions should be connected.
We want a reindustrialization program for the East.
This is intended to promote the creation of climate-friendly industrial jobs throughout the East.
Reactivation of public infrastructure
The history of the East after reunification is also a history of the dismantling of (social) infrastructure.
Closed schools, swimming pools, savings banks or disused railroad lines characterize the picture throughout the eastern part of the country.
We want to reverse this trend.
We want to create social centers in the villages.
The supervision of the social centers takes place through jobs paid according to collective agreements.
In Saxony alone, almost a quarter of the rail network has been shut down since 1994.
Nearly 2,500 kilometers of rail track throughout the East.
This was a serious mistake in terms of climate policy and structural policy.
In many places, rail connections are sorely missed.
Entire regions are thus permanently cut off.
As the owner of Deutsche Bahn, the federal government has a duty to change this course.
The railroad must return to the area.
The digital infrastructure in eastern Germany also needs a major boost.
Poor mobile networks and a lack of broadband expansion are unfortunately the order of the day in many regions in eastern Germany.
For companies operating purely according to profit logic, expansion in sparsely populated regions is not worthwhile.
In many eastern German municipalities, there is a considerable need for investment in the age-appropriate and barrier-free conversion of apartments.
The age-appropriate conversion of housing is becoming a major task for many eastern German cities and communities.
Many eastern German municipalities lack a sufficient supply of barrier-free apartments and housing for people with disabilities.
Often, entire neighborhoods and districts have disappeared as a result of the demolition of prefabricated buildings.
We want to promote social mixing in the existing housing stock in industrial construction across generations, for example through flexible apartment floor plans with the option to combine apartments vertically and horizontally, and equip them with community spaces (fitness, library, small cinema, co-working spaces).
We propose a support program "Every Village Needs a Shop!"
and a reform of the commercial tenancy law to protect and reestablish small stores, crafts and service businesses.
We want a reactivation program by Deutsche Bahn for disused lines in coordination with the federal states, and a nationwide supply of buses and trains.
We are committed to a redevelopment program for rail stations.
The East in particular needs lively train stations as places of encounter and exchange.
Closing wireless gaps and broadband Internet coverage:
For us, this is an elementary component of a sustainable east.
In future, funding will focus on converting buildings to make them suitable for the elderly and disabled and improving the living environment in urban districts.
The municipal contribution to upgrading measures is to be eliminated.
Here, as with demolition, 100 percent funding must be possible.
We want to establish a subsidy program for collective housing with rent control for the prefabricated housing that is widespread in eastern Germany.
We want to support cooperative forms of housing by providing advice on the establishment and financing of new housing or on the acquisition of land and buildings, for example through concept awards.
Against old and new Nazis
The unification process has a dark side that is finally being talked about more.
Much has still not been dealt with or made known to the general public: Freed from repression in the GDR, right-wing violence erupted in the 1990s on a previously unknown scale.
Allies in spirit and deed were quickly found, on both sides: Rostock-Lichtenhagen, Mölln, Solingen, the NSU's series of murders-deadly violence swept the country.
The neo-Nazis tried to dominate the public space and exercised control - at least in neighborhoods and residential areas.
The East German state governments pioneered a shameful trivialization, continuing the common political practice of the West.
There was also no outcry in East German society.
It was up to a few activists, anti-fascist groups, journalists, and people involved in left-wing parties to name the dangers.
Democracy work, education and counseling centers for victims of right-wing violence have been doing a lot for a community based on solidarity and human rights for over twenty years.
Often they are the only offer that helps people defend their rights and dignity after right-wing and racist attacks.
Strong communities, good quality of life
The quality of everyday life is decided on site, in the communities.
The privatization of public property and public services has made everyday life more difficult in many communities and neighborhoods.
Many municipalities in economically disadvantaged regions are over-indebted and under receivership.
The gap between poor and rich municipalities in Germany continues to grow.
The debt brake has a devastating effect on the quality of life of people with lower incomes
and on local democracy.
If the city or municipal council sometimes only decides on the management of the shortage and on supposed constraints, democracy in the municipality is stifled.
We want to bring public services back into public hands
and strengthen the municipalities' own economic activities.
Municipal services of general interest must not be thrown onto the market!
We want to remunicipalize privatized areas of public service.
We want to ensure that the federal government makes funds available to local authorities for the remunicipalization of housing, hospitals, water and energy supplies.
This can be done through a remunicipalization fund.
Support and legal advice can be organized by a remunicipalization agency so that the wheel does not have to be reinvented in every municipality.
Existing restrictions on the economic activity of local authorities must be removed,
Inter-municipal cooperation must be made a model
and in the area of municipal services of general interest, a preference in favor of the public sector can be achieved.
We want incentives for the development of regional economic cycles.
In order to create equal living conditions in all regions and municipalities, the participation of the municipal umbrella organizations is to be ensured through a binding right of consultation and participation of the municipalities at the federal level.
Solidified cash loans of the municipalities must be taken over by the federal government into an old debt fund and repaid with by the federal government.
Cash advances, which were actually intended as short-term financing, have increased by 40 billion euros over the past twenty years.
They are often the only way to fulfill mandatory municipal tasks.
Municipal budgets must be relieved of social benefits.
These must be borne in full by the federal government.
Costs incurred by the federal or state governments must also be financed by them (connexity).
DIE LINKE advocates a reform of the trade tax into a municipal business tax.
Combined with the implementation of connexity, the municipalities can get back on a reliable financial footing.
Many municipal tasks are now "externally determined" down to the last detail by laws and ordinances, and local conditions are hardly taken into account.
That has to change.
Self-government must be strengthened and the municipalities' leeway in economic and construction matters increased.
The promotion of voluntary work must be guaranteed, and therefore municipal expense allowances must not be offset against benefits under SGB II and BAföG.
Ongoing federal programs for municipalities must be made permanent, combinable and adapted to needs.
A large number of municipalities cannot even afford the relatively small contributions they make to federal programs in order to obtain funding for necessary investments that would be almost impossible to finance on their own.
For this reason, own contributions must be abolished, at least for municipalities in difficult budgetary situations.
For fair municipal financing, 100 percent of the municipal financial strength must be included in the state fiscal equalization system.
Reverse with taxes
Never before have income and wealth been so unequally distributed.
Increasingly large fortunes have become concentrated in fewer and fewer hands: Two-thirds of all wealth is in the hands of the top 10 percent of the population.
The 45 richest households alone own as much as the entire poorer half of the population combined.
The richest one percent of the population accounts for around 35 percent of wealth, i.e. more than one third.
The richest 5 percent have more than the "remaining" 95 percent.
If you have a lot, you can easily increase it.
A cheap tax is levied on profits from capital and shares.
Those who have little or nothing, on the other hand, pay more and more: income tax cannot be evaded, it is deducted immediately.
The value-added tax places a heavier burden on low-income people.
Because public property has been privatized, many services have to be paid for privately.
A large proportion of assets in Germany are inherited.
High incomes are taxed less than they were in the 1990s.
For decades, a wealth tax was levied in Germany - but not since 1997.
We want to change that in order to combat the scandalous inequality in Germany.
Private wealth is offset by an impoverished public infrastructure: Libraries and swimming pools are closing, hospital staff is being laid off in order to finance necessary repairs, bus and train services rarely come to the countryside and are often overcrowded in the city because there is not enough capacity.
Here, the revenue from a millionaire's tax would be particularly helpful:
It goes to the states and can strengthen public infrastructure.
The risk of poverty has never been so high: more than one in six people in rich Germany is poor or at risk of poverty.
The rich have many allies in politics.
They can give their voice more weight.
We hold against it!
More justice
and a strong public service can only be achieved by reducing the burden on those at the bottom - and increasing the burden on those at the top.
High assets and incomes, inheritances and profits from capital and shares must be taxed more heavily.
We use it to finance investments in good public services and a welfare state that protects everyone from poverty.
We strengthen solidarity
and ecological forms of the economy
and create jobs.
It's doable, and we know how we're going to pay for it.
There is enough for everyone if everyone contributes enough:
DIE LINKE calls for a wealth tax with a progressive rate and an exemption amount for private assets of 1 million euros per person (excluding debt).
Those who are "paper millionaires" with a downtown condo, for example, will not be charged.
This is particularly important because of the development of real estate prices, which led to massive asset growth for homeowners, but unlike large real estate sharks, this is not accompanied by high returns.
The tax-free amount for business assets is 5 million euros.
Retirement savings to be exempt from tax.
The entry tax rate of the wealth tax starts at 1 percent and increases steadily up to net assets of 50 million euros.
From 50 million euros, the maximum tax rate of 5 percent applies.
This is appropriate because large assets yield particularly high returns.
Moreover, in the case of very large assets, redistribution is also necessary at the expense of asset substance.
The estimated revenue would then be 58 billion euros per year.
Strong shoulders carry more: To tackle the corona crisis, we want to levy a wealth tax.
This is to be levied on net assets in excess of 2 million euros (for business assets the exemption amount is 5 million euros).
The property levy is progressively graduated from 10 to 30 percent and can be paid in installments over twenty years.
The annual burden on net assets is thus between 0.1 and 1.5 percent.
The estimated revenue is 310 billion euros over twenty years.
Inheritance tax: Wealth is inherited, - usually without significant taxes being paid.
The super-rich in particular can bequeath or give away their multi-million assets in company shares tax-free.
We will ensure that tax loopholes are closed.
To this end, the privileges that currently exist for business assets in the case of inheritances and gifts are to be abolished.
We will increase the inheritance tax on high inheritances.
Normal, owner-occupied residential property remains exempt.
Additional revenue per year: 8 to 10 billion euros.
Corporate taxes were massively reduced years ago.
Corporation tax must be increased to 25 percent again.
We want to stop the corporate race to avoid taxes and are pushing for Europe-wide and global minimum corporate tax rates.
When profits are shifted to low-tax jurisdictions, they are to be taxed in arrears in the individual countries in which a group operates.
We will ensure that companies and corporations do not evade taxes.
Megacorporations like Amazon became even more powerful during the Corona crisis, but they hardly pay any corporate tax.
We therefore need a tax reform that taxes such corporations more heavily at the location of their economic activities and sales.
In addition, extraordinary profits made by companies like Amazon because of the Corona crisis must be skimmed off with an excess profit tax to limit the market power of the crisis winners.
Sales tax: We want reduced tax rates for labor-intensive crafts, products for children and pharmaceuticals.
Tax evasion: We want to combat money laundering and subsidy fraud more effectively and thus dry up tax havens - including those "made in Germany".
To this end, we want to set up a federal financial police force and increase tax enforcement staff in line with demand.
It is realistic to collect around 15 billion euros more per year with more consistent tax enforcement and combating tax evasion in tax havens.
Financial transaction tax: We curb speculation on the financial markets.
A tax rate of 0.1 percent is to be applied to every financial transaction.
The funds raised are to be used for sustainable development in the countries of the Global South.
and for global climate protection
and, on the other hand, for the socio-ecological restructuring of our industrial society.
Municipal business tax: We want to convert the current trade tax into a municipal business tax.
The tax base will be expanded (rents, leases and royalties will be taken into account) and high-earning self-employed and freelancers will be included.
To this end, we will raise the tax-free allowance to 30,000 euros and take the tax assessed into account in income tax.
The trade tax levy is abolished, which relieves the financial burden on cities and municipalities.
DIE LINKE advocates the abolition of the sparkling wine tax.
What works in the long term must also be financed in the long term:
The debt brake and the European Fiscal Compact block long-term developments
and are intended to drive privatization.
The debt brake makes no economic sense and should be abolished.
It promotes the privatization of public infrastructure, which is often even more expensive for taxpayers because the general public then has to finance high returns for private investors.
Instead, it must once again be possible to borrow to the extent of the investments.
After all, the interest rates that the state currently has to raise on the capital market are extremely low, and a good infrastructure will still benefit our grandchildren.
Therefore, it makes sense to also stretch the financing of investments through loans.
As long as the debt brake exists and there is a repayment obligation for the federal government's Corona loans, repayment must be spread over at least fifty years.
Expenses for interest payments must not additionally restrict the scope for debt.
This will also expand the financial leeway within the debt brake.
n Fair budget: education,
health
and climate protection
instead of rearmament.
The federal budget includes an increase in military spending.
The German government continues to approach the 2 percent of GDP mark for defense spending.
This prioritization is wrong.
We strongly oppose this and call for an annual reduction in military spending.
Reducing climate-damaging subsidies can also ease the burden on the federal budget.
Overall, savings of 12 billion euros per year are easily possible.
We can use this additional revenue to finance the entry into a society based on solidarity: better social security,
more staff in education, health and care and a new start in non-profit housing construction,
Accessibility
and the start of a socio-ecological restructuring of the economy.
Our claims are offset and realistic.
Reform income tax fairly
We also want to make income taxation fairer.
We want to ease the burden on low and middle incomes.
High incomes must be taxed more heavily.
As a rule of thumb, anyone who (as a single person, tax class I) has a gross income of less than 6,500 euros per month pays less tax according to our tariff.
Everyone benefits from improved public services and lower contributions to our solidarity-based health insurance.
All taxable income below 14,400 euros per year remains tax-free.
The control curve is flattened.
Medium incomes in particular benefit, as a higher tax-free amount means that taxes only have to be paid at all on income above this amount.
We want to tax higher incomes more heavily.
From 70,000 euros taxable income per year, the tax rate is 53 percent.
Taxable income means: what remains of the gross income after the usual deductions (flat-rate allowances and special expenses).
70,000 euros taxable income corresponds to around 81,000 euros gross income for a single person without children.
53 percent tax rate applies to income from 70,000 euros.
The average tax rate for an income of 70,000 euros is around 30 percent.
We envisage two levels of a separate wealth tax: 60 percent for incomes above the current wealth tax threshold of 260,533 euros and 75 percent for incomes above 1 million euros of taxable income.
Income from capital gains should no longer be given preferential treatment, but should be taxed at the same rates as all income.
We will abolish the flat-rate withholding tax of 25 percent, but retain restrictions on the offsetting of losses from capital assets and the saver's allowance.
Marital splitting will be replaced by gender-equal individual taxation with socially acceptable transitional arrangements.
The unused taxable minimum income must be transferable between spouses or partners.
We want to reintroduce tax allowances for severance payments in the event of redundancies.
The commuting allowance will be replaced by a mobility allowance that provides the same tax benefit per kilometer of commuting to work for all employees, regardless of their income.
DIE LINKE wants to maintain the solidarity surcharge for high incomes and transform it into a Solidarity Pact III.
The Soli is the most socially just tax: with the strongest relief at the bottom and for people with children - and the strongest burden for those at the top, especially people without children.
DIE LINKE calls for a Solidarity Pact III to cope with structural change in regions in and after industrial upheaval.
The financial volume must tie in with the Solidarity Pact II, which is why we are calling for at least 10 billion euros a year to be made available from federal funds for structural change and cohesion.
Our Solidarity Pact III is aimed at all structurally weak regions in Germany.
For planning security, we propose a period until 2035 for the Solidarity Pact III and thus a total volume of at least 150 billion euros.
Real Estate Transfer Tax and Share Deals.
Rising real estate prices and the increase in real estate transfer tax rates in almost all German states have significantly increased the tax burden for most real estate purchases.
Real estate groups, on the other hand, which buy large and very large real estate packages, usually get away without paying taxes through so-called share deals.
Formally, they do not buy the real estate, but the majority (up to 90 percent) of the shares in the respective companies that own the real estate.
We are calling for a reform of the real estate transfer tax so that pro rata property purchases (over 50 percent) are also taxed proportionately.
This makes share deals largely unattractive.
Nonprofit.
In recent years, more and more politically active associations have had their non-profit status revoked by the tax office or in court.
However, democracy thrives on participation and diverse debate.
We need a reform of the non-profit law with an expansion of the purposes recognized as non-profit (for example, the promotion of human and fundamental rights, peace, climate protection or social justice).
Participation in the formation of political will must be explicitly named as harmless for the non-profit status, whether for the pursuit of own purposes or beyond that for democracy, rule of law and human rights.
Care must be taken to ensure that this does not result in covert party financing and that the boundaries to party financing are maintained.
Also, the mention of an association in a federal or state report on the protection of the constitution should no longer automatically lead to the deprivation of its non-profit status, as happened most recently in the case of the VVN/BdA.
The use of charitable foundations for tax avoidance must be more restricted.
Tax enforcement.
The major problems in tax enforcement must finally be solved.
On the one hand, this requires significantly more staff and IT capacity at the tax authorities, but it is at least as important to implement and enforce federal tax laws uniformly across the country.
The frequency with which large companies and wealthy individuals are inspected through company and tax external audits varies widely across countries.
We need much more frequent and intensive tax audits for corporations and wealthy individuals.
The effective solution to this interest-driven petty stateism would be to transfer tax enforcement to the federal level ("federal tax administration").
The tax authorities are also often inactive in pursuing and combating semi-legal and prohibited tax structuring models (see the following chapter).
Breaking the power of banks and financial markets
More than ten years after the financial and global economic crisis, its causes have not been overcome.
The government has failed to fundamentally change the financial system and align it with the interests of the majority of the population.
This requires the courage to take on the big banks, hedge funds and multi-billionaires.
We want to free society and democracy from the stranglehold of financial corporations:
Billions flow into the financial markets from funded pension schemes.
We want to reverse pension privatization and withdraw the funds from speculation (see chapter on "Pensions").
It is precisely the highly complex financial instruments (for example, higher-grade derivatives) that pose the greatest risks in the event of a crisis that are of little benefit to the community.
DIE LINKE therefore wants to return the financial sector to a service function for society and the real economy.
The financial markets are to be decelerated and shrunk in volume.
If ever larger parts of public services are organized privately, then returns must be generated, and the financial market takes control.
We want to delist hospital, care and real estate groups.
DIE LINKE wants to concentrate the financial sector on socially useful core tasks.
These are primarily offerings in the area of payment transactions and secure savings, as well as the financing of private and public investments.
Banks should be returned to a business model that is geared towards the needs of the real economy and society:
Savings banks and cooperative banks form the basis of a new financial sector.
We want to promote them.
Like savings banks, commercial banks must be committed to the common good.
The majority of the banks' so-called capital market business is driven by speculative motives.
They do not serve the needs of the real economy or the majority of the population.
Short-term investment banking - investing only in businesses to generate high returns quickly - is something we want to wind down as a business area.
Shadow banks, off-balance sheet special purpose vehicles, derivatives, hedge funds and private equity companies must be broken up or strictly regulated.
In this sense, banking must become boring again.
We want to ban speculation with agricultural commodities and foodstuffs.
With democratic control of the banks by representatives of employees, trade unions and the public sector, the banks' resources could be used to steer the economy in the interests of the majority of the population.
This is the only way to protect the deposits of small savers
and to provide businesses with favorable loans.
Social organizations, consumer protection and environmental associations, and other civil society actors must also be represented in the monitoring bodies.
All people must have a legal right to a free checking account.
We want to limit overdraft interest rates to a maximum of 5 percent above the central bank rate.
Stop financial crime!
Germany is a paradise for financial crime and money laundering.
The big private auditing and consulting firms are too powerful - as the Wirecard scandal shows.
In the so-called Cum/Ex and CumCum transactions, criminal traders in the financial market had the state reimburse them for taxes that were never paid.
A network of banks, consultants, lawyers and investors thus enriched themselves at the expense of the general public.
The damage in the last twenty years is estimated at over 35 billion euros.
Preventing Cum/Ex and Cum-Cum transactions: Tax fraud with Cum/Ex-like share transactions must finally be effectively prevented.
Therefore, we need an automated and database-driven reconciliation between those who apply for refunds of capital gains taxes and those who have actually paid capital gains taxes.
Combat money laundering
Law enforcement must be improved.
Without a corporate criminal code, the big banks often get off lightly in state aid cases.
We need such corporate criminal law to hold large corporations accountable, not just individuals.
This requires effective sanctions and tightening of the German Banking Act to revoke the licenses of banks that repeatedly aid and abet criminal acts.
The Customs Anti-Money Laundering Unit (FIU) has failed in the fight against money laundering and does not have criminally trained personnel.
We need greater involvement of criminal investigation departments in the analysis of suspected money laundering reports.
In particular, the real estate or non-financial sectors, as well as the new fintech companies that process payments online or use crypto technology, need to be better supervised.
Ownership structures must be uncovered: The transparency register introduced in 2017 to centrally identify the owners of companies and foundations contains too many loopholes in reporting requirements and is not networked across Europe.
We need a real estate register with the true owners of real estate and land.
Reform financial supervision, strengthen financial consumer protection: Every investment of money and assets as well as every credit transaction must be recorded and placed under the supervision of the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) through an ongoing substantive right of examination (product supervision).
BaFin must be empowered with more staff with auditing qualifications to carry out independent audits of financial statements.
Break the power of the big auditors ("Big Four"): Auditors are no longer allowed to audit and advise at the same time.
The liability privilege of auditors and the associated liability limit of 4 million euros for stock corporations should be abolished.
We need a four-eye principle (joint audits) as well as pool financing for auditors so that the company being audited does not pay the auditors directly.
Auditors must rotate every three to five years.
Introduce a financial MOT: In the future, only those financial transactions and instruments should be permitted that also generate a macroeconomic and/or societal benefit.
Instead of permitting all financial practices that are not explicitly prohibited, as is currently the case, financial instruments will in future have to receive explicit approval from a "financial MOT" before they can be put into circulation.
Drain tax havens
Through tax havens and tax tricks, the rich and corporations deprive the general public of hundreds of billions of euros every year.
Money flows are often disguised via shell companies and other legal constructs.
We want to make that impossible.
Transnational corporations should be obliged to disclose their core data such as their value creation, turnover, profits and tax payments on a country-by-country basis.
Double taxation agreements with uncooperative states must be terminated immediately and their financial institutions' licenses in Germany must be revoked.
We want to make tax evasion unattractive by imposing a withholding tax of 50 percent on all payments flowing to non-cooperative states, on dividends, interest and royalties paid by companies.
This is also possible immediately on a national level.
The burden of proof must lie with the companies and wealthy individuals through a crediting of withholding tax only upon disclosure of all tax-relevant information.
We want to combat the shifting of corporate profits abroad: Existing tax exemptions for capital gains flowing abroad must be abolished.
We want to eliminate tax advantages for investment income earned in a low-tax country: The tax difference must be levied in Germany.
Law enforcement agencies and tax offices must be put in a position in terms of personnel, technology and legal framework to consistently pursue tax evasion as a business model.
Each tax investigator brings in about1 million euros more than he or she costs.
Banks, auditors and law firms that aid and abet tax evasion must be severely punished - up to and including the revocation of their banking or business licenses.
Following the example of the U.S. Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA), financial institutions are required to disclose tax-relevant information.
For digitization that benefits people
Digitization can open up opportunities for self-determined work and life,
for new forms of democracy that encompass everyday life, work and the economy.
However, the German government's digital strategy is a subsidy worth billions for private corporations.
The business associations are beating the drum for further "flexibilization of work," for the twelve-hour day.
They use the buzzword "digitization" to undermine workers' rights
and as an opportunity to divert funds for public services to their private accounts.
On the neoliberal path, digitization will lead to more precarious work
, deepen social division, and
surveillance technologies and growing corporate power will further erode democracy.
We want to take the shaping of digitization away from the profit interests of corporations in order to benefit prosperity for all people.
Who benefits from digitization will now be decided.
Strengthening employees and their rights
Digital technologies used in the company and digitized work processes must benefit employees.
Used correctly, you can promote work-life balance and create more freedom in choosing where you work and when you work.
This is to be contrasted with an approach in which companies invest in digital workflows to secure profit opportunities, increase work pressure and condense work.
In this logic, working in digital environments enables comprehensive performance and behavior control.
Digital platforms are used to undermine labor rights.
Our demands and goals show that this can also be done differently.
We want to reduce the full-time working hours to thirty hours per week with full pay and necessary personnel compensation.
In doing so, we support the trade unions in their struggle (see chapter on "Good Work").
The co-determination rights of works councils and staff councils must be strengthened and expanded when digital technologies and digital work processes are introduced so that works and service agreements can be made in the interests of employees.
Works councils and staff councils must have a say in staffing levels, performance requirements and training needs and be given the right of initiative.
The possibility of outsourcing to subcontractors must be strictly limited and tied to the continued validity of existing collective agreements (see chapter on "Good Work").
Above platforms employees must be entitled to full labor and co-determination rights as well as social security coverage.
This also applies to continued payment of wages in the event of illness and the employer's obligation to provide work equipment.
The concept of operation must be adapted and the employee status clarified.
Employees must have the right to work for multiple platforms simultaneously.
Trade unions need a digital right of access to workplaces, especially if they are organized via digital platforms.
We need an Employee Data Protection Act that prohibits the exploitation of personal data generated digitally in the work process as well as the monitoring of employees and imposes severe sanctions for violations.
We want to strengthen the rights of employees in mobile working (see chapter "Good Work").
Limiting the power of Internet corporations and platforms
Technological, economic and political power is extremely concentrated in the hands of a few digital corporations.
The "Big Five," Google, Amazon, Facebook, Apple and Microsoft combine enormous wealth, market and monopoly power: over $6.4 trillion (July 2020).
In the pandemic, they further increased their profits.
We need antitrust law that also has sharp teeth online: Monopolies must be broken up.
We rely on commons-based public alternatives.
This is the only way that alternative platforms have a chance of survival and can become attractive to many people.
At European level, we advocate guidelines and requirements for the unbundling of dominant monopolies.
It must not be left to the profit interests of these corporations to decide on content and access to the Internet.
Digital corporations must pay taxes in the countries in which they are economically active.
To this end, we call for stronger withholding taxation of profits at the place of sales and the restriction of deductibility of business expenses (for example, royalties) that serve the sole purpose of profit shifting.
The concept of the virtual permanent establishment must also be anchored in tax law.
We want to promote platform cooperatives and publicly operated platforms as alternatives.
By means of a platform structure law, we want to prohibit self-interest on the part of IT companies, ensure data protection, and guarantee the interoperability and portability of user data with sanctions.
All commercial services and software vendors must be required to offer import and export of all personal content in open formats.
These manufacturers must also be required to allow use on their platforms to their private accounts with their services competing offers.
Commercial software vendors must be required to support all popular and especially free operating systems and platforms to allow fair competition between operating systems and to give users the freedom to choose between operating systems.
Commercial software must also include its source code.
Platforms like Airbnb must be required to share their data with public authorities.
Competitors are to be granted access rights to data from platforms based on data monopolies.
This can be organized through trustees.
We want to replace Airbnb with a public benefit-oriented alternative for purely private home exchange (see chapter "No Profits with Rent").
We reject the use of upload filters and network blocks.
Platform operators must not be obliged to delete content without a court order,
nor may large platforms create their own parallel right without public control.
Against disinformation, we need stronger media education instead of censorship.
Expanding digital infrastructure for all
The profit-oriented mobile network operators have no interest in nationwide network expansion.
Numerous people still live in regions with poor Internet.
Grid expansion must be geared to the goal of reliable supply and the common good.
To achieve this, broadband and mobile networks must be in public hands.
We are promoting fiber-optic roll-out with investments of 10 billion euros a year throughout Germany.
Municipalities should be able to operate the networks in public ownership on a permanent basis.
All apartments are to receive fiber optic connection (FFTH).
We want a uniform mobile communications network from a single source that ensures coverage of the entire area.
A single network is less expensive than parallel networks and mitigates radiation exposure.
Competition among providers leads to unnecessary multiple structures and, in many places, no network at all.
Grid expansion and operation should therefore be carried out by the public sector.
This ensures good network quality throughout the country
and the working conditions of employees.
A federally owned company operates the public mobile communications network.
Telecommunications companies can offer their services via the public network.
DIE LINKE is committed to ensuring that everyone can use digital and other public services, regardless of their pocketbook.
Internet must be part of the basic service.
Telephone connection and internet may not be cut off (like electricity and water), not even in case of payment arrears.
The costs for this must be included in the minimum security, as well as for the terminal equipment.
Every child needs a free loaner from the school for the entire school term.
The rental devices are to be equipped with open source operating systems and free software as well as youth-friendly (cf. chapter "A school for all").
We want to create social centers in the villages that are close to people's homes, serve as meeting places and offer basic services such as a post office, bank and public Internet access.
The public sector, including public companies, should provide end-to-end encrypted communication channels via e-mail and chat that can be operated independently of providers and used in a decentralized manner.
There must always be non-digital ways of getting a ticket for the swimming pool and an appointment at the office, etc., to ensure that no one is excluded.
Digital offerings must not be used to cut staff in the public sector.
Net neutrality must be ensured by constitutional law.
Expanding digital infrastructure for all without barriers
The accelerated digitization of society and the associated growing media dependence on profit-oriented companies harbor high risks for the equal coexistence of people.
More and more people are being excluded - people with disabilities, the elderly and people - including many children and young people - from poor backgrounds.
DIE LINKE is campaigning against the growing trend to exclude people,
and instead wants to use opportunities to increase digital participation in all areas of life.
However, there are many barriers that make it difficult or even impossible for users to make full use of the Internet, digital systems and software.
In recent months in particular, a clear imbalance has become apparent in terms of ensuring everyday life, especially in terms of healthcare, participation in digital education, work, social life and political participation, as well as in terms of satisfying elementary basic needs, such as doing banking, shopping online or using cell phones.
DIE LINKE wants to increase people's digital participation opportunities in all areas of life in order to counteract the increasing exclusion of people with disabilities, the elderly, and people from poor backgrounds in particular.
This requires inclusive digital formats and the adequate provision of the necessary financial resources to ensure equal and equitable access to products and services for all.
Data security and data protection
If cars, refrigerators and electricity meters are to be digitally controlled and connected to the Internet in the future, it must be ruled out at the manufacturing stage that unauthorized persons can gain access to these systems, the users' data and control over these devices.
This particularly affects IT and IoT devices in households and small businesses.
The responsibility for data security must be guaranteed by design and must not be shifted to the users.
We must be able to trust that our online banking, our electronic medical records, our data at all offices are secure and will not fall into the wrong hands.
Providers of the technologies must effectively ensure security.
The liability of manufacturers for IT security must be extended.
We need legal requirements on product lifetimes that provide for mandatory support and security updates for this period.
By regulation, security by design and by default must be mandated.
This should be implemented at European level as a regulation for the internal market.
Safety certification must become mandatory for market access.
The purchase of information about and commissioning of security breaches in IT systems by secret services must be prohibited and stopped.
They jeopardize data security for everyone, as these security gaps are exploited not only by the state, but also by criminals.
There must be an obligation to report security breaches.
Research on IT security must be promoted more strongly and must not be criminalized.
In the area of defense against attacks on IT security, the Bundeswehr and intelligence services have no place;
instead, we will strengthen the independence of the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI) and expand its advisory and assistance services.
We oppose the EU Commission's efforts to criminalize end-to-end encryption.
The possibility of end-to-end encryption is an essential component of the fundamental right to informational self-determination.
We want to promote the development and operation of open source operating systems and applications by the state in order to enable the traceability, control and improvement of the systems.
The possibility of reviewing helps to find and fix errors, also voluntarily and not only via contracts and money flow with software companies.
The promotion of open source technologies can also be linked to the development of privacy-by-design standards.
Public agencies must be required to use open source technology to ensure full government and societal control over the technology used.
The federal government should provide money to support the maintenance of free operating systems as well.
The interests of users and employees in the protection of their data and personal rights when using digital systems must be defended against the interests of companies in developing new business models by exploiting and utilizing the largest possible volumes of data.
It must be possible to use publicly accessible offerings without the resulting data being commercially exploited, as is currently the case with tracking, profiling and personalized advertising.
Terms and conditions must be generally comprehensible and include the option to exclude further use of the data generated.
The terms and conditions must be accompanied by a simplified and accessible version.
The General Data Protection Regulation must be consolidated and extended.
Companies that violate data protection requirements must be consistently sanctioned.
This includes strengthening the data protection authorities.
It must be possible to share data between different social networks.
We want freedom of choice through interoperability and data portability between services.
This must not be at the expense of safety standards.
Contracts must be terminable in the same manner in which they were entered into.
Protect fundamental rights
DIE LINKE stands for a living democracy.
Digital technical possibilities must not be used to monitor citizens.
and used to restrict democracy.
Video surveillance in public spaces must end.
We want to ban automated facial recognition.
Instead, we need more staff in public spaces and at train stations who can provide support, information and assistance.
A camera does not prevent violence and does not provide help.
We oppose the unprovoked retention and central storage of biometric data such as photos of faces and fingerprints.
We want to reverse the corresponding storage in registers and in identity documents.
Sources Telecommunications surveillance and online searches (state Trojans) must be banned.
We want to enshrine the right to privacy, secure communications and encryption in law.
Spyware of all kinds must be banned.
Data retention of IP connections, mobile connections and locations must be banned.
We reject mandatory identification for e-mail, messenger services and the like.
The export of surveillance technology
and we want to ban the use of autonomous weapons systems and armed drones.
The storage of personal data by public authorities must also comply with proportionality and the fundamental right to informational self-determination for refugees.
The Central Register of Foreigners has become an instrument of total registration, allowing access to almost all personal data of numerous authorities.
Cell phones of protection seekers are systematically read and analyzed for asylum decisions.
This sets dangerous precedents and threatens the fundamental rights of all people.
Digital violence on the net must be legally recognized and prosecuted.
This also requires building competence in law enforcement agencies.
This is especially true of digital violence against women, children/youth, and members of minorities.
We want to revise the imprint obligation in order to secure the privacy of website operators.
The secrecy of telecommunications and the protection of stored data must also apply to young people:
Parents must not gain access to obviously protected data.
We reject apps for monitoring location, for example.
Non-commercial copying and use of copyrighted material should not be criminalized.
A modern copyright law must do justice to the new possibilities of use on the Internet and at the same time strengthen the back of the authors (cf. chapter "Culture").
No user rights need to be restricted for fair remuneration.
We will also work at the European level to ensure that everyday uses are permitted more flexibly.
ancillary copyright and database protection law are to be abolished for press publishers.
The use of so-called artificial intelligence (AI) must be regulated by law to ensure public good-oriented application.
All algorithms used for decision-making must be independently verified to be non-discriminatory.
We want ethical guidelines for the creation of algorithms.
When applying AI to personal data, democratic design options must be guaranteed,
Extensive data protection
and free formation of opinion in digital media must be guaranteed.
AI must be socially distanced,
Counteract monopolization tendencies in the economy by a few technology companies and surveillance.
On this basis, the potential and regulatory approaches of AI will be further explored and exploited.
Decisions on, for example, social benefit claims, creditworthiness or predictions of delinquency should therefore be rejected for the time being.
We want to protect whistleblowers.
Individuals and structures that make public abuses and crimes in the economy and in democratic institutions are vital for a democracy.
Regulating digital payment systems
Internet corporations are developing their own payment systems for their hardware and software products (for example, ApplePay, AmazonPay, PayPal) or are thinking about establishing their own parallel currencies (for example, Facebook's plans for the complementary currency Diem).
Digital payments enable personal profiling and inference of sensitive personal information.
That is why we want to enshrine in law the right to make cash payments below upper limits to prevent money laundering.
Digital payment must also be possible anonymously, at least for smaller amounts.
We strictly regulate data privacy in digital payment services.
We enforce a strict separation between pay and other corporate services.
Money and currency must remain part of state sovereignty; we reject creeping privatization.
Innovative financial technology companies (fintech) or their platforms must be subject with their financial services to the same rules and laws that apply today to conventional financial service providers (for example, banks and insurance companies).
Public administration democratic and digital
The digitization of public administration facilitates new participation formats for democratic decision-making,
transparent decision-making
and faster processing of citizen concerns.
However, this must not lead to an increase in dependency on external service providers and the use of external "consultants".
Instead, public administrations need sufficient competent personnel to maintain the digital systems, support citizens in their use, and ensure personal responsiveness for all concerns.
We want to develop new digital participation formats for democratic decision-making.
We want to expand the Freedom of Information Act into a transparency law.
Information created with public funds must be publicly accessible free of charge in the sense of Open Data.
In particular, data that enable democratic control, such as contracts for tax-funded contracts, plenary minutes, and documents, should be machine-readable and available for automated retrieval using open interfaces.
Data collected as part of commercial SmartCity projects must be made available to the general public free of charge.
n Free software and open data formats must be used in public administration.
This serves both data security and the protection of public and democratic capacity for action and decision-making.
Public procurement law must be adapted accordingly.
Software funded by public money must be published as free software and be available for reuse in other cities and administrations as well as by the general public.
The same should apply to publicly funded hardware and other technologies: They are publicly documented and thus also benefit other fields of application.
We want to expand public WLAN in municipalities and public buildings through Freifunk instead of through commercial providers.
Public administrations and registration offices may not disclose people's personal data to third parties without their express consent.
Supporting school and learning digitally
Digital applications can help both with creating school operations, such as organizing schedules or delivering distance learning, and with learning itself.
However, the best programs cannot and should not replace teachers, but support them and their students in their learning.
The use of educational software must therefore always be embedded in a pedagogical concept.
Health and learning psychology aspects must be taken into account.
In addition, exposure to widespread technologies is an important part of learning social agency.
However, digitization in education must not be allowed to become a gateway for corporate profit interests (cf. chapter on "Good Education").
Free teaching and learning materials must be ensured at all schools, including for digital devices.
Sufficient network infrastructure must be created in schools.
Teachers need to be trained in the use of these technologies and in data protection and data security issues.
They must be able to use and understand the technology in order to use it with students and explain it to them.
The safe use and operation of digital teaching and learning tools and digital concepts must be a mandatory part of teacher training.
It must be redesigned accordingly.
Under no circumstances should educational software be used as a substitute for a lack of teaching staff.
The use of digital technology in schools requires a higher staffing ratio for the support of the students as well as the software and devices.
Additional teachers and technical staff must be hired for this purpose.
Educational plans, teaching concepts and the use of media must be conceived from the point of view of people, learning processes and specific subjects.
Media and digital technology are teaching aids and not ends in themselves.
The question is not what you can do with the latest digital technology, but what the teacher needs in terms of media and technical support.
The learning software used must not store any personal data of the students (such as learning progress) outside the school.
All data collected must remain on the devices transparently and demonstrably for all or be stored within the school.
No forecasts of learning success or further academic development may be made from the data stored by learning software used.
Data storage must be data protection-compliant and decentralized.
Students also have a "right to be forgotten," especially since they are minors and adolescents.
We oppose the collection of biometric data from learners and AI-based prediction systems that predict learning outcomes.
Dependence on specific IT companies and products must be avoided from the outset.
The software used shall comply with the standards of open source free software.
Learning programs must be created, managed, and maintained publicly.
So-called Open Educational Resources (OER), i.e. free teaching and learning materials with an open license, are always preferable.
Technology assessment in educational research must be promoted in order to reveal experiences, opportunities and risks in learning with digital technologies.
The media and data protection skills of children and young people must be promoted as early as possible.
Digital skills development must also be promoted in adult education.
Digital education should primarily take place via free educational materials (OER), which can be jointly developed, shared and reused.
This includes Open Hardware.
In science, we want to enforce open access for research results as standard.
What has been funded with public money must be available to the public free of charge.
Digitization in healthcare
We reject the use of digital applications and methods for the mere purpose of reducing costs while accepting a deterioration in medical care.
The focus must be on meaningful digitization that relieves the burden on caregivers.
Government money should first go toward combating the nursing shortage and improving the healthcare infrastructure instead of using it to subsidize IT corporations.
We reject the idea of passing on the costs of digital applications to the residents of care facilities.
Only a radical change of direction in the financing of health and care through full long-term care insurance will prevent digitization from being used to cut jobs.
Health insurance companies must not use the reserves paid in by insured persons to speculate on the success of IT corporations!
For e-health applications, we need evidence-based evaluation procedures analogous to other medical treatment methods.
Routine data from health insurance companies, registry data, or other data that accrue directly in everyday treatment (real world data) are not suitable for this purpose.
Health apps need certification according to government standards.
The informational self-determination of patients and insured persons must be preserved at all times.
The disclosure of sensitive data may only take place if consent has been obtained in accordance with the GDPR.
Data collected with the electronic health card must not be stored centrally or misused for commercial purposes.
Permission to view third parties must be available in accordance with the GDPR.
Digital health technologies should be designed to be barrier-free and accessible to all people without discrimination;
this goes hand in hand with appropriate further training and information opportunities for the insured, patients and healthcare providers.
The say of the affected people with care needs, including a right of veto for the use of robots, for example, must be defined.
Opportunities for online consultations, especially in rural areas, should be expanded as a complementary service.
Improving public transport for all through digitization
The automotive and IT groups are in the process of tapping into new sources of profit with digital mobility offerings.
They want to define their services as part of public transport and divert funds for public transport to their coffers.
In this context, public transport can be made more attractive through digital traffic control.
The overview and bookability of all transport offers in one app are overdue.
The use of shared small vehicles (ridesharing) can be a useful addition to public transportation.
Real climate protection in transport cannot be achieved with digital car fleets.
The decisive factor is the will to make public mobility available to all and to finance it from tax revenues in such a way that it does not depend on the individual's wallet whether ecological alternatives are affordable.
And that municipalities do not have to resort to profit-oriented offers from corporations due to empty coffers.
We advocate for a public mobility platform on which all offers from all transport associations are visible and bookable.
In perspective, this platform must include all European regions.
The resulting data may only be made public in aggregated form.
Under no circumstances may anonymized user data be made public, as anonymized movement profiles also allow conclusions to be drawn about specific individuals.
The obligation to provide aggregated traffic data naturally also affects all private providers of transport services.
Accessibility to all transport services must remain possible even without a smartphone or app, so as not to exclude people who cannot or do not want to use smartphones and computers.
Children and people with disabilities can also board streetcars and buses running at regular times independently.
This must also be preserved in a digitalized world of transport.
We reject pricing systems that charge for public transport according to the number of kilometers traveled and the time of day.
They allow for-profit and (partially) private providers to make higher profits, but make it more expensive for most people to use.
The so-called last mile must also be included in the public transport ticket.
Ticket prices must fall, and in the long term they must be free of charge for everyone.
When inviting tenders or awarding public transport contracts to private providers, it is mandatory to comply with applicable collective agreements in order to ensure good working conditions.
DIE LINKE supports nationwide collective agreements for local public transport.
Insofar as self-driving vehicles are used, it is mandatory to ensure that they are accompanied by human personnel who can provide immediate assistance in emergency situations and help people with disabilities to board and exit the vehicle.
We also finally need staff back at all stations.
Cameras and information columns do not provide support and protection in emergencies!
Sustainable digitization: ecological and social
The environmental costs of new applications must be weighed against the societal benefits.
Digitization requires high energy and resource consumption for data centers and end devices.
This applies to both the electricity required and the raw materials needed.
In addition, working conditions in many countries are often poor in the mining of raw materials, in the manufacture of devices and also in IT service.
While many new technologies are energy efficient, the savings are eaten up by larger terminals, higher resolution, heavier usage, and shorter equipment life.
This "rebound effect" significantly increases both raw material requirements and electricity consumption.
If this increasing electricity consumption is to be generated ecologically so as not to further damage the climate, all the more wind turbines, solar fields and hydroelectric power plants will have to be built - which in turn consume land, materials, rare metals and energy for their production.
An increasing demand for raw materials coming from other countries also increases the danger of war in a capitalist world.
DIE LINKE is therefore committed to a social discussion about the areas in which we want to use digital applications,
and where this is in the interests of environmental protection,
the protection of working
and human rights
and within the framework of an internationally fair trade policy.
Strict socio-ecological requirements must apply to public procurement with regard to labor and environmental protection in the manufacturing countries, durability and reparability.
Companies that violate their due diligence obligations in the supply chain must be excluded from public contracts and foreign trade promotion (see section "Supply Chain Act" in the chapter "Globally fair").
For digital devices, we need legal requirements for minimum service life, energy efficiency, modular design, reparability by users and workshops, and mandatory software updates and availability of spare parts (cf. eco-design requirements in the "Consumer protection" chapter).
Manufacturers must include repair instructions.
At the latest when manufacturers end support and no longer provide security updates, the source code must be published so that others can write and provide security updates.
For batteries and electrical appliances, the introduction of a deposit system should enable the effective return of raw materials to the production cycle and recycling of the components.
Repair and reuse must take priority over recycling of materials (see chapter "Climate and environmental protection").
It is mandatory that waste heat from data centers be used for building heating (local and district heating supply).
All data centers must be included in a cadastre with an energy certificate.
We seek a ban on the energy- and resource-wasting generation of so-called cryptocurrencies.
The "top runner model" must also apply to data centers and software (cf. ecodesign requirements in the "Consumer protection" chapter).
The carbon footprint of IT products, data centers or software must be transparent and comparable.
For software programming, specifications must be made for energy-saving programming.
The principle of data economy must be effectively anchored in law.
In addition to meeting data protection requirements,
this also reduces the power consumption of digital applications.
For streaming and video-on-demand services, specifications must be made for energy-saving default settings.
For justice, self-determination and gender diversity
Money, time, recognition and power are unequally distributed between the sexes.
We no longer want to allow people to be devalued because of their gender or sexual orientation - nor do we want people to be forced to conform to a certain norm.
Every person is worth the same and "All genders are beautiful".
Left Feminism - Time for a self-determined, safe and just life
As LINKE, we stand for a feminism that goes to the roots.
First and foremost, this means distributing money, work and time fairly between the sexes.
We want a society in which everyone can live freely, safely and independently, with time for family and friends
and at the same time be able to do meaningful and well-paid work.
In this way, we counteract a retraditionalization of gender roles, according to which women bear the main responsibility for care work in families.
We want a society in which women can participate in political decision-making in the same way as men.
In which life does not revolve around wage labor alone.
Capitalism, with its concomitant devaluation of unpaid (care) work, is a significant pillar of patriarchy - and vice versa.
Since patriarchal structures cannot be finally abolished without a change of system, we are fighting not only for our short- and medium-term demands for the upgrading of women and their work, but also for the overcoming of capitalism as systematized sexism.
Redistribute (care) work and time
On average, women and queer people receive lower wages and then lower pensions.
And they have lower wealth than men (gender pay gap).
Care work, which is considered a woman's business, is systematically devalued in the capitalist economy.
Women do most of the paid and unpaid caregiving and parenting work, and they are more likely to work part-time or in lower-paying jobs.
Those who are absent for a longer period of time due to parental leave and take a back seat in their job are less likely to find a good and secure job and are less able to move up the career ladder.
This is another reason why the majority of workers in the low-wage sector are female.
Many of them have a migration history.
In East Germany, wage differentials are smaller, but overall wages are much lower - more than one in three works for low pay.
In Germany, women perform 50 percent more unpaid care work than men (gender care gap).
Accordingly, women have less time for other activities or are forced to split their time between family, job and leisure.
Not infrequently, this multiple burden ends in burnout and other illnesses.
It's not just about improving the work-life balance so that women can juggle their children and careers even faster.
We need new working time models - for everyone!
That is why we are fighting for a society in which all activities and needs come into their own and in which gainful employment does not set the pace.
DIE LINKE supports the trade unions in their struggle for a significant reduction in working hours in the direction of a new normal working relationship with a 30-hour week, which could also take the form of a four-day week, for example (see chapter on "Good Work").
This leaves everyone more time for family, for themselves and for participation in politics and society.
This also includes a limit on overtime,
a right to family-friendly shift times
and a minimum wage of 13 euros.
In particular, we want to upgrade nursing, care and service occupations, in which a particularly large number of women work, and finally pay them decently.
We are abolishing the low-wage sector so that everyone can live from their work (see chapter on "Good Work").
This benefits women in particular.
We want to fundamentally restructure our economy.
It should not only be more sustainable
and more democratic,
but care work must be placed at the center.
Because the fact that nurses or geriatric nurses, educators or employees in household-related services often work poorly paid and under miserable conditions is systematic.
We need not only better paid nurses and educators, but also more of them!
100,000 nurses are needed in each of the hospitals and old people's homes, so that the nurses finally have time again for the people they care for.
We can finance this through solidarity-based health insurance and solidarity-based comprehensive long-term care insurance.
We will abolish flat-rate payments per case
and return hospitals and nursing homes to non-profit ownership, away from the market and profiteering (see chapter "Stop the nursing crisis! System change in health and care").
We want to expand child daycare nationwide, improve quality and hire more educators.
And of course, educators must be well paid so that the profession is attractive to many.
Because only with comprehensive all-day care will parents not have to choose between caring for their children and their careers (see the chapter on "Good Education").
With dignified wages for all, we will also finally put an end to the undignified pensions on which many women in particular have to live.
The improved recognition of child-rearing and care periods also means that unpaid care work is valued accordingly (cf. chapter on "Good pensions").
There are currently no real wage replacement benefits for family carers who are still working.
We want six weeks' leave with full, employer-financed wage compensation (cf. chapter "Stop the nursing crisis!") and regardless of the degree of relationship.
A majority of women are employed in the retail or cleaning sectors and are particularly often trapped in precarious employment.
We are calling for the abolition of fixed-term contracts and the transformation of mini-jobs into fully socially secure employment relationships.
We want to put an end to involuntary part-time work: All employees must have a legal right to a full-time position.
We want equal pay for equal work and work of equal value!
To this end, we will introduce a binding Equal Pay Act, including the right to take legal action by associations, so that women no longer have to go to court alone.
Private companies, too, must no longer be allowed to evade this.
We support the trade unions' efforts to reach comprehensive collective agreements so that women do not get into such a situation in the first place.
Our demand to raise basic salaries in nursing by 500 euros is a contribution to upgrading this work.
In order to promote the sharing of care and work in families as partners, we want to extend the parental allowance to twelve months per parent.
The parental allowance entitlement applies individually and is not transferable to the other parent.
In addition, there needs to be additional parental protection of ten days paid time off for the second parent after the birth of the child.
Women are less often represented in leadership positions in business, science and politics.
That has to change.
That is why we are calling for a 50 percent quota for women in management positions and greater sharing of management tasks and positions through job sharing or other working models (in contrast to the 30 percent quota of the grand coalition).
Social power relations are also reflected in sex work.
The Left Party is discussing different ways of dealing with prostitution politically.
We are united in rejecting the criminalization and stigmatization of sex workers.
There is a need to strengthen self-organization, voluntary counseling, retraining, and continuing education, adequate health care, and the social rights of sex workers as a whole, who face many disadvantages even as self-employed workers.
We also demand an entitlement to social benefits and socially insured employment, as well as inclusion in a solidarity-based employment insurance scheme.
Never cut back on life - no cuts at the expense of women and families
Privatization and cutback measures particularly affect education, care, social work and education.
Women suffer doubly from this: as employees and as unpaid care workers in the families, where they have to absorb the cuts through extra work.
This leads to additional workload and reinforces old role models.
The multi-billion dollar rescue packages for companies in the Corona crisis must not be absorbed by cuts in the social sector.
On the contrary, we advocate a socio-ecological system change that strengthens those areas in the economy and employment that are climate-friendly and make life better for everyone: personal services, education, training, an expansion of rail and public transport.
Our restructuring of the economy and the welfare state will make our society crisis-proof in the future and promote the life opportunities (not only) of women:
We are abolishing the debt brake.
Instead, we promote investment in the expansion of social services in public hands, beyond the market and profit.
We will raise the necessary funds for this by reintroducing the wealth tax (cf. the chapter on "Changing course with taxes").
Women, single parents and children benefit most from good and free social infrastructures - and people with low incomes.
Social and budgetary policies must be examined for gender equity and changed accordingly in the sense of gender budgeting.
End violence against women
We want every person - regardless of gender, sexual orientation, and lifestyle - to be able to live without fear of violence.
The state must ensure this through the Basic Law and through international agreements, but it does not do so sufficiently.
Violence against women is an expression and consequence of a social devaluation and oppression of women, of hierarchical and patriarchal gender relations.
It takes many forms and occurs in families as well as in public spaces.
Violence against women does not depend on social status; it exists in the digital world as in analog life.
Far too often, it ends fatally for women.
Every third day in Germany, a woman is killed by her partner or ex-partner.
To dismiss this violence as an "escalated relationship dispute" or a private matter misses the structural problem: murdering women because they are women is what we call femicide.
To effectively protect women from violence, we need social conditions in which women can live independently and in a self-determined manner - this also includes economic independence.
When women experience violence, they need rapid and needs-based protection and qualified help in women's shelters and other shelters.
Counseling centers must be easily accessible - regardless of physical impairment, residency status, or the living situation of those affected.
We want to change patriarchal structures; this is the only way to sustainably prevent violence against women:
The Istanbul Convention, the Council of Europe Convention on Preventing and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, must be implemented consistently and in full.
We want to reverse the restrictions made by the federal government during ratification so that numerous refugee or migrant women are not denied access to protection.
We want to expand violence protection structures and support systems and provide them with sufficient financial resources.
The financing of women's shelters and specialized counseling centers must no longer be a voluntary service.
What we need here is a nationwide flat-rate financing scheme in which the federal government participates.
Violence against the mother massively endangers the child's well-being and can be life-threatening for mothers and children.
When making decisions on custody and access rights, protection against violence must have top priority.
State authorities such as the police, courts and offices, as well as medical staff, must be sensitized to gender-based violence - including in digital form.
Explicit alternative (first) points of contact to the police in the form of non-governmental organizations must be created and financed, to which those affected can turn.
Refugee women often experience sexualized violence, not only in their country of origin and during their flight, but also in their country of refuge.
In the case of domestic violence, the right of residence previously dependent on the husband must be revoked and converted into an independent residence permit.
Mass shelters are also places that foster violence against women and must be dismantled.
On the run, after rejection and pushbacks at the European border and in the camps, women are often exposed to massive sexual violence and rape.
An open, solidary and humane refugee policy is the only effective measure against systematic violence against women.
It must be fought that human trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation and human trafficking for the purpose of labor exploitation must be fought without criminalizing and stigmatizing those affected!
As long as those affected do not receive secure and independent residence status, the perpetrators are protected by the victims' fear.
Residence permits, protection and compensation must be granted regardless of the victim's willingness to testify as a witness in criminal proceedings.
For those affected, we demand therapeutic resources, medical as well as psychological care, legal assistance and legal aid, access to social services and educational opportunities.
All forms of violence and glorification of violence against women, children and LGBTIQA* (lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans*, intersex, queer and asexual persons) must be consistently punished.
Public film funding needs a gender quota and the establishment of an effective as well as independent control outside the German Advertising Council to stop sexist advertising.
Women must have access to social positions without having lifestyles imposed on them.
Both the ban on headscarves and the obligation to wear them would be a restriction on women's opportunities for development.
It is important not to patronize women in their personal decisions about how they dress and not to exert any pressure on them - either in one direction or the other.
Our feminism: solidary and international
In Brazil and Poland, India and Nigeria, Germany and Ireland, women are taking to the streets for their rights.
They denounce violence against women,
they fight for their right to abortion
and against racism.
They are united by the common experience of sexist structures and violence - and they unite in the fight against it: on the net, on the street, in everyday life at work, in court, at home, in the travails of the plains.
Women and children worldwide are particularly affected by climate change and make up the majority of people fleeing their homes.
But they are not only victims, they are also important climate policy actors and fight against the exploitation of people and nature.
LEFT feminism is always concretely on the ground
and at the same time aware of international responsibility and solidarity
In economic and political decisions, values such as care, sustainability and health must be central.
We call for the use of civil measures of violence prevention and conflict resolution.
German foreign, development and human rights policy must be peace policy
and gender equality worldwide.
UN Resolution 1.325 "Women, Peace and Security" must be implemented - neither women's participation in peace processes nor in conflicts must be sidelined.
The conditions in the accommodations for refugees are inhumane.
We demand functioning and lockable sanitary facilities, protected zones and good health and food supplies.
A gender-responsive climate policy must take into account women's particular vulnerability to climate catastrophe.
n We want to make International Women's Day on March 8 a national holiday to commemorate women's struggles around the world in a wide variety of places and circumstances and to honor their common fight to overcome devaluation, exclusion and violence - Berlin has led the way.
Reproductive justice: Free choice for a life with and without children for all
In order to live self-determined lives, women and queer people must have real choices.
We want all people to be able to decide whether and how they want to live with children.
Only then can we achieve reproductive, physical and sexual self-determination for women and queer people.
This includes comprehensive information, access to contraceptives and the free decision to terminate a pregnancy.
Only when women can decide for or against pregnancy and parenthood without constraints is self-determined family planning possible.
But a life with children must also be socially secured:
This begins with good health care and education during pregnancy and birth.
Living with children should not be a risk of poverty.
Parents and single parents must be able to raise children in safe and healthy conditions (see chapter "Supporting families where they need it").
We want legal access to abortion for women, trans* and non-binary people.
We want to delete sections 218 to 219 b of the German Criminal Code (StGB).
Ongoing proceedings under 219 a must be discontinued immediately.
Public hospitals must ensure in their planning that abortions are performed.
Abortions are part of health care and, like other medical services, must be regulated.
The necessary technical training for this must become part of medical school.
All contraceptive methods must be paid for by all health insurance companies without exception.
Funding must be made available for research into new contraceptive methods to develop additional methods for men as well and to make contraceptive methods more tolerable for all.
Menstrual hygiene products must be provided free of charge by public health agencies and in public facilities.
Artificial insemination must be available to all people free of charge through health insurance coverage, including non-married, lesbian, single, trans* and queer people.
Women with disabilities have a right to reproductive self-determination and parenthood.
This includes the right to preserve and promote their fertility, as well as access to support services, for example, assistance to parenthood, and barrier-free access to comprehensive, independent counseling.
In order to implement the right to parenthood, housing and support services must be made available throughout the country in the context of accompanied parenthood.
For physical and sexual self-determination and equality of all lifestyles
We want diverse lifestyles to be treated equally under the law.
In the future, special protection and support from the state and society should not be reserved for married couples, but should benefit those who live with children or those in need of care - regardless of their sexual orientation and gender identity.
We want equal rights for all lifestyles where responsibility is taken for others.
We call for an elective kinship law in which not only (heterosexual) couples are allowed to take responsibility for each other, but any community that feels connected to each other.
This can also be a more than two-person relationship (for example, a multi-parent family with two lesbian mothers and two gay fathers).
These people should be granted extensive visiting rights in the event of illness, adoption rights and the right to refuse to testify.
At the same time, special allowances are due if a relative needs to be cared for (in accordance with elective kinship law) or if there are children in an elective kinship.
We want to reform the law of descent in such a way that existing disadvantages of lesbian and gay marriages and partnerships compared to heterosexual marriages and partnerships are eliminated.
This includes legal recognition of co-parenting as well as trans*, intersex, and non-binary parents.
This must also apply retroactively.
We will replace the marital splitting system with family- and gender-sensitive tax models and a freely transferable subsistence minimum (see chapter on "Changing taxes").
School curricula must comprehensively reflect the real diversity of lifestyles and gender and sexual identities.
Sexual health education initiatives in schools, workplaces, society, and queer scenes need to be strengthened.
The evaluation of different lifestyles in school lessons must be dispensed with.
Legal guardians must not be offered the option of excluding their children from sex education classes.
Offensive and Social for LGBTIQA*
The rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans*, intersex, queer and asexual people (LGBTIQA*) are non-negotiable for us.
We want LGBTIQA* to be recognized as a natural part of social reality as we age.
That's why we want more queer education opportunities in all areas of society.
We advocate for discrimination-free language that does justice to the diversity of gender and sexual identities.
Strengthening queer communities: bailout against Corona consequences
Corona also hit the facilities and structures of queer communities: Many association spaces, clubs, bars and cafés had to close.
In times of empty coffers, queer projects are the first to be cut.
We want to prevent that.
We call for a queer bailout to protect community structures and institutions.
In the allocation of public funding, we want to reduce structural discrimination against lesbian, trans* and inter* initiatives and projects: Lesbian and gay projects should be funded to the same extent.
Lesbian communities should become more visible!
We want to build queer structures especially in rural regions and smaller cities.
Against poverty and social exclusion
One in three queer people in Europe struggles to make ends meet financially.
For intersex and trans* persons, the situation is even more precarious.
Queer youth often experience homelessness after coming out.
We want sanctuary and housing for young queer people at risk of homelessness.
Outreach youth work and homeless assistance must keep the specific (emergency) situations of LGBTIQA* in mind.
We want to eliminate structural exclusions and problems of lesbians (for example, lack of visibility, poverty among the elderly).
The same applies to the structural exclusions and problems of trans* and inter* persons.
For queer people we want more offers for self-determined living in old age with appropriate care and support options.
Above all, non-commercial public service and alternative housing and house projects such as multi-generation houses or housing cooperatives are to be promoted.
Fight discrimination
The fight against LGBTIQA* hostility is a task for society as a whole.
We therefore want a National Action Plan against LGBTIQA* hostility and for the acceptance of sexual and gender diversity.
To research intersectional forms of discrimination and gender-based violence against LGBTIQA*, we want to publicly commission and fund studies.
Discrimination and violent attacks continue to be part of everyday life for queer people.
Official crime statistics reflect only a fraction of this.
DIE LINKE is committed to providing comprehensive support for prevention projects and organizations that work to help victims of violence.
Prosecution of queer-hostile violence must be more vigorously pursued and punished than it has been in the past.
Hate crimes against queer people, communities or their supporters must be recorded and prosecuted nationwide.
The self-help and educational projects of LGBTIQA* communities must be supported and promoted in order to increase social acceptance.
Queer people still experience discrimination in the workplace.
Trans* people are disproportionately affected by unemployment.
People with HIV also experience discrimination at work.
The structural exclusions are intensified for people who experience multiple discrimination, such as racism or hostility towards people with disabilities.
The Federal Anti-Discrimination Agency is to be funded in such a way that it can provide counseling services in a target group-oriented, multilingual and barrier-free manner in the world of work.
We want to strengthen discrimination protections for trans* and intersex people.
An important key in the fight against discrimination in the workplace is employee self-organization.
We want more queer educational opportunities that provide impetus for self-organization in the world of work.
Initiatives that promote an open workplace free of fear and discrimination in workplaces must be encouraged.
The blood donor guideline must be adapted to the state of science.
Exclusion criteria and periods that discriminate against gay and bisexual men and trans* persons must be abolished or shortened accordingly.
We want to include protection against discrimination based on gender identity, sexual orientation and lifestyle in Article 3 of the Basic Law.
In order to guarantee this extended fundamental right, anti-discrimination bodies and a right of action for associations in the General Equal Treatment Act (AGG) are needed.
Self-determination for trans*and intersex people
We want self-determined gender registration for all.
A change of first name and civil status must be possible with a simple declaration at the registry office - without the previous compulsory consultations, expert opinions, medical certificates and court proceedings.
The Transsexual Act (TSG) pathologizes.
We want to abolish it and replace it with a right of self-determination.
The externally determined operations on trans* persons and intersex people due to the legal obligation of surgery and sterilization in the TSG in the years 1981 to 2011 must be historically reviewed.
The people affected by this must be adequately compensated.
We want to set up a compensation fund.
We want to strengthen the rights of trans* and intersex children and youth.
The right to physical integrity is a fundamental and human right.
We prohibit all medically unnecessary interventions on the internal or external sexual characteristics of children.
This includes recognition of their self-designated gender.
We advocate for gender-neutral restrooms and washrooms, especially in public buildings, to reduce discrimination based on gender identity.
Trans* persons need free access to all necessary medical services (medical therapies, psychotherapy, if desired operations) and the assumption of the costs incurred for this by the health insurance companies - even if they have no health insurance and regardless of the current residence status.
Conversion treatments must be completely banned, including on adults.
In the future, guardians or legal guardians must be able to be legally prosecuted if they nevertheless accept or arrange conversion treatments.
We advocate for queer health centers focused on trans* and inter* even in small towns and rural areas.
The rights and special concerns of trans* and intersex persons must also be protected in the penal system and during police searches.
Safeguard and empower queer refugees!
People who flee to Germany are confronted with many difficulties.
The Covid 19 pandemic has further restricted the right to asylum and exacerbated the precarious situation of many refugees.
The requirement for physical distance in times of pandemic turns out to be particularly problematic for mass shelters.
The even greater isolation puts the mental health of many refugees at risk (see chapter "Solidary Immigration Society").
We demand decentralized accommodation for queer refugees (as for refugees as a whole), access to the internet, the right to barrier-free health care regardless of residence status, and the expansion of specific networking and support services for queer refugees.
Queer people who are persecuted must be granted unrestricted asylum or protection.
They must not be deported - not even to so-called safe countries of origin.
We want to establish specialized centers for LGBTIQA* refugees nationwide.
There, queer refugees can get advice on the asylum procedure as well as on residence and migration law.
There is also a need for opportunities for psychological counseling for LGBTIQA* refugees.
Self-determined living in an inclusive and barrier-free society
We want a country in which all people live together on an equal footing and participate in democratic decision-making - regardless of their individual abilities, physical condition, origin and social status, gender, age or sexual orientation.
An inclusive society in which no one is excluded.
The reality is different.
Approximately16 percent of the population lives with recognized disabilities and chronic conditions.
Due to a variety of barriers in everyday life - for example, in transportation, workplaces, educational institutions, medical practices, government offices or in the digital realm - participation is only possible to a limited extent for them.
The general labor market is still not barrier-free and inclusive more than ten years after ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (UN CRPD).
On the contrary, those affected are threatened with a poverty spiral.
People with disabilities and chronic illness are disproportionately unemployed, dependent on welfare, and institutionalized.
DIE LINKE advocates the full and effective participation of all people, including those with disabilities.
The basic prerequisite for this is accessibility - in terms of construction, communication and structure.
Accessibility benefits everyone.
It must therefore be a binding obligation for both the public and private sectors.
We understand inclusion as a process to reduce social inequalities.
It refers to all those people who are excluded from participation and pushed to the margins of society: People with disabilities, the elderly, refugees, Sinti*zze and Rom*nja, linguistic and cultural minorities, people with other faiths and sexual orientation and many more.
Inclusion gives all people the opportunity not only to be part of political, social and cultural life, but also to actively shape it in a self-determined way.
Policies for people with disabilities and chronic illnesses must be designed as a human rights task - the United Nations Convention makes clear stipulations here.
These are also binding for Germany and must be implemented.
Human rights must not be subject to cost.
That is why we want to anchor self-determination as the most important principle in disability policy and make it enforceable.
People with disabilities and chronic illness have a right to self-realization.
Barriers must be broken down - also in people's minds and in the digital world.
Accessibility is the basis for equal participation and promotes solidarity-based cohesion.
We want a guaranteed right to personal assistance in all areas of life for a self-determined life in work, education, housing, leisure, family and parenthood as well as in voluntary work.
It must also be possible for those who do not organize their personal assistance/support staff themselves via the employer model to take the personal assistants with them during a necessary stay in the hospital and in preventive care and rehabilitation facilities.
We want to improve the working conditions of the assistance and support staff.
Their work should be paid according to collective agreements, even if they are employed directly by the assistance recipients in the so-called employer model.
For this to work, municipal payers must be required to refinance collectively agreed wages.
Collectively agreed wages are to be at least at the level of the collective agreements for the public sector.
In addition, a tariff loyalty regulation is to apply to public contracts.
We want to provide the approximately 500 counseling centers of the supplementary independent participation counseling (EUTB) nationwide with the financial and personnel resources they need to offer their counseling services on a long-term basis and without barriers.
We want to pay the employees working there according to the collective wage agreement.
In particular, people with disabilities and chronic illnesses are to be employed as consultants subject to social insurance contributions.
The application procedures for the approval of funds must be simplified.
Health and nursing care must be provided close to the patient's home and made a mandatory municipal task.
Good work and income from which one can live must also be promoted more strongly for people with disabilities in an inclusive labor market.
This includes employees in workshops!
People with disabilities are disproportionately affected by unemployment: Because there are too many barriers and because of other discrimination.
We need an inclusive labor market.
The statutory employment obligation of companies must be raised again to six percent and implemented consistently - subject to sanctions.
Initiatives to reduce long-term unemployment must specifically include people with disabilities.
Special consideration should be given to women with disabilities.
We want to significantly increase the compensatory levy.
All regulations should be eliminated that allow companies to reduce the payment of the equalization levy and thus effectively nullify the employment obligation.
We ensure that the funds from the equalization levy are only used to create and secure inclusive conditions in the general labor market and not for institutional funding.
We want to promote and expand inclusive companies with employment subject to social security contributions for people with disabilities and chronic illnesses to a much greater extent.
We want to make special work environments (workshops for people with disabilities) obsolete step by step - with the help of immediately enforceable exit strategies and timetables as well as incentives for employment with public and private employers in the general labor market.
In doing so, we want to ensure that people with disabilities do not experience any reduction in their social protection or retirement benefits, which are currently linked to workshops for people with disabilities.
We consider the immediate introduction of the collectively agreed or statutory minimum wage to be an intermediate step for employees of workshops for the disabled.
In order to implement these demands, we want to align the rights of the representatives of severely disabled persons and the workshop councils with the rights of the works and staff councils.
People with disabilities must be provided with work assistance for their political work.
The activities of the women's representatives and the workshop councils must be financed and secured to meet demand.
Public investments and subsidies must be tied to the criterion of accessibility, including in doctors' offices, medical facilities and renovation measures.
The private sector must also enable comprehensive accessibility.
To this end, we want to include binding and effective regulations in the General Equal Treatment Act (AGG) and in the Disability Equality Act (BGG), as well as in all laws that oblige private providers of publicly accessible goods and services to create accessibility in accordance with the UNCRPD.
We want to introduce a right of action for associations so that anti-discrimination associations can sue.
In the future, housing construction will be subject to a fundamental requirement of barrier-free accessibility.
An investment offensive is needed to implement social, non-profit housing construction with barrier-free apartments and inclusive housing options - including in existing buildings.
Landlords must no longer be able to refuse consent to a handicapped-accessible conversion of their apartment.
Urban development funding must be directed towards the development of inclusive and comprehensively barrier-free living spaces and urban quarters in which an equal coexistence of all people with and without disabilities, oriented towards the social space, is achieved: a universal design (design for all or benefit-for-all concept) in accordance with Article 2 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
One school for all!
We want inclusive education and upbringing of children and adolescents with and without disabilities in all phases of development with appropriate qualification of staff and sufficient staff and material resources in the facilities (see chapter "Good education").
All laws and regulations must be reviewed to determine whether they comply with the UN CRPD and, if necessary, amended accordingly.
The position of people with severe so-called mental and multiple disabilities, mental impairment and chronic illness should also be improved.
A Federal Participation Act that conforms to human rights and does not provide for cost reservations, income and asset imputations and reasonableness tests, thus creating real equality of opportunity.
We want participation benefits for people with disabilities and chronic illnesses to cover needs and to be financed independently of income and assets in all areas of life according to uniform nationwide criteria and through federal funds.
We also want to introduce a participation allowance.
An immigration society based on solidarity
Immigration is not a threat, but everyday life for many, a component of our society and the right of every individual.
Germany is home to people from a wide variety of places, with different histories and more diverse than ever before.
We live, love and work together.
We will not join in when employees and pensioners in Germany are played off against people fleeing poverty, oppression, the consequences of the climate catastrophe and war.
If wealth were distributed more equitably, there would be enough for good living, housing and working - for everyone.
The economy is often based on the exploitation and poor working conditions of migrants with often precarious residence status and sometimes limited health care, for example in slaughterhouses, asparagus fields and in care.
People with a migration history are even more frequently affected by poverty, exclusion and unemployment after generations.
Their children are systematically disadvantaged in the education system, and those with a migrant-sounding last name are more likely to have problems finding housing and jobs.
These legal and social discriminations must be dismantled.
But instead, the German government continues to rely on deterrence, division and isolation.
The result: growing racism in society and state institutions such as the police, where extreme right-wing networks (cue NSU 2.0!) are up to mischief.
And again and again right-wing terror.
Our Agenda against Racism: Social Offensive and Equal Rights for All
To overcome racism and discrimination, a just distribution of rights, wealth and resources is needed.
We want participation instead of integration.
Because democracy requires participation in everyday life.
We want all people who live here to be equal legally, politically and socially as part of a participation agenda.
Together with numerous movements and anti-racist initiatives like Seebrücke, Aufstehen gegen Rassismus and Black Lives Matter, we stand #indivisible against social division, racism and right-wing agitation.
For us, anti-racism is much more than symbolic politics.
Investment is needed in cohesion and participation rather than exclusion and compartmentalization.
And equal rights for all.
Our goal is a fundamental policy change - towards global freedom of movement,
equal rights for all and
an immigration society based on solidarity.
We oppose everyday racism and structural racism in state and society.
DIE LINKE stands for open borders for all people in a Europe of solidarity that does not seal itself off.
We fight for safe escape routes and a society that realizes human rights - instead of building walls and adapting basic rights to the current budgetary and mood situation.
Residence and work permits are needed regardless of the length of employment and employer
, as well as nationwide controls to enforce the minimum wage of 13 euros for all people (see chapter "Work").
To counter a possible shortage of skilled workers, there is no need for the targeted poaching of qualified people abroad, but for decent training, working conditions and pay for all people in this country.
There needs to be better recognition of the qualifications and degrees of non-EU citizens so that they can continue to practice their professions.
We oppose the restriction of social security for migrants from EU countries and other states by the federal government.
Health protection must not be restricted: There needs to be a nationwide hardship fund and an anonymous health insurance voucher for the treatment of people without coverage; we want to abolish exceptions to compulsory insurance (see the chapter on "Health").
There should be a legal entitlement to interpreter services within the framework of medical services.
Inclusion, participation and accessibility must also no longer be a question of the residence title.
We want the right to vote and stand for election at all levels for all people with a migration history who live in Germany for the long term, so that they can help shape society on an equal footing.
All children and adolescents born here whose parents live permanently in the country should be granted German citizenship and have a right to multiple citizenship - without having to renounce the citizenship of their parents.
Migrants should have a legal right to naturalization after five years of residence in the Federal Republic.
We demand legalization possibilities for people without residence status and effective right to stay regulations for people who have to live in an uncertain residence status or with chain toleration.
For them, we want to create safe access to education, health and labor protection against exploitation.
We reject deportations, especially to war, persecution and misery or as a form of double punishment
- in contrast to all other parties represented in the Bundestag.
We have always voted against it here and will continue to do so in the future.
Anti-racism into law: A clear working definition of institutional and structural racism is needed, as in Thuringia.
We also call for a fundamental reform of the General Equal Treatment Act (AGG) and a right of action for associations.
There is a need for protection against discrimination that also includes state action.
We call for a Federal Anti-Discrimination Act (FADA) to protect against discrimination by government agencies.
There needs to be an anti-racism officer with real powers.
There is a need for institutionalized support and counseling structures for people with experiences of racism that are low-threshold and appropriate.
These structures are to be financed on a regular basis throughout the country.
DIE LINKE demands that a protection and promotion clause against racist discrimination be included in Article 3 of the Basic Law.
Racism and esprit de corps in the authorities must finally be addressed!
This requires organizational development in the administration that is sensitive to discrimination and police reform (see chapter "Security for All").
We want a Participation Act to better include people who have experienced racism and make them more representative in society.
This includes a quota to increase the proportion of people with a migration history in public administration in line with their share of the population, and a participation council to be involved in important decisions in business, science and politics.
Here it is crucial for us that migrant self-organizations are part of the participation council and that it is represented by an equal opportunities officer.
We demand that an Enquete Commission be established to advise the Bundestag on the implementation of the demands from the NSU Committee as well as the UN Committee on Anti-Racism (ICERD).
We demand a humanitarian right to stay for victims of right-wing violence without a permanent residence status.
Victims of racism and their families must be better supported.
There needs to be an expansion of compensation for victims of racist and anti-Semitic attacks.
People who experience racism are not a security problem.
Responsibility for migration and integration must be taken away from the Federal Ministry of the Interior.
We call for a Federal Ministry for Migration and Participation.
We want to support civil society groups that work against racism, anti-Semitism, homophobia and transphobia, antiziganism, religious fundamentalism, anti-Muslim racism and for more democracy, as well as refugee councils, migrant associations, self-governing counseling services and the self-organization of migrants more strongly and finally on a permanent basis through a Democracy Promotion Act (see chapter "Against Right-Wing Violence").
Anti-racist initiatives are to receive more financial support.
Coaches, trainers and volunteers in clubs and (fan) projects who carry out participation work must be given more support.
Significantly more investment is needed in public infrastructure and social cohesion, i.e. better equipment, better working conditions and more staff in schools, daycare centers, administration, youth and cultural centers (see chapter "Investments").
We want to expand low-threshold services, especially for migrants and refugee women as well as queer refugees and migrants, and support them.
We want a fund for welcoming municipalities that ensures freedom of movement for refugees and helps welcoming municipalities and cities that show solidarity.
Municipalities that want to improve the conditions for a welcoming culture can use it to apply for funding for the care and integration of refugees.
These investment funds can then be used for public services in general.
We will launch an immediate program to train and hire additional school social workers and teachers to teach German as a second language.
The right to schooling must apply to all children nationwide and regardless of residency status, including the legal right to childcare and all-day places.
Qualifications for vocational training must be offered regardless of age.
We want to provide educational and integration opportunities regardless of residency status.
We want to provide decentralized housing for refugees throughout Germany and offer them free language courses nationwide.
Instead of discriminatory benefits in kind, we want regular cash benefits equivalent to the solidarity-based minimum income for all people.
Defending humanity: Saving people, clearing escape routes, fighting the causes of flight
German corporations export weapons all over the world, but people who flee from these weapons and the wars waged with them are to be locked out.
Many are fleeing because Western corporations are destroying their countries.
But their entry into Europe is hampered by inhumane means.
More than 20,000 people have died on their way to Europe in the past seven years, drowned in the Mediterranean, dying of thirst in the desert.
In the camps on the borders, on the ground of the EU, there is unbearable misery.
Germany is making itself politically dependent on regimes that are taking over the job of fending off refugees at Europe's external borders; at home, the extreme right is mobilizing.
But it could be done differently.
Because there is enough space and resources.
If wealth were distributed more equitably, there would be enough for everyone.
Human life and dignity must not depend on passport or residence permit.
That is why we stand up against isolation and deportations, for the right to go, to come and to stay.
And for overcoming the economic injustices and ideologies of inequality such as racism and nationalism that repeatedly become popular weapons in the competition for resources, wealth and life chances.
Stop it!
Instead of being played off against each other, let's stand together for justice:
saving people,
globalizing social justice
, and actually fighting the causes of flight - not the refugees.
Enough with the excuses: Save the people!
The EU's deportation agency Frontex must be disbanded and replaced by a civilian European sea rescue program.
We want to put existing instruments for monitoring the Mediterranean and the external borders at the service of sea rescue.
The criminalization of civil society sea rescue must end immediately.
All European "hotspots," such as the Moria slum camp and its successors, must be dismantled.
There needs to be an immediate humanitarian program to receive the people.
As long as a European solution cannot be implemented, the German government must lead the way with a coalition of the willing.
We want legal and safe ways to enter the EU.
This deprives touts of the basis for doing business.
The Geneva Refugee Convention, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the European Convention on Human Rights must be respected.
In January 2021, the UN Refugee Agency denounced the practice of refoulement at Europe's borders, saying the right to asylum is in danger.
The principle of non-refoulement at the EU's external borders and on the high seas must be followed without restriction!
The refugee deal with Turkey and similar agreements or forms of cooperation with militias and dictators in states such as Libya, Egypt, Sudan and Morocco must be revoked.
Escape is not a crime!
Individual access to asylum procedures and legal protection must be ensured for asylum seekers at the EU's external borders.
Women, the sick, the elderly, children, religious and ethnic minorities, and people with disabilities and queer people are particularly vulnerable.
They must be safe from violence, misery and exploitation.
We reject fast-track procedures and detention of protection seekers (whether in so-called return, transit, controlled centers or "hotspots").
Extend and enforce the right to asylum!
We want uniform protection standards at a high level;
we want to put an end to the shifting of responsibility to other states with the help of safe third country or country of origin regulations.
Persecution on the grounds of sexual orientation and of trans* and intersex people (LGBTIQA*) must be recognized in practice as a reason for flight.
Negative competition through lowered standards of housing, care and rights must be abolished!
The German government must finally push for the EU to take action against member states that systematically disregard their human rights obligations.
We demand a nationwide independent asylum procedure counseling by welfare organizations and associations, which must be publicly financed; there
should be no blanket asylum revocation examinations; the quality of asylum examination and internal control must be significantly improved in order to effectively reduce the large number of illegal and erroneous decisions of the BAMF
There are no "economic refugees" - no one flees voluntarily!
We call for the extension of binding refugee rights to poverty, environmental and climate refugees, as well as a corresponding humanitarian visa allocation.
There is a need for comprehensive admission quotas through the UNHCR's resettlement program
and the lifting of visa requirements for those seeking protection.
The Dublin system must be overcome:
We want a European refugee apportionment to share responsibility, which is based on the wishes and interests of the refugees and takes into account existing family ties, language skills and individual circumstances.
Unequal distribution can then be compensated for by equalization payments from countries with low admission numbers;
countries, regions and cities that are willing to take in more refugees receive financial support from EU funds.
The right to family reunification must apply without restriction - also for "subsidiary" beneficiaries of protection.
Unaccompanied minor refugees must have the right to be joined by their siblings.
We demand that municipalities be allowed to decide for themselves whether to accept additional refugees beyond those allocated to them.
Municipally based boards should also be able to order hardship permits in the future.
No human being is illegal!
The right to freedom of movement must not be dependent on the chance of birthplace or economic exploitability.
DIE LINKE advocates a comprehensive liberalization of visas as well as an open and solidary immigration law that is no longer based on the criteria of origin or economic usability.
If you really want to fight the causes of flight, you must finally change the conditions that repeatedly force people to flee and make help necessary.
Instead of continuing to systematically export causes of flight such as weapons, environmental and climate destruction and poverty, we therefore want to overcome global injustices,
Democracy
and support social movements from below
and effectively help people in need (see chapter "Social justice worldwide").
Strengthen democracy
Stop right-wing terror and violence
The extreme right has long since crossed the threshold into terror.
The list of right-wing attacks from the last two years alone is long.
We especially remember the attacks in Kassel and Halle in 2019 and Hanau in 2020 with several deaths.
Right-wingers commit assassinations of migrants, people of Jewish and Muslim faith, leftists and other dissidents;
the security authorities repeatedly prove incapable of apprehending the perpetrators.
This has a terrible tradition in the Federal Republic, from the attack on the Munich Oktoberfest to the murders of the NSU.
Germany has had a frightening right-wing terrorist continuity since at least the 1980s.
The perpetrators are encouraged by a social climate in which the value of human life is questioned.
The path to bloodshed begins with agitation in everyday life.
Right-wing groups and parties try to serve people's fears and needs in the face of the consequences of neoliberal policies.
They distract from social struggles for better wages
and redistribution of social wealth and
reinterpret them into ethnic, religious and cultural conflicts,
fight gender equality and sexual diversity.
And they spread anti-Semitic conspiracy theories - especially in view of the corona pandemic.
Because the Office for the Protection of the Constitution gives priority to the protection of informants, it repeatedly obstructs police investigations and legal clarification - and even helps to build up extreme right-wing structures.
Education and resistance against the right is done by others: Most of the time, it is volunteer-organized civil society projects and antifa initiatives that do educational work, make solidarity a practical experience, and go where it hurts.
For this, conservatives call them "nest-destroyers," they are deprived of public funds, and they are criminalized as "left-wing extremists."
The AfD is attempting to undermine unpopular associations and civil society actors.
and even state centers for political education.
Conservatives call for restricting fundamental rights
and (even) more powers for security agencies.
Obviously, however, there is no deficit of information, equipment and authority there - but there is an attitude problem.
DIE LINKE is standing up to it - on the streets, in the workplaces, in the parliaments.
Together with broad alliances, we block Nazi marches and fight against right-wing attacks and for the social ostracism of right-wing ideas.
We oppose every form of misanthropy, whether from the right-wing fringe or from the supposedly respectable center of society.
Civil disobedience is part of democratic protest and must not be criminalized.
With its policies, the grand coalition has prepared the breeding ground on which racism and ideologies of exclusion thrive.
The rise and radicalization of the AfD are the result of these failed policies as well as the successful racist reinterpretation of the causes of social division.
With the AfD gaining strength, there is a danger of the re-emergence of a fascist party with nationwide mass influence.
It is therefore necessary to stop the AfD on the streets and in parliaments.
An effective policy must fight causes and educate: Overcome poverty and low wages,
push back the extreme right,
advance the democratization of society,
create social security,
and defend basic anti-fascist values with all democratic means.
Strengthen the counterforces in civil society!
Protest and education against the right are a condition of democracy
and must no longer be criminalized.
Projects of mobile counseling against right-wing extremism, victim counseling and civil society democracy alliances as well as antifa initiatives must be given stronger and long-term financial support with a genuine Democracy Promotion Act.
There must be no structural distrust and no compulsion to cooperate with the police and the domestic intelligence service.
Civil society associations such as Change.org, Campact and Attac must once again be considered non-profit through a reform of the tax code.
Replace the Office for the Protection of the Constitution with an independent monitoring center!
The Office for the Protection of the Constitution is a domestic intelligence service.
It is not part of the solution, but part of the problem.
It must be replaced by an independent "Observatory on Authoritarianism and Group-Related Misanthropy."
It is to monitor and educate about right-wing extremism, anti-Semitism, antiziganism, racism, religious fundamentalism and other forms of group-based hostility toward people (cf. chapter "Security for all").
The first step must be to uncover and end the domestic intelligence service's V-people system and its entanglements with the extreme right.
Remove the social breeding ground for the right!
The approval of right-wing politics is built on racism and the experience that interests can only be enforced against others.
That the government has given in to right-wing demands on flight and asylum has made the far right stronger, not weaker.
The division of society also strengthens religious fundamentalists.
Against this, a social policy for all people is needed.
With equal rights for all and
massive investment in the public infrastructure that holds a society together - affordable housing, free public transportation, good health care, jobs and education (see chapter on "Solidary Immigration Society").
Disarming the extreme right and investigating right-wing terror!
Investigation priorities at the BKA and the Federal Prosecutor's Office must focus more strongly on the networking of the militant Nazi scene, especially corresponding networks within the police, the Bundeswehr and special units.
They must no longer play down cases of right-wing violence as isolated incidents.
Reichsbürger and neo-Nazis must finally have their weapons permits revoked.
We want the right to stay for the victims of right-wing violence in order to counter the intention of the perpetrators to displace them,
and we condemn the attacks on mosques, synagogues and other sacred or symbolic places.
Left-wing people and structures are also repeatedly targeted by right-wing attacks.
We stand together in solidarity with victims of right-wing violence and their families.
They need better and long-term support.
Democratization of the security authorities!
A scientific investigation of extreme right-wing attitudes and racist practices in the police and the Bundeswehr is needed.
What is needed to combat racism and esprit de corps in the police force is an independent complaint and investigation body at the federal level, mandatory identification, an overhaul of training, and rotation models for closed units.
Racist, anti-Semitic, homophobic, transphobic and sexist views must also be actively combated in the authorities (cf. chapter "Security for all!").
We call for the establishment of a committee of inquiry into right-wing terrorism to continue the investigation and to come to terms with the long history of right-wing terrorist structures in the Federal Republic and the responsibility of state agencies.
All NSU files must finally be made accessible to the public.
We will press ahead with the parliamentary investigation of right-wing terror in the Bundestag, exert pressure for the release of secret service files on the Oktoberfest assassination and the NSU complex, among other things, and continue to support independent research to the best of our ability.
We demand the ban of militant, armed, neo-Nazi organizations.
We are committed to an anti-fascist culture of remembrance to preserve the memory of the victims of that time and today.
May 8, as the day of liberation from fascism, should finally become a national holiday.
We want to strengthen political education in schools and critical social sciences at universities.
Germany has a special responsibility because of the unprecedented crimes of the Germans against Jewish people and against Sinti*zze and Rom*nja because of the unleashing of the Second World War and the crimes against the peoples of Europe - especially against Poland and the peoples of the Soviet Union - against political dissidents, disabled people and homosexuals - and must oppose any kind of misanthropy, anti-Semitism, antiziganism, anti-Muslim and other racism and sexism.
Strengthening the rights of minorities
Danes, Frisians, Sinti*zze and Rom*nja as well as Sorb*innen/Wend*innen have lived in Germany for centuries, the regional language Low German is still spoken today.
The creation of cultural and linguistic diversity therefore includes the promotion of regional and minority languages recognized in accordance with the European Minority Charter (European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages).
We demand federal policy principles for the preservation and further development of the identity, language and culture of ethnic minorities as well as minority protection in the Basic Law.
In the structural support of regions, the needs of ethnic minorities shall be adequately taken into account.
In a very special way, this concerns Lusatia/Łužyca/Łužica, which is once again facing upheaval.
We stand for providing financial support to institutions and projects for the preservation, maintenance and development of minority languages and cultures in accordance with their growing tasks.
We are committed to protecting and promoting the Sinti*zze and Rom*nja.
We are committed to the continuation of the social reappraisal of the history of persecution of the Sinti*zze and Rom*nja during the Nazi era.
We support measures against antiziganism and to strengthen the participation of Sinti*zze and Rom*nja and want to communicate the social contribution of the minority in Germany more comprehensively in order to counteract the structural inequality and the deep-seated rejection towards the minority.
The recommendations of the independent expert commission on antiziganism must be implemented quickly.
We support the Europe-wide efforts to create reliable minority policy instruments at the level of the European Union - the rejection of the Minority Safepack Initiative by the EU Commission must not be the last word.
Security for all instead of a surveillance state
Violent crime has been declining for years.
But the feeling of insecurity is growing.
Every time there is a report on criminal offenses, the government's domestic politicians call for stricter laws and the restriction of basic rights.
This security policy manages the problems instead of solving them.
This has mainly benefited the conservatives' desire for power and the profits of the security industry.
The prevailing security policy is unjust.
It hits people with little money and no lobby harder.
Substitute prison sentences for minor offenses like driving without a ticket send thousands of people to prison each year.
Controls on white-collar crime and tax evasion, on the other hand, are being scaled back - the big ones are being let off the hook.
For many people, the restriction of fundamental rights and the arming of the police mean new insecurities.
Thus, division and aggression are reinforced in everyday life.
All the more so as more and more extreme right-wing networks in the police and judiciary are being uncovered.
The federal government's actions in the corona pandemic also too often met false standards.
The restriction of civil rights and freedom of assembly was severe, and proportionality was often not respected.
Occupational safety at large corporations like Tönnies and Amazon was poorly enforced,
while people in the park were harassed by police.
People with low incomes and in small apartments were particularly affected by this skewing of crisis policy.
Greater security is not achieved by arming the police and intelligence services, but by tackling the social causes of crime, insecurity and violence.
The enforcement of existing law and the prevention of dangers must be guaranteed, as must the protection of civil liberties and civil rights - for everyone!
We therefore want a change in policy - away from a one-sided focus on repressive measures and symbolic policies and toward a comprehensive approach to a democratic security policy that protects fundamental rights, strengthens prevention, expands social security, invests in the public sphere and democratizes the security authorities.
In the long term, we want to reduce state violence as a means of conflict resolution and replace it with civil society prevention and cooperation.
Enforce fundamental rights comprehensively!
A nationally effective anti-discrimination law is needed, modeled on the Berlin anti-discrimination law.
We oppose right-wing campaigns that seek to criminalize minorities and reinterpret social problems as ethnic or cultural conflicts.
More safety through more participation!
We want a security policy that does not have an authoritarian slant but involves all those affected.
In the event of a pandemic, for example, pandemic and health councils will be needed in the future to involve civil society in all its diversity in the implementation and design of infection control measures at the national and local levels.
Maintain proportionality!
Petty offenses such as "driving without a ticket" and "containerizing" as well as victimless offenses such as violations of the Narcotics Act or "illegal entry" must finally be decriminalized.
Substitute prison sentences for fines are socially unjust, they should be abolished!
Strengthen the rule of law!
Secret services are foreign bodies in democracy.
Due to their lack of transparency and the priority given to the protection of informants, they hinder police investigations and legal clarification.
The defense against danger is the task of a democratically controlled police force.
That is why we want to abolish the Office for the Protection of the Constitution and, in the long term, all intelligence services, and replace it with a monitoring center for authoritarianism and group-based misanthropy.
First of all, the use of undercover agents must be stopped (see chapter "Stopping right-wing terror and violence").
Make data protection effective!
We want to safeguard the right to informational self-determination: against data retention, inventory data access and online searches ("state Trojan"), non-individualized radio cell searches, ubiquitous video surveillance, spying and eavesdropping attacks and dragnet searches.
Especially in times of crisis: No lockdown for democracy - civil rights are systemically relevant!
There must be no disempowerment of parliaments, no (self-)empowerment of the executive.
Political activity and meetings must remain possible.
General assembly bans are poison for democracy.
Labor law must not be undermined either.
The right to privacy and informational self-determination also applies to employees.
This starts with protection against video surveillance at the workplace, the use of detectives or the monitoring of e-mail traffic.
In light of new opportunities for digital performance monitoring, we call for an Employee Data Protection Act.
Security is a public task!
We want to prevent or reverse the privatization of security through private security services, "black sheriffs," etc.
It is already difficult enough to monitor state security authorities, but it is impossible with private services.
Stop special criminal law!
The anti-terrorism legislation of the federal governments of the past 20 years should be put to the test in terms of civil rights.
Fighting crime and averting danger is the task of the law enforcement authorities.
This does not require special political criminal law (such as Sections 129 a and 129 b of the German Criminal Code); we want to abolish these sections.
We demand the lifting of the PKK ban.
State and civil organizations must not be militarized.
We want to end civil-military cooperation (ZMZ) in favor of strengthening technical relief and disaster management.
The existing structures of the ZMZ and the structures of the Bundeswehr reserve forces currently being established must be dissolved.
Stop violence - protect victims!
In order to combat violence against women and children, full funding is finally needed for women's counseling centers and emergency services, sufficient places in women's shelters, and prevention programs for violent men (see chapter on "Feminism").
Make gun ownership more difficult!
Weapons and ammunition possession are to be more strictly regulated.
Violent criminals must be consistently banned from carrying weapons.
We want compensation for intrusive measures such as house searches, body searches, telecommunications surveillance and the like if they are subsequently found to be illegal or abusive.
Police under the rule of law
The working conditions for many police officers are characterized by stress and overtime.
This is also due to the fact that they are always being assigned new tasks.
We want to change that and improve working conditions.
In a state governed by the rule of law, the police must not be used as a universal means of dealing with problems; they should be limited to the core tasks of averting concrete dangers and combating crime, in strict compliance with the principle of proportionality.
Documented cases of police discrimination doubled in 2019.
Every year there are hundreds of cases of unlawful police violence for which no one has to answer - there is hardly any prosecution.
Assaults are rarely reported and even more rarely charged.
In many cases, deployment strategies are used that contradict a democracy.
This creates a police culture that allows and encourages abusive use of force.
A change of direction is needed here!
The exercise of the state's monopoly on the use of force must be better controlled.
Especially for the many police officers who act in accordance with the rule of law and are committed to the protection of all people, the structures must be changed in such a way that they all meet this requirement.
Fewer assaults can only be achieved through a change in police self-image, forms of deployment and police culture.
In addition to streamlining its tasks, the police therefore need a modern, human rights-oriented mission statement based on proportionality, de-escalation and democratic control.
A citizen-oriented police force must protect the rights of migrants and demonstrators as
well as be accessible and approachable for the people.
DIE LINKE stands by all those who oppose police violence and racism and advocate the expansion of fundamental rights and democracy.
The movements against police violence and police law tightening, Black Lives Matter as well as the migrant initiatives and associations are our allies (see chapter "Solidary Immigration Society").
DIE LINKE will not participate in any government that further expands police powers
and dismantles democratic freedoms.
Good working conditions!
Police officers need good and modern training.
In addition, we need a modern staff co-determination system for the police.
Establishment of independent complaint and investigation offices against police violence and discrimination by police officers!
Effective control can only be carried out by an independent body.
It requires a critical eye, institutional independence of the police and the interior administration, and sufficient powers and resources.
Live diversity!
The composition of the police force must reflect the population.
Means for this can be anonymized application procedures or quotas.
Security through traceability!
For the purpose of investigation and prevention of assaults, incident logs and police videos should be kept at trusts.
Transparency now!
An individual labeling obligation must be introduced immediately and everywhere.
It must become a matter of course that police officers face citizens in an individually recognizable manner.
Limitation of powers according to the rule of law!
Police laws in recent years have softened the boundaries.
We want to reverse the tougher penalties for resistance offenses.
We also reject the expansion of the powers of the federal police.
Address problems!
A humanistic view of humanity must be strengthened in the police force and anti-human attitudes must be countered.
These need to be identified, acknowledged, made aware of, and addressed with the help of independent studies.
Create clarity!
Clear rules are needed to prevent racial profiling:
Suspicionless checks based on rubber-stamp paragraphs, as in the Federal Police Act, must be abolished.
No tolerance for intolerance in government service!
Police officers and officials who are found to have engaged in racist, sexist or homophobic behavior must be consistently disciplined, if necessary up to and including dismissal from the service.
De-escalation instead of armament!
We reject the militarization of the police, their increasing equipment with machine guns and "less lethal weapons" such as tasers, the use of rubber bullets or armed SEK against demonstrations.
We want to massively restrict the use of pepper spray by the police;
it should be banned in connection with gatherings, assemblies in public spaces and events.
Training must change!
Most of the police training for the senior service should take place in the general universities.
More critical police research and teaching is needed, as well as ongoing evaluation of police actions.
Give support!
There is a need for mandatory support services such as supervision, training on diversity and non-discriminatory behavior, and psychological support.
The aim is to support civil servants in coming to terms with their experiences
and to prevent discriminatory attitudes from becoming entrenched.
Proximity to citizens instead of barracking!
Officers in closed units should rotate to make it more difficult for esprit de corps to develop.
Overall, we want far fewer closed units
and instead a citizen-oriented police force.
Ensuring the independence of politics
DIE LINKE is the only party in the Bundestag that does not receive donations from corporations, banks, insurance companies or lobbyists.
That's where it stays.
The influence of lobbying on all politics must be pushed back.
Laws must not be written by those who profit from them.
Corruption and bribery, granting and accepting advantages, intransparency and party sponsoring must not be allowed to determine politics.
We want to introduce a binding, machine-readable and transparent lobby register and advocate a ban on the employment of lobbyists in federal ministries and - in the case of full-time parliamentarians - of members of parliament as paid lobbyists for third parties.
We need an independent lobby commissioner to supervise and control the register, elected by the Bundestag.
The federal government's draft legislation must be accompanied by a list of stakeholders and experts whose opinions were taken into account in its preparation and drafting or who otherwise contributed (legislative footprint).
No lobbying at schools!
Insofar as research and institutions or even individual studies are paid for by lobbyists, this must be made transparent.
Subsequent "thank-you donations" and bribery with the aim of enhancing the lobbyist's image must also be punishable without restriction as bribery of members of parliament.
Members of parliament must be prohibited from accepting donations.
The additional income of Members of Parliament must be published promptly in euros and cents.
We want to ban corporate and lobbyist donations to parties as well as party sponsorship such as corporate booths at party conventions and limit donations from private individuals to 25,000 euros per year.
We want to put a stop to the mixing of political and economic interests: Federal ministers and parliamentary state secretaries must wait at least three years after leaving office, or for the duration of their entitlement to transitional benefits, before moving to companies with whose economic interests they were previously politically involved.
We want to expand and strengthen the European Anti-Fraud Authority OLAF.
Democratize democracy!
Democracy is more than casting your vote every four years.
To achieve this, more co-determination and participation must be created at all levels and in all areas - from the European, international and municipal levels to the workplace and the economy.
That is why DIE LINKE has been demanding for years that popular initiatives, referendums and plebiscites must also be possible at the federal level.
We want the privatization of public services to be stopped, as well as all public-private partnerships (PPPs).
Until this is enforced, all privatization projects must be submitted to the citizens for a direct vote by referendum.
Democracy needs freedom of speech and of the press, freedom of assembly and association, and the freedom of citizens from state spying (see "Chapter on Data Security and Data Protection").
We want to introduce popular initiatives, referendums and plebiscites at the federal level.
The expansion of co-determination rights also includes the introduction of referendums, i.e. citizens can veto parliamentary decisions.
We want to set up binding citizens* forums.
Planning approval and regional planning procedures must be designed in such a way that everyone has sufficient time to inform themselves, to check whether their interests are being protected and to participate.
We reject any acceleration of the planning approval process at the expense of citizen participation.
We want to support and promote the instrument of citizens' councils developed by civil society, whereby randomly drawn people from the middle of society design solutions and issues.
We want to further expand the right to petition as a civil right.
We want to strengthen the rights of the opposition in all parliaments, plenary sessions and committees.
Committee meetings should always be open to the public.
DIE LINKE advocates lowering the voting age in all democratic decision-making processes at the European, federal, state and local levels to 14.
This includes the right to vote for migrants living here for a long time (see chapter "Solidary Immigration Society").
Freedom of movement is an essential right that must not be taken away from anyone across the board.
We want to ban parental house arrest.
This is an outdated educational tool that is contrary to the fundamental rights of children and adolescents.
We reject (automatic) membership of children in religious or ideological communities of their parents.
Joining may only be done by oneself and after reaching religious maturity.
People who are under full care must not be excluded from elections.
Accessibility of polling places and voting processes must be ensured.
Youth policy at eye level.
DIE LINKE is committed to a policy that respectfully includes all generations and stands up for the rights of pensioners just as it does for children and young people.
Young people should become responsible citizens.
To achieve this, we want a paradigm shift in youth policy: away from heteronomy and restriction and toward self-determination and serious, value-neutral education at eye level.
Better support for civic engagement
More than 30 million people are involved in this country.
In clubs, initiatives, rescue services, volunteer fire departments and many other places, committed people ensure social cohesion.
Democracy thrives on the critical and participatory involvement of a vibrant civil society.
We want to better support this diverse volunteerism and lower barriers for social groups that are underrepresented in engagement.
Civic engagement must not be misused as a substitute for public services.
Honorary office needs main office.
We want to expand and secure structures that support voluntarily engaged people.
Recognition of volunteerism must be improved.
Together with the states and municipalities, we want to create a uniform nationwide volunteer passport that allows discounts and free use of recreational, cultural, and educational facilities.
Youth Volunteer Services are important educational and orientation programs for young people.
We want to expand them and improve their quality, especially in terms of pedagogical support.
We want to provide better support for socially disadvantaged young people to make it easier for them to participate in voluntary services.
We support the demand of many volunteer service members for free travel for volunteer service members on public transport.
Civil society organizations that bundle commitment and make interests and demands visible are indispensable for a living democracy.
In recent years, obstacles have been placed in the way of many organizations with the non-profit law.
We want to change this and, to this end, reform the non-profit law (see chapter "Reforming income tax fairly").
We would like to focus the newly established German Foundation for Involvement and Volunteering more strongly on promoting existing involvement structures and further strengthening the role of civil society.
The character of voluntary engagement must be preserved.
That is why monetization must be prevented, and engagement must not replace or prevent jobs that are subject to social security contributions.
Volunteering must be given a higher priority in the political debate.
We therefore advocate for a main committee on civic engagement in the German Bundestag.
Culture: crisis-proof, diverse and accessible to all
Culture and art in their many forms are indispensable and relevant to democracy for all of us.
The freedom of art is protected in Article 5, Paragraph 3 of the Basic Law and thus constitutes a fundamental right.
However, art and culture can only be free and fulfill their social tasks if the promotion of culture is not regarded in large parts as a voluntary task of the states and municipalities.
DIE LINKE advocates that the promotion of culture be regarded as a compulsory task, i.e. the state not only protects art and culture, but also promotes them.
Art and culture help us to gain different perspectives on our social interaction and grievances, to explore their causes and to question them
- to enable us to improve conditions for all people in a spirit of solidarity.
Overcoming social inequality
and all cultural oppression is the task of progressive, enlightened culture,
whose content and goal is a humanistic view of man and the comprehensive development of the associated individuals in a spirit of solidarity.
DIE LINKE advocates a diverse, emancipatory and participatory culture that is accessible and affordable to all.
In metropolises as well as in rural areas, in cultural institutions and the independent scene.
Cultural diversity thrives on a broad concept of culture.
This includes participatory open spaces for children and young people, socio-cultural centers, urban club culture, club culture, municipal cinemas and theaters, orchestras, intercultural and transcultural places of cultural education, libraries, as well as spaces for experimental arts, museum facilities and a vibrant culture of commemoration.
We also see the promotion of culture as the promotion of infrastructure.
With this in mind, we want to maintain, develop and expand the cultural infrastructure in the city and the country.
DIE LINKE opposes the economization and privatization of public services.
Culture is primarily the responsibility of the states and municipalities.
Cuts in the cultural sector at the municipal and state level, which are already taking place in many places, are harbingers of distribution struggles that are imminent with the changed budget situation after the Corona crisis.
The Corona crisis confronts state and local governments with significant financial problems that they cannot solve on their own.
Against this backdrop, DIE LINKE is calling for, among other things, a wealth tax and an asset levy to deal with the costs of the crisis and to finance permanent stimulus programs (see the chapter on "Changing course with taxes").
Municipal debt and the need to save money would not only hit culture - as a so-called voluntary task - first, but would also further exacerbate the financial crisis.
That is why culture must become a joint task of the federal, state and local governments.
The federal government's ineffective pandemic response is also being played out on the backs of people working in the cultural sector, who have been in a permanent lockdown for months.
The government has failed to show a social solution for cultural workers.
For one thing, Coronasoforthilfe does not address the realities of life and work for many cultural workers.
On the other hand, many aid programs have major hurdles for small and medium-sized cultural enterprises.
However, the Corona crisis also exacerbates problematic situations that existed before the crisis, because culture is not adequately funded.
We therefore stand for continuous dialog with actors in the cultural scene and support protests by cultural workers and employees in the event industry.
DIE LINKE wants to enable the self-employed, freelancers and the arts, culture, media and creative sectors to resume their activities in good shape.
In this sense, access to a monthly lump sum of at least 1,200 euros - also retroactive from March 2020 - should be made available for the duration of the corona pandemic.
DIE LINKE wants to make culture crisis-proof and is fighting for good, living wage jobs and social security in the cultural sector.
Temporary, low-paid employment contracts and the high proportion of project funding - especially in the independent scene - do not allow for the accumulation of reserves.
The resulting unstable living and working conditions are not very crisis-proof.
The crisis-induced change also offers the opportunity to develop more sustainable,
gender-equitable
and crisis-proof funding systems.
We call for the inclusion of everyone in the statutory social security systems (pension, health, long-term care and unemployment insurance) in order to improve the social security of unsteady employees and the solo self-employed.
The artists' social insurance fund must be opened up to additional professional groups and the federal subsidy must be increased.
We demand binding minimum standards for remuneration in independent artistic and cultural work,
Sector-specific fee floors
and a legally secured exhibition fee for visual artists.
The negotiating position of creators must be strengthened in copyright contract law and their co-determination rights must be expanded vis-à-vis collecting societies.
We reject the trend of universities to increasingly establish collecting societies.
They are non-transparent, difficult to control and orient research towards profit rather than knowledge gain and the common good.
DIE LINKE fights for a science that serves the common good and not profit orientation.
DIE LINKE wants to put federal cultural funding on a new footing and reform funding systems.
Overall, federal cultural funding must be made more sustainable, more process-oriented, less bureaucratic, and less project-oriented.
In this sense, long-term scholarship programs that allow for the accumulation of reserves make sense, as does the continuation of the flexibilization of the law governing the allocation of funding.
Social standards, gender equity and diversity are to be established as criteria in the allocation of federal funding.
We want to equip the cultural promotion funds in line with demand and strengthen them as a central instrument of the independent scene.
The ban on cooperation between the federal and state governments must be ended.
We want culture to be a joint task
and a state goal of culture in the Basic Law in order
to strengthen cooperative cultural federalism.
We want a federal minister of culture with cabinet rank and a ministry of culture to represent the interests of culture more effectively vis-à-vis other ministries and at the European level.
The federal states and local authorities must receive sufficient funding so that they can fulfill their tasks in the preservation and promotion of culture,
to avoid tariff evasion,
and to ensure a wide variety of cultural offerings in the portfolio, along with the necessary investments for them.
DIE LINKE wants to realize "culture for all" and cultural participatory justice.
In order to strengthen equal opportunities, inclusion and diversity, diversity-oriented structural change in the cultural sector must be guided by criteria that are critical of power and discrimination.
Diversity in the cultural sector has an impact on the program, opening up new perspectives and approaches to culture and attracting new visitors.
To this end, anti-discrimination strategies must become effective across the board.
Structural discrimination based on social and ethnic origin, class, gender, sexual identity, disability, religion or belief must be eliminated.
Cultural education creates access to art and culture to enable people to engage creatively with themselves and their environment.
Places of cultural education therefore serve as spaces of self-education and self-empowerment.
For this reason, we want the federal "Kultur macht stark" program to be continued and sustained with increased funding.
Federal regulations should allow urban planners* to increasingly consider "open spaces" that are intended to serve participatory and experimental uses.
Club culture is an important and valuable part of our culture, free spaces where people can enjoy music, dance and party.
That is why we want to promote and preserve the club and festival culture.
Club death is part of the sell-off of cities, we want to stop it.
Clubs are therefore to be recognized as culture and placed on an equal footing with other cultural venues, especially in tax and building law.
"Art in buildings": 3 percent of the costs of public buildings are to be used for works of art.
We insist on compliance with the UNESCO Convention on Cultural Diversity in international trade agreements.
DIE LINKE stands for barrier-free and equal access to culture.
We want to create spaces for dialogue and exchange
and promote a change of perspective.
Admission to federally funded museums and collections must be free of charge in the future, and cultural education staff must be increased.
Cultural institutions must be barrier-free and offer inclusive services.
The experience of cultural institutions and projects with intercultural and transcultural mediation concepts should be utilized and disseminated.
We promote and demand the production and protection of temporary and non-institutional, freely accessible arts, such as street art and art in public spaces, in socio-cultural and self-managed centers.
We advocate for comprehensive cooperation between schools and art institutions as well as independent artists.
DIE LINKE wants to digitally secure cultural assets and make them accessible to all.
To achieve this, we need a nationwide digitalization strategy.
We are committed to an Open Access strategy in the cultural sector as well.
We create opportunities and incentives for cultural institutions to place their digital publications under free licenses.
We want to expand our cooperation with the German Digital Library.
We want to simplify the lending of digital media for public libraries.
We also want to preserve the cinematic heritage permanently and make it accessible.
DIE LINKE stands for a lively and pluralistic history and remembrance policy.
We want to encourage a critical examination of Germany's history in the 19th and 20th centuries, especially the reappraisal of the crimes of National Socialism.
The reappraisal and remembrance of colonialism and the associated slave trade and slavery must become more present.
We want to encourage a critical examination of the history of Germany in the 19th and 20th centuries, especially the reappraisal of the crimes of National Socialism as well as the history of both German societies and states after the Second World War.
The reappraisal and remembrance of colonialism and the associated slave trade and slavery must become more present.
We want to strengthen memorial sites as places of remembrance and learning as well as places of documentation.
Volunteer-led memorial work is to be supported across the board.
The working conditions especially of the pedagogical staff in museums and memorials have to be improved.
Together with local initiatives from civil society, we want to work through and reflect on postcolonial continuities in order to contribute to a democratic, anti-fascist culture, because remembering means acting.
We want to promote a living culture of remembrance that is oriented to the realities of the immigration society.
Halle 2019 and Hanau 2020:
We want to anchor the commemoration and remembrance of the victims of racist and anti-Semitic violence in Germany's recent history more firmly.
A legal basis for the restitution of Nazi looted art is to be created and provenance research expanded.
Likewise, the restitution of unlawfully acquired cultural property from colonial contexts must be regulated by law.
Strengthen media diversity, independent journalism and press freedom
Diverse and independent journalism is a prerequisite for the democratic formation of opinion and will and is therefore indispensable.
Digitization, concentration processes at newspapers and editorial offices, private opinion and market power of platforms such as Facebook and YouTube, the increase in hate messages and fake news: the media world is undergoing radical change.
DIE LINKE wants a diverse media landscape that includes a strong public broadcaster and non-commercial media alongside private providers.
Public broadcasting stands for media participation and basic services.
It must be able to respond to changes in media usage, offer journalistic quality and, in addition to news and information, comprehensive perspectives, education, entertainment and cultural diversity.
DIE LINKE wants a broad social debate to be held both on the reforms and the mission of public broadcasting and on journalistic standards in the media landscape.
Our central concerns regarding public broadcasting are:
We want to compensate and automate the exemptions from contributions for eligible persons with public funds and comprehensively extend them to social institutions and people with disabilities.
The tiresome dunning process should be scaled back.
DIE LINKE wants to preserve the programming autonomy of the broadcasters, which is protected by the freedom of broadcasting, and to ensure that public broadcasting is financed in line with its tasks.
The rights of freelancers and quasi-employees must be strengthened and they must be given secure income and employment prospects.
We want to expand regionality instead of cutting back: New ARD community facilities should also be located in eastern German states.
Strong regional and local coverage by all existing broadcasters must be guaranteed on a permanent basis.
Productions commissioned from third parties should be remunerated appropriately and fairly, and the awarding of contracts to external production companies should be linked to compliance with social standards such as collectively agreed wages, minimum wages and industry-specific minimum fees.
Public service offerings should be expanded in the sense of an independent platform;
fully financed commissioned productions should remain in the media libraries indefinitely,
The diversity of sports must be reflected in programming, because sports are more than soccer, skiing and major events like the Olympics.
Democratize sports rights: Financial proportionality of broadcasting rights and a fairer distribution among the clubs (also gender-equitable!) should be asserted vis-à-vis the rights holders, including the German Soccer League.
We are committed to transparent and non-discriminatory algorithms.
Whether at private or public media companies: for DIE LINKE, the diversity of society must be reflected in the staff structure and in the programming, so that more realities of life are reflected.
Journalism and media work must not become a field of work that you have to be able to afford.
We therefore want good working conditions,
Gender equality
and diversity in the media and film industry.
Media work and education must be inclusive and the media usage options diverse and barrier-free.
Freedom of the press and journalistic work must be guaranteed.
We therefore call for media professionals to be better protected against attacks, persecution and violence.
Journalists as holders of professional secrets as well as their sources must be protected (Whistleblower Protection Act).
Strengthening the public's right to information: DIE LINKE advocates a press information law that safeguards the media's constitutionally guaranteed right to information from federal authorities.
Collective bargaining and fee agreements for the self-employed must be anchored in law;
authors must be anchored in law and must be possible.
The media market is increasingly dominated by monopolies, accelerated by the Corona crisis.
The market and monopoly power of large digital corporations and platforms must be pushed back and democratically controlled, for example, through supervisory structures that are independent of the state (cf. chapter on "Digitization").
While some media companies are benefiting from current developments, others are struggling due to the drastic decline in advertising revenues.
DIE LINKE calls for a nationwide report on the state of media diversity and freedom of the press, which would also regularly examine developments on the media market and derive recommendations for action to safeguard media and opinion diversity.
In order to compensate for competitive disadvantages, DIE LINKE advocates press funding that strengthens journalistic media diversity with good working conditions at the local, regional, statewide and European levels away from the state and supports appropriate research formats of online journalism as well as non-commercial offerings in addition to print media.
DIE LINKE wants to improve youth protection on the Internet.
For us, effective youth protection consists in particular of comprehensive media education programs for parents, teachers, children and young people.
Media education belongs on the agenda of all educational institutions - across generations.
However, the teaching of media skills also plays a central role in old age.
We want to strengthen the role of the state media authorities.
Simplified access to European funding from the economic stimulus programs and investment programs beyond the previous media funding should help to overcome the consequences of the pandemic.
as well as the needs of a democratic media landscape and to increasingly promote non-profit media freedom initiatives.
We defend freedom to and from religion and the separation of church and state
We defend the right to freedom of religion: it is the right of freedom of faith, conscience and freedom of religious and ideological confession.
We support the struggle of people for global social justice, democracy and peace regardless of their worldview and religion.
We advocate the institutional separation of state and religion.
The right to religious freedom is a protection especially for minorities.
That is why we defend Jewish people, Muslims and all other religious minorities when they are discriminated against because of their religion.
Threats, attacks and assaults are directed against Muslim and Jewish people and against synagogues and mosques.
They have become commonplace.
Anti-Semitism and anti-Muslim racism, like any other form of racism, must have no place in society.
We advocate equal treatment of all religions and worldviews with the Christian churches.
DIE LINKE supports the struggle of trade unions
and churches for the work-free Sunday.
We demand the abolition of the special church labor law for employees in the churches, in Diakonie and Caritas.
The human right to the free exercise of religion includes the right to publicly profess a religion.
DIE LINKE defends the right of self-determination of Muslim women, opposes a ban on religiously motivated clothing and rejects a restriction of employee rights on this basis.
We want an ethics class in which all students with their different ideological, cultural and religious backgrounds can discuss ethical issues together.
Schools should continue to impart knowledge about religions as part of their educational mission.
If religious education is offered as an optional subject at schools, all religious communities should be able to participate.
We want to abolish military chaplaincy in its current form.
It is also controversial within the churches.
It must be replaced by a chaplaincy contract for all members of the Bundeswehr that guarantees equal care by all religious and ideological communities.
The church or ideological caregivers are not to be employed or civil servants by the Bundeswehr.
DIE LINKE demands that the churches collect their taxes or contributions independently in the future.
We advocate the constitutional mandate that has existed since 1919 to replace state contributions to the churches.
In an ideologically and religiously diverse society, everyone must have the same opportunities for funding.
DIE LINKE is against a ban on the construction of sacred buildings.
We call for the introduction of state-protected holidays for Jewish and Muslim religious communities.
DIE LINKE advocates the legal equality of all religious and ideological communities.
Sport is not a luxury
Sport is for everyone.
To achieve this, we need to improve the conditions for access to sport.
Being able to play sports should not depend on income and social status.
Sports clubs are also places of successful integration.
We promote inclusive, integrative, nature- and environment-friendly sports.
Sports programs and the promotion of sports must be gender-responsive and take appropriate account of all age groups.
Many sports halls, sports grounds and swimming pools are dilapidated and some are already closed.
The need for remediation amounts to around 31 billion euros.
Our program for the future provides for sufficient investment to make the facilities barrier-free.
and ecologically sensible refurbishment.
Admission prices for swimming pools must be affordable for all.
Recognized sports organizations, schools and universities should be given the right to use public sports facilities free of charge, as regulated in the new Thuringian Sports Promotion Act.
All students should be allowed to participate in swimming lessons.
By the end of primary school, all children should be able to swim safely.
DIE LINKE sees popular sport and elite sport as a reciprocal relationship.
It aims to promote popular sport with its positive social and health effects as well as to support potential sporting careers.
The federal government's top-level sports reform as well as the concept for funding major sports events need to be put to the test.
We want an open discussion about the role of sport in society - also taking into account the consequences of the corona pandemic.
Sport must become a mandatory municipal task.
Athletes' rights must be further strengthened,
existing inequalities in the promotion of sport for people with disabilities are eliminated.
Doping, all forms of violence, corruption and other manipulations must be fought.
The commercialization of sport for the purpose of profit maximization must be pushed back and the teaching of values such as tolerance, respect and fairness must be strengthened.
Maintaining and promoting health must be given greater priority in both popular and competitive sports.
Funding for fan projects, initiatives and projects against extreme rights, discrimination and violence as well as for the integrative impact of sports clubs should be increased and made permanent.
An end to the criminalization of drugs
DIE LINKE advocates a paradigm shift: away from criminal prosecution and towards prevention, counseling and help.
We do not see it as the task of politics to educate people, but to enable them to make informed and risk-conscious consumption decisions.
We do not want to moralize the desire for intoxication.
It is a part of the culture, even if there are risks and possible damages associated with it.
Harm reduction is only possible through good health and social policies.
Banning drugs does not effectively reduce the risks for users and society.
It neither prevents drug trafficking nor does it effectively reduce consumption.
The health hazards of extenders, the financing of organized crime, acquisitive crime, social decline of addicts, concomitant diseases such as HIV/AIDS and hepatitis - many drug-related problems are caused more by repression than by the drugs themselves.
At the same time, repression ties up large amounts of financial resources: several billion euros are spent on criminal prosecution, but only a fraction of this is spent on aid and prevention.
Drugs and addiction are a mirror of society: one can be addicted not only to illegal or legal substances, tobacco or alcohol, but also, for example, to gambling, medications and energy drinks.
Addiction has multiple social and psychological causes and - like other diseases - should not be interpreted as a failure of individuals.
We want to legalize cannabis.
We want to create a primarily non-commercial supply option and allow possession and cultivation for personal use.
As a temporary transitional solution, we propose model projects for legal availability in the federal states with simultaneous nationwide decriminalization of users.
The legal rules for the medical use of cannabis must be changed in the interest of the patients.
Access must be de-bureaucratized.
The use of cannabis as medicine must also be made possible in the case of less severe illnesses and the requirement for approval by the health insurance funds must be abolished.
We want to improve supply security by growing more cannabis as medicine in Germany.
The regulations on driving vehicles with medical use of cannabis must finally be clearly regulated.
Substitution therapy must be open to all opioid addicts.
Access and treatment must be facilitated, especially in prisons.
To do this, we need more substitution physicians, among other things.
Diamorphine-assisted treatment (heroin distribution) and take-home arrangements are also to be expanded.
DIE LINKE is calling for an independent scientific review of whether the repressive drug policy to date has achieved its objectives and what side effects it has had.
We want to end the criminalization of consumers.
To this end, nationwide maximum quantities are to be set for frequently used drugs, the possession of which will not result in prosecution.
In these cases, law enforcement must be replaced with counseling and assistance services.
It also frees up resources to fight organized crime.
n The focus must be on: Reducing damage and saving lives.
That's why we want to expand harm-reduction measures.
We want universal access to drug consumption rooms, sterile consumption paraphernalia, and take-home administration of naloxone, which is life-saving in opioid overdose.
We want analysis-based prevention programs (drug checking) to be explicitly allowed and implemented by the states.
We want to adjust the regulations on drugs in road traffic.
For all drugs, blood concentration limits are set at which impairment of driving ability can be virtually ruled out.
The sobriety requirement should not be affected.
We want to put cannabis- and alcohol-using driving license holders on an equal legal footing.
We want to ban advertising and sponsorship for tobacco and alcohol products in public.
We advocate compliance with the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control.
Tobacco products should be offered in uniform packaging, as in Australia, for example.
We want to further expand the protection of non-smokers and young people.
The use of e-cigarettes should be regarded as a less harmful alternative to tobacco consumption and should therefore be kept more favorable in terms of taxation.
We want to reduce the dangers of gambling addiction.
A state-licensed offer must be introduced for slot machine gaming, with the aim of minimizing the health and social consequences of slot machine gaming.
The same applies to online gambling.
We want a ban on vending machines in catering establishments.
The gambling elements in e-gaming need to be regulated and contained.
Everything is nothing without peace: for peace and disarmament.
Ban arms exports
DIE LINKE defends the principle of peace as a mode of international politics.
The threat of war has not been as great as it is today for decades.
A look at global conditions shows in which directions it can go: Increased competition and authoritarianism, also within the European Union.
Geopolitical rivalries and economic wars are on the rise.
We are committed to a policy of détente
and equitable economic structures.
Respect for international law
and human rights are non-negotiable for us.
That is why there can be no double standards for DIE LINKE on these issues.
"Without justice there can be no peace.
Capitalism carries war within itself like the cloud carries rain." (Jean Jaures)
Yet the German government continues to rely on the unilateral enforcement of economic and geopolitical interests in the competition for locations.
This reinforces global inequality and weakens forms and forums of cross-border cooperation in times of climate catastrophe.
Even with a new president, the U.S. government is continuing its confrontational course to maintain its own supremacy through sanctions and military interventions.
The USA and EU are trying to assert their supremacy against Russia and China.
This threatens to escalate into a new Cold War.
In NATO and EU strategy papers, Russia and China are described as enemy images, and we reject this.
We oppose all forms of imperialism.
NATO's $1.1 trillion in defense spending compares with $61 billion from Russia.
So it's not about security.
But the German government and the European Union are arming themselves - and thus exacerbating the conflicts.
DIE LINKE is aware of the history of German bellicose hegemonic aspirations in Europe and the world.
We are convinced that the Federal Republic of Germany has a special responsibility for peace towards all countries and their people who were victims of these wars as a result of the crimes caused by Nazi Germany in the Second World War.
In the year in which the beginning of the war of robbery and extermination of the fascist Wehrmacht in the East is commemorated for the 80th time, we renew our commitment to Russia and the other countries of the former Soviet Union: Never again fascism, never again war from German soil!
We want a paradigm shift in foreign policy and stand for non-violent conflict resolution and cross-border cooperation, instead of arms exports and foreign deployments of the Bundeswehr.
For peace and stability, we need a binding set of rules in international politics that always applies.
The basis for this is international law.
The German government and its supporting parties, the CDU/CSU and the SPD, have pursued a course of rearmament and confrontation that DIE LINKE rejects.
DIE LINKE is the peace party and the reliable voice of the peace movement in the Bundestag.
We want an immediate stop to all arms exports.
We reject investments in militarization and rearmament.
We stand for fair economic relations,
sustainable development cooperation
and multilateralism based on solidarity.
We will not participate in a government that wages wars and permits combat missions of the Bundeswehr abroad, that promotes rearmament and militarization.
In the long term, we hold to the vision of a world without armies.
No foreign deployments of the Bundeswehr
The Bundeswehr must be withdrawn from all foreign missions.
20 years ago, it was decided for the first time that the German Armed Forces would participate in the war in Afghanistan, and this decision has been extended year after year by every federal government since then.
DIE LINKE has always rejected the deployment of the Bundeswehr in Afghanistan.
The withdrawal from Afghanistan is to be welcomed.
But it reveals the disaster that war has wrought.
Over 200,000 Afghans have lost their lives, including the more than 100 victims of Kunduz.
Millions of people are on the run.
3,600 Western soldiers lost their lives, including 59 Bundeswehr soldiers.
The war was justified by the need to create security, democracy and women's rights.
None of the stated goals were achieved; on the contrary.
The Taliban are stronger than they have been for a long time, and the social and economic situation in the country is catastrophic.
The lesson of the Afghan catastrophe is the same as that of the Syrian, Libyan and Iraqi catastrophes: Democracy and social progress cannot be imposed with wars from outside.
The consequence must be to permanently withdraw foreign troops, special forces and intelligence services.
From Afghanistan, Mali, and all other foreign deployments.
There are currently around 3,000 soldiers on foreign missions with mandates from the German Bundestag.
In addition, more than10000 Bundeswehr soldiers are active abroad without a mandate, currently in Lithuania, for example.
The Bundeswehr must be recalled from all foreign deployments and not sent on new ones.
We want to invest the funds that have so far been spent on foreign missions in a civilian reconstruction program.
and peacekeeping program.
We reject the foreign missions of the Bundeswehr mandated by the Bundestag.
We also oppose the presence of German soldiers abroad under NATO responsibility, such as currently in Lithuania.
We reject training missions for soldiers and security forces.
We demand a ban on the use of military security and mercenary companies.
We do not want to participate in international police and intelligence missions or training missions that serve to support authoritarian regimes.
We reject civil-military cooperation.
Important civilian aid must not be linked to military action.
We demand that civilian structures for international disaster management be established.
Disarming the Bundeswehr instead of rearming - No Bundeswehr as a worldwide deployment army
The German government's spending on armaments and the Bundeswehr is steadily increasing.
The German government continues to head toward NATO's goal of spending 2 percent of gross domestic product on armaments.
We are committed to disarmament, democracy and peaceful foreign policy; spending on armaments must be drastically reduced.
We will reject any increase in military and arms spending.
The military budget of the German government has increased massively in recent years and currently amounts to 47 billion euros, which corresponds to more than 500 euros of taxpayers' money per citizen.
The price for a highly equipped Bundeswehr:
Billions of taxpayers' money are missing from the expansion of the healthcare system,
the social infrastructure,
Education
and climate protection.
The federal defense budget must and can be significantly reduced, because we want to downsize the Bundeswehr and dispense with major armament projects, such as the Future Combat Air System (FCAS) or the Main Ground Combat System (MGCS) for the development of a battle tank.
We call for a 10 percent reduction in military spending in all countries worldwide in the coming year.
If all countries do this at the same time, the relative security for each country remains the same-and it would free up $183 billion in one fell swoop to fund social good like fighting hunger, poverty, and the aftermath of the Corona crisis.
The transformation of the Bundeswehr into a globally operating task force does not serve our security, but rather the interests of large corporations and elites in the global struggle for raw materials, spheres of influence and sales markets.
The rearmament of the Bundeswehr is accompanied by a militarization of society.
We reject the orientation of the Bundeswehr as an operational army.
DIE LINKE is committed to the gradual disarmament of the Bundeswehr.
Material and units designed exclusively for foreign missions must be dismantled first.
The Bundeswehr's cyber and information space must be disbanded.
DIE LINKE strictly rejects the paradigm shift in military technology and strategy to "revolution in military affairs" (RMA) and cyberwar.
Combating cybercrime and protecting critical infrastructure are the responsibility of the domestic security authorities, not the Bundeswehr (see the chapter on "Digitization").
Extreme right-wing, racist and democracy-endangering ideas in the Bundeswehr and in security companies working for the Federal Republic must be uncovered and combated.
For this reason, we are also calling for a study on racism and right-wing ideas in the Bundeswehr (see chapter "Security for all").
We want to disband the Kommando Spezialkräfte (KSK) special forces unit.
It has become public that there are right-wing, neo-Nazi actors and networks in the Bundeswehr and especially in the elite combat unit KSK.
In addition, there were extensive ammunition losses at the KSK.
DIE LINKE has a part to play in clearing up this scandal.
Decisive action must be taken against right-wing actors and networks in the Bundeswehr and other security agencies.
The scandal surrounding right-wing networks in the Bundeswehr shows the danger to democracy posed by the Bundeswehr's orientation toward war missions.
No advertising for dying!
We reject Bundeswehr advertising in job centers, schools, at education and training fairs and in universities, as well as advertising in public.
The Bundeswehr is not allowed to accept minors - not even in the context of the so-called voluntary homeland security.
DIE LINKE rejects voluntary homeland security as a form of militarization of society.
We reject the deployment of the Bundeswehr in Germany.
Civil protection must be better equipped for emergencies, and the Bundeswehr must not be used as scheduled compensation for civil protection.
In particular, the Bundeswehr must never be given police powers.
Stop arms exports: No business with war!
Germany is number four among the world's leading countries in terms of arms exports.
Weapons have even been supplied to warring states, with Turkey and Saudi Arabia waging their wars with weapons from Germany.
We also want to eliminate all the ways in which arms companies seek to circumvent controls in Germany.
Thus, production facilities of German companies abroad must also fall under German arms export controls.
DIE LINKE rejects special cooperation arrangements with friendly states, such as France, to facilitate arms exports, because German weapons could reach the whole world via this detour.
We demand an immediate stop to all arms exports, especially the export of weapons factories, small arms and light weapons, as their final destination cannot be controlled.
We support an Arms Export Control Act for a legal ban on all arms exports.
Arms exports must no longer be supported with taxpayers' money.
We call for an end to Hermes guarantees.
We support the Hamburg popular initiative against arms exports.
European arms companies such as Airbus or Rheinmetall must be forced to stop their arms production for authoritarian regimes.
The same must apply to digital technology that can be used as a weapon in conflicts or that enables the monitoring and control of telecommunications and terminals.
We want to close legal loopholes that allow German companies to circumvent German laws.
Exports of dual-use items that can be used to produce chemical or biological weapons may not be authorized to states that have not ratified the Chemical Weapons Convention or the Biological Weapons Convention.
The ban on biological and chemical weapons must be effectively controlled.
The export of substances suitable for the production of chemical weapons must be more tightly controlled.
Together with social partners from trade unions, the peace movement and churches, we want to develop conversion programs for and with employees in the arms industry in order to create new, civilian jobs.
Funding programs in industry and for research at universities are to serve only civilian production.
No drones for war
The German government plans to arm the German Armed Forces' Heron TP drones.
At the same time, work is underway on the construction and deployment of the so-called Eurodrone, which is intended to drop guided bombs as well as missiles.
Under pressure from civil society, the peace movement and DIE LINKE, the SPD did not agree to the arming of drones during the last legislative period.
Those who let machines fight for them are quicker to decide to use violence and kill people elsewhere.
And they can be deployed anywhere in the world without a declaration of war, as the U.S. has been doing for years.
The arming of the Bundeswehr with combat drones must be prevented.
We say no to combat drones, even after the election!
Germany must take a first step and generally refrain from arming drones and advocate internationally for a binding ban on armed drones under international law.
We want to finally stop the use and control of combat drones from the military base in Ramstein by the US Army.
No drone warfare from German soil!
Ramstein and the other U.S. military bases in Germany must be closed.
Arming drones may be the first step on the road to autonomous weapon systems.
For example, the multibillion-dollar Future Combat Air System (FCAS) defense project plans drone swarms controlled by artificial intelligence.
We reject that.
We call for a global ban on autonomous weapons systems.
The German government must launch an international initiative to this end.
There is to be no more research into autonomous weapons systems in Germany.
For a world free of nuclear weapons
Our goal remains a world without nuclear weapons.
But the nuclear weapons powers are not fulfilling their disarmament obligations under the Non-Proliferation Treaty.
The UN General Assembly voted in favor of a Nuclear Weapons Ban Treaty (NPT), which entered into force in early 2021.
The federal government did not even participate in the negotiations.
That was wrong.
We reject the dangerous concept of nuclear deterrence.
Even though the last-minute extension of the Nuclear Weapons Reduction Treaty by Presidents Biden and Putin has given the world community a brief respite, new initiatives for disarmament and more arms control are urgently needed.
Nuclear weapons are still stored in Germany as part of NATO's nuclear sharing program.
The Ministry of Defense has decided to purchase 138 new fighter aircraft, including 93 Eurofighters and 45 F-18s.
30 of them are to be used for so-called nuclear sharing within NATO.
By "nuclear sharing" is meant that the Bundeswehr provides fighter aircraft as delivery systems for the 20 U.S. nuclear weapons in Büchel, Rhineland-Palatinate.
U.S. nuclear weapons must be withdrawn and destroyed immediately.
No nuclear weapons should be or be stationed in Germany.
The federal government must not provide launchers and pilots for this purpose.
The use of uranium-enriched munitions must be outlawed.
Nuclear sharing within NATO must be ended.
No fighter carrier systems may be made available and newly acquired for this purpose.
Germany must finally sign the UN Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons.
In Germany, more than 700 cities and municipalities - including the three city-states and all state capitals - have joined the Mayors for Peace campaign, which aims to abolish nuclear weapons worldwide.
The German government must take this appeal seriously and press ahead with the worldwide outlawing of nuclear weapons.
Germany should work to ensure that the U.S. rejoins the nuclear agreement with Iran and that all parties abide by the agreement.
Germany should advocate a relaunch of the treaty banning intermediate-range missiles between the U.S. and Russia.
Cooperation instead of confrontation: For an inclusive security system
NATO is a relic of the Cold War and it continues to operate that way today.
For DIE LINKE, war is not a means of politics.
We need a policy of détente with Russia instead of further escalation and troop deployments or maneuvers on its western border.
This is one of the great lessons and obligations of the Second World War.
Confrontation is no basis for security.
The NATO countries' "war on terror" has not created security either - on the contrary.
Time to finally change course.
We call for the dissolution of NATO
and its replacement by a collective security system with Russian participation that has disarmament as a central goal.
We demand to start negotiations on a German-Russian treaty to achieve and perpetuate reconciliation and friendship between Germany and Russia.
Irrespective of a decision on Germany's remaining in NATO, DIE LINKE will advocate in every political constellation that Germany withdraw from the military structures of the military alliance and that the Bundeswehr be withdrawn from NATO's supreme command.
DIE LINKE rejects maneuvers such as Defender 2021.
Against the background of German history, we particularly oppose any presence of German soldiers east of the Oder-Neisse border.
Plans to further expand the Oberlausitz military training area for escalation policy in Eastern Europe and to develop and test autonomous weapons there must be stopped.
Any support for NATO states that - like Turkey under the Erdoğan regime - disregard international law must be stopped immediately.
Instead of stationing another 500 U.S. soldiers at the U.S. Army Europe and Africa headquarters in Wiesbaden, all foreign military bases in Germany must be closed.
Corresponding contracts, including those with the USA under the Stay Treaty and the Supplementary Agreement to the NATO Status of Forces, will be terminated.
A NATO space center is currently being built at the NATO base in Ramstein.
This is not only to defend satellites that have become indispensable to our daily lives, but also to safeguard the military's ability to act and attack.
The seemingly passive component of "defense in space" has an offensive background.
This is intended to safeguard the military's ability to act and attack.
DIE LINKE rejects the militarization of space.
DIE LINKE also rejects the plans of other states for military use of outer space.
The U.S. has waged a drone war with the help of Ramstein Base, breaking international law from German territory.
The consequence can only be to terminate the residence treaty or to establish its de facto breach by the USA.
Civil conflict management and crisis prevention
Peace is more than the absence of war.
Creating and maintaining peace means establishing the conditions in which life in dignity and security is possible.
Yet security encompasses more than the absence of violence.
Security also means that the supply of food is guaranteed and that there is access to medical care, housing, culture, education and training.
We demand a human right to peace.
We want the German government to work within the UN bodies for the implementation of the right to peace in the sense of the Santiago Declaration by anchoring it in a treaty under international law and to implement it consistently in all political action.
DIE LINKE rejects the mixing of civilian and military measures.
International aid must never be part of a military strategy, but must be guided by the imperative to help populations affected by hunger, climate disasters, and war.
The federal government must focus on civilian peace measures such as the involvement of women's initiatives, training programs, surrender of firearms, and civilian mediators.
The funds made available for civil peace service must be systematically increased.
Internationally already proven instruments, such as unarmed civilian peacekeeping, must be promoted in a straightforward manner.
We want to promote these approaches within the framework of development cooperation and strengthen training for them.
We also want to give foreign peacekeepers the opportunity to complete their training in Germany.
We also want to establish corresponding universities and training centers abroad.
Social justice worldwide
The corona pandemic acts like a burning glass: social inequality is on the rise worldwide.
About one percent of humanity owns 45 percent of global wealth.
The poorer half of the world's population has next to nothing, while the rich get richer and richer.
This trend accelerates dramatically in the Corona crisis.
For the first time since 1990, the UN predicted a global increase in poverty.
The German government and the EU are exacerbating international antagonisms and weakening international agreements and institutions with their trade policy and competition between locations.
There has long been a new arms race: Arms exports around the world have reached their highest level since the end of the Cold War.
The militarization of foreign policy has neither fought terror sustainably nor created more security.
The German government likes to invoke democracy and human rights, but in day-to-day political life other goals count: pushing through economic interests or sealing off Europe against refugees.
We want social justice - worldwide!
We want to overcome the crisis not just for Germany or Europe, but globally.
No one is safe until everyone is safe.
We want to overcome neoliberal capitalism, which is characterized by deregulation, privatization and social cuts.
We want to fight the causes of flight and not refugees.
We want to help turn passive displeasure into active resistance.
We want to change the social balance of power.
We are fighting for a system change.
Our foreign policy must promote democracy, human rights and peace, and support civil society, instead of merely serving economic interests and making deals with dictators.
It must become feminist, social and ecological - that is, it must involve women's organizations, trade unions and social movements.
We are fighting for social justice together with partner parties, trade unionists and social movements,
Peace,
Climate protection,
Democracy
and against racism.
Strong movements give us hope, like Fridays for Future or the Black Lives Matter movement in the US.
Together we can change the world.
Socio-ecologically just world economy
Fair trade policies are a prerequisite for a peaceful world
and for global social justice.
German and European foreign economic policy must no longer be characterized by the narrow-minded goal of putting short-term self-interest first: Those who make others poor and let them stay poor cannot win.
And if you really want to fight the causes of flight, you have to stop creating them over and over again - and exporting them.
Partner countries must be able to build their own economies and value chains and achieve the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030.
Where possible, we want to strengthen regional economic cycles in order to push back the sometimes absurd excesses of globalized supply and production chains.
We want trade policy to finally become an instrument of global cooperation,
of socio-ecological progress
and democratization.
We are opposed to a hypocritical policy that simply burdens people and nature in other regions of the world with the costs of "ecological modernization" in this country and mercilessly exploits their environment and raw materials.
In addition to fair trade policies, we need basic global social services.
We can only build and finance these if wealth is redistributed worldwide.
End trade conflicts!
Trade conflicts such as those between the U.S. and China or the EU have caused economic and social damage and intensified locational competition.
Trade policy must no longer be used for political blackmail.
Cooperation instead of free trade agreements!
Economic agreements must contain a set of rules governing production conditions.
In this way, we want to ensure good work and environmental protection along the global production and supply chains.
The European Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs) cement dependencies of the Global South as a supplier of raw materials and must be replaced by fair trade agreements.
We call for a supply chain law worthy of its name.
The federal government's law leaves too many loopholes.
Companies with 250 or more employees and small and medium-sized enterprises in high-risk sectors must be obliged to exclude human rights violations, child labor and environmental destruction along their entire value chains.
This includes an effective civil liability regime to strengthen the rights of affected persons and improve working conditions.
Independent environmental due diligence,
the inclusion of affected groups of people in decision-making processes,
and measures to achieve gender equality must be promoted much more strongly.
We want to end the import of raw materials that trigger conflicts and serious human rights violations.
We therefore call for a revision of the Conflict Minerals Regulation, its expansion to include other raw materials as well as the entire value chain, and want to close loopholes.
Globalize labor law!
We support the agreement (UN treaty), which obliges companies to respect the rights and dignity of employees.
This gives employees the opportunity to sue for their rights anywhere in the world at the place where they work.
Fair trade should become the normal form of trade, internationally as well as at local weekly markets.
The UN Migration Pact aims to strengthen the rights of refugees and migrant workers.
As the country with the world's largest surplus in trade in goods and capital, Germany must support the legally binding nature of the international ILO Convention on the Protection of Global Migrant Workers.
We demand that global labor migration recruitment agencies must only operate under license, their fees and contracts must be transparent, and recruitment fees must be borne by employers.
Secure jobs worldwide!
We demand uniform and globally valid minimum requirements to protect workers in the workplace.
Collapsing factory buildings, the use of hazardous chemicals without proper protective equipment, and other life-threatening working conditions must be avoided.
In order for the super-rich to become even richer, people produce at the risk of their lives.
We demand an end to this dangerous cheap production!
Sustainable economic policy instead of national location competition!
There is a need for an international equalization mechanism that commits countries with export surpluses to balanced trade accounts.
Thus, the economy is more focused on demand in the interior.
This requires an end to the cutback policy that promotes the low-wage sector and keeps wages in Europe artificially low.
This exports poverty worldwide and is harmful to the national economy.
Not again!
Hundreds of thousands opposed the planned free trade agreement with the USA, TTIP, because it primarily served the interests of export-oriented companies on both sides of the Atlantic.
We want TTIP to be abandoned for good.
We also reject the agreement with Canada (CETA) and with South American countries (Mercosur).
Ecological and social standards must no longer be neglected.
We reject special rights of action that subordinate democracy and fundamental rights to profit interests.
We want to stop the Energy Charter Treaty, because it prevents the energy transition: Fossil fuel companies use it to sue states when they want to get out of coal, oil and gas.
Across Europe, nearly 350 billion euros of fossil investments are protected by the treaty.
This fuels climate change and makes the cost of combating it extremely high.
Currently, there is a chance to get out of the contract.
Italy already left in 2016, and France and Spain are considering leaving.
Access to universal and public health care and strengthening the human right to health!
Drugs developed through taxpayer-funded research must be made available for post-production royalty-free.
We want to expand research and development to combat the deadliest infectious diseases and frequently neglected diseases such as HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis.
We call for the development of a global primary health care system with access to the best available therapies.
We demand a solidarity-based pandemic response for all people instead of vaccination nationalism and favoritism of the Global North!
The development of vaccines can only be a joint effort and must not be carried out by pharmaceutical companies to maximize profits.
or only at national level.
The World Health Organization (WHO) must be provided with a broad financial base.
We need vaccines that can be used everywhere, that can be produced quickly, and that are not backed by economic interests - this requires the worldwide development of public vaccine production (see chapter "Breaking the power of the pharmaceutical industry!").
n Ban speculation with food!
Since 2014, the number of hungry people worldwide has been rising again, and this crisis has been exacerbated by the corona pandemic.
Our goal is: Right to food and food sovereignty for all and a ban on patents on seeds!
Food trade should no longer be the responsibility of the World Trade Organization, but of the UN Food and Agriculture Organization.
Overcoming hunger and poverty means securing the livelihoods of farmers and farm workers worldwide!
We want to support regions in not practicing agriculture primarily for export.
There must be an end to food markets being flooded with food from outside - as in the case of food subsidized in the EU.
We want to promote organic production around the world and agree on international systems to protect against price erosion.
Fight land grabbing effectively!
We want to put a stop to large agricultural corporations that make a lot of money from factory farming or the cultivation of monocultures.
We want to ban the import of food produced on stolen land.
We demand an international reappraisal and a ban on land grabbing.
Stolen land must be returned to the original owners.
To promote organic and regional agriculture, German corporations and their international partners involved in land grabbing are to pay compensation.
The raw materials strategy presented by the German government primarily follows the interests of industry.
What is needed, however, is a reduction in the consumption of raw materials.
To this end, we are calling for a new European raw materials strategy.
The dependence of the countries of the South on raw material exports must be ended.
Enable independent development!
International cooperation can help overcome poverty through technology transfer and targeted local business development.
Raw materials should be processed where they are extracted from the earth.
There is no entitlement of European corporations to access to raw materials.
Value creation must be enabled and promoted in the countries of the Global South.
We want data protection and transparency worldwide!
In all areas of technology, we need global cooperation to create a set of rules that establishes binding data protection rules for robotics, data flows and artificial intelligence and makes algorithms transparent.
We support transnational organizations of workers and the formation of international trade union cooperation with the aim of significantly improving the situation of workers.
We reject the efforts of large digital corporations to enshrine their interests in international trade agreements on e-commerce or within the framework of the WTO.
This is intended to deprive states of the ability to regulate and tax the activities of corporations.
We want to secure regulatory and taxation options and enforce minimum standards.
Development through justice
Inequality is increasing worldwide - despite decades of Western "development policy" - and is hampering economic and social development.
Past development policies have not simply failed.
It is an instrument of (post-)colonial oppression and exploitation.
Development cooperation must finally put dignity and solidarity at the center, not own economic interests, - and break the destructive dynamics of boundless capital exploitation.
To this end, we want to strengthen public and civil society structures.
Development cooperation must be geared to the goals of the partner countries and their societies and support them in pursuing independent development paths.
The unequal integration of countries into the world market exacerbates economic crises and also weakens the countries of the Global South politically.
Our plan for development work in solidarity:
Strengthen women's and girls' rights - health and education for all worldwide!
We want to make universal access to effective, high-quality and needs-based health care, including access to one's sexual and reproductive rights, a goal of German and European development cooperation.
We want comprehensive public, free and high-quality basic education for all people.
Right to food and clean water for all!
Food sovereignty and social security are the foundation of security and stability.
This requires strengthening local food markets and agroecological farming practices that preserve farm diversity and protect plant and animal life.
The abuse of agricultural development programs by transnational corporations must be stopped.
The export of highly hazardous pesticides must be banned.
An end to exploitation in the guise of development cooperation!
Development funds must no longer be misused as investment incentives for German or international capital.
We want to discontinue initiatives such as the Marshall Plan with Africa or Compact with Africa.
Development financing from the public sector!
The money for development cooperation must come from public funds.
We want to end the undemocratic influence of private foundations and large investors, as well as public-private partnerships.
We want to strengthen the instrument of budget support.
We want to increase the funds for development cooperation to the amounts pledged.
Not only more, but different!
We want development cooperation to be oriented towards the needs of the people in poorer countries - instead of continuing to serve primarily the interests of European companies!
We reject the interlocking of development and security policy in the sense of so-called border protection and migration control.
Segregation is not a development policy!
Money is to be made available to the countries of the Global South to enable independent development.
We criticize the discontinuation of development cooperation with Cuba and advocate for its resumption.
Climate justice global
The countries of the Global South are particularly affected by climate and environmental degradation, although the main polluters are in the Global North.
According to Oxfam, the richest 10 percent of the world's population produce just as many CO2 emissions as the poorer 50 percent.
The global consequences of climate change are already catastrophic.
Women and children are particularly affected, often lacking the legal or financial resources to protect themselves against climate impacts.
Women are far more affected than average by environmental disasters.
Water shortages, droughts, and floods deprive people of their livelihoods, resulting in distribution struggles over dwindling resources that force more and more people to flee.
This must be brought to an end: The rich must be held accountable.
We need a change of course in trade policy and in the consumption of raw materials.
The Paris climate agreement was a minimal consensus among nations.
However, the reduction volumes pledged so far by the individual countries are nowhere near sufficient to achieve these targets (see chapter "Climate").
Germany, too, must step up its game and - as one of the main contributors to climate change - provide more funding for the Global South so that it can shape its development in a climate-neutral and equitable way.
At UN level, we want to set up a compensation fund for the consequences of climate change and colonialism, financed by the industrialized countries.
Former colonial powers should pay more into this fund than other states.
We want to increase the corresponding climate finance transfers each year.
As long as the countries in the Global South cannot cover their own needs from green electricity, we therefore reject hydrogen imports from these countries (see chapter "Energy transition").
Climate justice instead of greenwashing and selling indulgences!
Increasingly, industrialized countries are outsourcing climate and environmental protection measures, such as forest conservation initiatives, to the Global South, thus shirking their responsibilities.
The deliberate destruction of natural resources such as oceans, rainforests and climate continues to be largely without legal consequences.
DIE LINKE wants to bring the destroyers of the environment, climate and biodiversity to justice.
For this we want the introduction of the offense of ecocide as a crime into German criminal law and into the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court into international law.
Climate refugees must not be further denied the right to asylum.
In order to live up to the historical responsibility of Western states as the main emitters of climate-damaging greenhouse gases, we also want the EU to offer climate passports to the inhabitants of threatened states that will become uninhabitable as a result of the climate crisis.
They are to be established in addition to, not as an alternative to, existing initiatives and requirements.
Fair taxes worldwide
The rich and corporations must share in the global costs of crises and climate change.
A fair international tax system with a financial transaction tax is needed.
Tax havens must be drained in order to finally give transnational corporations a greater share in the development of the countries from whose exploitation and resources they profit (see chapter on "Fair taxes" and chapter on "Banks and finance").
Double taxation agreements that Germany has signed with many countries in the Global South often prevent fair local taxation, and most of the money flows to Germany.
This must be stopped!
We call for a debt cut and a sustainable debt relief initiative for all countries in the Global South whose debt burden is unsustainable.
Private creditors must be forced to participate in this debt initiative.
We call for the introduction of a sovereign insolvency procedure.
Strengthen UN and international cooperation
A system of stronger cooperation is needed at the international level, but multilateralism is in crisis.
There is an ice age in international relations.
The U.S. and its allies on one side, China and Russia on the other, have blocked the Security Council and the United Nations (UN) in recent years.
The foundations of the UN include peacekeeping and the prevention of conflicts, the protection of human rights, the promotion of social progress and social development as well as international cooperation.
Promoting the goals of the United Nations means ensuring the peaceful settlement of all disputes and renunciation of the use of force, and respecting the equality and national sovereignty of all states.
The UN is supposed to provide the framework for states by setting the rules.
Its 17 development goals (SDGs), including poverty reduction, gender equality, education and health, are to be achieved by 2030.
But the world is far from that today.
Poverty and hunger are growing rapidly due to the corona pandemic: According to UN estimates, up to 235 million people will not have sufficient access to food and drinking water in 2021.
While wealth is piling up on the financial markets, the UN is short of money everywhere.
This makes them dependent on support from private companies and foundations, which primarily pursue their own interests.
The independence and neutrality of the UN is thus undermined.
Recalling the Charter of the United Nations:
"The Organization is founded on the principle of the sovereign equality of all its members.(...)
Every State has the right freely to choose and develop its political, social, economic and cultural order.(...)
All members shall refrain in their international relations from any threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any State or otherwise inconsistent with the purposes of the United Nations."
Strengthen and democratize the UN!
The General Assembly must be strengthened vis-à-vis the Security Council.
We therefore reject the demand for a permanent seat for Germany on the Security Council.
The countries of the Global South need more influence!
Social and economic policy competencies, as in the UN Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), must be strengthened.
Exclusive forums such as the G 7 are to be absorbed into it.
The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) is to be strengthened vis-à-vis the World Trade Organization (WTO) in order to enhance the interests of the Global South in trade and development policy.
The UN's specialized agencies, such as the World Food Program (WFP), the World Health Organization (WHO), the International Labor Organization (ILO), or the Refugee Agency (UNHCR), are unable to adequately address the crises due to underfunding.
The rich member states must finally meet their payment obligations and close the financing gap.
In the case of the UNHCR, we are talking about just under 4 billion euros, only a fraction of German arms spending.
To push back the influence of private players, we want to raise the basic contributions.
UN spending on military operations must be reallocated in favor of funding for hunger relief, peaceful conflict management and civilian crisis prevention.
We support the appeal of UN Secretary General António Guterres for a global ceasefire.
Economic sanctions primarily affect the ordinary population and must be ended.
Unilateral sanctions by the U.S. and EU, such as those against Iran, Cuba, Syria or Russia, are contrary to international law and continue to escalate the situation.
We condemn the blockade of Cuba by the Biden administration and all attempts by the U.S. and the EU to bulldoze away disagreeable governments in Latin America, such as in Venezuela and Bolivia, and to destabilize them through economic sanctions.
In the case of Cuba, an entire country is blocked in its economic development.
Even the German government regularly votes against the U.S. blockade in the UN.
We therefore demand that a new German government finally backs up its words with action and consistently implements the EU blocking regulation of 1996.
DIE LINKE supports the proposal to award the Nobel Peace Prize to the Cuban medical missions.
So far, they have treated 260,000 patients in 40 countries and provided medical care for the population in poor countries - also against Corona and other viruses.
We advocate a peaceful solution to the Middle East conflict based on two independent states of Israel and Palestine and the 1967 borders.
We want to strengthen cooperation with organizations and associations of states in the Global South that are working for people's social concerns, equitable economic development, indigenous rights, peaceful cooperation and regional integration through political cooperation.
Enforce human rights
Human rights are universal and oblige political action.
All human rights are equally important to us: social, economic, cultural and political.
We as the LEFT criticize the violation of human rights everywhere.
We oppose the federal government's double standards.
We want to enforce human rights globally, and international jurisdiction must be strengthened to achieve this.
Peace is a sine qua non for the realization of human rights and comprehensive human development.
We want international law to enshrine the right to peace.
Human rights must not be instrumentalized for warfare.
We want the federal government to sign the Additional Protocol to the International Covenant on Human Rights so that individuals have the option of appealing to the UN.
Basic rights should apply to all people living in Germany and should not be dependent on the German passport.
We want the forces for democracy,
Equal rights
and social justice,
instead of making deals with dictators!
That is why we support the progressive social movements from Kurdistan to Western Sahara to Colombia in their struggle.
Germany must actively support the release of political prisoners.
We want to end the arbitrary criminalization of progressive movements, including by NATO allies and authorities here at home.
We stand in solidarity with persecuted whistleblowers like Chelsea Manning or Edward Snowden and journalists like Julian Assange, who have made public war crimes and millions of illegal worldwide surveillance by the US and are therefore persecuted.
Human rights are fought for as a whole and are indivisible.
As this unity, they must also be realized.
The right to work and to equal pay for equal work must be filled with life.
Right to clean drinking water and to a healthy ecosystem must be understood as human rights.
Let's improve human rights together.
Reappraise German and European colonialism
DIE LINKE demands that German colonialism and its impact in international relations be dealt with until today.
Colonialism must finally be recognized as the rule of injustice.
We want a public debate within federal German institutions as well as support for the anti-colonial culture of remembrance in the former colonies.
To this end, we call for the establishment of a Bundestag Commission of Inquiry and support the initiative to erect a central memorial to the victims of German colonialism at the site of the so-called Africa Conference in Berlin.
The federal government is to establish an institution for the history of colonialism with the involvement of scholars from the former colonies.
In particular, it should shed light on the German role in the African, Asian and South Pacific colonies.
n The German government and the Bundestag must fully recognize the genocide of the Herero and Nama as genocide.
The request for an apology for the genocide in the former German colony of Southwest Africa, announced in May 2021, is only a first step in coming to terms with the past.
The reconstruction and development program announced over a period of 30 years is not compensation, but must be evaluated as technical development assistance.
It is no substitute for a policy of reconciliation and compensation for the suffering of generations of Herero and Nama.
In addition to the Namibian government, the representatives of the affected communities in Namibia must be included in the dialogue on an equal footing on how to deal with the guilt and on compensation.
Culture and natural objects must be returned to the countries of origin.
Only after official approval may artifacts be exhibited as loans in the Federal Republic.
Mortal remains must be returned to the communities of origin.
Research on unlawfully acquired collections must be stopped.
For a Europe based on solidarity!
We are fighting for a social, democratic and peaceful Europe, for another European Union in which everyone can live and work well.
A Europe of solidarity in which all people are protected from poverty.
In which democracy and solidarity, not location competition and profit, come first.
A Europe in which corporations and the rich finally pay their share to finance the common good.
For an EU that does not make deals with dictators
and multinational corporations,
which outlaws war as a means of politics
and prevents people from drowning in the Mediterranean.
We want a Union that finally advances climate protection and an energy and transport turnaround instead of blocking them.
We want a peaceful Europe without an arms race.
We demand minimum social standards,
good health care
and education for all.
We must meet the ecological challenges
with a response to social problems.
But the EU Commission has imposed a "Green Deal" with which the EU is not even able to achieve its climate targets.
That is why we want to change course - with a socio-ecological system change in Europe.
The must create the transformation of the economy with massive public investment in good jobs, innovation for climate-neutral production and infrastructure.
The natural foundations of life and common goods such as water, energy, air, a clean environment and our health must no longer be subordinated to the profit interests of a few.
We argue for a sensible regionalization of the flow of goods.
Europe finally needs higher taxes for the rich and corporations.
Money from the EU budget must be reallocated: Instead of military rearmament, it
must be invested in solidarity-based and ecological projects for the future.
Because we need a historic show of force to stop the climate catastrophe
and at the same time bring all people with us.
We are fighting for the redistribution of wealth,
for gender equality
and democracy,
for a new industrial strategy
and a sustainable public infrastructure in Europe -
for a good future for all.
For the EU, the corona pandemic is the second severe shock after the financial crisis.
For countless people, it once again means loss of income, existential angst and destroyed life plans.
Member countries have tried to keep the crisis at bay and cushion it socially through economic measures.
The EU Commission suspended the deficit restrictions of the EU's Stability and Growth Pact.
However, as a result of the cutback policies of recent years, public services are underfunded.
Banks were bailed out with billions, but hospitals were cut to the bone.
Hundreds of thousands of people have died, partly because they could not be adequately treated.
The split between Northern and Southern, Eastern and Western Europe is growing.
Germany's policy of low wages and export success at any price has helped cause the crisis and has also increased inequality and competition within the EU.
Austerity, privatization, social cuts and deindustrialization have destroyed jobs,
created poverty and
thus boosted right-wing populism.
No country can meet the challenges of climate change and global social justice alone.
We need to find cross-border - global - solutions.
All this shows: It is high time for a social and solidary Europe!
Unlike in the financial crisis of 2008/2009, the EU has not yet reacted to the crisis with a dictate of cutbacks.
But there is a great danger that the EU will fall back into the old policy of cuts after the crisis.
Because the dictate of the black zero is only suspended.
It is therefore clear that we need a paradigm shift, away from cuts, free trade agreements and market radicalism, towards public investment, cross-border cooperation and solidarity.
Away from rearmament
and toward sensible investments and a consistent policy of détente and peace.
This policy change must begin in Berlin.
We want an EU that is committed to a system of international cooperation on an equal footing.
We want an EU whose foreign policy is characterized by peaceful cooperation and not by the violent enforcement of economic interests.
The Maastricht and Lisbon Treaties inscribed neoliberalism into the foundations of the Union.
We want new treaties to make the EU more social,
fairer
and more ecological.
This is the only way the Union has a common future.
We are working for this future together with social movements, with trade unions, with the European Left and other parties.
Trade unions and movements, the commitment for the climate, for democracy and women's rights and against racism everywhere show: Together we can change Europe.
Investing instead of blocking the future!
The EU budget and reconstruction and aid funds fall far short of what would be needed to address the consequences of the pandemic and redirect for a just and carbon-neutral future.
Parts of the EU budget are hidden subsidies for large corporations.
It was mainly the rich who profited from this.
It is particularly negligent that investments and health spending were cut from the reconstruction package.
For the economy is crippled,
many countries are plagued by mass unemployment,
and the infrastructure has long been driven to wear and tear.
We want money for investments in the future instead of for rearmament.
What might be too much for individual states to handle is quite feasible for the European community of states as a whole, because with its great economic power and the European Central Bank (ECB) behind it, it has sufficient economic strength.
The Stability and Growth Pact curtails democracy in the individual member states and locks them into a neoliberal fiscal policy.
We want to change that: The EU needs an investment offensive without handbrakes.
Deficit and debt rules need to be adjusted.
For the EU to have a future, we need to address the deficits that really matter:
The investment backlog in the welfare state,
in education,
the infrastructure,
on the labor market
and climate protection.
In view of the challenges posed by Corona and climate catastrophe, the EU budget must be expanded by issuing European bonds.
In view of the biggest slump in the global economy in decades, a volume of 1 to 2 trillion euros is required for the European investment and spending program.
A socio-ecological investment program is needed!
The EU's financial resources must be expanded and used in a targeted manner for the economically weaker countries, regions, sectors and for future tasks such as a socio-ecological industrial policy, healthcare, digital infrastructure, education and research as well as the energy and transport turnaround.
Troika and austerity are expressions for the unsolidary EU.
The competencies of the EU Commission to control and steer the allocation of funds must be limited and the European Parliament must be more involved.
Democratic control of the use of EU funds must take place at the European level.
In the process, no more cutbacks may be imposed, such as the dismantling of labor rights.
We call for debt cuts and meaningful investment programs for the poorer regions of Europe.
We reject the fact that the allocation of funds from the EU Reconstruction Fund is tied to conditions that in effect turn the recommendations of the EU Commission within the framework of the European Semester into regulations.
Without compensatory measures, the euro, as a common currency of very different economic areas, increases the imbalance between the rich states in Northern and Western Europe vis-à-vis the states in Southern Europe.
We need to build a fair and common European economy instead of continuing the competition.
Europe-wide: Distributing wealth from top to bottom
Investments for the future cost money.
But the good news is: money is there - it's just misallocated.
After all, the companies that make the biggest profits still pay the least taxes in Europe.
Even large fortunes are hardly taxed.
Tax avoidance and tax havens are booming.
The result: While the rich are getting richer and richer, especially in the Corona crisis, the poverty of the majority of people is growing.
Enough of this!
There needs to be an EU-wide minimum tax rate for companies with broad and uniform tax bases.
We call for common minimum standards for the taxation of large assets and top incomes.
The fight against tax evasion must be stepped up.
We will revoke the licenses of banks that operate in tax havens.
European own resources are needed, for example from a financial transaction tax.
Digital corporations like Google and Amazon make billions in profits and pay hardly any taxes.
We will finally make them pay!
Democratically controlling the European Central Bank and using it socially and ecologically
The European Central Bank (ECB) must finally be oriented toward the common good instead of the criterion of competitiveness.
The ECB must enable socio-ecological investments by member states and make them independent of the goodwill of the financial markets.
For this, it would already suffice if the ECB guaranteed the solvency of the member states by being obliged to be the lender of last resort.
There is no inflationary risk because the ECB remains committed to its inflation target.
The EU treaties must be amended to allow the ECB to finance the state.
We want the ECB to be democratically controlled by the European Parliament - instead of continuing to be at the mercy of the influence of financial lobbyists.
The ECB must not continue to buy bonds from companies with high CO2 emissions and thereby undermine climate protection.
It needs strong social and environmental standards.
This also applies to corona aids.
Transforming the economy
We must not carry on as before after the crisis.
We want to make Europe fairer
and advance a socio-ecological system change.
We want social-ecological transformation to be possible in all member states.
Our goal is to make power generation, industry, transport, buildings and agriculture climate-neutral without leaving people or regions behind (see chapter "For a socio-ecological system change").
The recent increase in the EU's greenhouse gas reduction target from 40 to 55 percent compared to 1990 is still too low to meet the goals of the Paris climate agreement.
We want to make the EU climate-neutral by 2035 at the latest.
Investments: The EU has squeezed the programs for equitable restructuring from 40 billion euros to 17.5 billion euros - restructuring cannot succeed like this.
We want to strengthen the Just Transition Fund.
It is intended to provide social security for people working in areas such as mining and climate-damaging industries, especially in disadvantaged regions, and to open up new career prospects for them.
To combat mass unemployment, poverty and a lack of prospects, a consistent European full employment policy and a genuine industrial strategy are needed.
It must aim for climate neutrality and, above all, give de-industrialized regions a future.
Energy transition: The coal phase-out must begin immediately throughout Europe and be completed by 2030.
We don't want new fossil fuel infrastructure.
Renewable energies must be expanded
- close to the people
and in public or cooperative ownership.
We advocate the establishment of an alternative "European Community for the Promotion of Renewable Energies and Energy Saving".
We reject nuclear power and fracking.
Transport turnaround: A European mobility revolution is needed.
This can be done if we expand bus and rail services and drastically reduce prices, create networked mobility and promote short distances.
Instead of air routes, we want to expand rail connections.
A large proportion of freight traffic and intra-European air traffic must be shifted to rail.
Agricultural turnaround: We focus on sustainable agriculture and regional cycles instead of long transport routes and industrial mass production.
The system of EU agricultural subsidies is not sustainable, we want to orient subsidies to social and ecological criteria and no longer to the area.
We want to end export subsidies for agricultural products.
Social security and good work
All people must be able to live from their work.
But politics in the EU puts corporate interests ahead of those of most people.
The result is poverty, wage dumping and exploitation.
The rise in youth unemployment is dramatic; in Spain and Greece it threatens to rise to 40 percent as a result of the Corona crisis.
Almost every second young person looking for a job comes up empty.
Corporate profits must no longer take precedence over workers' labor rights and people's basic social rights.
We demand for all citizens in the EU social rights and minimum wages that secure the existence.
The principle of "equal pay for equal work in the same place" must be enshrined in law to prevent wage dumping.
Seasonal workers can work in Germany without social security for 100 days.
We want all people working in Germany and Europe to be well insured and want social insurance for everyone and from day one.
We want statutory minimum wages of at least 60 percent of the median wage in the respective country.
In addition, minimum regulations are needed to protect and promote collective agreements and trade union rights.
We want co-determination rights and the rights of trade unions and employees to be restored and expanded.
We therefore join with the European Trade Union Confederation in calling for the introduction of a European framework directive to safeguard corporate codetermination.
Enforce social security!
We want social security with binding minimum social security and minimum social standards - in case of doubt, the better standard applies (favorability clause).
Freedom of movement for all!
Unequal living conditions force young people in particular to migrate.
No one should be excluded from social benefits because of this,
human rights are indivisible,
and the subsistence level is non-negotiable.
We want to help people find Good Work.
Democracy instead of lobbyist rule
We need more democracy in Europe.
Many people have turned away from the EU in disappointment in recent years.
There is a lack of trust; for many people, the EU is far away.
Because democracy is more than an election every five years.
We want a European Union that takes fundamental rights seriously and defends them.
Democracy must no longer be subordinated to the financial markets.
We reject all attacks on democracy in Europe, for example by establishing rights of penetration over national budgets.
We need a peaceful, social, democratic and ecological EU - with new treaties, new structures, new hopes.
This means a strong European Parliament and extensive opportunities for participation.
That's why we want a new constitution for Europe that citizens can help shape and on which they can decide simultaneously in referendums in all EU member states.
We want the European Parliament to have the right of initiative and to be able to introduce its own legislative proposals.
Fundamental decisions must be made by the European Parliament - rather than by executive bodies such as the Commission, Eurogroup or Council.
In addition, MEPs should be able to elect and vote out the Commission President and Commissioners.
The European Council plays a decisive role in determining the legislative process in the EU, but its work is not transparent; as a result, national governments often act without democratic control.
We want to finally commit the Council to transparency.
We want decisions to be made at the levels that are most affected: local affairs in the municipalities, federal affairs in the national parliaments, European affairs in the EU Parliament.
No limits for democracy!
The high hurdles for European citizens' initiatives must be lowered:
We want to enable EU-wide referendums and plebiscites.
All people should have the same rights in the EU countries in which they live.
We want the state of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in the EU to be regularly evaluated and violations to be sanctioned.
There needs to be more commitment to democracy
and human rights in all member states.
We want current and future EU accession candidates to commit to democracy without reservation.
and human rights.
This applies in particular to the accession candidate Turkey.
The current government of Turkey must implement the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights, guarantee democracy and freedom of expression, end the persecution of the democratic opposition and release all imprisoned parliamentarians and mayors of the opposition Kurdish party HDP.
We want the EU to accede to the European Convention on Human Rights.
The common foreign and security policy must also be controlled by the European Court of Human Rights.
Fundamental social rights must become enforceable for individuals before the European Court of Justice.
We want all decisions and the processes leading to them to be made transparent.
So far, lobbyists often influence political decisions in the EU without citizens being able to find out about it.
We call for an EU transparency register and a transparency regulation.
European policy of détente instead of rearmament
The EU's response to the crises is, of all things, to rearm.
Economic development is practiced as arms promotion.
Dictators are business partners in arms deals and are glorified as anchors of stability.
The expansion of a "military union", the creation of an additional European army and arms exports, however, do not lead to more security for the people.
The so-called Permanent Structured (Military) Cooperation (PESCO for short) is supposed to ensure that billions are spent on armaments while there is an enormous lack of arms control and civil conflict management.
The participating states are committed to a steady increase in their defense budgets and investments, participation in large-scale armament projects and the establishment of European troop formations.
With the European Peace Facility (EFF), the European Union itself becomes a supplier of arms and ammunition.
We want a peaceful Europe and a Union of disarmament
that promotes democracy instead of doing business with dictators.
We advocate a European policy of peace and détente
and want to end the militarization of the EU.
Security is only possible with a consistent peace policy
and promoting global justice instead of competition between locations.
We want to abolish the EU arms agency and advocate an EU-wide ban on arms exports.
Exports to authoritarian regimes like Egypt and Turkey must be stopped immediately.
We reject the plans for a European defense union and cooperation between the EU and NATO.
The expansion of a "defense union" or "military union" with an independent military policy, a European army and other projects of militarization do not lead to more security for the people in Europe, but only secure corporate interests militarily.
We want to dissolve the Euratom Treaty and detach it from the treaty foundations of the EU, because it blocks a sustainable, socially and democratically designed energy transition.
We reject the European Defense Fund.
It is intended to channel billions from the joint EU budget into defense research and development.
This only benefits the arms industry and promotes neither security nor peace.
Instead of a planned expansion through the participation of third countries, we call for the termination of PESCO and all military-related EU programs and funds, such as the European Peace Facility (EFF).
We want to invest the money in social cohesion,
Climate protection
and global justice.
Human rights instead of Fortress Europe
The EU Commission wants to push through a "migration pact" that further aims at closure, deportation and disenfranchisement.
The German government supports this approach.
We oppose it.
It is not compatible with a solidary and humane Europe that thousands of people drown on the run in the Mediterranean Sea or are imprisoned in lawless spaces in reception camps and deportation centers at and in front of the borders of the EU.
We oppose cooperation for the purpose of sealing off the EU with authoritarian regimes, as in the inhumane EU-Turkey deal or the agreement with the Libyan coast guard: they are not part of the solution, but part of the problem.
DIE LINKE wants to save people, clear escape routes and fight the causes of flight (see chapter "Solidary Immigration Society"):
Without the border protection agency and coast guard Frontex, with legal escape routes.
With legal certainty and enforcement of the Refugee Convention, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the European Convention on Human Rights.
Without deprivation of liberty and pushbacks into torture and death (see chapter "Defending Humanity").
How we change the country
DIE LINKE fights for social justice
and peace,
we fight for a restructuring of economy and society that puts the people all over the world in the center: the employees, pensioners, the unemployed - and the people of tomorrow, our children and grandchildren.
We want to hand over to them a livable, inclusive and climate-just society.
With a well-equipped public service, in which what is there for everyone also belongs to everyone.
With places that promote democratic exchange,
make social cohesion tangible,
and open up access and participation in social wealth to all.
On a viable planet, with good air to breathe.
We will do everything in our power to achieve the goal of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees
- and to change the economy and society in a socially and climate-friendly way.
We want to encourage people.
We want to win social majorities for five points.
They are realistic and radical.
They improve the lives of the majority - and at the same time set the course for a different society.
These are decisive steps towards a social
and ecological future.
We will only participate in a government that is measured by the following:
1.There was much applause in the pandemic, but little change in wages.
What is needed are higher wages and secure rather than precarious work.
To combat the low-wage sector, we need a minimum wage that protects against poverty now and in old age,
the conversion of mini-jobs into socially insured work,
and nationwide collective agreements.
The statutory pension must be designed in such a way that no one has to live below the poverty line, and the retirement age must be lowered again.
Hartz IV must be free of poverty and sanctions.
Without taxing millionaires, there can be no policy change.
Without a wealth tax, the necessary investments in affordable housing, educational equality and climate protection cannot be financed fairly.
2. instead of warm words, the colleagues in the care sector finally get better pay, more staff and a statutory needs-oriented staffing level.
Hospitals and care facilities must be returned to public and community-oriented ownership throughout the country.
The flat rates per case must be abolished.
The rent cap in Berlin has shown that rents do not have to keep rising.
The rent cap was cashed because the Federal Constitutional Court is of the opinion that this is not the task of a federal state, but of the Federal Parliament for the entire country.
We see that as a mission.
With us, there will be a rent cap for all municipalities with a tight housing market.
A program for the construction of permanently affordable housing is also needed
- in public and cooperative hands.
4 For us, consistent climate protection
and social justice together - because it is precisely the poor who will suffer most from climate change.
A turnaround is needed toward investing in the future for a climate-neutral economy
and good jobs for all.
Hundreds of thousands of well-paid, future-proof jobs can be created in schools, daycare centers, health care, through the energy turnaround and the socio-ecological restructuring of industry.
We will massively increase investment in buses and trains and make tickets significantly cheaper.
The spiral of rearmament devours taxpayers' money that is needed for social welfare and climate protection and further fuels the danger of new wars.
We need a change in peace policy: Away from the 2 percent target of the NATO countries, toward a policy of détente.
Arms spending must be reduced, arms exports stopped and the Bundeswehr's foreign deployments ended.
We will fight the causes of flight, not the refugees.
All people who live here permanently should receive the same social rights.
We want change for social security,
Peace
and climate justice.
We will drive this change as a rebellious part of a center-left government or from the opposition to set the political agenda.
DIE LINKE wants to make this federal election a decision on direction.
At last, a majority for a progressive government in Germany seems possible.
This majority and all the improvements it promises are only possible with the LEFT.
We are ready for that.
We want to take responsibility for a socio-ecological policy change in Germany.
We want to govern to change!
A different policy is not significantly made in the parliament.
It needs pressure from society, from trade unions, social and climate movements, NGOs, social and environmental associations and the peace movement.
Pressure from below and pressure from the street.
DIE LINKE is anchored in these movements.
Together, we can shift the balance of power in society to the left.
We are the address in parliament that is free of corporate and lobby interests.
We give a voice to those who are overheard by the other parties.
We promise: DIE LINKE accepts no corporate donations, no party sponsorship and no large private donations.
The deputies of the LEFT stand for the goals and projects presented here.
They declare that they do not accept donations or gifts from lobby groups or large corporations.
Citizens' will and the common good take precedence over individual interests!
All additional income is disclosed;
that they do not cooperate with secret services
and against the dismantling of democracy;
that they use information and knowledge from their parliamentary activities in the general interest.
We are not a backroom party.
Freedom of information instead of secrecy!
that they make the resources and infrastructure of MPs' offices available to the local population, social movements or solidarity and aid projects.
climate protection in all policy areas
and social justice together and prioritize them.
The members of parliament will work to ensure that in the future they, along with the self-employed and civil servants, pay into the statutory pension fund and into a solidarity-based comprehensive health and long-term care insurance scheme, and that the contribution assessment limits - insofar as they are constitutionally permissible - are abolished.
Fridays for Future has called for climate justice and economic transformation worldwide.
The nurses' protests have put the nursing emergency on the agenda.
Employees organize themselves under adverse conditions and strike for their interests, for good work that fits in with life, and a future that can be planned.
In many places, tenants are fighting against rising rents and housing shortages.
These concerns are our program.
We want to enforce improvements in the everyday lives of the vast majority of people and join them on the path to a social,
climate-friendly society.
Let's change the country together.
Give the LEFT party your vote: Together we are strong to assert the interests of the many against the profit interests of the few.
Let's fight together for new social majorities.
For a social,
ecological
and peace policy awakening!
