There has never been more to do
Election program of the Free Democrats
We are Free Democrats.
We believe that Germany now needs a fresh start.
We believe that it needs to become more modern, digital and free.
We believe in the great potential of our country.
We are ready to take responsibility for this.
The Free Democrats' program for the 2021 federal election
Resolution of the 72nd Ordinary Federal Party Congress of the Free Democrats, May 14-16, 2021 (subject to review of the verbatim record).
There has never been more to do
As it is, it must not remain3
Are we going to make the land that is in us3
The right direction: through the center to the front4
We want to shape4
I.Never has it been more necessary: Let's get fit for catch-up competition!6
Safeguarding the social market economy and strengthening the economy6
Relief and fair taxes10
Investing in the future13
Fair rules in international taxation14
Education of the future - opportunities for advancement and self-determination15
Vocational education19
Higher education and research21
II.Modernization has never been more urgent: Let's finally modernize our country!23
Uncomplicated state23
Innovation Nation24
Mobility26
Digitization29
Modern working world32
Health35
Care38
Modern law for strong families40
Privacy protection43
A constitutional state capable of acting45
Protecting freedom of the press and freedom of expression48
Democracy and Parliamentarism49
Tolerant and open-minded society51
Strengthening communities, sports and volunteering53
Culture55
III.Opportunities have never been greater: Let us meet the great challenges of our time!58
Climate and environmental protection through innovation58
Sustainable and strong European Union62
Clear rules65
Principles of Liberal Foreign Policy67
Freedom and human rights worldwide72
For a development policy of opportunities74
Immigration and flight76
For a holistic energy system79
Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting81
Housing84
Liberal Citizen's Income86
Grandfather pension87
Fairness for all generations89
There has never been more to do.
It must not remain as it is
As it is, it must not remain.
The pandemic has shown that.
We have already felt it before.
Because the world is changing rapidly.
This gives rise to opportunities and risks.
If we do not change anything, we will bear the risks and others will seize the opportunities.
Nevertheless, for too long the deceptive image was conveyed in Germany that everything could remain as it is.
Many trusted the promise that Germany could remain the country in which we live well and happily without having to change anything.
Today we know: That was wrong!
The result has been policies that have made our state fat and sluggish - instead of lean and strong.
The pandemic has shown that.
While other countries have digitized their administration, we have stuck to forms and paperwork.
While other states have digitized their health care systems, our health departments have been sending faxes to each other.
Highly trained officials typed up lists instead of effectively tracing chains of infection using modern digital technologies.
While other states invite vaccinations by text message, we have assigned vaccination appointments by letter.
Instead of sending protective masks quickly and pragmatically to people in need of protection, we print elaborate ration cards, send them by mail, and force vulnerable people to pick up the masks in busy city centers.
During the crisis, we clung to the basic technology of paper as if we were still in the 20th century.
Enough of that.
We need to comprehensively modernize our state so that we can finally arrive in the 21st century.
The bottom line of this policy is living at the expense of the future.
Instead of promoting competition, entrepreneurship and innovation, the Grand Coalition's policies relied on the old familiar and old-fashioned.
Instead of combining prosperity and sustainability, growth and climate policy, economic strength and ecological responsibility, it relied on prohibitions and dirigisme.
Instead of making the social systems fit for the future, it has exacerbated the problems of demographic change.
Instead of providing the world's best education, it has allowed our education system to fail to provide fair opportunities for advancement for many people.
Instead of strengthening individual initiative and the assumption of personal responsibility by each and every individual, it got bogged down in bureaucracy.
And instead of ensuring a rule-of-law state capable of action that protects security and civil rights in equal measure, policymakers have subordinated freedom to security in a frightening manner.
It must not remain as it is.
We know that.
The good news is that it doesn't have to stay that way either.
Everything can get better.
Nothing is destiny.
We have it in our own hands.
That is our mission: there has never been more to do!
Are we going to make the land that is inside us
The power to comprehensively modernize Germany is within us.
It is in the people.
It is in the forces of free science
and the social market economy.
The rapid development of vaccines against Covid-19 by German researchers shows: Hard work, determination and inventiveness can move mountains.
The basis for this is freedom.
It has never been more important!
Let's take back our freedom with a reboot of politics.
Let's become the country that is within us.
The right direction: through the middle to the front
It must not remain as it is.
Change is necessary.
But not every change is progress.
Old aberrations are becoming more and more popular lately.
Right-wingers try to divide people by characteristics such as origin, culture, religion, sexual orientation or skin color and set them against each other.
Leftists try to divide people by characteristics such as success, income, or wealth and set them against each other.
Both are aberrations.
Progress only goes forward through the middle.
This is the right direction for us.
Through the middle to the front means for us:
Let's get fit for the future!
Let's get fit for the competition to catch up:
Let us unleash the forces of the social market economy and the world's best education for prosperity,
Freedom
and promotion opportunities.
Let's use the agility of the market economy to grow quickly out of the crisis.
Let's become the pioneers of modernization!
Let's re-found Germany.
Let's use the opportunities of digitization for ourselves.
Let's make modernization a mandatory program: in administration, in healthcare, in the labor market.
Let's become a land of opportunity!
Let's use the thrust of freedom, the social market economy and modernization to tackle the great challenges of our time: more Europe for more freedom and human rights worldwide.
More German courage for more climate protection
and more sustainable development.
More opportunities to build ownership for more future security.
We Free Democrats are committed to freedom and responsibility.
We rely on the power of the social market economy and economic prosperity as a counter-model to the dirigiste state, which gets bogged down in the minutiae and acts as the guardian of the citizens.
We stand for a lively cultural scene and the development of individual creativity.
We want to keep society together
without everyone having to conform to a predetermined way of life.
We respect the personal choice of each and every individual because we recognize in it the basis for human freedom.
We Free Democrats are committed to freedom, the rule of law and civil rights, which apply even in times of crisis and must not be dismissed as "privileges" that can be allocated or withheld from us at will.
We Free Democrats rely on the power of personal responsibility, private initiative, and the freedom of the individual.
We want a country that, together with our value partners in the global West, resolutely defends freedom and human rights worldwide and,
wherever possible, promotes global cooperation and sustainable development for the benefit of all people.
We Free Democrats recognize the United Nations' Agenda 2030 and its 17 goals as the most comprehensive attempt to date by humankind to bring the various aspects of sustainable development into a globally unifying system of goals.
This is a chance for more freedom for all and for future generations.
We want a country that contributes to global development
and serves the peace of the world.
We Free Democrats believe in openness to the world, tolerance and competition for the best ideas: in a vibrant democracy of self-confident citizens.
That is our goal.
That is the right direction.
We want to shape
As the voice of progress and freedom, we want to overcome the crisis together with the citizens
and unleash Germany's potential.
We present here our program, which is made of conviction.
It's not about tactics, it's not about color games.
We are not running in the federal election for coalitions, but for our convictions: We want the right path for our country.
We want to become so strong that no serious federal government can be formed without the Free Democrats, so that the value of freedom is given its proper importance in every political decision.
This gives us the power to implement as many of our ideas as possible.
We don't want to be elected so that this chancellor or that chancellor becomes chancellor.
We don't put ourselves up for election so that someone becomes something.
We are standing for election so that our country will be better off:
with more individual freedom and personal responsibility,
with more social market economy
and comprehensive sustainability.
And with a state that is strong because it acts lean and modern instead of complacent, old-fashioned and sluggish.
It has never been more necessary: Let's get fit for catch-up competition!
Things cannot remain as they are: Large democracies like the USA are once again setting course for strong and sustained economic growth.
Systemic competitors such as China's authoritarian regime claim for themselves more successful ways out of the crisis.
All the more resolutely, we must now lay the foundations for catch-up competition: Let's become world leaders in competitiveness rather than in taxes and duties.
Let's invest massively in the foundations of advancement and growth: our education system.
Let's stop letting our infrastructures go to waste and start building them.
Let's strengthen the forces of the social market economy
and free trade.
Let's bring the relationship between private and public back into a balance that promotes performance.
Let's give SMEs, the self-employed and start-ups more room for success and creative solutions!
Encourage instead of hinder: That is our mission.
Safeguarding the social market economy and strengthening the economy
Even before the Corona crisis, Germany's economy was losing momentum.
Now, despite the crisis, we have to quickly get back on track for growth.
For a sustainable location and jobs, we need real modernization impetus.
We Free Democrats are relying on the innovative power of the social market economy
and on an agenda for more growth: relieve, unleash, invest.
Rapid assistance through "negative profit tax" in economic crises
We Free Democrats demand that short-term liquidity assistance can be paid out directly by the tax office.
Instead of deducting advance tax payments from companies' accounts, the tax offices transfer a negative income or corporate income tax as an emergency liquidity aid: the "negative profit tax".
The last tax assessment notice serves as the assessment basis.
In a second step, a significantly expanded offsetting of losses against profits of past or future years is to be introduced.
In this way, we ensure rapid and unbureaucratic assistance in times of economic crisis and
prevent unnecessary job losses and insolvencies.
Unleashing Pact for the German Economy
We Free Democrats are calling for an unleashing pact for the German economy in which measures to reduce bureaucracy are bundled and driven forward.
The ever-growing bureaucratic jungle is a burden on citizens and German companies
and slows down economic development.
Initiatives such as the Bureaucracy Relief Act IV, the "Single Point of Contact 2.0" strategy and a shift in social security contributions to the following month must be bundled into an overall strategy.
This also applies to leaner procurement, register and information regulations.
For every new burden imposed by planned regulations, burdens are to be reduced by twice the amount ("one in, two out") - also at the European level.
Reduce corporate tax burden to 25 percent
We Free Democrats want to reduce the tax burden on companies to the OECD (Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) average of around 25 percent.
Our goal is to put an end to Germany's special trade tax system in the course of the harmonization of corporate taxation in Europe.
At the same time, this means that the financing of the municipalities must be placed on a new footing - for example, through a municipal surcharge with its own right of assessment on corporate income tax and on the previously lowered income tax, as well as a higher share of the municipalities in the sales tax.
In addition, we want to work together with the USA to achieve a global minimum taxation for companies.
In this way, we ensure more fairness in competition between large international corporations that engage in aggressive tax avoidance and medium-sized companies.
Promote research and development through taxation
We Free Democrats want to provide greater tax incentives for research and development.
Germany can only ensure lasting prosperity and social security if companies develop innovative products and services.
Tax law must contribute to this by improving the framework conditions for the provision of venture capital.
In this way, we create better conditions for start-ups and give innovations a chance.
The Corona crisis in particular has shown that the constant change in the economy requires new ideas and ways.
For example, Germany needs to catch up in terms of digitization.
That is why we need a tax law that supports innovative companies.
Improved depreciation conditions
We Free Democrats want to improve the depreciation conditions.
To this end, declining-balance depreciation (AfA) is to be made permanent for movable assets and uniform and shortened depreciation periods of no more than three years are to be set for digital assets, unless immediate depreciation is an option.
We want to increase the limit for immediate depreciation of low-value assets.
To encourage investment in housing construction, we want to increase straight-line depreciation here from two to three percent.
Retain small and medium-sized enterprises in the area and secure them in the long term
We Free Democrats want to create prospects for small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, from industry to crafts to trade, even in rural regions.
The prerequisites for this are a comprehensive digital infrastructure fit for the future,
efficient transport routes
and a strong dual education system.
Migration, an aging population and a shortage of skilled workers are hitting SMEs particularly hard.
That is why we need modern approaches, especially in rural regions.
We want to strengthen our SMEs and our hidden champions!
To ensure that companies are not endangered by inheritances or a tax on assets, we reject a tightening of inheritance tax or the reintroduction of wealth tax.
Back to the market economy - overcoming Corona consequences with growth
We Free Democrats call for a return to free-market principles.
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, many have experienced financial hardship through no fault of their own.
It was therefore right to launch aid programs,
but the path toward more and more emergency aid and bailouts for individual companies cannot be sustained.
It is inefficient, distorts competition and reduces the competitiveness and innovative strength of existing companies as well as start-ups.
In addition, the market power of individual companies is growing, leading to less innovation and higher prices for consumers as well as disincentives for companies.
We want to strengthen competition nationally and internationally and
, in particular, avoid creating unnecessary interdependencies between the market and state economies.
That is why we support measures that apply equally to all companies, distort competition less,
and contribute to self-sustaining economic growth.
Investment brake for the state - sell shares in Post and Telekom
We Free Democrats demand a participation brake for the state.
Unnecessary state holdings and all company shares that are not part of the public service must be sold - in particular Post and Telekom.
The proceeds can be invested in the digital infrastructure.
State holdings must be more closely scrutinized for their necessity and prospectively reduced.
New investments should only be allowed if others are reduced accordingly.
European competition order
We Free Democrats want to protect and strengthen the fair and rule-based European competition order and thus set international standards.
This includes, on the one hand, working against protectionism in the European single market.
We want to simplify the EU Posting of Workers Directive and reduce bureaucracy in the German Posted Workers Act.
Secondly, we need better competitive conditions for young and medium-sized companies in particular, especially in the digital economy.
The concentration of market power on incumbents and large companies hinders real competition and innovation.
This is particularly detrimental to consumers and
to the future viability of the location.
We therefore resolutely oppose the political promotion of "national champions".
Such solo efforts within the European single market put the brakes on innovation and scalability.
This ultimately lowers the competitiveness of European companies vis-à-vis American and Chinese competitors.
We see the social market economy as a learning system and as a model for an economic peace order - not only in Europe.
Effective regulation of gatekeeper companies
We Free Democrats want to create effective control of large digital economy companies that control access to the Internet.
Such gatekeeper companies, which as operators of a search engine, as a social network or as a dominant trading platform can decisively influence the competitive conditions of small or medium-sized enterprises, must be subject to special regulation.
Regulation is intended to prevent gatekeepers from distorting competition, for example by favoring themselves in search results, by limiting interoperability with other companies' offerings, or by unfairly using their partners' business data for their own benefit.
Effective control of globally operating gatekeeper companies cannot come from the level of national law and EU member state authorities alone.
We therefore support the plans to create a Digital Markets Act at the level of the European Union, which is intended to create European regulation for gatekeeper companies that complements antitrust law.
Germany as an advocate of free trade
We Free Democrats want Germany to become an international advocate of rules-based free trade and to drive forward the conclusion of further free trade agreements.
To this end, the German government must counter protectionist tendencies within Europe and the world and take an active leadership role in trade agreements, investment treaties and fair investment conditions.
At the same time, it must press ahead with the institutional anchoring of a rules-based free trade order.
To give trade policy more weight in the next federal government, we are calling for a Minister of State for Foreign Trade.
We also want to rename the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy as the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs, Free Trade and Energy.
In order to maintain the European Union's ability to act in trade policy, we want to structure free trade agreements in such a way that - as with the EU-Japan agreement, for example - only the approval of the European Parliament is required, not that of national and regional parliaments.
In doing so, we want to take action in the EU and worldwide against market distortions caused, for example, by heavily subsidized state-owned enterprises.
We also advocate the principle of reciprocity, according to which companies should only have access to the European market if the reverse is also the case.
Reform WTO - strengthen free trade
We Free Democrats want to further develop the proven framework of the World Trade Organization (WTO).
The reform process must be transparent and inclusive.
We reject national go-it-alone measures, arbitrary tariffs and new non-tariff trade barriers.
We are committed to resolving the WTO dispute settlement deadlock as quickly as possible.
This also requires a new comprehensive round of negotiations in which a balance of interests is achieved between industrialized, emerging and developing countries.
This round of negotiations must also include an evaluation of where WTO rules have not yet been effective in practice.
We want subsidies and dumping to be fought wherever these practices hinder fair competition.
Currently, this applies in particular to the construction of means of transport such as trains, aircraft and ships.
Establishment of a transatlantic economic area
We Free Democrats want to achieve a new start for a comprehensive transatlantic free trade agreement and a transatlantic economic area.
A blueprint can be provided by the EU free trade agreement with Canada (CETA), which was concluded in 2017 and should finally also be ratified by Germany.
We also want to conclude and ratify the EU free trade agreement with Mercosur quickly.
Tourism as an industry of the future - strengthening the domestic economy
We Free Democrats want to strengthen the tourism industry in the long term.
Sustainable travel has come into sharper focus as a result of the pandemic.
The increased awareness should be used to further develop tourism in a sustainable manner.
That's why we need pandemic-proof crisis management that strengthens the tourism industry for the future.
Tourism is an important economic factor in Germany, even in structurally weak regions.
The corona crisis hit the previously healthy industry and its approximately three million employees hard.
In addition, the shortage of skilled workers and numerous bureaucratic obligations pose major challenges for small and medium-sized companies in particular.
The entire tourism value chain - such as gastronomy, retail and services - benefits from a strong future concept.
We rely on diversity instead of ideological barriers.
Therefore, travel and individual transport must become more ecological through innovations.
The expansion of digitization also acts as a driver.
Without broadband, we are left out of the growing online travel market and travel innovations.
We therefore want to create incentives for investment
and eliminate superfluous bureaucracy.
Relief and fair taxes
Germany is among the world leaders in taxes and social security contributions.
We Free Democrats want to restore the balance between the private and public sectors without abandoning a serious budgetary policy.
We are calling for a fundamental rethink of tax policy: We want to provide tangible relief for citizens and thus create the indispensable prerequisite for impetus in our country's economic recovery.
This is an important item on our agenda for more growth, because growth is the only way to overcome the consequences of the corona pandemic.
We stand for a solid and investment-oriented budget policy
and for the debt brake enshrined in the Basic Law.
After all, every generation has its challenges and must have the fiscal leeway to meet them.
Reduce tax rate below 40 percent!
We Free Democrats want to reverse the trend in the tax ratio and bring the tax burden for employees and employers back down to below 40 percent.
Under Angela Merkel as Chancellor, the tax ratio (tax ratio plus social contribution ratio) in Germany rose to 41.4 percent - when she took office, it was 38.8 percent.
We Free Democrats want to leave this misguided path, because the top performers in our country must not be prevented from securing our prosperity by ever higher taxes.
New momentum through targeted discharges
We Free Democrats want to promote the economy and provide targeted impetus for this, including in tax law: By relieving the burden on citizens and opening up prospects for companies that enable sustainable economic growth.
Germany is now one of the world's leading industrialized nations in terms of the tax burden on citizens and companies.
This damages Germany as a business location and prevents necessary investments.
Opportunity tariff instead of middle class belly
We Free Democrats want to completely abolish the so-called middle-class bulge in the income tax rate and thus design a more performance-oriented linear opportunity rate.
We want to achieve abolition in three steps between 2022 and 2024.
Today, the tax burden is rising particularly quickly for small and medium incomes.
The state grabs more than half of salary increases.
This is unfair and unjust.
That's why we need more fairness in taxes.
Top tax rate only for top earners
We Free Democrats want a fair income tax rate: the opportunity rate.
To this end, we want to gradually "shift the top tax rate to the right" - with the aim of ensuring that it only applies to incomes above 90,000 euros.
This will further stretch the tax rate for all taxpayers.
The burden on employees in Germany is now higher than in almost any other OECD country (Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development).
Taxpayers who receive 1.4 times the average gross salary of all employees in Germany currently already pay the top tax rate.
In 1965, this figure was still 18 times higher.
For us, however, it is clear: an average earner should not pay almost the highest tax rate.
This is unfair and unjust.
This makes it all the more important to provide sustainable and significant relief for citizens in Germany in terms of taxes and duties.
We also reject a further tightening of the inheritance tax.
Tariff on wheels - prevent automatic tax increases
We Free Democrats want to change the income tax scale so that the state no longer benefits from quasi-automatic tax increases.
We therefore call for a regular adjustment of the tax rate, including allowances, exemption limits and lump sums, to the development of salaries and prices.
The tariff is therefore "put on wheels".
Without a regular correction of the income tax rate, taxpayers will have to bear considerable additional burdens in the coming years as well.
Completely abolish solidarity surcharge as promised
We Free Democrats want to abolish the solidarity surcharge completely.
The solidarity surcharge was and remains a special tax that is not intended to be permanent.
The solidarity pact expired at the end of 2019.
This means that the levying of the solidarity surcharge can no longer be justified.
By continuing to survey even 30 years after the restoration of German unity, politicians are gambling away the trust of citizens.
The abolition of the solidarity surcharge is a question of political credibility.
Last but not least, this is also about relieving the burden on the many medium-sized companies affected.
Abolition is therefore both economic and labor market policy.
No new substance taxation
We Free Democrats reject a one-time wealth tax as well
as the revival of the wealth tax.
Both are a hindrance for our medium-sized economy in combating the economic consequences of the corona pandemic, because companies are deprived of liquidity regardless of their earnings situation.
The inheritance tax should be reviewed with regard to its administrability and the cost-benefit ratio that arises in this context for its levying.
Easy Tax - simple tax return
We Free Democrats want to introduce Easy Tax: the pre-filled tax return with a comprehensive digital service for taxpayers.
Innovative solutions must be used more extensively in the taxation process.
For employees and pensioners, Easy Tax should always prepare complete tax returns from the tax office, which only need to be confirmed by those concerned.
Taxpayers shall be given a reasonable period of time to check the data processed and to provide additional mandatory information of which the tax authorities are unaware.
Of course, this must be achieved in accordance with the principle of data sovereignty of each individual citizen, because voluntary information to the tax office should remain voluntary even with Easy Tax.
The goal must be that tax assessments in these cases can be announced within a few days.
Abolish de minimis and incentive taxes
We Free Democrats want to abolish superfluous petty and incentive taxes such as the sparkling wine and intermediate products tax, the beer tax or the coffee tax.
Maintaining these taxes creates a lot of bureaucracy.
This contrasts with only low revenues.
Tax relief for home office
We Free Democrats want to grant an increased flat-rate income-related expenses allowance for the home office agreed between employer and employee.
The office equipment provided by the employer should be able to be used by the employee tax-free.
In addition, in the interest of legal certainty, the legal framework of home office work is also to be adapted to the actual circumstances and brought into line with the regulations applicable to mobile workplaces.
Prevent double taxation of pensions
We Free Democrats want to prevent double taxation of pensions and introduce a reversal of the burden of proof in favor of taxpayers.
This applies to all pension recipients - especially the self-employed, for whom the risk of double taxation is greatest.
The pension funds and the tax authorities are to submit detailed and individual calculations for this purpose.
This is intended to show whether and to what extent there is double taxation of pension income.
Introduce speculation period - increase savings allowance
We Free Democrats want the reintroduction of a speculation period of three years for private capital gains from securities.
We want to significantly increase the savings allowance.
Savers and small investors are to be relieved.
We want to make long-term capital investment in companies more attractive so that more people can share in the growth profits when saving and providing for their old age.
Employee share ownership as an ownership turbo
We Free Democrats want to establish employee share ownership as an opportunity for long-term wealth accumulation.
But employee share programs are also essential for start-ups in order to attract well-qualified specialists in the face of international competition.
In order to improve the poor framework conditions in this country, taxation is to begin only at the time of sale and correspond to that of corporate investments.
In addition, we want to create a separate share class for employee share ownership in order to simplify the expensive and administratively complex process of transferring GmbH shares.
Investing in the future
The challenges ahead of us hold the opportunity for a future-oriented realignment for more growth and innovation.
We are convinced that sustained economic growth will pave the way out of the crisis and into the new era.
We Free Democrats therefore want to spark new impetus by investing in the future.
INVEST IN GERMANY - 25 percent of gross domestic product
We Free Democrats want 25 percent of Germany's gross domestic product to be invested in 2025
- primarily privately and not primarily by the state.
We want to create the necessary framework conditions for this.
The state must use its investments and other tax and economic policy instruments in such a way that private companies are also happy to invest in Germany.
Maximum of 50 percent social spending in the federal budget
We Free Democrats want to cap the level of social spending at 50 percent of the federal budget as a matter of principle.
The federal government commits more than half of its budget to social spending
- and this is not a consequence of the Corona crisis, where help for those affected is the right thing to do.
As a result, investments in the future of our country and original core state tasks such as education, internal security or the provision of a modern infrastructure are increasingly being pushed into the background.
Repayment turbo for Corona debt
We Free Democrats want to bring Germany's debt-to-GDP ratio rapidly back below the 60 percent mark in accordance with the Maastricht criteria.
It was only possible to react so decisively to the Corona crisis because German public debt had fallen to below 60 percent of gross domestic product in the years before.
In order to be prepared for future crises, the Corona debt must be reduced as quickly as possible.
This is the only way Germany can remain capable of acting.
And this is the only way to leave our children with sound finances.
We stand for a solid and investment-oriented budget policy and for the debt brake enshrined in the Basic Law.
After all, every generation has its challenges and must have the financial policy leeway to meet them.
Expand future fund for start-up financing
We Free Democrats want to significantly expand the Future Fund (fund of funds) for start-up financing.
Instead of just providing more government funding, we want to make it more attractive for private capital to invest in venture capital.
The fund of funds builds a bridge to overcome current obstacles, such as capital requirements that are too high or investment amounts that are too small.
The fund of funds is open to institutional investors, "family offices" and experienced private investors.
He raises money and invests it mainly in German venture capital funds.
At the same time, citizens benefit from the local start-up successes through their retirement provisions.
Start-up subsidy in all circumstances
We, the Free Democrats, demand a start-up subsidy that is not tied to any specific industry and that is granted independently of any existing unemployment.
For example, founders should be able to apply once for funding in the start-up phase even during or after the family phase.
This requires a viable business start-up concept.
The NRW start-up scholarship can serve as a model here.
For social security purposes, a lump sum of 300 euros is also to be granted, limited to a maximum of 15 months, to enable voluntary coverage in the statutory social insurance schemes.
Health insurance contributions of self-employed persons with voluntary statutory insurance are to be assessed on the basis of actual income.
In this way, we promote start-ups at all stages of life.
Better access to venture capital for women
We Free Democrats want to support female founders in particular in accessing and raising venture capital.
To this end, we call for the establishment of a venture capital fund in the form of a public-private partnership.
The creation of a network for female investors and female "business angels" is also intended to provide targeted support for women in their start-up projects.
The fund also aims to ensure that women have equal access to venture capital.
Fair rules in international taxation
Rules must apply to everyone.
This also includes large international companies in particular making their contribution to financing the community.
We Free Democrats are committed to fair rules and a just tax system.
Clear international rules for fair tax competition - no going it alone
We Free Democrats want fair taxation for all companies worldwide.
Large international and digital companies must play their part in financing the community.
We therefore support corresponding international work at OECD and G20 level.
In contrast, a solo approach by the EU could also lead to distortions of competition and job losses in Germany.
We want to prevent double taxation as well as tax losses due to relocation.
Otherwise, there is a risk of additional tax burdens for employees, who are already heavily burdened,
as well as for small and medium-sized enterprises.
Transparent tax competition in the EU
We Free Democrats call for a uniform EU corporate tax base.
This makes the level of taxation in the individual member states more comparable.
Accordingly, we are expressly opposed to the permissibility of so-called tax deals, which allow large companies to individually negotiate the level of their own taxation with the authorities of a member state.
We thus stand for transparent tax rate competition on the basis of comparable tax bases within the European Union.
Combating tax evasion in a coordinated manner worldwide
We Free Democrats want to combat tax evasion and unfair tax dumping with effective and proportionate means.
As an exporting nation, Germany must have an interest in achieving globally coordinated rules for the international distribution of taxation rights as far as possible, even in times of digital business models.
These must prevent both unjustified non-taxation and harmful double taxation of income.
In doing so, it must be ensured that tax revenue in Germany is safeguarded in the long term.
Education of the future - opportunities for advancement and self-determination
Education is the elementary prerequisite for individual advancement and a self-determined life.
Today, more than ever, the opportunity for social advancement depends on education.
We Free Democrats want everyone to be able to reach their full potential - throughout their lives.
That is why we are working to ensure that state-of-the-art education becomes the standard in Germany.
Invest an additional one percent of VAT revenues in education
We Free Democrats call for an additional one percentage point of the existing value-added tax revenue to be invested in education.
The federal and state governments, with the involvement of the municipalities, are to commit themselves to this in a state treaty.
This will enable additional investment of around 2.5 billion euros in the education sector, which is urgently needed for the comprehensive modernization of our education system.
In this way, we can bring Germany into the top 5 of the OECD countries.
Sustainable education federalism
We Free Democrats demand nationwide final examinations for the Mittlere Reife and the Abitur
, as well as high-quality educational standards.
We need more innovation and quality assurance through comparability in education.
We call for a reform of educational federalism
and an amendment to the Basic Law so that the federal and state governments can work together to ensure the quality, performance and further development of the education system.
We afford 16 different school systems, curricula and examination regulations, but do not ensure that school education is of the highest quality throughout Germany.
We want future-proof schools that provide the best work opportunities for teaching and learning.
Strengthen the autonomy of schools
We Free Democrats want to strengthen the autonomy of schools and give schools more pedagogical, personnel and financial freedom.
Each school should receive its own budget, the use of which it decides autonomously.
Within the framework of school autonomy, for example, teaching can be organized in a modular system and thus tailored to the individual student.
At the same time, this gives students greater freedom of choice and allows the school to cater more individually to students' varying levels of achievement.
This should also make it easier to teach interdisciplinary projects.
Staffing decisions and the selection of teaching materials are also made locally by the school.
We call for equal support for independent schools.
We are promoting school freedom laws in the states to give schools more options for profile development.
Uniform educational standards set the goal of aligning with the level of the best educational institutions in the world.
In order to achieve the standards, schools must be supported with excellent further training in school and teaching development.
The PISA study shows that children perform significantly better in schools with greater freedom to shape and make decisions.
Strengthening schools and daycare centers financially
We Free Democrats want to strengthen schools and daycare centers financially by placing their funding on three pillars: a base amount corresponding to the size of the institution, education vouchers that provide a subsidy per child, and a "German Dream" subsidy for children with low socioeconomic status.
The fixed base amount guarantees the viability of smaller schools in rural areas in particular
, and funding via the education voucher model guarantees needs-based funding for educational institutions.
At the same time, healthy competition is promoted and the freedom of choice of parents and children is strengthened.
Finally, thanks to the "German Dream" grant, educational institutions can independently offer individual support concepts for children and young people with more support needs.
At the same time, we prevent school quality from drifting apart.
Overcoming social disadvantages with talent schools
We Free Democrats want to establish talent schools throughout Germany with state-of-the-art pedagogy and the best equipment - especially in districts with large numbers of children and in regions with major social challenges.
In doing so, we are guided by the successful concept of the talent schools in North Rhine-Westphalia.
Support for people with disabilities and learning disabilities
We Free Democrats want to provide the best possible support for people with disabilities and learning difficulties.
The freedom of choice between regular education and special classes or schools should lie with parents and their children.
We are therefore committed to preserving them.
We want to ensure that every child can make the most of his or her potential and is well prepared for a life that is as self-determined as possible.
Strengthen early childhood education
We Free Democrats want to strengthen the quality of early childhood education.
To achieve this, the federal and state governments must agree on ambitious common standards for childcare ratios and early childhood education content.
In order to strengthen the attractiveness of the educator profession, we propose that training to become a specialist in the field of early childhood education should not only be free of tuition fees nationwide, but should also be remunerated.
High-quality training and continuing education opportunities noticeably enhance the professional image of educators.
Promote language early
We Free Democrats demand that every child take part in a German language test at least one year before starting school.
If language deficits are identified early on, for example by educators in daycare centers and during pediatric examinations, they can also be compensated for early on through targeted support measures.
In this way, we can give every child a fairer start.
We also promote the age-appropriate teaching of foreign languages in childhood through appropriate pedagogical concepts.
We want to do more to promote children's potential to learn languages through play.
Strengthening STEM education at an early stage - providing targeted support for girls and women
We Free Democrats call for an offensive for education in mathematics, computer science, natural sciences and technology (MINT).
Children need to receive STEM education at an early age.
Therefore, we call for mandatory, high-quality, and nationwide quality and educational standards in early childhood STEM education.
Educators need to be trained in experimental and inquiry learning in all childcare centers.
We call for a targeted package of measures to promote girls and women in STEM fields.
We want to further strengthen extracurricular initiatives such as the "Haus der kleinen Forscher" (House of Little Scientists).
Experimental learning and creative zones through MakerSpaces
We Free Democrats are calling for MakerSpaces at schools: creative zones in which digital media play a central role.
In doing so, we also rely on increased cooperation with extracurricular initiatives.
As a first step, we want to establish a federal-state program for the creation of 1,000 MakerSpaces at pilot schools.
Teachers need targeted training and development for MakerSpaces.
Through experiential learning, we aim to foster creativity and interest in entrepreneurial and independent living.
School subject business and computer science
We Free Democrats call for the nationwide introduction of business and computer science as school subjects.
They are still not sufficiently offered at German schools, although they should be part of the basic knowledge like arithmetic, reading and writing nowadays.
We want to provide students with knowledge about our economic system
and promote their entrepreneurial spirit and innovative spirit at school age.
In order to be able to deal with disinformation, hate speech, cyberbullying, data protection and online addiction correctly and autonomously, students' digital skills must be promoted.
Involvement of extracurricular actors and initiatives
We Free Democrats demand quality criteria and guidelines for cooperation between schools and extracurricular initiatives.
Dedicated scientists and experts of all ages can tell schoolchildren about their work in a way that is close to life and everyday life, invite them to try it out, and explain the importance of their research for society.
This allows students to gain new perspectives regardless of their parents' homes.
We reject civil clauses or the blanket exclusion of companies, political parties and the German armed forces in the field of education.
Opportunities for advancement regardless of origin
We Free Democrats are committed to involving initiatives in the form of "Aufstiegspatenschaften" (sponsorships for advancement) in order to help children and young people from educationally disadvantaged homes to follow their own path to vocational training qualifications or to university.
By providing advice and support for their own life and career plans, young people from non-academic homes in particular can be helped to pave the way to university.
It can provide support in the form of sponsorship with organizations such as ArbeiterKind.de, particularly with questions about financing studies, applying for scholarships and planning semesters abroad.
In addition to the existing initiatives, schools can work together with chambers and universities to create "career scouts" who act as contact persons for pupils who want to find out about the opportunities and paths to vocational training or higher education.
They can also help students build networks.
World's best teachers
We Free Democrats call for a strengthening of the teaching profession.
This requires attractive working conditions, high-quality training and development, transparent and challenging opportunities for advancement, non-material appreciation, and pay that rewards individual commitment.
We want to develop teacher training nationwide into a dual teacher training program that closely integrates theory and practice phases from the outset.
The teacher shortage is still pervasive.
That's why we want to create incentives that will get young people excited about the profession again.
Excellent teacher training and development
We Free Democrats demand nationwide minimum standards for excellent teacher training.
We need a good balance between subject-specific and pedagogical education.
Digital skills, the opportunities offered by artificial intelligence for learning processes, and digital learning and teaching methods must become fixed components of teacher training.
In addition, we call for the establishment of a German Teachers' Academy to develop and offer appropriate in-service training.
In-service training should be based on the latest scientific findings and regular attendance should be mandatory for teachers.
Digital Pact 2.0
We Free Democrats are calling for a Digital Pact 2.0 that makes full use of the constitutional possibilities for cooperation between the federal and state governments in the area of education.
In addition to technology, investments must also be made in IT administrators, service equipment for teachers, digital learning materials, and in-service training.
The Corona crisis has shown that the financial resources for WLAN and hardware alone are not sufficient to enable digital teaching from home in an emergency.
The digitization of general, vocational and special education schools must be thought of holistically - from equipment to use.
The school must offer digitally supported learning in presence as well as learning at a distance.
Learning Analytics: Promoting Modern Learning Methods
We Free Democrats call for the development of clear standards for the use of learning analytics in schools.
Artificial intelligence offers an opportunity to individualize learning and teaching for children and young people.
This potential of learning analytics is to be exploited.
Evaluating data about learners improves learning and the learning environment.
However, this must be done in compliance with data protection.
Midlife BAföG - a second education system for life
We Free Democrats want to introduce a "Midlife-BAföG" of up to 1,000 euros per year.
In addition, a personal free-time account is to enable tax- and duty-free savings for further training and educational leave, independent of the employer.
In this way, we are creating a second education system for life.
In addition, the multitude of educational offerings for lifelong learning from public and private providers should be transparent and structured on a central digital platform.
This digital education arena is intended to facilitate access to further education and
at the same time enable the recognition of informally as well as non-formally acquired competencies.
Strengthen academic continuing education
We Free Democrats want to open universities more strongly to academic continuing education and to teaching opportunities beyond initial training.
Due to legal and financial hurdles, universities mostly limit their commitment to continuing education to selected spin-offs and business schools.
Instruments for financing studies are generally only available for younger age groups.
In fair competition with the offerings of private universities, we create the legal and financial conditions to develop universities into educational institutions for life.
Four times 1,000 euros - further training, property and retirement provision
We Free Democrats want to use the formula "four times 1,000 euros" to combine education, social and economic policy.
Our concrete proposal is: up to 1,000 euros in midlife BAföG, in a first step an additional 1,000 euros in tax allowance for employee share ownership and 1,000 euros in savers' lump-sum allowance, and for each newborn child a starting bonus of 1,000 euros in the statutory share pension, which will continue to rise in the future.
In this way, we strengthen ownership in the middle of society
and the opportunities for further education and advancement for everyone.
Vocational training
The dual system of vocational education and training in Germany is a role model worldwide
and a success factor for our business location.
The combination of practice in the company and theory in vocational school offers young people a wide range of opportunities in the world of work.
In addition, in times of demographic change, it helps to secure skilled workers - for example in the skilled trades, in industry and commerce, and in the liberal professions.
We Free Democrats therefore want to strengthen our successful vocational education system and make it fit for the future.
Strengthening vocational training strengthens small and medium-sized enterprises.
Excellence Initiative Vocational Education
We Free Democrats are calling for a vocational education and training excellence initiative to strengthen the attractiveness and innovative power of vocational education and training.
To meet the challenges of the digital world of work, the vocational training system needs an update.
A nationwide competition for excellence will promote the best ideas for the future of vocational education and training with high-profile awards and multi-year grants.
A center for digital vocational training is to support vocational schools and training companies in the design and implementation of digital training offerings.
We want to expand vocational training schools to include creative MakerSpaces and open workshops (FabLabs).
Open up talent development for vocational training talents
We Free Democrats want to give talented young people in vocational training equal access to the scholarships for the gifted and the Deutschlandstipendium.
In addition to financial support, it
is important to open up non-material support for scholarship holders from vocational education and training.
By opening up funding, we are creating attractive prospects for talent from vocational training.
They, too, are to benefit from seminar and training offers in the future.
In this way, we create more equivalence between academic and vocational education.
Enabling more flexibility in the vocational education and training system
We Free Democrats want to combine related professions into occupational fields in accordance with the social partners.
In an initial training phase, common competencies are to be acquired first.
Cross-professional competencies create professional mobility and self-determination without neglecting specialized competencies in training.
They increase the long-term employability of future skilled workers.
The occupational principle with occupation-specific final examinations is retained.
International exchange in vocational education and training
We Free Democrats want to enable at least 20 percent of all apprentices to gain personal experience abroad by 2030.
At the same time, we want to support European young people in training in Germany with a program.
In a globalized working world, language and intercultural skills are becoming increasingly important.
Analogous to the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD), a German Vocational Exchange Service is needed to support trainees, companies and vocational schools during stays abroad.
We want to expand the "Erasmus+" and "AusbildungWeltweit" programs.
International elective and additional qualifications should be anchored in training and further education regulations.
and new international professions will be created.
In addition, the goals agreed in the Copenhagen Declaration, such as the recognition of qualifications within the EU, must be implemented consistently.
Apprentice ambassadors and upgrading BAföG
We Free Democrats want practical career orientation with apprentice ambassadors at high schools as well.
Vocational orientation programs and internships are to be offered at all types of schools in close cooperation with the business community.
We want to expand youth employment agencies nationwide.
The Aufstiegs-BAföG is intended to provide better support for part-time continuing education and interdisciplinary educational paths.
Hybrid offerings and better recognition of previously acquired competencies are intended to increase permeability between vocational and academic education.
The civil service must recognize professional qualifications for higher career paths on an equal basis.
Supporting entry into vocational training - creating a guarantee for the future
We Free Democrats demand a guarantee for the future for young people who cannot find an apprenticeship.
To this end, we want to focus the small-scale transition system between school and training on a nationwide program with regional and individual design, and evaluate it regularly.
Our guarantee for the future is based on three pillars: First, we want to reform the introductory training program and provide participants with socio-educationally trained learning process facilitators.
Second, we want to strengthen extra-company training opportunities in regions with a significant undersupply of training places in line with demand in close consultation with the social partners, with the transition to in-company training always remaining the primary goal.
Third, we want to ensure that access to internships is guaranteed for students regardless of their social background.
We want to make vocational training itself more permeable.
To this end, we want to expand partial qualifications, make the duration of training more flexible, promote digital training options and increasingly enable part-time training.
University and research
Modern universities and the best research conditions are the basis for innovation and progress in our country and worldwide.
They open up new opportunities for our society and for combating global challenges - be it climate change through the development of climate-friendly fuels or health protection through new vaccines.
We want to ensure a modern research policy that sees opportunities in new technologies and deals responsibly with dangers.
Establishment of a European Digital University (EDU)
We Free Democrats call for the establishment of a European Digital University (EDU).
In primarily digital teaching formats, this umbrella organization with European sponsorship is intended to provide people throughout Europe with location-independent access to the best teaching offerings.
Such an EDU should overcome the remaining barriers to educational mobility and enable people to participate in world-class teaching and academic learning regardless of their personal circumstances, social and geographic location.
As a unique platform for teachers and learners, the EDU is intended to bring together the digital e-learning offerings of the participating public and private universities in all EU member states and make them known beyond the borders of the EU.
Modular BAföG independent of parents
We Free Democrats want to introduce a modular BAföG that is independent of parents.
The free choice of studies must no longer depend on the support of parents.
Students are to receive a monthly base amount of 200 euros, similar to the previous child benefit or child allowance paid by their parents.
A further 200 euros is to be granted as a subsidy in the case of honorary commitment or sideline activities.
In addition, a monthly adjustable loan that is interest-free and repayable only when income is good is designed to ensure the necessary financial flexibility.
In the future, the maximum funding period will comprise the standard period of study plus two semesters.
Changes of major should not affect the total funding period.
Maximum age limits are abolished and additional earnings limits are raised.
We want to fully digitalize the application and administration of BAföG.
Quality offensive for university teaching
We Free Democrats call for a quality offensive for university teaching.
In the future, federal funding allocations should also be made on the basis of quality-oriented criteria.
A nationwide advisory service is intended to support universities and teachers in didactic, technical, data protection and copyright issues relating to digital teaching.
We want to fundamentally reform the rigid capacity law, which regulates the number of study places made available, in order to enable universities to invest more in digital teaching offerings, better supervision rates, and career- and lifelong study modules.
All federal funding programs for the improvement of university teaching as well as for research funding should in principle be open to universities regardless of their sponsorship.
Expansion of the successful Erasmus+ program
We Free Democrats want to further develop the successful "Erasmus+" program.
Intercultural understanding is the best remedy against populism and national narrow-mindedness.
We want to offer program country status to the United Kingdom, Switzerland, the candidate countries, the Eastern Partnership states, and the European Neighborhood Policy states.
Pupils should also benefit from "Erasmus+" and be able to spend six months of their schooling abroad in Europe, regardless of their parents' income.
We want to improve the comparability and mutual recognition of certificates and degrees.
We also want to establish an Erasmus for teachers.
Defending academic freedom
We Free Democrats defend the freedom of research and teaching.
Science thrives on a culture of open debate.
We reject statutory civil clauses.
Excluding other opinions (Cancel Culture) contradicts the constitutional principle of freedom of research and teaching.
Within the limits of the Basic Law, even opinions that are difficult to bear must be able to be expressed.
Therefore, we want to strengthen science's own mechanisms of ethical self-control.
The political influence of the Chinese government on the work of the Confucius Institutes is to be dealt with and state co-financing of the institutes is to be ended.
Together with the states, universities and scientific institutions, we want to launch a National Strategy for Cybersecurity in Science.
Diversity in science
We Free Democrats want to ensure more diversity in science, because research also thrives on a change of perspective.
But unfortunately, non-university research organizations still prefer to pay the compensatory levy instead of filling five percent of jobs with people with disabilities.
Unfortunately, the proportion of women is still far too low, particularly in management positions and especially in STEM subjects.
We want to create better framework conditions at universities for careers in science.
In this context, the compatibility of family and career is also a key concern for us - for example, through better childcare at universities and the opportunity for fathers and mothers to determine their teaching obligations and research times more independently.
Furthermore, we advocate a study on the situation of women in German science - following the example of MIT (Massachusetts Institute of Technology) in the late 1990s.
Promote basic research
We Free Democrats see basic research as the basis for innovation.
That is why we want to further expand it alongside applied research.
In order to diversify our innovation structure, we need to launch a broad-based basic research initiative and build up new expertise in the field of cutting-edge technology.
Modernization has never been more urgent: Let's finally modernize our country!
Things must not remain as they are: For too long, reforms for a modern country have been dismissed as optional extras.
It's time for that to change.
Modernization is a must:
The digital modernization of our administration and healthcare system literally saves lives.
Modernizing our security apparatus strengthens the ability of our constitutional state to act.
The modernization of the labor market provides employees
and companies with the tools for successful change processes.
Modern mobility for each and every individual strengthens self-determination
and the opportunities for people to participate.
The modernization of our state system makes people want to be democratic again and strengthens our democratic processes.
Uncomplicated state
Taking care of all citizen services online instead of standing in line at the office - this must not remain a utopia for the future.
We Free Democrats want an uncomplicated state that makes life easier for citizens.
We therefore want to clear the way for citizen-centric and digital administration.
Far-reaching federalism and administrative reform
We Free Democrats want to create a modern state capable of acting through comprehensive federalism and administrative reform.
The Corona crisis has shown that unclear responsibilities, an overwhelming bureaucracy and digital deficits at the authorities prevent quick and pragmatic solutions.
It's not just about digitizing processes, but above all about a change in mentality.
To tackle the megaproject of administrative modernization, we rely on an agile approach that prioritizes workable results over rigid strategies.
In order to create incentives for the digital transformation of processes and ways of working, savings achieved through digitization ("digital dividend") are to remain in the respective public body for investment.
In education and security issues, too, 16 different systems are no longer up to date.
We therefore want to reorganize the distribution of competencies between the levels of government,
drive forward the digitization of administration
and make public service law more flexible.
The state should concentrate on its core tasks and use the strength of free-market competition.
Make provisions for functioning economic aids
We Free Democrats demand to be better prepared for the eventuality of economic aid and assistance for the self-employed in the future.
The Corona crisis has shown what instruments are needed in the event of major crises with exceptional conditions throughout the economy and the entire labor market.
For such cases, we need a negative profit tax, where losses from the current year can be offset against profits from previous years.
And we then equally need help for the self-employed with and without employees to ensure a sufficient entrepreneurial wage.
Turning authorities into one-stop stores
We Free Democrats want to consistently develop public authorities into one-stop stores.
Data is passed on to the administration once and then processed at the appropriate place.
We demand uniform standards for the functioning of the system.
This makes it possible to speed up administrative processes.
We are reducing bureaucracy
and making it easier to start up.
In addition, a one-stop store can drive networking and exchange with private and public stakeholders.
Public sector payment morale offensive
We Free Democrats want a payment morale offensive from the public sector.
At the same time, we are calling for the procurement thresholds for 2020 and 2021 to be increased so that investments can be implemented more quickly.
Public-sector investments have an important stabilizing effect in times of crisis.
Open invoices can massively endanger liquidity and jobs, especially in medium-sized businesses.
We want to prevent that.
Reversing early payment of contributions - easing the burden on companies
We Free Democrats want to reverse the early payment of social security contributions.
It not only leads to additional bureaucratic burdens,
but also deprives companies of capital.
Instead of 24 monthly statements, companies will again only have to make twelve statements, and they can dispense with regulations on estimating.
This relieves the company of considerable bureaucratic effort.
Innovation Nation
The printing press, the automobile, the computer - Germany has always been a country where progress was made.
And progress offers many opportunities to make people's lives and everyday lives better and easier.
Innovation is also a prerequisite for prosperity,
Growth
and workplaces.
We now need the right ideas to catch up in the global race and regain a leading position in future fields such as biotechnology.
This requires new thinking.
Thinking that is forward looking and not stuck in the status quo.
Innovation principle in political decisions
We Free Democrats want the innovation principle to complement the precautionary principle for political decisions.
The impact assessment should not only look at possible risks of a measure.
Equally intensive efforts must be made to determine what opportunities will be lost by failing to do so.
This is how we secure the future.
German Transfer Community - Promoting Innovation
We Free Democrats want to initiate the establishment of a German Transfer Community (DTG).
It is to act independently and support both technological and social innovations as a self-governing body.
Eligible for funding are projects involving a university on the one hand and a business or civil society enterprise on the other.
The DTG would be a one-stop store that bundles transfer know-how and would be financed in a cost-neutral manner by transfer funding previously distributed among several ministries.
Software and high-tech companies as well as start-ups are thus strengthened in their performance and innovative power.
Tie funds to target achievement - develop real innovation strategy
We Free Democrats want to tie the release of funds for federal programs more closely to their achievement of goals - in a first step, at least 15 percent of the increase in federal funds retroactively from 2020.
If the proof is not sufficiently provided, the funds that become available should be given in a competitive process to the other actors who were more successful in achieving their goals.
The German government's multi-billion euro strategies (AI, high-tech, FONA and others) have so far lacked target hierarchies and success indicators.
We want to measure progress and turn many individual strategies into a true innovation strategy.
Creating digital freedom zones
We Free Democrats want to introduce digital freedom zones to promote digital and innovative business models.
To encourage the emergence of clusters, particularly in key IT technologies such as artificial intelligence and blockchain, we want to designate certain regions as digital freedom zones.
Fewer regulations are to apply there.
Tax incentives for research, better financing options for start-ups and less bureaucracy are intended to facilitate start-ups.
Bioeconomy: Bringing prosperity and sustainable development together
We Free Democrats want to use the bioeconomy to find answers to the global challenges of our time: Climate change, protection of natural resources, securing the world's food supply, and the finite nature of fossil fuels.
Bioeconomy is the sustainable and innovative use of biological resources and the further development of biological processes.
Adhesive made from plants, smartphone displays made from sugar or T-shirts made from coffee grounds - it's all possible.
We want to advance innovative research for the more efficient use of resources
and contribute to a future-oriented, sustainable economy.
In this way, we combine ecology
and economy.
Modern recycling methods instead of product bans
We Free Democrats want to enable recycling in Germany that is open to new technologies and turn waste into new raw materials in order to ultimately establish an EU-wide circular economy.
We want to allow chemical recycling as an equivalent option for recycling packaging and thus end the legal discrimination against this promising technology.
Resource conservation does not only mean doing without, but can also be achieved through innovative recycling technologies.
Plastics - the material of the future
We Free Democrats will consistently use life cycle assessments as a basis for the ecological evaluation of products made of plastics and alternative materials such as paper and glass.
Plastics are versatile and inexpensive.
Their low weight saves CO2.
Life cycle assessments make the environmental impact of products transparent and enable a science-based evaluation on the basis of which necessary regulations can be made.
Promote space travel with space bill
We Free Democrats want a groundbreaking Space Act that gives companies the security they need to invest in the future and allows projects and awards to be realized more quickly and flexibly.
We need satellite data for our networked society and economy, for digital services, technologies and future projects.
We want to promote the development of pioneering solutions by "new space companies".
We want to specifically involve start-ups and small and medium-sized enterprises - both through participation in major EU projects and through the state as an anchor customer.
We also design tenders to suit young companies.
While private-sector spaceflight is growing unhindered in other countries, many obstacles stand in its way in Germany.
There is a lack of venture capital, a reliable legal framework and backing from the federal government.
Launch platform for small launch vehicles
We see a spaceport for small launchers in Europe as a project for the future, so that the numerous promising "New Space" companies can launch satellites flexibly and independently into space.
"New Space" is a great opportunity for science, the environment, our security and economy.
We want to promote use by public institutions and research facilities by acquiring launch contingents or commissioning "space services" for them.
Mobility
Innovative, ecological and affordable mobility depends on a forward-looking transport policy without ideological blinkers.
Only with technological innovations, a functioning emissions trading system, modern infrastructure and a transport policy that is open to technology can safe, clean and affordable mobility be guaranteed for all.
Mobility is freedom - innovations instead of bans
We Free Democrats are against disproportionate bans on mobility.
We focus on innovation,
Reason
and freedom.
Speed limits, diesel or motorcycle bans are neither progressive nor sustainable.
The expansion of CO2 emissions trading that we are calling for will enable environmentally and climate-friendly engines and alternative fuels to gain acceptance because they will be cheaper than high-emission products.
We reject a blanket ban on internal combustion engines.
Innovations and better infrastructure can improve road safety
and promote an environmentally friendly flow of traffic.
Blanket restrictions on individual transport are not a solution.
Intelligent and innovative traffic control, on the other hand, offers enormous opportunities.
Privatize rail transport - more competition on the railroads
We Free Democrats want to separate infrastructure and rail operations in the case of rail and privatize operations.
The network is to remain the property of the federal government.
The goal is to transport more people and goods by rail.
However, this cannot be achieved with a state railroad, but only with more competition, more digitalization and lower track access charges for the use of rail routes.
Organizational separation allows the federal government to concentrate fully on providing and modernizing the infrastructure.
On the railroads, rail companies can in turn compete with each other.
Customers will thus benefit from lower prices, better service, and a wider range of rail services.
Germany accelerate
We Free Democrats want Germany to be able to implement its ideas more quickly and to have the necessary infrastructure to do so.
For all transport routes - from rail to road to cycle paths - the increase in investment funds must be reliably continued and rapidly built.
Refurbishment and modernization have priority for us.
High demands on modern energy and mobility policies as well as the rapidly developing economy require a high degree of flexibility.
That's why we want to speed up all planning processes by streamlining procedures and eliminating duplicate investigations, taking advantage of the opportunities offered by digitization in all areas of planning, providing planning and approval authorities with sufficient specialist staff in a targeted manner, and ensuring early and comprehensive citizen participation.
Fair framework conditions for air traffic with a future
We Free Democrats want to abolish the air traffic tax,
reorganize the aviation security fees
and prevent an extension of night flight bans.
We need a single European sky.
Germany must commit to resilient, sustainable and efficient air traffic management.
Sovereign tasks such as internal security or drone defense must be borne by the public sector
and organized effectively.
Germany needs a fair framework for competitive and sustainable air transport.
Use seaports and inland waterways
We Free Democrats want to actively promote our ports, shipping and thus the maritime economy to make them fit for the future.
The aim is to achieve both the major economic
as well as the ecological potential.
This is because sea and inland ports will play an increasingly important role in the future.
After all, shipping is already the most environmentally friendly mode of freight transport in terms of distance traveled and volume transported.
Since the development of infrastructure is one of the core tasks of the state
and it contributes decisively to the resilience as well as the success of the German economy, we aim to strengthen the sea and inland ports.
We want to achieve this by creating good competitive conditions in Europe so that we can keep pace with ports from Rotterdam to Piraeus - by further upgrading waterways, better interlinking the inland and coastal waterway network and expanding hinterland connections.
In the future, this will require better cooperation between the federal and state governments, and not only in the area of water depth maintenance.
However, ports and shipping will not only be of increasing importance in logistics, but will also play a decisive role in the energy supply of the future.
Here, too, we must set the right course at an early stage so that maritime transport routes can make their contribution.
Overall, the industry needs more attention, because maritime shipping is of enormous strategic importance to us as an exporting nation.
It secures many jobs beyond the boundaries of its industry
and prosperity.
Openness to technology in vehicle construction
We Free Democrats call for technology-open laws and regulations in vehicle construction.
Unilateral subsidies and requirements must be ended.
To this end, we will put the CO2 fleet limits set by the EU and the current subsidies in vehicle manufacturing to the test and take a holistic view of vehicles.
We want to explore alternative mobility concepts without favoring any particular drive technologies.
We also rely on the development spirit of companies and engineers when it comes to environmental and climate protection.
We want to give them back the freedom to develop and sell the best possible drives and applications.
This is the only way to make the most of the possibilities offered by hydrogen, batteries or alternative fuels.
Expand infrastructure for e-mobility - eliminate expensive subsidies
We Free Democrats want the nationwide expansion of fast-charging stations and interoperable payment structures for e-mobility.
To this end, we want non-discriminatory access to charging stations for charging electricity providers for a fee
and transparent pricing and billing systems for the benefit of customers.
We want to do without expensive subsidies such as the purchase premium for e-cars.
Regulations for hybrid vehicles need to be revised so that their real CO2 emissions are taken into account.
For us, e-mobility is an essential part of the transport mix of the future.
Extend emissions trading to the entire transport sector
We Free Democrats call for the extension of the European CO2 emissions trading scheme to the entire transport sector.
This will allow the existing CO2 reduction measures in transport to be terminated.
Many of the bans, subsidies and support measures adopted to reduce CO2 emissions in transport do not lead to a reduction, but only to rising costs and a distortion of the market.
Emissions trading guarantees a cap on total climate gas emissions.
Relieve and open up the cab industry - mobility for all
We Free Democrats want to enable new, innovative mobility services on a digital basis in passenger transportation
and create fair competitive conditions for all mobility service providers to do so.
We are constantly keeping an eye on the special role of public transport.
To achieve this, the return obligation for rental cars and the minimum distance of 50 kilometers between two stops for long-distance buses must be completely abolished.
Mobility of the future "Made in Germany
We Free Democrats want to simplify the approval and testing procedures for new ideas and advance the promotion of innovation.
We want to specifically promote leap innovations such as autonomous driving, the high-speed Hyperloop system, drones or air cabs and create the legal framework for them.
For rural areas in particular, this creates opportunities for faster and more cost-effective supply.
Establishing the future topic of "autonomous driving
We Free Democrats call for a long-term strategy for autonomous driving that includes not only the development of the actual technology, but also the networking of all road users, as well as legal and regulatory frameworks and the creation of positive growth factors.
In this context, European and international cooperation to define uniform standards must be just as much a focus as
the creation of innovation-friendly and legally secure specifications in Germany itself.
Connecting Europe better - expanding transport networks
We Free Democrats call for a holistic infrastructure strategy for Europe and the expansion of trans-European transport networks.
A well-developed (high-speed) rail network is just as much a part of this as efficient port facilities, airports and trunk roads.
The aim is to link European metropolises and goods hubs even more closely.
Making cycling safe
We Free Democrats see the bicycle as an environmentally friendly mode of transport for individual travel.
Transportation planning must comprehensively consider the needs of cycling.
The goal is more safe bike lanes and bike lanes that avoid conflicts with motorized traffic.
We also advocate a Europe-wide regulation to accelerate the introduction of turn assist systems for all trucks.
Accompanied driving from 16 - more mobility for the young generation
We Free Democrats want to lower the minimum age for obtaining a car driver's license and enable accompanied driving from the age of 16.
We are also calling for the maximum speed of mopeds to be increased from 45 to 55 km/h
and are advocating a modification of vehicle classification at EU level.
Accessibility in public space
We Free Democrats demand complete and comprehensive accessibility in public spaces, because barrier-free mobility means freedom of movement.
It benefits people with disabilities, families with children, the elderly, and ultimately all of us, because mobility restrictions are experienced by everyone at times.
Digitization
Digital transformation is one of the greatest opportunities and challenges of our time.
How we shape them will shape our lives for a long time.
That's why we want to realign Germany's digital policy.
Because so far it is uncoordinated, aimless and chaotic.
Our country can no longer afford that.
Germany finally needs to pick up the pace of digitization so as not to squander its opportunities for progress.
Federal Ministry for Digital Transformation
We Free Democrats are calling for a ministry for digital transformation.
In order to exploit synergy effects and create a leaner and more efficient government, we want to bundle competencies in one ministry and link it closely with the other government departments.
This is the only way we can shape the digital transformation of the state, society and the economy quickly, efficiently and consistently for the benefit of everyone in our country.
Comprehensive and high-performance mobile communications coverage
We Free Democrats call for nationwide, high-performance mobile communications coverage through genuine competition on the mobile communications market, as well as a fiber-optic network and a consistent upgrade of existing mobile function networks.
The nationwide roll-out of 5G networks is to be completed by 2025.
The expansion targets are to be achieved with an efficient auction design and strong and timely controlling by the federal government.
High-performance mobile communications are a basic prerequisite for the future viability of Germany as a business location.
Fast network access through gigabit vouchers
We Free Democrats want gigabit vouchers for private households and small and medium-sized enterprises.
The vouchers will reimburse a portion of the costs incurred in the conversion to gigabit.
In this way, we want to accelerate the expansion of high-speed networks in a demand-oriented and cost-efficient manner.
In this way, we are creating an effective incentive for investment in gigabit network expansion.
Digital management as a service provider
We Free Democrats want real "virtual administrations".
We want to introduce the once-only principle: Citizens will only have to provide certain data to the public administration once and not to each authority individually.
All necessary official procedures should be possible virtually and without barriers, and all services should be possible with digital, media-interruption-free procedures.
To this end, we want to merge all plans for the introduction of citizen accounts or cockpits into a single digital platform: the Germany Portal.
The Germany Portal gives citizens access to all personal data concerning them that the state has stored.
All access to the data is logged via an external control server, and access by the authorities automatically triggers a notification.
In the case of ongoing proceedings, notification may also be made after the proceedings have been concluded.
Citizens have a right to know the reason for data access upon request.
We also want to get involved in the next technological innovation in government agencies: the development of artificial intelligence, virtual reality, and augmented reality, respectively, in government.
In this way, we want to move from being a latecomer to e-government to being a pioneer in virtual government.
The IT systems of the public sector should build more strongly than before on open source solutions in order to reduce dependence on individual providers of proprietary software.
Digital single market for Europe
We Free Democrats want the European digital single market.
Business models are to become more easily scalable across Europe.
We want to remove regulatory barriers without calling freedom of contract into question.
In this way, we create a Europe that is digitally independent,
but without lapsing into digital protectionism.
If we want to uphold fundamental European values such as freedom, democracy and civil rights even in an increasingly digitalized and data-driven world, we need uniform regulation across Europe.
Strengthen cybersecurity
We Free Democrats want to strengthen cybersecurity.
Because cybersecurity is the Achilles heel of the information age.
That is why we need a cybersecurity strategy that is actually implementable and agile.
Components of this must include effective vulnerability management and a right to encryption.
This also includes the specification of security-by-design, including the liability of manufacturers for damage caused negligently by IT security gaps, and an obligation on the part of manufacturers to provide updates during the normal useful life of a product.
Efficient protection and defense systems must always be a priority in cybersecurity.
Therefore, companies that are subject to extensive influence by authoritarian regimes should not be involved in the expansion of critical infrastructure such as the 5G network.
We reject digital retaliatory strikes (hackbacks) because they pose the risk of a digital arms race and target civilian victims rather than the perpetrators.
For more cyber security as a strategic security goal of the Federal Republic of Germany, the corresponding federal structures, such as the Federal Office for Information Security, must be strengthened and upgraded.
AI Roadmap
We Free Democrats want an AI roadmap for artificial intelligence (AI).
Each ministry is to identify and implement ten specific AI use cases within its functional jurisdiction by 2025.
Start-ups, small and medium-sized enterprises and founders should also benefit from subsidies.
To ensure that as many new technologies as possible can be tested in practice, we need regulatory testing zones - so-called "regulatory sandboxes", and rapid statutory deregulation.
To fully exploit the potential of new technologies such as AI, machine learning and robotics, a European legal framework is needed to ensure legal certainty across the European Digital Single Market.
Net neutrality and fair competition on the Internet
We Free Democrats are committed to net neutrality.
All data packets on the Internet must be equal.
This ensures that no opinion is discriminated against and that new companies have access to the market.
We want to protect this equal opportunity while enabling new quality-assured services.
This also includes special services with "network slicing" for time-critical applications - for example, medical teleoperations or autonomous driving.
The non-discriminatory design must be safeguarded under competition law.
Sustainable data centers
We Free Democrats want sustainable data centers.
If we want to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the digital transformation for greater sustainability, we must start first and foremost with the data centers as the basic infrastructure for this development.
Already, great strides are being made toward more sustainable operations through innovative technologies, software, more energy-efficient IT architectures, and more.
In addition, we want to leverage the next major potentials through the targeted expansion of research funding for energy- and resource-saving information and communications technology, as well as through incentives for waste heat recovery from data centers, in order to take another step closer to the goal of climate neutrality for data centers.
Modern working world
The modern world of work offers a wide range of opportunities for employees, the self-employed and companies.
Above all, it enables more individual freedom and self-determination.
However, many regulations date back to a time when data was stored on floppy disks and phone calls were made by dial-up telephone.
Here we urgently need an update.
We also want to create equal opportunities for advancement through performance - regardless of gender, age, ethnic origin, disability, sexual orientation or religion.
Flexible working hours and mobile work
We Free Democrats are calling for more flexibility in the Working Hours Act and want a weekly instead of a daily maximum working time.
No one should take fewer breaks or work more than before, but it must be possible to schedule working hours more flexibly.
The sum of the daily required rest time remains.
In this context, flexible arrangements are made possible in a collective agreement or in a works agreement with legal certainty.
For mobile work and home offices, the Occupational Health and Safety Act and not the Workplace Ordinance should apply.
Because in mobile work, the employer cannot be responsible for the correct incidence of light and the like.
Strengthen mobile working through legal entitlement to discussion
We Free Democrats call for mobile working and home offices to be strengthened along the lines of the Dutch model.
In doing so, the employer must review the employee's request for mobile working and home office and discuss it with the employee.
Not every activity can be performed outside the fixed workplace.
Operational concerns may also speak against an agreement on mobile work.
In addition, it must be possible to revoke existing agreements on an ad hoc basis.
But a claim to discussion promotes cultural change and acceptance of mobile working.
Compatibility of career and family
We Free Democrats want to improve the compatibility of work and family.
To this end, we also want to provide tax incentives for company kindergartens, guarantee the legal entitlement to childcare in practice and in perspective from the end of maternity leave, make childcare hours more flexible and enable the tax deductibility of childcare costs.
We want to enable board members and other executives to take time out for a limited period of time.
In cases such as childbirth, parental leave, care of relatives or serious illness, it should be possible to suspend the mandate for a limited period without resigning.
We also want to create better conditions for reconciling continuing education and family life.
Family-friendly training increases career opportunities, especially for women.
More women in management positions
We Free Democrats are committed to more diversity in companies as well as in the public sector and thus also to more women in management positions.
The same should apply to political positions.
Work models such as shared leadership ("job sharing" and "top sharing") must become a matter of course.
We also advocate that employers need to be more mindful of considering the same number of female employees as male employees for training, given equal roles.
Transparency of diversity and talent management measures in equality reports increases public pressure for cultural change in companies, science and administration.
Instead of rigid quotas, we advocate voluntary commitments in which larger companies undertake to ensure that the proportion of women at one level of the company is reflected in the management of that level.
For the board level, companies should also commit to improving the proportion of women.
Introduce partner protection analogous to maternity protection
We Free Democrats call for the introduction of "partner protection" analogous to "maternity leave": after the birth of a child, the other parent has the right to go on partner protection for ten working days.
This may also be claimed on a half-day basis and then exists for twice the duration.
Partner protection is financed in the same way as maternity protection.
Single parents have the right to designate another person for partner protection (for example, family members) to support the single parent during this time.
In this way, we want to take into account mothers' increased need for regeneration after childbirth and strengthen joint responsibility for family and child from the very beginning.
Enable family-related time off for top executives
We Free Democrats call for a time-limited sabbatical for members of executive and supervisory boards and for other top executives.
In justified cases such as childbirth, parental leave, care of relatives or in the event of serious illness, it should be possible to suspend the mandate for a limited period without resigning.
This replaces the previous rule of full liability in the event of absence or compulsion to resign from office.
Equal pay for equal performance - transparency for more justice
We Free Democrats want equal pay for equal and equivalent performance by women and men.
Companies with more than 500 employees should evaluate and publish their internal gender pay gap.
Both the average and median earnings gap and the percentage of women and men in each pay grade should be reported.
Through these mechanisms, we aim to create transparency.
It is an important cornerstone for the independent solution of the problem by employers and employees.
Diversity management in the world of work
We Free Democrats want to promote holistic diversity management in the world of work as part of economic modernization and as a sensible alternative to quotas.
In this way, we create equal opportunities for advancement through performance - regardless of gender, age, ethnic origin, disability, sexual orientation or religion.
Medium-sized companies in particular are to be supported in the development of concepts.
In the public sector, the structures of equal opportunity and disability officers must be integrated into a holistic diversity management system.
Empowering people with disabilities in the primary labor market
We Free Democrats want better counseling and job placement for people with disabilities.
Preparation must begin at school.
We want the budget for work to be more practical and for active job placement and support to be more practical.
The more than 300,000 employees in a workshop for people with disabilities form a large and too little considered potential for the first labor market.
We want to improve their chances of finding regular employment.
Fairness for the self-employed
We Free Democrats demand fairness for the self-employed.
Whether in the liberal professions, the skilled trades, the cultural and creative industries or the service sector, the self-employed are not second-class employees.
With various reform approaches, we want to make self-employment easier,
take it seriously as a form of self-determination,
and ensure greater public appreciation of the self-employed.
We want to eliminate unequal treatment and, for example, finally base contributions to statutory health insurance for the self-employed on actual income.
Reform status determination for the self-employed
We Free Democrats call for a reform of the status determination procedure.
The status determination procedure must make it possible to clarify beyond doubt whether an employee is employed or self-employed.
Clear legal positive criteria ensure legal certainty by establishing self-sufficiency in a legally secure and binding manner if certain criteria are met.
In addition, the audit is to be carried out by an independent body instead of the pension insurance company.
Free choice in retirement provision for the self-employed
We Free Democrats want maximum freedom of choice for the self-employed when it comes to retirement provision.
The form of pension provision should also be freely selectable.
In the future, access to all subsidized private pension plans must be open to all employees.
In this way, we also prevent people with zigzagging lives from losing their direct insurance or Riester subsidies when they switch to self-employment.
We want grace periods for the start-up phase.
We consider an obligation to provide for old age, as with health insurance, to be appropriate.
The freedom of choice is to apply to all self-employed persons without a mandatory old-age pension scheme as well as to self-employed persons who have so far been compulsorily insured under the statutory pension scheme.
Link mini- and midijob limits to minimum wage
We Free Democrats want to increase the mini-job and midi-job thresholds and link them dynamically to the statutory minimum wage.
With each adjustment of the minimum wage, the hours that employees are allowed to work in a mini- or midi-job are reduced.
This means that mini- or midijobbers are cut off from increases due to the general wage trend.
We want to change that and thus ensure greater performance equity.
Strengthening the autonomy of collective bargaining in the temporary staffing sector
We Free Democrats want temporary employment to receive the same appreciation as any other employment subject to social insurance contributions.
As in all other industries, all legal obligations must be complied with.
Temporary work ensures participation for employees
and flexibility for companies.
Unnecessary special statutory regulations on temporary employment, however, hinder the integration function of temporary employment in the labor market and lead to additional bureaucracy.
We want to change that and, for example, abolish the maximum transfer period.
Health
The corona pandemic has shown how important a functioning healthcare system is.
We want to ensure that everyone receives high-quality medical care close to home.
At the same time, we want to take advantage of the opportunities offered by medical and digital progress and adapt the healthcare system to demographic developments and possible future pandemics.
Financially secure hospitals
We Free Democrats call for a sustained improvement in investment funding for maximum-care and smaller specialized hospitals.
This is the only way we can ensure high-quality care for all citizens in line with their needs.
Higher quality must be rewarded through the compensation system.
Structural reform in the inpatient sector must be further developed in a responsible manner, and misguided incentives for overprovision and oversupply of hospital services must be rectified.
We reject unequal treatment of private, public and denominational providers just as strongly
as we reject the health insurance funds' right to plan care structures.
Ensure the independence of the Robert Koch Institute
We Free Democrats want to guarantee political independence for the Robert Koch Institute (RKI).
The president and a new board of directors are to be independent of instructions in technical matters.
The state must be able to respond to pandemic emergencies with proportionate measures.
This requires a clear legal definition.
The RKI must not be a policy-dependent authority, but must be transformed into an independent institution along the lines of the German Bundesbank.
Ensure security of supply with pharmaceuticals
We Free Democrats want to guarantee the supply of medicines and vaccines at all times.
Bottlenecks in supply must be avoided and combated.
To this end, measures must be taken with the aim of relocating the manufacture of pharmaceuticals back to Germany or the EU.
The focus is on reducing bureaucratic obligations,
examining investment subsidies for production facilities,
and examining subsidies to ensure security of supply.
Digitize healthcare
We Free Democrats want to promote digitization in the healthcare sector through clear and transparent framework conditions.
For this, we need open standards, interoperability and data security.
Networking between all healthcare players and patients must be digitally designed.
This is the only way to ensure rapid availability of patient data.
Digitization is not a value in itself, but it has the potential to facilitate the daily work of all healthcare stakeholders.
Hospitals are drivers of innovation in health care.
We want to specifically promote digital infrastructure and robotic assistance systems here.
De-bureaucratizing the healthcare system
We Free Democrats want to drive forward the de-bureaucratization of the health care system.
To this end, we call for a "pricing" of bureaucracy and reporting requirements.
In the future, the person who requests it should pay for it.
This sharpens the focus on patient treatment and care
and prevents petty laws and regulations.
For years, all stakeholders in the healthcare system have complained about increasing bureaucratic requirements that do not lead to an improvement in care.
On the contrary, there is less time for patients.
Reform prevention law
We Free Democrats want to reform the Prevention Act.
We rely on conviction instead of paternalism.
We want to teach children and young people a healthy lifestyle as early as kindergartens, schools and in training, thus enabling them to prevent disease.
In the spirit of lifelong health learning, however, adults should also be able to obtain appropriate information.
Prevention, early diagnosis and health promotion are of great importance, not only for the health care system, but for society as a whole, regardless of age.
Controlled release of cannabis
We Free Democrats are calling for the controlled release of cannabis.
We are committed to allowing possession and consumption by persons of legal age.
Only by selling in licensed stores can quality be controlled, the passing on of contaminated substances prevented and the protection of minors ensured.
If cannabis is taxed similarly to cigarettes, up to one billion euros could be raised annually.
It should be noted, however, that a tax that is set too high, and thus a correspondingly high price, will not effectively curb the black market.
The additional money will be used for prevention, addiction treatment and counseling.
The prohibition of cannabis criminalizes countless people, ties up immense police resources, and facilitates entry into harder drugs through illegal contact with dealers.
Fair framework conditions for innovation in healthcare
We Free Democrats are calling for more efforts to be made for innovations in pharmaceuticals, medical technology and digitization, because that is what we need for a good life and for sustainable jobs.
They must be a focal point in research funding, with unbureaucratic allocation of funding, especially to start-ups.
Biomedicine in particular holds great potential - for example with gene therapies or regenerative medicine.
We therefore advocate more open and innovation-promoting framework conditions in these key technologies.
The innovative networking of start-ups with the healthcare system across all phases of clinical development, the promotion of collaborations between health insurers, science and industry, and the expansion of high-tech healthcare medicine in Germany are drivers of optimal patient care.
To mobilize private investment, intellectual property must remain strictly protected under patent law, including for orphan drugs.
The liberal profession is the foundation of liberal health care
We Free Democrats are committed to continuing to strengthen the liberal professions in the health care sector.
Established physicians, dentists, veterinarians, pharmacists, providers of therapeutic products, midwives and obstetricians must be able to make autonomous decisions in medical matters, free from instructions from third parties.
After all, patients benefit from the freedom of treatment without budgeting constraints.
Freedom and responsibility are the basis of the trust relationship between doctor and patient.
To go some way toward addressing the shortage of skilled workers in the health care system, particularly among health care providers, trainees nationwide should be exempt from paying tuition.
Self-determination also at the end of life
We Free Democrats call for a liberal euthanasia law.
It is intended to clearly regulate the conditions under which people may seek and provide assistance in suicide.
There must also be the possibility of obtaining a lethal drug.
The prerequisite must be that the wish was formed freely and independently and in full possession of mental faculties.
For us, the right to self-determination also applies at the end of life.
Joint planning of medical care structures
We Free Democrats are committed to ensuring that every patient receives the best care.
To achieve this, healthcare must be thought of in a comprehensive, regional and patient-centered way in the future.
We want to consistently dismantle the artificial sector barrier between the outpatient and inpatient care sectors and further develop the interlinking and networking of all care sectors.
We want to modernize the rescue service
and make emergency care structures more needs-based and networked.
Integrated health centers are designed to help ensure regional primary care with outpatient and short-term inpatient treatments.
The needs of rural areas with their special supply structure are to be taken into account through appropriate programs.
We continue to be guided by the principle of "outpatient before inpatient".
The statutory remuneration regulations currently make it difficult to transfer treatment methods from the hospital to the outpatient sector.
Inpatient reimbursement must be maintained for the duration of the decision-making process to ensure that no patient is left without care.
Promoting mental health - fewer waiting times
We Free Democrats want to reduce waiting times for a therapy place,
promote the expansion of therapy places,
strengthen prevention and education,
and further develop the training of psychological psychotherapists.
We want to significantly increase the number of cash seats for psychotherapists.
Likewise, we want to create more study places for psychology and psychotherapy.
We want to expand school psychological counseling services.
School social workers should be available at every school.
Finally, we call for a nationwide education campaign to destigmatize mental illness, because mental health is an essential prerequisite for quality of life, performance and social participation.
By promoting mental health and prevention, society becomes more aware and individuals can be helped quickly.
Enabling more competition between health insurers
We Free Democrats are committed to competition among health insurers that enhances quality, efficiency and innovation.
This ensures that patients receive good care and benefit more quickly from medical advances.
To this end, we want to expand the legal scope for contracts between health insurance funds and service providers in order to strengthen innovative forms of care.
Health insurers are to be allowed to offer their policyholders financial incentives such as deductibles, bonus payments or premium refunds.
This can manage demand,
reduce bureaucracy
and increase efficiency reserves.
In addition, health insurers should be able to offer their insureds additional benefits on a voluntary basis, such as covering the costs of contraceptive methods beyond the age of 22.
Mature citizens also in health insurance
We Free Democrats want to simplify the switch between statutory (GKV) and private (PKV) health insurance.
We stand for a solidarity-based and dual health care system in which the freedom of choice of the insured is guaranteed by health insurance and health insurance diversity.
This includes not only a strong private health insurance system but also a free statutory health insurance system.
This is intended to focus on insured and patient interests and provide opportunities to choose from different models.
Fair competitive conditions for pharmacies
We Free Democrats want a nationwide supply of prescription drugs and qualified advice for patients.
We demand fair framework conditions between domestic pharmacies and domestic and foreign mail-order pharmacies.
We reject a blanket mail order ban on prescription drugs, because all patients should have freedom of choice.
In addition, the free choice of pharmacy must be guaranteed at all times.
Care
The need for care can affect anyone - whether through accident, illness or old age.
Then we trust in humane and quality care.
However, we have a dramatic shortage of nursing professionals in Germany, who are often overworked as a result and unable to meet their own demands on their work.
This is frustrating and not infrequently leads to burnout and quitting the job.
We Free Democrats want to counteract this and allow more time for care again - through a comprehensive reduction in bureaucracy, better working conditions and the use of digital potential in the care sector.
One thing in particular is important to us: involving professional nurses at a central point in the development of the necessary reforms and thus making use of their professional expertise.
Improve working conditions in nursing
We Free Democrats demand better working conditions in nursing.
That is why we want to ensure that the profession becomes more attractive again, from education to needs-based staffing levels and more career opportunities.
This is the only way we can attack the staffing shortage at its source and bring more staff into care.
Let's give nurses time and space for their work again!
Reform of nursing education
We Free Democrats want more digital content,
a strengthening of nursing skills
and performance-based permeability in nursing professions.
After all, nursing is a highly demanding profession: empathetic and social, but at the same time increasingly shaped by technological development.
This must also be reflected in training.
We want to put nurses in charge of their own professional biography, from assistant to nursing professor.
Let's clear the way for this development!
We also advocate the expansion of nursing sciences at universities so that (dual) studies for the nursing field can also open up the professional field to new groups of people.
The shortage of skilled workers in the healthcare sector must not be at the expense of trainees.
They must be given the opportunity to receive adequate practical training.
They must not become "stopgaps."
In the future, trainees will no longer be included in the calculation of the nursing ratio.
Needs-based care instead of rigid quotas
We Free Democrats are committed to demand-oriented care
and are calling for a move away from pure lower limits for nursing staff.
Care must be based on people's needs, not on rigid rules.
That is why we need an instrument such as the "Nursing Staff Regulation 2.0" and a balanced skills mix.
Digitization boost and debureaucratization for nursing care
We Free Democrats want to support nursing work through digital applications, automation, and robotics, thereby relieving the burden on caregivers.
From electronic patient charts and automated medication dispensing to robotic positioning aids, much is possible.
Digital applications can make a significant contribution to facilitating the everyday work of caregivers.
At the same time, they help to avoid risks for care recipients, for example in the event of medication changes.
Relieving the burden on family caregivers
We Free Democrats call for the expansion of short-term care places.
After all, family caregivers are a mainstay of nursing care in our country.
They urgently need more support and low-threshold counseling services.
Respite care slots should be viewable through an online registry.
In particular, to support the care of people with dementia, more outreach counseling and the expansion of dementia-friendly neighborhoods are needed.
And digital applications and telecare can also provide relief in home care.
In rural areas in particular, this would enable us to provide good care in the familiar environment for longer.
Introduce liberal care budget
We Free Democrats call for the introduction of the Liberal Care Budget.
Each person should be able to decide for themselves what help and services are best in managing their daily lives.
To this end, we want to transfer all benefit entitlements for the respective care levels into a monthly care budget that can be used in an unbureaucratic and transparent manner.
Three-pillar model for care
We Free Democrats are committed to sustainable, generation-appropriate financing of care.
Long-term care insurance should be retained as a partial benefit, and it should also be supplemented by capital cover elements.
As with pensions, we want to introduce a three-pillar model for long-term care - consisting of social long-term care insurance and private and company pension plans.
In particular, the expansion of company models for supplementary long-term care provision should be supported.
Personal responsibility does not end with the need for care.
In view of demographic change and the development of social security contributions, it is unacceptable to pass on the financing of long-term care to future generations alone.
Modern law for strong families
The most important decisions are often the most personal.
Who we love, how we love, how we live, how we bring up and raise children - we must all be free in this.
For us, family is everywhere where people take responsibility for each other in a lasting and binding way.
We Free Democrats want a modern family policy for Germany in which every family can make its own decisions.
We advocate for modern custody, adoption, reproductive and abortion laws.
Introduce child opportunity money
We Free Democrats want a child opportunity allowance.
It consists of: Basic amount, flexi amount and non-material opportunity package.
The offers for better opportunities, education and participation are being expanded and can be accessed by children and young people independently via a child opportunities portal as easy as child's play.
Child Opportunity Money is simple, digital, and enables real opportunities for advancement.
Update for the parental allowance
We Free Democrats want to make parental allowance less bureaucratic and more digital, and make the partnership bonus more flexible.
We want to eliminate injustices such as insolvency benefits or mixed income.
We are also adapting the "ElterngeldPlus" (parental allowance plus) and the partnership bonus to the reality of families' lives.
Extend legal entitlement to partner months - strengthen families
We Free Democrats want to extend the legal entitlement to "partner months" in parental allowance to three months.
This increases the reference period to a maximum of 15 months.
This also applies to single parents.
We want to increase the minimum and maximum amounts, also to compensate for inflation.
In this way, we want to create incentives for a more balanced division of family work between the parents.
Higher tax allowances for families and single parents
We Free Democrats want to relieve the burden on families and single parents.
To this end, we want to raise the child and trainee allowance as well as the allowance for single parents.
We also want to improve the tax deductibility of care costs, statutory maintenance services and household-related services.
We want to retain the splitting procedure for married couples and registered civil partnerships.
Likewise, it may make sense to work more with tax credits - to be deducted from the tax liability - in the future.
As a result, allowances work better for low- and middle-income earners.
Supporting home and foster children with education
We Free Democrats want to expand the range of career and academic counseling offered in youth care facilities.
Children in care and foster children must be able to keep the money they earn independently.
They may no longer be required to fund their housing.
In addition, it must be possible to extend placement in a youth home or with foster families beyond the age of 18 in an uncomplicated manner, as long as the young people are still attending school or undergoing vocational training.
In this way, we make it easier for those affected to obtain vocational and school qualifications, including university entrance qualifications.
Create modern reproductive medicine law
We Free Democrats want a modern reproductive medicine law.
We call for the legalization of egg donation
and clarification that embryo donation is permissible.
We also want to enable non-commercial surrogacy and demand a clear legal framework for this.
The possibilities of reproductive medicine should be accessible to all people regardless of marital status and sexual orientation.
Supporting the involuntarily childless
We Free Democrats want better financial support for fertility treatments.
Federal funding must no longer be dependent on state participation.
In the long term, the statutory health insurance funds should once again assume the costs in full upon presentation of a medical indication.
Couples without a marriage certificate and single people should also be entitled to support.
Legally recognize multiple parenthood and parenting arrangements
We Free Democrats want to legally recognize multiple parenthoods and enable legally effective parenthood agreements even before conception.
Up to four parents should be able to be legal parents in the interest of the child's welfare.
Excessive demands on the child in adulthood can be avoided through quotas of maintenance claims.
The wife of the natural mother shall automatically be legally the second mother from birth if the child was conceived with the help of a non-directed sperm donation or the natural father has otherwise declared consent.
Adoption rights for all
We Free Democrats want to make adoptions possible for unmarried couples as well.
Unmarried couples are to be put on an equal footing with married couples in adoption law.
To avoid discrimination, the adoption process should be anonymous as long as possible.
In the case of stepchild adoptions, it should be possible to maintain the relationship to both natural parents, provided this is desired by mutual agreement and is not contrary to the best interests of the child.
Relieving the burden on midwives and obstetricians
We Free Democrats want a better work-life balance for midwives and obstetricians, as well as innovative ways to provide better support.
We support solutions to protect midwives from disproportionate financial burdens on their freelance work.
We want to relieve midwives of non-specialist activities.
We want to make it possible for committed school graduates who do not meet the EU minimum requirements for learning the profession of midwifery to work in obstetrics with regard to the goal of solidly financed one-to-one care.
To this end, we propose to introduce the complementary profession of "maternity nurse" for pre- and postnatal care.
Abolition of § 219a Criminal Code
We Free Democrats demand that Section 219a of the German Criminal Code (StGB) be deleted without replacement.
It is absurd that factual information on the homepage of a doctor about a legal medical intervention should be punishable wrong.
An abortion is exempt from punishment in Germany under the provisions of Section 218 ff.StGB.
Therefore, factual information about it cannot be a punishable wrong.
On the contrary, women in a difficult situation are dependent on precisely this information in order to gain rapid access to serious advice precisely from physicians who offer the procedure themselves.
It is important that doctors have reliable rules on how they may provide information
and that women have access to a comprehensive and objective counseling network.
It should also be possible to conduct conflict counseling online.
Create self-determination law - protect gender identity
We Free Democrats want to abolish the Transsexual Act and replace it with a self-determination law.
Changes to the gender entry in the civil status must be possible without discriminatory hurdles by means of self-disclosure.
An extended ban on disclosure is intended to protect against discrimination.
We want to strengthen educational and advisory services.
The costs of gender reassignment treatments must be fully covered by health insurance.
Medically unnecessary genital altering surgeries on intersex children must be effectively banned in order to strengthen their self-determination.
Introduce community of responsibility
We Free Democrats want to anchor the community of responsibility alongside marriage in law.
It should be possible to vary the rights and obligations within a community of responsibility in stages.
Two or more persons of legal age who are personally close to each other but not married, partnered or related in a direct line should be able to establish a community of responsibility as unbureaucratically as possible.
The interests of the children and the right to a name remain unaffected.
Also, no residence permits or work permits are to be established.
At a time when traditional family structures are not always sustainable, especially in old age, there is a growing need for new forms of mutual security.
The basic idea of such a community of responsibility is the greatest possible flexibility with maximum self-determination.
Make alternating model the guiding principle
We Free Democrats want to make the so-called "alternating model" the legal model for the care of minor children after the separation of parents.
Both parents should be entitled and obliged to provide both maintenance and care with a substantial share.
Many parents want to raise children together even after separation.
Policymakers must create the legal framework for this and, in particular, provide that child-rearing and maintenance responsibilities are exercised jointly if the best interests of the child do not conflict with this.
Improve grandparents' right of access to grandchildren
We Free Democrats want to put the contact of grandparents with their grandchildren, which is important for the welfare of the child, on a better footing, because the contact of grandparents with their grandchildren can be of decisive importance for the welfare of the child.
Protection of privacy
The protection of privacy is a core concern for us Free Democrats.
Instead of ever more extensive surveillance powers,
we want to free the police and judiciary from unnecessary bureaucracy and
provide them with better and more modern equipment.
Security does not have to be at the expense of the fundamental rights of innocent citizens.
Self-determination and transparency in data protection
We Free Democrats want more self-determination and transparency in data protection.
As a matter of principle, personal data may only be processed with consent or on a clear legal basis.
It must be clear for what purpose and by whom data is used.
We want to facilitate informational self-determination, for example through technical design (privacy by design and default) or the possibility of using assistance systems (Personal Information Management Systems (PIMS)).
Today, personal data is an economic asset.
For this reason, informational self-determination should also be strengthened in the law governing general terms and conditions.
We need a fair and functioning data economy order.
Self-determination over one's own data is the basis for this.
Further developing data protection law
We Free Democrats want to consistently develop data protection further.
We will ensure that greater consideration is given to the impact on small and medium-sized enterprises whose core business is not the handling of personal data.
The bureaucratic burden of the obligations must be reviewed.
Technical solutions that are just as effective in terms of data protection law, but less costly, must be made usable.
Data protection must be taken into account by manufacturers as early as the design stage of hardware and software, and the exercise of the right to informational self-determination must be facilitated.
We need more precise data protection regulations, for example for the protection of telecommunications data or data processing by drones, in order to offer companies and data subjects more legal certainty without falling short of the level of protection provided by the General Data Protection Regulation.
For a liberal data policy
We Free Democrats call for a data policy that respects the principles of self-determination over one's own data.
and competition
and innovations.
For true competition, citizens need freedom of choice.
This requires that they can easily take their data to other providers (data portability).
In the medium term, we want to achieve interoperability between services from different providers (for example, social networks) - as in the telephone network - and oblige providers to make the necessary interfaces available.
We want to create an EU-wide legal framework for non-personal data.
Users should be granted a right to use the data they have helped to generate.
We reject a general data sharing obligation, because it must also be possible to amortize the costs of collecting and processing non-personal data.
Instead, we want to enable access to databases on a sector-specific basis and for a fee if a competitor has no chance of building up corresponding databases itself.
Introduce right to encryption
We Free Democrats advocate a right to encryption and call for basic encryption of electronic communications.
Any restriction on the use of cryptography
and we reject any obligation to keep IT security gaps open.
Encryption of data and network traffic is about protecting property, privacy and confidentiality of communications.
No total surveillance by means of online searches and source tapping
We Free Democrats reject the potentially seamless digital surveillance of people through the use of "state Trojans," especially for intelligence gathering.
As long as it is not ensured that the core area of people's private lives is protected, they must not be used.
The same standard must apply to source telecommunication surveillance (source TKÜ) and online searches.
Instead of exploiting security gaps, we call for IT security to be prioritized and for clearly regulated vulnerability management.
The state must not buy up security gaps for investigative purposes.
If a government agency becomes aware of security vulnerabilities, it must immediately report them to the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI), which will arrange for the manufacturer to close the vulnerability or, if this is not successful, publish the vulnerability in a coordinated manner in accordance with the general principles of cyber security.
Quick Freeze instead of Data Retention
We Free Democrats reject the storage of personal data without any reason.
This applies in particular to the retention of all telecommunications connection data without any reason.
Such data retention places all citizens under general suspicion.
In the opinion of the European Court of Justice, it therefore violates fundamental European rights.
Instead, we propose Quick Freeze procedures as an alternative that preserves fundamental rights.
In cases of suspicion, certain data can be secured by court order.
Right to anonymity in public space
We Free Democrats demand a right to anonymity in public spaces
and reject the use of automated facial recognition.
Video surveillance is not a substitute for officers and is not a panacea.
The use of software for automated and mass facial recognition in public spaces threatens total surveillance.
We therefore reject blanket video surveillance and also take a critical view of the expansion of private video surveillance, which is then made available for government purposes.
Intelligent video surveillance at crime hotspots can, however, be a useful supplement to hazard prevention and law enforcement if it is used responsibly and not as a substitute for police presence.
The right to anonymity in public space also applies to digital public space.
Introduce surveillance bill - Moratorium on security legislation.
We Free Democrats call for a surveillance bill in every legislative process in security law.
Until they are introduced, we call for a security law moratorium.
The impact of new surveillance and information collection measures must be evaluated in the context of existing powers.
This is provided by the monitoring bill.
Given the multitude of existing surveillance powers and increasing surveillance possibilities through the use of networked devices in everyday life, a balance sheet is urgently needed.
Preserve cash, promote cryptocurrencies
We Free Democrats are committed to the unrestricted usability of cash as a means of payment.
Cash should remain as an alternative to digital payment formats.
At the same time, we welcome the further development of cryptocurrencies.
Cash allows us to store money without government control and supervision.
In addition, the ability of citizens to switch to cash places tight limits on the European Central Bank's negative interest rate policy.
We also welcome alternative means of exchange such as cryptocurrencies on blockchain as well as other bases and want to promote and further develop the creation of a reliable legal framework.
A constitutional state capable of acting
Extremism and terrorism are a threat to our democracy and our open and free society.
The rule of law must therefore be better organized than crime.
We need a constitutional state that is strong in action and enforcement and that guarantees security and freedom in equal measure.
To this end, we Free Democrats want to better equip the police and judiciary, renew our security architecture and resolutely confront the enemies of the rule of law.
Making the criminal process more effective, faster, modern and practical
We Free Democrats want to make criminal proceedings more effective, faster, more modern and more practical
- without this having a one-sided effect to the detriment of the rights of the accused and his defense.
To this end, we want to fundamentally modernize the German criminal process, whose basic structure dates back to the German Empire.
The rule of law must also demonstrate its ability to act in complex and exposed proceedings.
Thus, the criminal process must become more digital and communicative.
Interrogations and main hearings must be recorded in picture and sound - this is the international standard.
Main hearings could be conducted in a more concentrated and faster manner if the court could hold discussions with the defense and the prosecution on how to structure the proceedings.
Modernize and accelerate court proceedings
We Free Democrats want to modernize and speed up court proceedings.
In a digital pact for the judiciary, the federal government is to participate in significantly improving the technical equipment of the judiciary in the federal states, for example to enable virtual hearings.
We also want to make access to justice easier by allowing small claims to be made in a fully digital, low-cost and fast process.
We also want to strengthen Germany as a judicial location internationally.
We Free Democrats call for a separate International Trade Court for Germany.
Leveraging Legal Tech: Modernizing the Law of the Legal Profession
We Free Democrats want to expand the legal framework for legal tech companies
and also modernize the law governing the legal profession.
We want to abolish the ban on contingency fees and relax the ban on third-party ownership.
We facilitate the enforcement of small claims for which legal action has so far been too expensive or too cumbersome.
The legal framework should set clear requirements for quality and expertise, as well as strict transparency rules of legal tech companies.
In this way, we strengthen competition and consumer protection.
Federalism Reform III: Clear Responsibilities in the Security Architecture
We Free Democrats call for a Federalism Commission III of the federal and state governments.
The commission is to make proposals for reforming the security architecture, for example by reducing the number of state offices for the protection of the constitution.
Responsibilities, accountabilities and procedures need to be clearer.
Parliamentary control and data protection oversight must also be ensured in the security authorities' cooperation platforms, especially the Joint Counter-Terrorism Center (GTAZ) and the Joint Counter-Extremism and Counter-Terrorism Center (GETZ).
To this end, we call for a legal basis for these cooperation platforms that regulates the exchange of data between authorities.
We want to keep the tasks of the intelligence services and the police separate from one another and anchor this separation requirement in the Basic Law.
Create European Criminal Investigation Office
We Free Democrats call for Europol to be expanded into a genuine European Criminal Investigation Office.
Europol's own operational capabilities must be expanded.
Terrorism, organized crime and cybercrime do not stop at national borders.
The findings of the national safety authorities on cross-border issues are to be jointly evaluated and operations of the member states coordinated.
Hazard definitions and databases must be standardized at the European level and be compatible.
We also want to strengthen the European cybersecurity authority ENISA.
Control of intelligence services through three-pillar model
We Free Democrats call for a comprehensive reorganization of the control of the intelligence services according to a three-pillar model: The authorization of surveillance and the legality control of the intelligence services should be carried out in judicial independence.
Parliamentary control is to be improved and the rights of the parliamentary minority are to be strengthened.
A parliamentary intelligence commissioner is to help monitor the intelligence services and also be able to gain insight into sensitive information from other services.
The legal bases of communications surveillance by the intelligence services must be aligned in light of their respective domestic functions, since it is no longer possible to distinguish between the different communications traffic.
Because the use of intelligence services represents a massive encroachment on the fundamental rights of those affected, the persons concerned and the telecommunications companies must be granted effective legal protection and a practically effective right of action against surveillance measures.
Monitoring in the home country and in another EU Member State must be communicated to the data subjects after the measures have been completed.
Even before a decision is made, an advocate representing the rights of the affected citizens must be heard.
Fighting organized crime
We Free Democrats are committed to fighting organized crime on a sustained basis.
The highly efficient and effective structures of organized crime in all its many forms must be countered by the state with appropriately structured and sustainable activities to protect the state and society.
These must finally also target the dark field in classic organized crime offenses.
Particularly in the area of organized white-collar crime, regular combating must finally become possible again.
Internal leadership in the police
We Free Democrats advocate the creation of an advisory council on "Innere Führung" in the police force to develop criteria for error culture and self-reflection in police work.
The misconduct of individual officers, including the conditions that led to the misconduct, must be investigated.
In this way, we want to strengthen confidence in the police.
Because the vast majority of police officers do an excellent job.
There must therefore be no general suspicion of our police.
German police training is also particularly good by international standards.
Scientific findings on radicalization, extremism and racism must nevertheless play a stronger role in training, as must sensitivity to discrimination.
We strongly condemn attacks on emergency forces.
Therefore, we demand better documentation of violence and assaults against police officers and other public service employees.
Police actions must always be traceable, which is why we are calling for mandatory pseudonymous identification for officers.
Better equipment and facilities for the police
We Free Democrats demand better and functional staffing and equipment for the police.
We want to provide the corresponding funds and create the infrastructure for this.
In particular, we want to use a digital pact to ensure that police officers in Germany are equipped with state-of-the-art technology and compatible IT infrastructures.
After all, the best laws are of no help if they cannot be enforced due to a lack of personnel, equipment or dysfunctional IT infrastructure.
In addition, we want to relieve the police forces through a task critique.
This includes examining whether tasks currently entrusted to the police can be carried out in full or in part by other government agencies - for example, property protection or recording traffic accidents.
With the capacities freed up, the police can devote themselves even more intensively to their core tasks and thus contribute to strengthening the rule of law.
Weapons law with a sense of proportion and consistency
We Free Democrats stand for a gun law with a sense of proportion and consistency.
A strict distinction must be made between owners of legal weapons, such as sport shooters and hunters, and between illegal possession of weapons and possession of weapons by dangerous persons.
The recent tightening of firearms laws has saddled legal gun owners, such as sport shooters and hunters, with additional useless bureaucracy.
The federal government should undertake a general revision of the weapons law to improve practicability and practicality.
Dangerous persons and extremists are not allowed to possess weapons.
To this end, the exchange of data between the authorities involved must be improved and the illegal arms trade must be combated more intensively at the European level.
Strong consumer protection based on the model of the responsible consumer
We Free Democrats are committed to consumer protection that gives empowered consumers options and an informed as well as sovereign decision.
We trust in the self-determination of consumers.
That is why we reject patronizing consumer policies that, for example, schematically limit the duration of certain contracts.
Self-determination, however, requires a free and informed decision that also takes into account the constraints and limits to which consumers are subject.
We want to make this possible by advocating the reporting of monthly average prices, especially for better comparability in the case of long-term contracts.
We also want to simplify the enforcement of consumer rights, for example through "smart contracts" that provide automatic compensation for consumers in the event of delays.
Protect freedom of the press and freedom of expression
Freedom of the press and freedom of expression are cornerstones of our liberal and open democratic society.
After all, our society thrives on a free and unbiased competition of opinions.
We Free Democrats therefore stand for an active and open debate culture that promotes and protects diversity of opinion.
At the same time, it must allow for dissent while respecting the viewpoints of others.
This is because basic communication rights do not protect against social conflicts or other views.
Unfortunately, crimes, hatred and incitement on the Internet continue to increase.
The state has a duty to act decisively here - and to effectively protect personal rights and freedom of expression.
Abolish network enforcement law
We Free Democrats want to abolish the Network Enforcement Act (NetzDG) and replace it with a regulatory mix that fully guarantees the protection of freedom of expression.
We are committed to more effective prosecution of crimes on the Net.
The NetzDG has so far unilaterally incentivized the deletion of content and placed the decision on the limits of freedom of expression solely in the hands of social networks.
We want to reduce their influence through self-regulatory institutions as a complaints authority.
It is primarily the task of the state to take action against criminal acts on the Net.
Strengthening victim protection in the event of criminal acts and violations of personal rights on the Internet
We Free Democrats want to enable victims of crimes on the Internet to defend themselves by giving them a right to information against platforms and Internet providers - as in copyright law.
If the perpetrator remains anonymous and does not respond to being contacted, account suspension should also be considered.
Social networks are also to be required to comprehensively designate competent agents for service of process in Germany.
Public service broadcasting needs mission and structural reform
We Free Democrats want a more modern and streamlined public broadcasting service (ÖRR) that should focus primarily on news, culture, political education and documentaries.
In this way, we want to lower the broadcasting contribution.
The number of television and radio channels operated by broadcasters must be reduced.
Parallel bids that are not required are to be avoided.
On the Internet, the ÖRR should be limited to areas that are comparable to or directly related to classical broadcasting.
A functioning dual media system needs balance.
Proportionality between broadcasting fees and competition must be maintained.
Competition with any Internet offering by private press and media houses is not the task of the ÖRR.
We want to strengthen media and opinion diversity.
Press Information Act and Protection of the Work of the Press
We Free Democrats call for a press information law at the federal level
and for attacks on the media to be recorded in police crime statistics.
Whistleblowers should not be subject to employment, personnel or criminal prosecution for disclosing criminal offenses or unlawful conduct.
The prerequisite is that they have previously exhausted the official channels or that this was unreasonable.
Whistleblowers should also be protected from prosecution by foreign states.
The EU directive on the protection of whistleblowers is to be transposed into German law without delay.
Democracy and parliamentarism
Our democracy and our freedom are threatened by extremism, by populism and by indifference.
For us Free Democrats, it is therefore a core task to fill liberal democracy with life, to develop it further and to defend it.
Term limit for federal chancellor
We Free Democrats want to limit the term of office of Federal Chancellors to a maximum of two full election periods or a maximum of ten years.
Democracy also thrives on the change of responsible personalities.
Offices in a democracy should therefore always be temporary offices.
Using opportunities for citizen consultation to strengthen the German Bundestag
We Free Democrats are committed to representative democracy.
The central places of discussion and decision are our parliaments.
However, representative democracy also gains from new instruments of citizen participation outside of elections.
For us, the decisive addressee and client for more citizen participation are therefore the parliaments, for example through the possibility of citizen consultation by house parliaments, the extension of the right of petition to include the "citizens' plenary procedure" or through citizens' councils appointed by random selection.
It must always be made unmistakably clear that only parliament makes legitimate decisions, that the advisory mandate is clearly delimited and that expectations are clearly defined.
The German Bundestag should also set up a digital platform on an open-source basis with a list of projects that obliges government agencies and institutions to document their plans and deliberations in the future in the spirit of genuine freedom of information and to make them available for public comment.
Extend legislative term to five years, bundle elections
We Free Democrats want to extend the legislative period of the German Bundestag from four to five years.
The election dates of the countries are to be bundled more closely.
A legislative period is largely determined at the beginning by the time for exploratory talks and coalition negotiations and toward the end by the election campaign.
In view of the complexity of many laws, it makes sense to extend the legislative period and thus also the term of government.
At the same time, fewer election dates would prevent continuous campaigning.
Reduce German Bundestag
We Free Democrats want to prevent an ever-growing German Bundestag.
As a result of overhang and compensatory mandates, the Bundestag currently has 709 members, significantly exceeding the number of 598 stipulated by the Federal Election Act.
This not only makes parliamentary work more difficult, but is also costly.
We therefore propose limiting the number of constituencies and thus of direct mandates to 250.
In this way, we reduce the probability of overhang mandates.
We also want to abolish the so-called minimum number of seats procedure because it can lead to a significant increase in the size of the German Bundestag.
The principle that every vote counts equally must not be touched in the course of a reform of the electoral law.
Suffrage from 16
We Free Democrats call for the voting age to be lowered to 16 for elections to the German Bundestag and European Parliament.
As a prerequisite for this, political education must be strengthened at all types of schools.
The right to vote is the key to political participation.
It is the most noble right in a democracy.
The extension of the right to vote has always been a sign of social progress.
Young people already take responsibility in many areas of life, but are excluded from political participation.
Yet they are the ones who have been influenced by political decisions the longest.
The right to vote from the age of 16 is intergenerational justice in action.
Tolerant and open-minded society
We Free Democrats advocate a society in which everyone, regardless of origin, appearance, religion or political views, can live and express themselves freely.
Human rights,
Freedom of expression
and the protection of minorities are essential for our coexistence.
We Free Democrats therefore stand up for our free society and against racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism and homophobia.
Liberal feminism
We Free Democrats stand for a liberal feminism that builds on the legal equality of all genders and seeks to expand spaces of freedom and development for all individuals.
Liberal feminism seeks the self-determination of all individuals free from societal role assignments based on their chosen or biological sex.
For a consensus across society against all forms of extremism
We Free Democrats condemn every form of extremism.
We reject political extremism from right-wing to left-wing extremism as well as religiously or nationalistically motivated extremism.
Group-based misanthropy, the exaltation of one's own group or nation and the belittling of others, as well as threats and violence, never command the moral high ground.
Scientific expertise in the security agencies in combating various forms of extremism must be expanded.
The federal government should place prevention work and functioning exit programs on various forms of extremism on a reliable financial footing.
Together against right-wing extremism and racism
We Free Democrats recognize the fight against right-wing extremism and racism as a special challenge.
We actively oppose discrimination and group-based misanthropy.
Right-wing extremist associations must be consistently banned.
The monitoring of right-wing extremist threats must be intensified without delay.
The security authorities must do a better job of protecting particularly vulnerable groups and their facilities.
There is no place in public service for people with dangerous right-wing extremist attitudes.
Zero tolerance for anti-Semitism
We Free Democrats call for decisive action against all forms of anti-Semitism.
For us, Jewish life in Germany and Europe is an integral part of our civil society.
Politicians and security authorities must take the specific threat to Jewish life seriously and take a decisive stand against it.
There must be zero tolerance for any form of anti-Semitism.
Jewish institutions must be effectively protected by state measures.
Community safety concerns must be addressed.
The police and judiciary need contact persons to deal with anti-Semitic threats and acts.
In schools, teachers and learning materials are needed to expose everyday anti-Semitism and to prevent anti-Semitic prejudice and hatred.
In the business world, we will enforce that there is no place in German markets for anti-Semitic and anti-Israel business practices, such as those that occur in air travel.
The International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance's definition of anti-Semitism should be the point of reference.
We observe the activities of BDS (Boycott, Disinventions, Sanctions) with great concern and clearly oppose them.
For us, this also includes a review of the ban on the Al-Quds march in Berlin, as well as tougher criminal sanctions for the burning of Israel flags as an expression of Israel-related anti-Semitism.
The Day of Remembrance for the Victims of National Socialism on January 27 should be upgraded by introducing a nationwide minute of silence modeled on Israel's Yom haSho'a.
National Action Plan against Homophobia and Transphobia
We Free Democrats demand the expansion of Article 3 (3) of the Basic Law to include protection against discrimination on the basis of sexual identity and a complete ban on so-called "conversion therapies".
We want to finally abolish the blood donation ban for homosexual and bisexual men.
Suitability is not determined by sexual identity, but by each person's individual risk behavior.
We advocate for a National Action Plan against homophobia and transphobia.
This is intended to effectively counter discrimination, insults and violence.
Federal and state police forces should uniformly record anti-LGBTI crimes nationwide, take them into account in their prevention and public relations work, train investigative services accordingly and appoint LGBTI contact persons.
Homophobic and transphobic violence must be treated in the same way as racist violence in the criminal code.
Counseling and self-help services
as well as school and public education about sexual and gender diversity.
The Federal Magnus Hirschfeld Foundation, which was initiated by the Free Democrats ten years ago, is to be permanently secured in the federal budget.
Effectively combating domestic violence
We Free Democrats demand that the Istanbul Convention on Preventing and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence be implemented quickly, comprehensively and effectively.
The federal and state governments must cooperate more intensively here.
We want to enable those affected to secure evidence of sexual or sexualized violence anonymously and free of charge, regardless of whether they report it.
Contact persons in the police and judiciary must be trained and further educated according to common standards.
We advocate for a needs-based expansion of women's shelter places, uniform funding nationwide, and a national online registry.
Information about domestic violence support services should be provided as a standard part of the gynecologist's visit.
We also want better developed and institutionalized preventive and repressive work with offenders.
Islamism: Strengthening prevention and deradicalization
We Free Democrats call for a joint prevention strategy by the federal and state governments against Islamist radicalization.
As a first step, we want to have all existing prevention and deradicalization programs evaluated.
Based on the findings, we call for clear and binding standards for prevention and deradicalization in the field of Islamism, especially in prisons.
Likewise, reliable funding for prevention projects is necessary.
With such a strategy, we can prevent and sustainably combat Islamist radicalization.
From State Church Law to Constitutional Law on Religions
We Free Democrats want to develop state church law into a constitutional law on religion.
It is intended to provide a suitable legal status for all religious communities that recognize the principle of equality and diversity of belief, fundamental rights, and the self-determination of their members.
In the course of this, the constitutional mandate to replace state services must be completed.
We want to abolish bans on dancing and similar restrictions on silent holidays.
Likewise, ecclesiastical privileges in labor law must be abolished insofar as they do not affect positions that perform a religious function.
We want to give greater weight to liberal and progressive Muslims who are less organized in Muslim associations.
The goal must be that faith communities are not controlled and financed from abroad, but by their members in Germany.
An important step in this direction is the training of imams in Germany.
Strengthening communities, sports and volunteerism
Local authorities in Germany need more freedom - for future opportunities, diversity and cohesion.
We Free Democrats want to improve the quality of life in urban and rural areas.
Volunteering
and sport through good framework conditions.
In many regions of Germany, tourism businesses such as hotels and restaurants are cornerstones of economic growth
and employment.
Combining local government debt relief and reforms
We Free Democrats are open to debt relief for particularly overburdened municipalities that have no financial prospects on their own.
Many municipalities have repaid their debts through austerity and structural reforms in recent years.
These municipalities must not be the ones to suffer when the federal government defunds other municipalities in individual states.
A possible federal debt relief program must therefore be combined, within permissible constitutional limits, with infrastructure projects, regional economic development and a fundamental reform of municipal finances.
Who orders, pays!
He who is in debt is liable!
We Free Democrats want to anchor a genuine principle of connexity in the Basic Law.
When the federal and state governments create new tasks, they must also pay for them.
Even when federal funds are earmarked for local governments, they often remain at the state level and are not passed on.
At the same time, the federal, state and local governments are to be made liable for their own debts through an insolvency order.
To this end, we would like to create an insolvency code for local authorities.
Today, local authorities stand up for each other in a budget emergency as a last resort.
Those who do well have to bear the risks of those who do poorly.
Debt ownership leads to sounder public finances.
For a defensible democracy: Promoting diversity in civic engagement
We Free Democrats want to strengthen the diversity of civic engagement in a vibrant civil society.
Through volunteer work, many citizens make a fundamental contribution to a peaceful, vibrant and defensible democracy.
Where associations, foundations and other forms of organization are recipients of state structural and project funding, the state must ensure that they and their project partners stand on the ground of the free democratic basic order.
Increase lump-sum allowances for exercise leaders and volunteers
We Free Democrats want to appropriately increase the lump-sum allowances for exercise managers and volunteers.
Volunteering and civic engagement are among the foundations of our society.
From sports and culture to welfare and social work to environmental protection and local politics - thousands of people perform elementary functions in our country in their free time.
We want to support them.
Relieving volunteers of bureaucracy and liability risks
We Free Democrats want to relieve the honorary office of bureaucracy and possible liability risks.
We want to simplify access to new digital solutions for associations - for example in the areas of acquisition and administration.
Volunteering is more than just free time.
The voluntary commitment of thousands of citizens enables millions of people to develop freely, achieve self-efficacy and, above all, provide children and young people with valuable learning processes.
It brings people together regardless of their social and cultural background, creates community and promotes tolerance.
Making federal voluntary service more attractive
We Free Democrats want to increase the attractiveness of the Federal Volunteer Service (BFD).
To this end, we are calling for pay comparable to that of the voluntary military service, the opening up of part-time models for the BFD, the opening up to new target groups, and the further strengthening of the Voluntary Digital Year.
While we welcome voluntary engagement of young people and want to promote it more strongly,
we reject compulsory service.
We want to let young people decide for themselves about their future and not oblige them to do a year of society or compulsory service against their will.
We stand by the suspension of compulsory military service.
Protecting values in sport
We Free Democrats want to protect values in sport: Fair play, respect, non-violence and anti-discrimination must become self-evident and socially accepted guidelines for the behavior of all those involved in sports.
In addition to input from politicians, we expect targeted input from the independent Ethics Committee newly established at the German Olympic Sports Confederation (DOSB).
In times of the corona pandemic, the cohesion of society has grown in many places.
Sport in particular offers the opportunity to teach social skills, a willingness to integrate and inclusion in a sustainable way.
Major sports events
We Free Democrats want to maintain Germany's bid to host major sporting events.
Recognize and support e-sports
We Free Democrats want to recognize e-sports as a sport.
We want to promote corresponding offers.
The non-profit status of e-sports clubs is to be recognized.
The combination of sporting activity, technical innovation and digitization opens up new opportunities for many people of different ages.
We want to use the innovative effect of the games industry,
promote integration and networking with organized sports,
and further promote the use of possible positive effects in the areas of prevention and health.
Fighting doping - protection for key witnesses and whistleblowers
We Free Democrats want the anti-doping law
a regulation for the protection of leniency witnesses
and whistleblowers.
Anti-doping work must be detached from the sports federations.
In this way, the fight against doping becomes more independent and powerful.
In addition to technical expertise, those responsible at the National Anti Doping Agency (NADA) must be provided with an adequate budget.
This will enable us to combat doping in sports more effectively than we do today.
Culture
Germany can look back on a long tradition as a cultural nation.
We Free Democrats want to safeguard the diversity and freedom of cultural life
and make it accessible to everyone in our country.
For us, this includes strengthening the promotion of culture and cultural education.
We are also committed to a strong cultural and creative industries as an important sector of our country's economy, which was hit particularly hard by the Corona crisis.
Strengthening cultural promotion in the long term
We Free Democrats are committed to increasing the federal budget for national and international cultural funding.
Promoting culture is not a subsidy, but an investment in the future of our country.
For free development, the arts need support, because it is precisely the new and original that is often found beyond self-sustaining marketing.
We want an increase in institutional funding to strengthen the institutions' independence.
In this way, Germany is living up to its role as a cultural nation.
Support for the self-employed in the cultural and creative industries
We Free Democrats are committed to a strong cultural and creative industry as an important sector of the economy in Germany.
We want to open up funding programs to smaller companies and solo self-employed people in the cultural and creative industries.
We want to simplify grant applications.
Online formats like livestreams are also part of a vibrant creative industry.
That's why we want to exempt online live streams from the broadcasting license requirement.
Culture as a state goal
We Free Democrats are committed to establishing culture as a state objective in the Basic Law by including the sentence "The state shall protect and promote culture" in Article 20b.
This would be a strong sign of the importance of culture in Germany as part of our common European cultural area.
We consider this a value decision, because it is about the protection of intellectual-creative work as the livelihood of many thousands of citizens.
Strengthen cultural education
We Free Democrats want to invest ten percent of the annual budget of public and publicly funded cultural organizations in cultural education.
The cultural (mediation) offer should be open to people of all ages and regardless of social and cultural background.
Only cultural education opens access to culture for all.
Strengthening the culture of remembrance and commemoration - modernizing the memorial concept
We Free Democrats want to modernize the memorial concept.
Coming to terms with and communicating the injustices of the two German dictatorships of National Socialism and the GDR remains an ongoing task.
Through the examination of history, an awareness of the value of freedom and civil rights can be achieved.
Strengthening the historical sites with more digital offerings and innovative mediation concepts makes it possible to build bridges to younger generations in order to contribute to strengthening the awareness of freedom.
Revise cultural property protection law - strengthen property rights
We Free Democrats want a repeal of those parts of the Cultural Property Protection Act (KGSG) that do not concern illegally removed cultural property.
An acquisition fund must be set up for the purchase of important works of art by the public sector.
Illegal trade in cultural property must be effectively combated.
Customs and police must be enabled to do this.
We reject any unnecessary state intervention in property rights.
The regulations on the "protection of national cultural property from emigration" massively interfere with the property rights of private collectors as well as with the entrepreneurial freedom of art and auction houses.
Only in this way can a free fluctuation of artworks and a free cultural exchange be made possible.
The fight against illegal trade in cultural property is not ailing because of legal regulations, but because of a lack of capacity on the part of the responsible authorities.
Strengthen foreign cultural policy
We Free Democrats want to strengthen Germany's foreign cultural policy as Germany's flagship in the world.
The work of intermediary organizations such as the Goethe-Institut and the Institut für Auslandsbeziehungen should be further promoted
and expanded with a view to digital offerings.
At the same time, we support the voluntary cooperation of the national cultural institutes of the EU member states in third countries.
The European External Action Service should establish a working unit for international cultural relations.
"Establish "European Heritage Trust
We Free Democrats want to see the establishment of an EU-wide cultural fund modeled on the "National Trust Europe" in Great Britain to protect Europe's cultural heritage.
As an umbrella organization, this fund is intended to promote the establishment and further development of organizations committed to the protection of historical monuments and to network them with each other throughout the EU.
The long-term goal of the "European Heritage Trust" is to create an institution that is largely self-financing through membership fees, income from admissions and commercial operations.
Copyright: Ensuring a fair balance of interests and fundamental rights on the Internet
We Free Democrats want a modern copyright law.
However, the current copyright law lags behind social and technological developments and slows down innovations.
We Free Democrats want to further develop copyright law along the lines of the American "fair use" principle in a moderate manner and, to this end, replace the current copyright restrictions with a de minimis clause for private uses that have no economic consequences and - like many now commonplace uses such as memes and remixes - do not pursue any commercial interests.
We want to abolish the ancillary copyright for press publishers.
The relationship between artistic freedom and the protection of intellectual property must be rethought in the digital age and
at the same time protect the author of a work in his or her economic and non-material rights.
This is a basic prerequisite for a vibrant cultural and creative economy.
However, we continue to reject the use of upload filters as an immense danger to freedom of expression and art on the Internet.
We are also committed to ensuring that government information can no longer be withheld from the public with reference to copyright law, as a kind of secret protection through the back door.
The opportunities have never been greater: Let's meet the great challenges of our time!
Things must not remain as they are: Only a free democratic, economically strong and modern state will be able to master the major global challenges such as climate change, pandemics, terrorism, trade conflicts and migration together with our international partners.
Let us rely on the ability of a strong European Union to act,
on a unified German foreign, security and development policy, on
innovation instead of prohibitions, on
technology instead of ideology,
on inventiveness instead of bureaucracy:
We will also overcome climate change with German courage, not with German fear!
We solve the challenges of demographic change through up-to-date immigration law, a pension policy that is fit for purpose, and more opportunities for all citizens to build property and prosperity.
Climate and environmental protection through innovation
Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time.
But if we tackle it right, it can also become one of our greatest opportunities.
We need research, science, innovations and the many bright ideas of people.
New technologies lead to being able to convert energy affordably and protect the climate at the same time.
We also rely on the creativity of the many to solve complex environmental problems
and the competition for the best ideas.
Extend emissions trading to all emissions as quickly as possible
We Free Democrats want to extend EU emissions trading (EU ETS) to all sectors and geographically as quickly as possible.
Politics dictates how much CO2 may be emitted per year.
Certificates must be purchased for the emissions, which are becoming fewer and thus more expensive every year.
On the other hand, those who save a particularly large amount of CO2 must buy fewer certificates and save money, and those who store CO2 must receive money in return.
In this way, we create incentives for investment in climate-friendly technologies.
We are expressly committed to the Paris Agreement target of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius.
Germany and Europe have committed to climate neutrality by 2050.
We can reliably achieve this goal through a strict and annually decreasing CO2 limit in a comprehensive emissions trading system.
However, it should be evaluated regularly on the basis of new scientific findings in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's Assessment Reports.
Should climate neutrality in the EU be targeted earlier in the process, emissions trading can continue to guarantee target achievement by adjusting the reduction path.
In doing so, we also commit to the 13th Sustainable Development Goal of the United Nations' 2030 Agenda.
We leave the way there to the inventive spirit of engineers, technicians and scientists.
This is how we can safely achieve climate protection in a market-based and scientific manner.
The path can and must start in Germany and Europe, but it will not be complete until all emissions worldwide have a uniform market-based CO2 price.
Ensure fair competition through uniform CO2 price - prevent carbon leakage
We Free Democrats want to protect German companies from distortions of competition caused by climate policy measures.
The goal must be an internationally coordinated approach to climate protection beyond European emissions trading (EU ETS), with a uniform CO2 price for all.
As an interim solution until a global CO2 certificate trading system is in place, we support the EU in introducing a WTO-compliant further development of "carbon leakage" protection based on the EU ETS.
In this way, we prevent emissions-intensive industries from moving abroad
and give other countries a direct incentive to follow suit in terms of CO2 pricing.
Only in this way can a genuine competition for innovations for more climate protection succeed.
After all, climate protection is not helped if CO2-intensive production processes are relocated to regions with lower requirements outside Germany and Europe and the products are then imported.
From the point of view of the Free Democrats, the inclusion of partners in European emissions trading systems is preferable in any case.
Crediting international measures - implementing climate protection efficiently
We Free Democrats want to take advantage of the opportunity to fund projects in other countries
and count the corresponding greenhouse gas reductions toward our own targets.
Article 6 of the Paris Agreement explicitly provides that.
Double counting is thereby excluded and Article 6 serves to achieve more together.
So far, however, the EU has voluntarily refrained from using this option.
Since it is irrelevant for the climate at which point CO2 is saved, we want to open up the possibility in the future for higher targets to be achieved in the sense of an economically efficient climate policy also via measures in accordance with Article 6 of the Paris Agreement.
Getting climate protection right - introducing social compensation
We Free Democrats want to introduce a climate dividend
and drastically reduce energy taxation.
Thus, the social costs of climate protection must also be mitigated.
Since the continuous shortage of certificates will lead to rising prices on the one hand and higher government revenues on the other, we want to abolish the EEG levy (Renewable Energy Sources Act)
and reduce the electricity tax, which is levied irrespective of the type of generation and thus the environmental impact, to the lowest rate possible under current EU law and abolish it completely as soon as possible.
In addition, we want to ensure revenue neutrality by repaying an annual lump sum, i.e. a climate dividend, to every citizen.
More forest worldwide for climate protection
We Free Democrats want more reforestation and the protection of existing forests, both nationally and internationally.
Globally, we need to preserve valuable forest ecosystems and peatlands.
To do this, we need to create international incentives - for example, by rewarding the long-term sequestration of CO2 through the emissions trading system.
Forests and peatlands are custodians of biodiversity and effective carbon stores.
In addition to emissions reductions, reforestation, including of mangroves, and peatland rewetting are currently available and affordable means of winning the race against planetary warming.
Attention must be paid to the long-term security of corresponding projects, so that trees can grow, for example, and do not disappear again within a few years.
More forests and peatlands also mean better living, nutrition and income opportunities - both worldwide for millions of people in developing countries and in Germany and Europe.
Just as important as forests on land are the algal forests, seagrass beds, and phytoplankton of the oceans to store carbon from the atmosphere and provide oxygen.
A healthy marine flora thus not only makes an important contribution to the health of the ocean ecosystem,
but also to sustainable climate protection.
That is why we need to give special protection to marine flora.
Environmental policy as a driver of innovation
We Free Democrats want ideology-free environmental legislation
and the promotion of a vibrant, innovative start-up culture.
Inventive talent must be given opportunities to develop so that everyone can benefit from the ideas and unusual ideas can be brought to market.
These are then allowed to prove themselves in market-based competition.
We therefore also support all innovations in breeding, crop protection, digitalization and other areas that help to minimize the burden on the environment through their use.
Alternative fuels - climate protection through innovation
We Free Democrats want more alternative fuels.
Certification must be simplified.
Germany can only achieve the agreed climate targets by 2030 if fuels also make their contribution.
Climate-friendly synthetic fuels are an alternative already available today for all modes of transport that can be used in conventional combustion engines without technical conversion.
Storage technologies as the key to a climate-neutral energy industry
We Free Democrats want to drive forward the expansion of storage facilities.
This is because electricity storage systems, in particular, are a prerequisite for the success of the energy transition.
We therefore want to legally define storage facilities as an independent pillar of the energy system alongside producers, grids and consumers
, and exempt them from levies and surcharges for cost-effective operation.
Enable geoengineering - create a carbon cycle economy and sequestration act.
We Free Democrats want to enable geoengineering to minimize risks from climate change and create new opportunities.
Measures that fall under the broad term geo-engineering are subject to strict regulation in Germany.
We are not concerned with the direct influence on our climate, for example through "solar radiation management," but rather with the targeted use of biomass to store CO2.
We want to break down hostility to technology.
We see a great opportunity for climate protection in carbon capture and storage and carbon dioxide removal (CCS and CDR) technologies, which directly remove CO2 from the atmosphere.
This requires its own law.
For us, the following applies: Anyone who removes CO2 from the atmosphere and binds it in the future must receive a European CO2 certificate for each ton of CO2 bound.
This must then be freely tradable on the market like any other certificate, without increasing the total quantity of certificates issued each year.
To promote CDR, we want to add a 5 percent target for negative emission technologies to the EU's 55 percent target.
Through early exploration and development of potential CO2 storage sites, the prerequisites are to be created to enable climate neutrality in the EU even before 2050, if this is necessary on the basis of new scientific findings.
The use of negative emission technologies should not compromise the greenhouse gas reduction targets, but rather make an additional contribution to climate protection.
Air quality: Smart solutions instead of driving bans
We Free Democrats are focusing on innovative local solutions to improve air quality: improving public transportation, including on-demand transport, and intelligent traffic routing to avoid congestion.
By allowing synthetic fuels ("e-fuels"), we can also improve air quality in existing fleets.
We reject driving bans because they lead to bypass traffic and thus to greater climate and air pollution.
Species protection in our country and worldwide
We Free Democrats want to prevent species extinction as best we can.
The preservation of biodiversity is a human task and an ethical obligation.
It makes ecological, economic and medical sense and is necessary at the same time.
Countless important achievements, for example in technology and medicine, come from nature.
In addition, invasive neophytes are a threat to ecosystems and humans that is increasing due to globalization.
We must effectively protect our ecosystems from the invasion of these alien species in order to preserve native biodiversity.
Zoonoses - prevention through exchange and compulsory registration
We Free Democrats want to train human and veterinary doctors and keepers of wild animals to deal with zoonoses.
By making registration mandatory, animal owners are to be informed quickly and easily in the event of an infection.
The "One Health" approach, which involves exchange and collaboration between actors in human medicine, veterinary medicine and environmental sciences, can make a key contribution to prevention.
Clean water
We want to ensure that our groundwater resources are managed carefully and remain clean.
We also advocate for wetlands as well as intact water bodies because of their importance to municipal water supplies, our health, and biodiversity.
Therefore, inputs, for example residues from agriculture, industry, mining as well as pharmaceuticals, must always be reduced where a hazard exists.
The polluter pays principle applies.
Marine protection as a task for the future
We Free Democrats want to expand marine research
and stand for a sustainable maritime policy that reconciles economic use, environmental protection and safety.
Germany must expand its pioneering role internationally.
We therefore want to work at the European and international level to expand protection of the Arctic.
For us, maritime policy is a task for the future.
The ocean not only provides oxygen, resources and energy, but is also an important climate regulator.
The consequences of climate change and overfishing, as well as marine pollution (including plastic waste, chemicals, several million tons of munitions waste, other warfare agents and waste oil) and piracy, pose a threat to the largest habitat on Earth.
Together with the European partners, the pollutants are to be recovered or rendered harmless in a timely manner.
To remedy the situation, existing concepts must be implemented with determination and innovative solutions developed.
Tackling these challenges decisively not only creates an environment worth living in,
but also holds tangible economic potential for our coastal regions - for example, by attracting innovative companies from the maritime sector.
Sustainable and strong European Union
Europe must be ready to meet the great challenges of our time - the consequences of the corona pandemic, climate change, terrorism and migration.
We Free Democrats want a strong EU in terms of foreign policy, which protects its values, interests and sovereignty
and opposes autocratic striving for power.
With bold reforms of its tasks, working methods and institutions, we want to make the EU democratically and economically strong internally and capable of acting externally.
This is how the EU becomes a true global player.
Using the Future Conference for New Momentum in Europe
We Free Democrats support the conference on the future of Europe.
This political body will bring together all European institutions in a one-year process to discuss priorities for the EU with citizens from all member states.
We want the conference to focus on key policy areas that are relevant to our common future in the long term.
For this, guidelines, goals and priorities must be defined.
For us, it is about making the EU more robust in dealing with pandemics, developing Europe as a continent of opportunity and mobilizing it as a driver of progress.
We also want to reform the EU institutionally to bring it closer to its citizens and make it more effective.
This includes contract amendments.
These must then be implemented appropriately by the member states and by the EU institutions.
For a common constitution of the European Union as a federal state
We Free Democrats want to convene a constitutional convention after the conclusion of the conference on the future of Europe.
This convention was to give a decentralized and federally structured Union a legally binding constitution with a catalog of fundamental rights and strong institutions.
The citizens of the EU are to decide on the new European Constitution in a joint European referendum, thus creating the basis for a federal and decentralized European federal state.
This path is the declared counter-model to Europe's relapse into small nation-states on the one hand or the creation of a centralized European superstate on the other.
Until then, we want European integration to be deepened in parallel by a "multi-speed Europe".
For a strong EU Parliament and more transparency
We Free Democrats call for institutional reforms for more transparency and efficiency in the EU.
The European Parliament is to be elected according to a uniform electoral law with cross-state lists and top candidates.
It must be upgraded to a full parliament with the right of initiative.
The European Parliament should have a fixed meeting place and be able to decide itself on its seat.
The President of the Commission will be the top candidate who wins a majority of votes in the EU Parliament.
Parliament may, by a majority of its members, vote a vote of no confidence in him or her and elect another person as President of the Commission.
The right to propose the other Commissioners lies with the President of the Commission, and Parliament must confirm the proposals individually.
The EU Commission should be reduced to a maximum of 18 commissioners.
In this regard, clear and easily attributable portfolios must be assigned that correspond to EU responsibilities.
The Council of the European Union and its subgroups shall meet in public.
Aiming for Open Strategic Sovereignty of the EU
We Free Democrats support the European Union's goal of achieving greater strategic sovereignty.
For us, this means first and foremost the ability to act independently.
Equipped with the necessary means, the EU could better assert its own interests and values in the future
and become less dependent and vulnerable in important areas such as energy supply, raw material imports and digital technology.
The EU must use its own strengths more strategically in trade and development policy
and develop its own military capabilities in the Common Security and Defense Policy (CSDP).
This is not in contradiction to the transatlantic partnership and NATO, but increases the weight of the EU to contribute to the liberal world order as a partner at eye level.
However, the desire for strategic sovereignty must not lead to protectionism.
nor lead to self-isolation.
Genuine common foreign and security policy in Europe
We Free Democrats want an EU Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) worthy of the name.
The European Union must be able to act more quickly on the international stage
and speak with one voice to the outside world.
We therefore demand that unanimity in the EU Council of Ministers be changed to qualified majority voting.
The High Representative of the EU for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy must be strengthened in such a way that he or she can act in the future as a fully-fledged "EU Foreign Minister".
For a European Army
We Free Democrats want to see the establishment of a European army under joint supreme command and parliamentary control.
To this end, we are striving for progressively closer integration and the development of joint capabilities of the armed forces of the EU member states willing to integrate.
The aim is to create a European Defense Union as an intermediate step towards a future European army.
To this end, we want to accelerate the expansion of the European Defense Union to date.
Thus, European command structures and a joint military headquarters, as well as training facilities such as a European Security Academy, must be created.
We want to intensify exchanges between European armed forces through an Erasmus+ program for servicemen and women of all ranks.
In all of these steps, we take care to further strengthen interoperability with NATO forces and instruments.
New partnership with the United Kingdom
We Free Democrats welcome the fact that a hard Brexit has not come about.
However, the agreements on trade, cooperation in civil nuclear energy and information security will only form the basis for a viable future partnership if the agreed rules are adhered to.
In particular, we will ensure that the UK side complies with its obligations to maintain comparable regulatory standards and not to create unfair competitive conditions.
We also demand that the United Kingdom respects the rights of citizens on both sides of the Channel
and to protect peace on the island of Ireland through the full implementation of the Withdrawal Agreement.
The European Parliament, as the representative of the citizens of Europe, must be involved in any further development of the Treaties.
We Free Democrats would like to see close foreign policy cooperation with the United Kingdom
and a new arrangement for the exchange of pupils and students along the lines of "Erasmus+" as soon as possible.
We want to keep the door open for a second accession in case a new British generation reconsiders Brexit and its detrimental consequences for both sides.
End EU accession negotiations with Turkey and create a new relationship between Turkey and the EU
We Free Democrats recognize the special role of relations between Germany and the EU with Turkey.
Both Turkey's geographical location and the large community of Turkish origin in Europe oblige us to make a new start in our relationship with Turkey.
We want to end the EU accession negotiations with Turkey in their present form
and place relations on a new basis of close security and economic cooperation.
For us Free Democrats, a Turkey ruled in an authoritarian manner by President Erdogan cannot be a candidate for membership in the EU.
The basis for these are and remain the Copenhagen Criteria.
In particular, the conditions required therein for a functioning constitutional state
and respect for human rights are not being fulfilled by Turkey, as the increase in arbitrary charges against German human rights activists and journalists shows.
As a NATO member and a neighbor closely linked to the EU, Turkey is and will remain an indispensable partner, which is why we are working hard to reduce security tensions in the alliance.
There will be a Turkey after President Erdogan.
Even today, economic, scientific and civil society relations with Turkey must form the basis for this moment.
For a common and innovative EU external energy policy
We Free Democrats want a common EU external energy policy.
The aim is to enable the EU to diversify its energy sources and reduce its dependence on individual suppliers.
The commissioning of the "Nord Stream 2" pipeline must be decided jointly in the EU and in accordance with EU trade rules
and applicable sanctions against Russia.
Ukraine's interests as a transit country for energy must also be taken into account.
We call for a moratorium on further construction of Nord Stream 2 until the Russian leadership ensures independent and comprehensive investigations into the Nawalny case and the human rights situation improves.
With Russia, too, the focus of our cooperation should be on renewable energies, hydrogen and synthetic fuels.
To guarantee continued security of supply, EU member states will continue to rely on energy imports.
In view of this dependence, energy policy is always also foreign and security policy.
It is therefore essential that the EU member states adopt a common stance with regard to external sources of supply.
New Rule of Law Mechanism in the EU
We Free Democrats call for an effective rule of law mechanism in the EU.
Political control among member states under Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union has not proved effective.
For us Free Democrats, it is clear that countries that trample on the fundamental values of the EU should not be allowed to draw on EU funds with full hands.
Therefore, the new regulation on rule of law conditionality for EU structural funds of December 2020 should be improved and a sanction of such violations by the Commission should be sufficient for the withdrawal of funds.
However, we want to support civil society organizations directly.
Clear rules
A stable euro is a prerequisite for growth and prosperity in Europe.
In everyday life, it brings many benefits to citizens and our economy.
To make the monetary union crisis-proof for the future, the euro countries must learn the lessons of past crises.
We Free Democrats are therefore committed to stability, personal responsibility and clear rules that are, above all, adhered to.
Lessons from the Wirecard scandal: BaFin needs to be reorganized
We Free Democrats want to better regulate and reorganize the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin).
The Wirecard case has revealed glaring enforcement deficits.
Even the best regulation cannot prevent the most serious damage if it is not enforced.
In addition, regulation must always be adapted to new business models.
The requirements that have led to companies such as Wirecard not falling fully under BaFin's supervision must be reformed.
With the market entry of BigTechs as well as other payment service providers, a new level of digitalization has entered the financial industry.
That is why we want to develop BaFin into a more effective, powerful financial regulator and thus regain confidence in Germany as a financial center.
Divestment of state shareholdings in the banking sector
We Free Democrats demand that the federal and state governments withdraw completely from the banking markets once the Corona crisis has been overcome.
The state must divest itself of stakes in competing banks such as Commerzbank or the Landesbanken.
We are committed to a high-performance European banking market characterized by competition and diversity of business models.
It is the task of policymakers to set good and crisis-proof framework conditions at the European level.
With the Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW) and the development banks of the federal states - which exist in addition to the state banks - there are sufficient options available for economic policy.
Good and strong rules in banking supervision
We Free Democrats stand for modern banking regulation and supervision that effectively and efficiently protects private creditors of banks, prevents systemic crises, and ensures a level playing field for market participants.
Regulation and supervision should follow the principle of risk orientation.
Different business models should be taken into account and competitive neutrality ensured.
Business policy decisions must remain a matter for the banks themselves.
No privileged treatment of government bonds in banking regulation
We Free Democrats want to gradually end the preferential treatment of government bonds in the European regulation of banks and insurance companies and replace it with market-based approaches.
Government bonds must also be backed by equity capital commensurate with the risk.
In addition, we want to extend the large exposure limit, which is designed to prevent cluster risks on bank balance sheets, to government bonds.
Strengthen deposit insurance systems
We Free Democrats want the EU rules on establishing and strengthening national deposit guarantee schemes to be complied with so that risks on banks' balance sheets are reduced where they are incurred.
Otherwise, as long as Europe's banks are not stabilized, savers in countries with more stable banking systems would be the ones to suffer.
We Free Democrats reject the creation of a single European deposit insurance scheme (EDIS).
EDIS would not provide any additional benefit for financial stability, but would jeopardize the particularly proven security systems of the savings banks and Volksbanks in Germany.
Creditor Participation in the Event of Financing Crises of Individual States in the Euro Area
We Free Democrats want to create a procedure for orderly "state insolvencies."
In this way, we want to make private creditors of individual states more accountable.
Before public funds from the European Monetary Fund (EMF) flow to a member of the euro zone, there must be a future participation of the private creditors of this state in the stabilization burdens; at least in the form of a maturity extension of the respective government bonds.
At the same time, such private-sector participation would be the most effective crisis prevention, because a state would then generally not be able to incur unreasonably high debt in the first place.
The EMF and the Financial Stability Board, with their analytical expertise, must also be involved in crisis prevention at an early stage.
European Monetary Fund as watchdog over public finances
We Free Democrats want to transform the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) into a European Monetary Fund (EMF).
It should be responsible for designing macroeconomic adjustment programs and monitoring their implementation in the loan-taking countries.
Similarly, it should be responsible for monitoring the budgetary and economic policies of the program countries.
In this way, we want to depoliticize the monitoring of euro rescue programs.
Reform of the Stability and Growth Pact ("Maastricht 2.0")
We Free Democrats demand that the Stability and Growth Pact (SGP), which was effectively suspended for the duration of the pandemic and in view of the resulting economic consequences, be reinstated in full after the crisis.
For us Free Democrats, limiting budget deficits and public debt levels in individual countries (Maastricht criteria) remains one of the foundations of European fiscal policy.
We also seek to reform the Pact by strengthening sanctions for those countries that persistently violate the principles of public financial management.
For an EU budget without debt and EU taxes
We Free Democrats want to return quickly to a debt-free EU budget.
We reject a debt union.
In the Corona crisis, a one-time temporary debt financing of the EU budget was decided in 2020.
We want this recourse to debt policy to remain unique, as the federal government promised the citizens.
The repeatedly demanded introduction of additional EU taxes is not compatible with the European treaties and is rejected by us.
Overcoming the economic crisis in the EU together
We Free Democrats want a realignment of European cohesion and innovation policy.
We want to make proven instruments such as Horizon 2020 and the European Investment Bank more effective.
European innovation policy should specifically benefit weaker regions in order to overcome inefficient structures there.
The European principle must apply: The success of the strong encourages the weaker to catch up.
For us, joint measures to overcome the worst economic crisis since the Second World War are part of the peace project of European unification.
The economic recovery of all member states must be a central goal of European policy.
Principles of liberal foreign policy
For us Free Democrats, diplomatic engagement for freedom, human rights, democracy, and the rule of law is an indispensable part of a successful and credible foreign policy.
Together with our European partners, we want to work to preserve our liberal way of life in Europe
and to protect peace and
human rights internationally.
Strengthening the rules-based liberal world order is central to this for us.
In order to meet the global challenges of the 21st century, Germany must realign its foreign, security and development policies more strongly than in the past in line with the networked approach.
Strengthen multilateralism
We Free Democrats call for the strengthening of rules-based multilateralism.
We reject the growing tendencies of compartmentalization and protectionism because the challenges of dealing with global public goods (including climate protection or resource distribution), global pandemic control, international interconnectedness, and wealth disparities precisely require multilateral action.
Germany must therefore ensure multilateral cooperation in the long term by providing reliable funding for the specialized agencies of the United Nations.
For a unified German foreign, security and development policy
We Free Democrats call for a unified German foreign, security and development policy.
Germany must make its international actions more strategically and institutionally uniform in order to be able to respond to the complex global challenges and assume greater international responsibility.
We therefore want Germany to implement the networked approach in its international activities to a greater extent than in the past.
To this end, we want to adapt security policy decision-making structures and create the financial prerequisites.
External and internal security threats are increasingly linked.
We therefore call for the establishment of a National Security Council that will enable more forward-looking and rapid planning, decision-making and action in the face of international challenges.
In addition, Germany needs an overall political strategy that defines the goals and priorities of our foreign, defense and development policies.
We Free Democrats also want Germany to invest three percent of its gross domestic product in international security ("3D - defense, development and diplomacy") in the sense of a networked approach, thus fulfilling its NATO commitments,
consolidating its development policy
and strengthening its diplomacy.
We Free Democrats are also committed to significantly improved, earlier and more stringent coordination of German European policy within the federal government.
Strengthening the Community of Democracies
We Free Democrats want to strengthen and further develop existing initiatives for a coalition of democratic governments.
The project of an "Alliance of Democracies" supported by the U.S. administration offers the ideal starting point for this, which we want to take up and underpin organizationally.
In this way, we create a network for free-market democracies worldwide.
Duplicate structures are to be avoided.
Together, we thus want to advocate and strategically coordinate common values worldwide and especially within the United Nations and other international organizations, also and especially in the new system competition with Xi Jinping's China.
Countries like Canada and South Korea, Estonia and Japan, Australia and Portugal are like-minded states despite the geographical distances.
Digitization meets diplomacy
We Free Democrats advocate that Germany send so-called "innovation ambassadors" from the responsible federal ministries to the metropolitan areas of the IT and high-tech industry, following the example of Denmark and France.
We want Germany to actively contribute diplomatically to expanding relations and networks between technology companies and start-ups as well as founders and developers in the Federal Republic and in centers such as Silicon Valley, Taiwan, Tel Aviv, Singapore, Shenzhen and Daejeon.
Protecting liberal democracies against disinformation and influence peddling
We Free Democrats want to enable Europe's liberal democracies to better fend off disinformation, fake news campaigns, propaganda, and manipulation from home and abroad.
Efforts need to be focused
and strengthened, incorporating the latest research findings.
The electoral infrastructure of all EU member states must be significantly better protected as critical infrastructure.
Uniform action must be taken at the European level against covert party financing from abroad.
The EU Commission and the European External Action Service must advise the member states
and prevent the influence of autocratically governed countries on opinion-forming processes and elections in democratic states.
Germany must better protect itself through active diplomacy, a pooling of responsibilities among the relevant intelligence services, and the work of political foundations.
We also need lifelong learning concepts to teach digital and media literacy so that people of all ages can navigate the Internet safely and understand and evaluate content appropriately in context.
Furthermore, German foreign broadcasting in the form of Deutsche Welle must be strengthened.
Reporting and information services must be expanded.
This also includes greater digitization and regionalization of offerings, as well as the development of additional foreign-language programs.
Clear commitment to NATO
We Free Democrats are fully committed to NATO.
After all, NATO is an unrivaled security alliance.
It should also stand as a guarantor of our safety in the future.
We fully support the key decisions of the Wales and Warsaw alliances: strengthening NATO's deterrence and defense posture through funding, capabilities and contributions, accompanied by simultaneous dialogue with Russia.
In addition, we want to develop the Alliance strategically and support the process of developing a new Strategic Concept.
For us, this includes a clear strategy in dealing with the People's Republic of China as well as NATO's cooperation and collaboration with democratic partner states in the Indo-Pacific region.
Modernization of the Bundeswehr - better equipment
We Free Democrats want to increase the operational readiness of the Bundeswehr and pursue a clear modernization course to achieve this.
Some of the armed forces' weapons systems are outdated or only partially operational.
Important procurement projects are delayed or do not materialize at all, and maintenance of existing equipment is neglected.
That has to change.
We want the training and equipment of our soldiers to be brought into line with the missions of the Bundeswehr.
For this reason, the trend reversals initiated to date must also be subjected to a review and the modernization process of the Bundeswehr must be financially secured in the long term.
New impetus for arms control and disarmament
We Free Democrats are committed to the long-term goal of a nuclear-weapon-free world
and to overcoming the ongoing crisis of nuclear disarmament and arms control.
Against the backdrop of a changing security environment, existing nuclear arms control structures are disintegrating.
At the same time, the threat posed by nuclear weapons is on the rise again in international politics.
We therefore want Germany and Europe to be strong drivers in renewing and rethinking the instruments of disarmament and arms control for the 21st century.
We are convinced that we will only be able to prevent new nuclear armament spirals in the long term if we succeed in bringing nuclear weapons states such as China to the negotiating table alongside the nuclear powers USA and Russia.
Arms control agreements for so-called "cyberweapons," the new weapons of mass destruction in the information age, and the "hypersonic glide vehicles" with nuclear warheads that can reach and destroy any place in the world within an hour, must be urgently negotiated.
This is a question of survival for humanity.
Clear stance towards Russia
For us Free Democrats, the principles of international law,
human rights
and the European peace order, to which Russia has also expressly committed itself in the "OSCE Charter of Paris", are not negotiable.
Therefore, we view the current policy of the Russian Federation with great concern.
We Free Democrats call for an immediate end to the violence in eastern Ukraine
and the annexation of Crimea in violation of international law.
We therefore expressly stand by the sanctions imposed by the EU.
In the event of further military escalation in Ukraine, the EU must tighten sanctions, because they are not an end in themselves, but serve to restore the peace order.
In doing so, the EU must speak with one voice.
The sanctions regime can only be relaxed or even lifted if the Minsk Agreement is implemented.
Russia's support for dictators like Alexander Lukashenko or Bashar al-Assad endangers international security, as do Kremlin-directed disinformation campaigns and hacker attacks in Europe.
We strongly criticize the assassination of Boris Nemtsov, targeted poison attacks on opponents of the regime, actions to physically and politically destroy prominent opposition figures such as Alexei Nawalny, the mass imprisonment of peaceful demonstrators, and the systematic restriction of press freedom.
President Vladimir Putin bears direct responsibility for Russia's increasing authoritarian development.
For all its desire for dialogue, the EU must not play down this dangerous development.
Moreover, liberal foreign policy in the tradition of Walter Scheel and Hans-Dietrich Genscher cannot end at the EU's external border: Russia retains close human, cultural and economic ties with Germany and Europe.
We Free Democrats want to keep channels of conversation open, especially with civil rights organizations like Memorial.
We remain committed to the goal of rebuilding trust.
We also want to simplify travel for civil society through visa facilitation.
Before that, however, the Russian government must return to the rule of law and respect for civil rights and international law.
A democratic future for a free Belarus
We Free Democrats stand by the peaceful democratic protests in Belarus, which rightly denounce massive electoral fraud and democratic deficits.
The brutal actions of the Lukashenko regime against these legitimate protests of the Belarusian people are unacceptable.
Arbitrariness and torture prevail in Belarusian prisons.
We call for the immediate release of all political prisoners
and early new elections as a result of a structured dialogue between the opposition and those in power mediated by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE).
The "constitutional referendum" now planned by Lukashenko does not meet this requirement.
We view Russian interference in favor of Lukashenko with concern.
We want to support the democratic opposition in Belarus by increasing the information services of Deutsche Welle and by providing financial support for civil society as well as visa facilitation.
For a revival of the Middle East peace process
We Free Democrats remain committed to the continuation of German and European engagement in the Middle East.
and a revival of the Israeli-Palestinian peace process.
At the same time, Israel's security and right to exist as a Jewish and democratic state remains a reason of state for us and thus the cornerstone of a liberal foreign and security policy.
Israel's right to defend its people and territory against Islamist terrorism is self-evident to us.
We advocate a negotiated two-state solution as the only way so far to guarantee the lasting security of the democratic state of Israel on the one hand
and to enable the creation of a sovereign, democratic and viable state of Palestine on the other.
We therefore view with concern possible moves to annex parts of the West Bank in violation of international law.
This would jeopardize the possibility of achieving and implementing a two-state solution in future negotiations.
At the same time, the clear goal must be to build a future Palestinian state based on democracy and the rule of law.
The lack of democratic legitimacy of the current Palestinian leadership
and the blatant human rights violations are already an obstacle to this.
Regular checks must also be made and appropriate measures taken to ensure that aid payments from Germany and the EU to the Palestinian Authority cannot be misused directly or indirectly to finance violence or terrorism.
Clarity in EU-China relations
We Free Democrats want to further develop EU-China relations in a targeted manner, irrespective of system rivalry, and deepen economic and civil society relations.
However, closer exchanges with China can only take place on the basis of and in compliance with applicable international law and, in particular, the rules of the United Nations, the World Trade Organization (WTO) and the International Labor Organization (ILO).
The agreement reached on the EU-China Investment Agreement (CAI) on December 30, 2020, shortly before the end of the German Council Presidency after years of negotiations, which does not yet regulate investment protection itself, is a first step, although it still does not conclusively settle many important legal issues.
For us Free Democrats, there is therefore still a great need for additions before it can be ratified.
This includes China's unjustified counter-sanctions against European organizations and individuals.
Mutual market access,
legal certainty including the independence of the courts, and the universal validity of human rights are inseparable parts of our multilateral system of values and rules.
Human rights violations
and the lack of the rule of law must not be accepted in silence.
The Chinese state's unprecedented technical surveillance of the population and repression of ethnic and religious minorities are contrary to China's obligations under international law.
By interning and forcibly sterilizing members of ethnic minorities, China exposes itself to accusations of genocide.
All these issues need to be addressed forcefully in the EU-China dialogue.
This is also what China's neighbors expect of us, who are often subject to a policy of active Chinese intimidation.
Against this background, we support the EU's targeted imposition of sanctions against Chinese officials responsible for human rights abuses.
Support democratic Taiwan
We Free Democrats support the democratic and constitutional development in Taiwan as a successful alternative to the authoritarian system of rule in the People's Republic of China.
We support Taiwan's efforts to integrate into international organizations - as far as this can be done below the threshold of state recognition.
We also want Germany and the EU to press ahead with the expansion of economic, scientific and civil society relations.
Unification of China and Taiwan can only be achieved by peaceful consensus.
We strongly condemn the People's Republic of China's threatening military actions against Taiwan.
Together with our European partners and other democracies, led by Australia, Japan, India, and the United States, we want to devise a strategy to dissuade China from threatening to take Taiwan by force and to urge China to stay on the path of diplomacy.
Our long-term goal is for the People's Republic of China and Taiwan to agree, through peaceful dialogue, to allow Taiwan's citizens to decide freely on their political future.
Do not leave Hong Kong alone in the fight for freedom rights
We Free Democrats stand by the courageous citizens of Hong Kong who are standing up for their freedom rights.
We condemn the Chinese leadership's Security Law and their new Hong Kong Election Law because it criminalizes democratic protests in Hong Kong, represses people, and implements China's repressive standards in Hong Kong.
Together with the EU, the UK and the USA, Germany must demand compliance with the Sino-British Declaration of 1984, which enshrines the principle of "one country, two systems".
The National Security Law and the new electoral law not only violated this principle, but also invalidated crucial legal guarantees through massive influence and arbitrary interpretation of vague legal provisions.
In fact, this means the subjugation of Hong Kong by the Chinese Communist Party and the end of the "one country, two systems" principle.
Germany and the EU must react to this breach of international law and impose personal sanctions against those responsible.
Renewing Transatlantic Partnerships
We Free Democrats are convinced transatlanticists and are committed to German-American friendship.
The election of Joe Biden as U.S. president offers a great opportunity to renew transatlantic relations for the coming decade.
We want Germany and the EU to seize this opportunity.
To this end, we Free Democrats want to intensify dialogue with the United States at all levels, deepen transatlantic trade relations toward a transatlantic economic area, and quickly renegotiate the "EU-US Privacy Shield" to find a legally secure solution for transatlantic data traffic.
We also want to strengthen Europe's ability to act as well as NATO's cohesion, thus helping to put the special relationship between Europe and the United States on a footing that takes account of the current geopolitical upheavals.
The same applies to comprehensive relations with NATO partner Canada,
where we want to pass the EU-Canada trade agreement CETA, which has still not been ratified by the Grand Coalition, as quickly as possible.
Reforming the United Nations
We Free Democrats want a strong United Nations (UN) that is capable of taking action and lives up to its global political responsibility for security and peace.
75 years after its founding, the United Nations urgently needs to be reformed.
In particular, the United Nations Security Council must be adapted to the changed world of states in the 21st century.
In the context of UN reform, we also advocate a permanent European seat on the UN Security Council and the expansion of the consensus on the responsibility to protect.
Freedom and human rights worldwide
Universal human rights are the foundation of every liberal and free society and create the basis for democracy, freedom and the rule of law worldwide.
However, it is precisely in times of crisis such as the current Covid 19 pandemic that human rights come under greater international pressure.
We Free Democrats are convinced that the commitment to freedom
and human rights worldwide is more urgent than ever.
We want Germany to lead the way and show leadership in protecting human rights.
For us, human rights are non-negotiable.
Protecting human rights in the digital age
We Free Democrats want to strengthen the protection of human rights in the digital age.
To this end, we want to promote Internet freedom
and digital human rights into new foreign policy priorities.
After all, digitization presents both new opportunities for the protection of human rights and new challenges.
When it comes to expanding human rights protection in the digital age, Germany must take a leading role in Europe and internationally as part of an effective cybersecurity strategy - especially when it comes to the right to privacy, anonymity on the Internet and encryption, as well as the protection of personal data and against mass surveillance.
The protection of privacy also includes the fact that anonymity can be revoked for the purpose of criminal and civil prosecution of personality rights violations.
Women's rights are human rights
We Free Democrats are convinced that women worldwide play a fundamental role in international peacekeeping, dispute resolution and crisis prevention.
We therefore want to strengthen the position of women in crisis and conflict management.
Therefore, we call for a stronger effort in positioning women in key and leadership positions at the UN, the EU and the federal government.
The National Action Plan "Women, Peace, Security" and the corresponding United Nations (UN) Resolution 1325 must be implemented ambitiously.
Crises and conflicts will increase worldwide in the coming years.
Children, the elderly and women are particularly affected in these situations.
Sexualized violence is systematically used as a weapon of war.
We therefore advocate that this form of warfare be outlawed and that States Parties comply with and implement both the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW) and the Istanbul Convention.
Strengthening LGBTI rights
We Free Democrats want Germany to work consistently with EU partners to strengthen LGBTI rights, to
condemn human rights violations against lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgender and intersex people,
and to advocate for the abolition of discriminatory laws.
If punitive measures are taken against LGBTI people, Germany must review its development cooperation in dialogue with non-governmental organizations on the ground, cancel budget support if necessary, and end cooperation with state institutions.
At the United Nations level, we call for a convention on LGBTI rights modeled on the Women's Rights Convention.
Nowhere should homosexual acts and gender identity be criminalized.
In the EU, the German government should work towards Europe-wide protection of LGBTI rights.
Alleged "LGBT-free zones" in Poland and the Europe-wide rise in attacks against LGBTI people are not compatible with European values.
Same-sex marriages contracted within the EU are to be recognized with all rights and obligations.
Promoting human rights due diligence in companies
We Free Democrats believe that companies and consumers should take responsibility for better protecting human rights.
The latter in particular have a major influence on production conditions through their buying power.
At the same time, we want to help ensure that companies have more competitive advantages than disadvantages as a result of respecting human rights.
We therefore advocate a uniform European regulation on human rights due diligence in the supply chain.
We are convinced that only common European standards do justice to the internal market and contribute to a positive and sustainable value chain.
Many German and European companies are already making an important contribution to the gradual improvement of living conditions and the human rights and social situation in developing countries.
However, they have neither the market power nor the personnel to guarantee compliance with human rights along their supply chains worldwide.
To avoid jeopardizing the commitment, supply chain liability should be related only to the area of direct control, without creating new civil liability claims.
We propose a risk-, size-, and sector-specific approach.
We reject the creation of further documentation requirements or unnecessary bureaucratic hurdles.
Human rights-related risks of activities and business relationships are reduced.
Observing social and ecological criteria also promotes investments by responsible entrepreneurs.
Small and medium-sized enterprises in particular should be supported in their involvement in developing countries.
For a development policy of opportunities
Education, participation and an economic perspective are the central foundations for a self-determined life worldwide.
We Free Democrats are therefore committed to a value-oriented development policy that enables opportunities and combats poverty.
In doing so, we focus on quality rather than quantity of the resources used in order to promote democracy,
good governance,
Rule of law
and social market economy in development cooperation.
We will use public development cooperation funds as leverage to mobilize national and international private investment and philanthropic engagement, and to generate government own revenue in developing countries.
Sustainable development and climate protection - finally implementing Agenda 2030
We Free Democrats are committed to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations' Agenda 2030
and the Paris Climate Agreement.
We therefore call for the further development of the German Sustainability Strategy (DNS) along these goals and indicators.
The 17 Sustainable Development Goals are an important contribution to shaping globalization.
We Free Democrats see sustainable development as an opportunity for more freedom for all of us and for future generations.
The global challenges of the 21st century, such as the current Covid 19 pandemic, climate change and environmental degradation, poverty- and war-related refugee movements, failing states and poor governance, call for a more coordinated European and international approach on the one hand and a unified German position on the other.
At present, the ministries are not acting in a coordinated manner, nor is an overall political strategy discernible.
With a modern and innovative development policy, we support our partners in leveraging the opportunities of digitization, automation and urbanization.
Coordinate development cooperation more strongly at European and international level
We Free Democrats are committed to strengthening European and international development cooperation.
We can only achieve the fight against hunger, the promotion of education, the commitment to international climate, species and environmental protection, health care and sexual and reproductive rights together with our European and international partners.
Through stronger cooperation and coordination with our European and international partners, we want to create additional synergies and significantly increase the impact of international development cooperation.
The Covid 19 pandemic, which has caused massive social and economic losses, particularly in developing and emerging countries, requires special efforts.
In addition to promoting growth and employment, all development and reconstruction measures must also be linked to strengthening economic, social and ecological resilience in the partner countries.
To this end, we also want to strengthen multilateral support for the least developed countries (LDCs) and make 0.2 percent of gross domestic product available by 2030 at the latest, primarily for multilateral initiatives.
Establish European Development Bank
We Free Democrats advocate the creation of a European Development Bank under the umbrella of the European Investment Bank (EIB).
In view of current and future challenges, European development policy must become more powerful in order to be able to defend liberal values worldwide.
To achieve this, the development cooperation of the EU and its member states must be better coordinated.
The EIB provides the appropriate framework for this.
A European Development Bank that focuses on democracy, market economy and rule of law and increases the mobilization of private capital can be part of a common European response to China's Belt and Road Initiative so that developing countries do not become dependent on the autocratic regime in Beijing.
For a European coordinated Africa policy
We Free Democrats call for an Africa policy that is coordinated at European level and between the European member states.
We want to work in partnership with African countries to help them strengthen their economies, politics, civil societies and, where necessary, their security forces.
In this way, we not only want to live up to Europe's historical responsibility,
but also promote Africa's integration into regional and global economic cycles.
This also takes account of the fact that sub-Saharan Africa in particular is increasingly becoming a genuine economic partner for Germany and Europe.
We also want to create incentives for good governance.
Freedom to shape one's own life, participation rights and good governance are basic prerequisites for growth and development.
We welcome the fact that the EU's Economic Partnership Agreements with regional groups of ACP countries (Organization of African, Caribbean and Pacific States) place EU-Africa trade relations on a WTO-compliant legal basis and offer all African countries facilitated and preferential market access.
The goal must nevertheless be full access to the EU's internal market and the dismantling of protectionist measures.
Market-distorting EU subsidies, particularly in the agricultural sector, must not be allowed to undermine the development of competitive markets in Africa.
The EU must promote regional economic integration within Africa.
and provide greater support for sustainable local value creation.
Therefore, we want to actively support the African Union in the realization of the Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA).
Immigration and flight
Germany is a country of immigration.
Like all classic immigration countries, it therefore needs clear rules for immigration according to its own interests, bundled in an immigration code.
At the same time, humanitarian obligations to those in need of protection must be met.
We want to combine humanity and order.
We Free Democrats want to create a one-stop immigration law in the form of a coherent immigration code.
Control immigration into the labor market - introduce points system
We Free Democrats want to control immigration into the labor market in a comprehensible and simple way.
To this end, we call for a modern two-pillar system.
This consists of a revised "Blue Card" as the core instrument for skilled labor immigration with a job offer, which must also be opened to non-academic skilled workers, and the introduction of an opportunity card for a points system based on the Canadian model to create the possibility for skilled workers to come to Germany to look for work even without a job offer.
Here, control is to take place via criteria such as level of education, knowledge of German or even good English, age, professional experience and the current demand for skilled workers on the labor market.
In the medium term, the opportunity map is to be merged into a European talent pool in order to increase and standardize Europe's attractiveness for qualified professionals and students.
For both pillars, there must be a single common nationwide recognition body for all professions that conducts the examination in a structured and professional manner.
For well-integrated protection seekers, there must be the possibility of a "lane change" into one of the two pillars of immigration into the labor market.
This is because anyone who is in gainful employment or in a qualification phase (for example, training or studying) should not be expelled.
Clearly distinguish between flight and immigration
For us Free Democrats, the fundamental right to asylum for politically persecuted persons is inviolable.
This includes political persecution on religious grounds or on the basis of sexual identity.
We want to distinguish between politically persecuted persons, war refugees and permanent immigrants.
We want to create a separate non-bureaucratic status for refugees of war and civil war - temporary humanitarian protection limited to the duration of the war.
This status is to be granted in a straightforward manner once the person's identity has been established, thereby massively reducing the burden on the asylum system.
As a rule, war refugees are supposed to return to their home country once the war is over.
The competencies of the federal government and the states should be clearly separated.
The federal government should be responsible for all issues of protection status and termination of residence, including deportation, so that the states can concentrate on the task of integration.
An orderly immigration law also includes consistent enforcement of the obligation to leave the country through deportation and the creation of sufficient places in detention pending deportation.
At the same time, particularly vulnerable groups, such as those persecuted on religious grounds or on the basis of sexual identity, need safe procedures and safe accommodation, as well as special legal advice in the case of so-called safe countries of origin, in order to be able to submit applications in due form and time.
Binding distribution of protection seekers
As the core of a further development of the Common European Asylum Policy, we Free Democrats call for a binding distribution of those seeking protection among the EU states, unless they clearly have no prospects of remaining.
Should an agreement not be reached at EU level in the foreseeable future, Germany should lead the way with like-minded states.
States that do not participate in this "coalition of the willing" must expect appropriate cuts in allocations from the EU budget, which will then be used to finance the costs of taking in refugees.
Prevent secondary migration
We Free Democrats want a fixed, eight-year responsibility of the EU member state to which a protection seeker has been assigned.
The transfer back to the responsible EU state must be simplified.
As a rule, those seeking protection should only receive assistance in the responsible EU state.
In doing so, it must be ensured that these assistance services correspond to a minimum European level in all member states.
In this way, we want to further develop the Dublin regulations
and effectively prevent secondary migration.
Allow asylum applications in embassies of EU member states: Visa for humanitarian reasons
We Free Democrats demand that asylum applications can also be submitted abroad at the embassies of EU member states.
It must be possible to get to Europe safely - without a life-threatening journey and the risk of falling into the hands of human traffickers.
A visa on humanitarian grounds should also be issued if it is obvious in the individual case that the applicant's life and limb are in immediate, serious and concrete danger.
To this end, clear regulations should be anchored in European law.
Expand Frontex for External Border and Sea Rescue
We Free Democrats call for a faster expansion of the EU border protection agency Frontex to the envisaged staffing level of 10,000 officers - accompanied by a structural reform and an expansion of control and transparency mechanisms.
Germany must play a greater role in this.
An area without internal borders requires strong external border protection.
In many cases, the member states can no longer do this on their own.
A strong European border management agency to support them in this is thus in the interest of all member states and especially in Germany's interest.
Frontex should also take over sea rescue in order to finally end the cruel deaths in the Mediterranean.
This is a government function.
As long as this is not guaranteed, private entities that take on this task must not be hindered.
The "pushbacks" carried out with the involvement of Frontex, i.e. the illegal pushing back of migrants, must be taken very seriously.
We advocate for the investigation of such incidents and for stronger mechanisms to prevent human rights violations.
In this way, we strengthen European border protection,
improve sea rescue
and ensure that human rights are respected at the EU's external borders.
Guiding principle Basic law
We Free Democrats call for an integration policy model.
This comprises the Basic Law with its catalog of fundamental rights,
is independent of religion
and reflects social diversity in unity.
It is intended to emphasize the principles of openness to the world, tolerance and personal responsibility as the basis of integration and to make them understandable from the history of the Federal Republic of Germany.
Language and integration courses must therefore be offered nationwide and free of charge from day one, but they must also be accepted.
The goal of integration courses must be, above all, to teach respect for our legal system and democracy,
especially equality between women and men,
acceptance of different sexual orientations and gender identities,
and tolerance of all forms of belief and non-belief.
Demand and promote integration
We Free Democrats want an integration policy that welcomes diversity and therefore invites immigrants to become part of our society, but also requires them to make their own integration effort.
We want to use the opportunities of immigration for Germany, because our country is dependent on immigration.
Integration is the key to immigrants becoming a part of our society and contributing to its success.
That is why we want to promote integration: through offers to learn our language and our social order, integration mentors based on the Canadian model and additional integration measures aimed specifically at women, children and senior citizens, but also at particularly vulnerable groups.
Bureaucratic hurdles in the immigration and integration process and in taking up employment, such as the priority check or the waiting period for asylum seekers, must be removed.
and partnerships with countries of origin.
Local recruitment strategies are to be developed with selected partner countries, for example with language courses and preparatory courses for life in Germany.
For a liberal citizenship law
We Free Democrats understand the granting of German citizenship as the result and goal of successful integration into German society.
Therefore, clear criteria must be met for the granting of citizenship.
It is valuable for coexistence in Germany, a country of immigration, if people who were born in Germany or will spend their entire lives in Germany also become a legal part of the nation through naturalization.
German citizenship law should in principle also permit multiple nationality in the case of naturalization.
Starting with the grandchild generation of first-time naturalized citizens, people should then be required to choose a nationality, unless there are legal or economic disadvantages associated with giving up the second nationality, they cannot renounce it, or it is the nationality of an EU member state.
We also demand simplified access to German citizenship for immigrants after a total of four years.
A settlement permit is to be granted after only three years if the applicant has lived in Germany without a criminal record during this time with a valid residence title and can prove that he or she has language skills and can fully cover the living expenses, including those of the family.
The acquisition of German citizenship should be possible regardless of the immigration route, if in addition a naturalization test is passed and a commitment to the legal system of our Basic Law is made.
The revocation of dual nationality must not be a means of danger prevention or punishment.
Otherwise, citizens with an additional nationality would only be second-class citizens.
For all new citizens, we want naturalization ceremonies to be held throughout the country using the symbols of the Federal Republic.
For a holistic energy system
We Free Democrats want the energy transition to be more innovative, open to new technologies, international, and viewed as an overall system.
Because it's not just about electricity, it's also about heating and cooling for buildings, industrial processes, and fuels for transportation.
We will not achieve the climate protection targets by relying only on direct electrification based on renewable electricity in Germany.
Our goal is a cost-efficient, secure and globally networked overall European "energy supply" system.
We want an energy policy based on science, innovation, competition and high social acceptance.
Making energy affordable - abolishing the EEG levy
We Free Democrats want to comprehensively reform the apportionments, taxes and levies on energy.
This is because Germany currently has the highest electricity prices in Europe for almost all consumer groups.
To this end, we want to reduce the electricity tax to the EU minimum.
We want to gradually abolish the EEG levy (Renewable Energy Sources Act) by financing past subsidy commitments as far as possible from the revenues of the CO2 price and not creating any new subsidies.
Expanding renewable energies in a market economy
We Free Democrats want to make renewable energies fully competitive
and end subsidies under the Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG).
We reject legally prescribed expansion paths for individual technologies and state-guaranteed purchase prices.
German electricity customers have already supported the expansion of renewable energies with more than 200 billion euros.
Today, they account for around half of the electricity generated in Germany and will be able to assume more system responsibility in the future.
A rising CO2 price will further make fossil energy unattractive and lead to a more demand-driven expansion of renewables.
We also want to simplify the self-supply of renewable electricity and the market-based use of electricity from old plants that fall out of the 20-year EEG subsidy.
Securing energy supply - regular stress test
We Free Democrats want regular monitoring (stress tests) for energy supply security and to establish clear criteria for this by law.
Because the safe and reliable supply of electricity, heating, cooling and fuel at any time and in any place is our priority.
It must not be jeopardized by climate and energy policy measures.
Coal and nuclear phase-out and the increasing feed-in from time- and weather-dependent fluctuating wind and solar energy pose enormous challenges to our energy system.
Flexible generation and storage technologies can make an important contribution to meeting these challenges.
More speed with hydrogen
We Free Democrats want to establish hydrogen and synthetic fuels alongside electricity as the second pillar of the future energy system
and drive the ramp-up of the hydrogen economy as quickly as possible.
CO2-neutral hydrogen and synthetic fuels can replace fossil fuels in industry, power cars, ships and aircraft, and heat buildings.
The volatile electricity from the sun and wind can be stored and transported over long distances by generating hydrogen using electrolysis.
For the ramp-up, we rely not only on green hydrogen from renewable energies but also on CO2-neutral "blue" and "turquoise" hydrogen from natural gas, during the production of which the carbon contained can be stored.
The prerequisite for this is that the escape of methane ("methane leakage") during extraction and transport of the natural gas for conversion can be ruled out or, where this is not 100 percent possible, compensated for accordingly.
This is the only way we can achieve large volumes at affordable prices in the short term.
In order to ensure the production of energy sources at reasonable costs, investments must be made in plants worldwide.
Photovoltaic or wind power plants at suitable locations in conjunction with connected infrastructure for the production of energy sources that can be easily stored and transported can make a major contribution to this.
European Hydrogen Union
We Free Democrats want to advance the establishment of a European Hydrogen Union.
This is because Germany currently imports around 70 percent of its energy requirements and, despite all its efforts on the domestic market, will continue to be dependent on imports of energy sources in the future.
Therefore, we must now create a European strategy for importing climate-neutral gases and fuels.
In addition to the early establishment of international partnerships,
part of this strategy must also be to implement the necessary import infrastructure.
A European Hydrogen Union combines climate protection with a sustainable industry and a secure energy supply.
Hydrogen projects, for example from solar energy at low-cost production sites in southern Europe, can help to mitigate economic imbalances within the EU.
For a digital energy transition
We Free Democrats want to speed up the digitization of the energy transition in Germany and make it less bureaucratic.
After all, improving energy efficiency, making consumption and tariffs more flexible, and ensuring system and supply security can only succeed through consistent digitization.
Smart applications can help to further drive the transformation from a centralized to a decentralized energy supply.
We want to simplify the rollout of intelligent metering systems ("smart meters") - as a prerequisite for "smart grids" and for automation through artificial intelligence.
In this context, IT and data security must be a cornerstone for protecting this critical infrastructure.
New opportunities and innovations may arise from increasingly data-driven business models.
Digitization also offers enormous potential for energy efficiency in the private sector - for example, in heat and lighting control and autonomous driving.
Reduce bureaucracy in energy law - remove unnecessary brakes
We Free Democrats want to reduce bureaucracy in energy law, which is now almost impossible to keep track of and increasingly difficult to monitor in parliament
and streamline planning and approval procedures
and digitize.
By reducing bureaucracy, we not only want to create more resources for innovation and growth in companies,
but also see it as urgently needed from a democratic perspective.
Faster procedures facilitate the market-driven expansion of renewable energies
and the rapid implementation of the electricity, heat and gas grids required for this.
Strengthening acceptance of the energy transition
We Free Democrats want to strengthen local acceptance of the energy transition through early public participation, a smart balance with residents, and transparent procedures based on the rule of law.
This is because support for the expansion of renewable energies as well as grids is fundamentally high and more and more companies also want to rely on renewable energies.
For a sustainable energy transition, it is essential to
consider the interests of all stakeholders.
In this way, legal certainty can be ensured for projects once they have been approved, in addition to acceptance.
Agriculture, forestry, angling, fishing and hunting
Germany needs a future-oriented agriculture that pays off.
We Free Democrats want to increase farmers' opportunities for economic success.
We therefore advocate digital advances in agriculture and want to enable self-responsible risk provisioning against increasing weather risks.
Strengthen the independence of agriculture
We Free Democrats want to make farmers independent of agricultural payments and relieve them of excessive bureaucracy.
European agricultural policy needs an update.
We want to move away from area-based direct payments and toward more future-proof investment support and research.
We want uniform competition standards in the EU
and call for the gradual dismantling of EU agricultural subsidies.
We want to reform cooperative law.
Only with fair competitive conditions for all in the common internal market can we prevent the migration of agricultural production and food processing abroad.
Globally, too, we are committed to competition with fair framework conditions.
That's why we want the World Trade Organization to work to place greater emphasis on a market economy and less bureaucracy, so that farmers around the world can operate competitively independently of government subsidies.
In the case of agricultural products, we need market-based pricing along the entire value chain from the field to the retail store.
The progressive concentration of market power is damaging competition.
We also want to dismantle trade barriers for farmers and winegrowers.
Protection offensive for multifunctional forest management
We Free Democrats promote the concept of multifunctional forestry with its species-rich forests.
In sustainable forest management, economy and ecology go hand in hand.
With a forest protection offensive, we want to push the salvage of damaged wood, pest control and rapid reforestation with climate-sensitive and site-appropriate tree species within the framework of scientific knowledge.
Set-aside areas should be pushed in uneconomic areas.
We want to reward the public services provided by forests in a market-oriented manner.
Support instruments should in principle also be available for forestry.
We want to strengthen forestry associations and thus also small private forests.
Wood is the most important renewable raw material in Germany.
We want to expand research for its use in this area.
The forest has a variety of functions as a living and recreational space, a source of drinking water, a greenhouse gas sink and a supplier of raw materials for a modern and innovative timber industry,
which secures important jobs.
The management of forests must take into account the interests of species and nature conservation.
People perceive forests as pure nature, although we no longer have virgin forests, because all forests are designed by humans.
Adapt agriculture to drought
We Free Democrats want to make it easier for agriculture and forestry to adapt to climate change.
To this end, we focus on helping people to help themselves.
We want to make it possible for agricultural and forestry businesses to use tax-exempt risk equalization reserves in good years to better provide for droughts and other consequences of climate change.
In this way, they become less dependent on government emergency programs.
In addition, we want a paradigm shift in hydraulic engineering to keep adequate water supplies available for plant growth in the future.
To this end, we will develop a National Action Plan for Water Bodies and Water Management.
We want to ensure the availability of effective and modern crop protection products throughout Europe.
We reject national unilateral action in this regard.
Europe-wide animal welfare label for transparency and responsible husbandry
We Free Democrats advocate responsible husbandry of farm animals.
In doing so, we rely on constitutional controls and effective modernization steps in animal husbandry, which small and medium-sized farms can also follow.
Farming conditions must be clearly recognizable so that consumers can also take responsibility when buying animal products.
To ensure this, we advocate a simple, transparent and mandatory animal welfare label throughout the European Union and, in the medium term, uniform animal welfare standards across Europe.
Animal welfare and protection are a matter of course for us.
For us, animal welfare is not a question of barn size, but of the condition of the individual animal.
Animal welfare standards on farms must be checked regularly and at least every five years.
In order for farmers to be able to plan investment decisions for more animal welfare, they also need reliable framework conditions.
Contradictions between competing areas of law, such as between animal welfare and immission control, must be resolved.
We want to gradually overcome the outdated tethering system.
Information and innovation against food waste
We Free Democrats want transparent nutritional information
and early nutrition education in daycare centers as well as schools.
In addition, we want to examine for which products the rigid best-before date can be replaced by a dynamic spoilage limit.
Smart packaging and liability relief for food donations can help reduce food waste.
Ensure sustainable use of fish stocks
We Free Democrats want to consistently orient all fisheries to the principles of sustainable development.
Environmental compatibility,
social justice
and economic stability are of absolutely equal importance.
Only in this way can fisheries continue to play their important role in feeding the world.
To do this, we want to limit bottom trawling and adapt fishing techniques to specific species, for example by increasing the mesh size of fishing nets.
Bycatch should be counted against catch quotas.
The successes of the European Fisheries Policy in this area must be safeguarded.
Also in the interest of consumers, we want to strengthen the competitiveness of our fishermen and aquaculture producers in international competition.
We also rely on cooperative measures to monitor legal regulations, which are always based on scientific findings and must be further developed.
Control measures such as mandatory camera surveillance that place an industry under general suspicion, on the other hand, are not compatible with our liberal basic stance.
We are also strongly committed to the "multi-use approach" for offshore wind farms, so that fishing will also be possible in "offshore wind farms" in the future.
Fishing is socially, culturally, ecologically and economically valuable for Germany
We Free Democrats see fishing as an important connection to nature.
The clubs and members are the environmentalists on the ground, taking care of the healthy flora and fauna of our waters.
At the same time, it is also a hobby that cultivates a community across ages and cultures.
Rather, it is thanks to the voluntary commitment of anglers that many a fish species has returned to Germany.
We trust the well-trained angler who can best assess in each case whether a caught fish must be removed or can be returned as a productive spawning fish, for example.
We reject blanket "catch and release" bans for species and population protection reasons.
In our view, angling is not antithetical to conservation goals.
Therefore, we also reject blanket bans and restrictions on fishing, especially blanket night fishing bans or zero use bans on waters.
Hunting as nature conservation - enabling wildlife management
We Free Democrats want modern wildlife management that allows hunting of wolf, cormorant, nandu and beaver.
Hunting is essential for game recovery, disease prevention, and game damage minimization and for a balanced "prey to predator" ratio.
We are seeking uniform regulation among the states on the legal use of silencers and night aiming devices to reduce noise and provide a more accurate point of impact for hunters.
We stand by the hunters in Germany as active and state-certified conservationists.
Digital agriculture - "Smart Farming
We Free Democrats want to use the opportunities of digitalization for agriculture.
We see "smart farming" as a tool that helps farmers to optimize their farms in order to modernize animal welfare, environmental and work processes.
We want a modern agricultural policy that does not impose restrictions, but instead promotes solutions and increases incomes.
Sustainable agriculture through new technologies
We Free Democrats want openness to technology for the sustainable agriculture of the future.
Genetically modified crops must therefore be subject to up-to-date and scientifically based approval criteria.
Green genetic engineering opens up new possibilities for conserving soils,
promoting biodiversity
and increasing the efficiency of input use.
We are also committed to the rapid approval of in vitro meat in the EU.
We want to allow new options in feed supply for pigs and poultry (omnivores) such as processed animal proteins, including those based on insects, as long as there are no health concerns.
This saves imports of protein sources and conserves resources.
Public concerns must be addressed with education.
We do not see environmental protection and nature conservation as contradictory to agriculture and forestry.
We need agriculture and forestry that is sustainable
and land that makes additional contributions to nature conservation.
In our view, contractual nature conservation is the most liberal instrument for more nature conservation.
Organic and conventional farming are also not opposites for us.
We are committed to a diversity of production systems that meet society's perceptions of sustainable production practices.
Living
Building land and thus also living space in our cities is becoming scarcer, and rents continue to rise.
The main way to combat this is to mobilize more land and build more.
Expropriations, rent control or rent caps ultimately ensure less living space.
The dream of owning a home is also becoming a distant prospect for more and more people due to high costs.
We Free Democrats want to ensure that housing remains affordable in the future
and that the dream of owning a home can be fulfilled for more people.
Allowance for real estate transfer tax - promoting home ownership
We Free Democrats want to ease the burden on citizens purchasing owner-occupied residential property.
To this end, we want to introduce an exemption of up to EUR 500,000 for natural persons in the real estate transfer tax.
The allowance is intended to be replenishable so that it is available again for a new purchase in the event of a sale.
In this way, we make it easier for people to realize their dream of owning their own house or apartment
and at the same time make provisions for old age.
To ensure greater tax fairness, we also want to amend the law to prevent real estate investors from abusively circumventing the real estate transfer tax by means of so-called share deals.
Alliance for self-determined living in old age
We Free Democrats demand more barrier-free or low-barrier housing in existing and new buildings.
In this way, we want to enable people to live independently in their familiar surroundings for as long as possible.
A broad alliance of federal, state and local governments, academics and practitioners, politicians and society at large is to raise awareness of the issue of "housing in old age" among all stakeholders and develop solutions.
Existing funding is to be merged.
Incentive models should prevent the lock-in effect so that both older people and young families can find suitable housing.
Construction Cost TÜV
We Free Democrats want to make construction more affordable.
Massive costs are incurred due to the multitude of regulations.
That's why we want to introduce a construction cost MOT to determine new regulations for their construction and housing costs.
Our goal is to avoid cost-generating standards and to provide decision-makers with a transparent basis for their actions.
EU directives in particular must not be implemented beyond what is necessary.
The recommendations of the Construction Cost Reduction Commission require consistent implementation.
Similarly, we also want to critically review existing cost-increasing regulations and adjust them where necessary.
Priority for housing construction - abolish rent cap, increase depreciation
We Free Democrats want to abolish the rent brake and prevent a nationwide rent cap.
We want to improve the opportunities for depreciation for housing investments.
Straight-line depreciation must be increased from two to three percent.
In addition, the activation of building land is necessary, for example through stronger cooperation between the federal states and the Federal Institute for Real Estate Management (BImA).
The Mietpreisbremse and rent cap have demonstrably not created any new apartments and have even led to a shortage of supply.
The numerous regulations within the framework of so-called preservation ordinances or the increasingly complex tenancy law also make the renting of residential space unnecessarily complicated.
Accelerate building permits
We Free Democrats want to speed up the approval process before construction.
To this end, we want to exploit the opportunities offered by serial and modular construction and develop a digital and partially automated building permit process.
The building codes of all countries must be harmonized so that they contain uniform requirements for modular and serial construction.
Furthermore, the so-called approval fiction must be set: If the builder submits all documents and the authority does not react to the application within a certain period of time, it is considered approved and the construction activity can start.
Create a register of vacant lots, promote roof conversions, promote inner development
We Free Democrats want to introduce a register of gaps between buildings and potential sites.
Based on this, municipalities with tight housing markets can develop specific time and action plans for building on these sites.
Obstacles to the reuse of brownfields must be consistently removed.
Within the framework of the Conference of Building Ministers, the federal government must also urge the states to cut red tape in roof conversions and additions, for example with regard to the obligation to provide parking spaces and elevators,
and to set up an appropriate subsidy program through the Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW).
Digital building application
We Free Democrats want to introduce the digital building application to simplify, speed up and partially automate processing.
This is because the workflows and procedures in the licensing authorities are out of date.
As with tax returns, we want to create a centralized nationwide digital portal for all applicants to submit digital construction applications.
Social housing
We Free Democrats want to create real access to affordable housing for low-income people.
To this end, social housing must be geared to the potential tenant and not just to the construction of new social housing.
We want to facilitate access to the free housing market for those with low housing payments with the help of housing subsidies.
Only if the search for housing there is unsuccessful, the right to occupy a social housing should be granted.
Free choice in housing - more self-determination for people with disabilities
We Free Democrats want freedom of choice for people with disabilities.
Regardless of the form of housing and the place of residence, they should be entitled to all social security benefits.
We want to make the personal budget easy to use and unbureaucratic so that everyone can decide for themselves what they want to do.
In this way, we enable more self-determination for people with disabilities.
Liberal Citizen's Income
Each and every individual should have the opportunity to advance professionally and privately.
The modern welfare state must be a springboard.
It must encourage, release potential, and truly reward effort.
The goal must be to enable people to make professional progress as quickly as possible.
We Free Democrats want to open up opportunities through freedom - for a self-determined life.
Introduce liberal citizen's income
We Free Democrats want the Liberal Citizen's Income.
We want to combine tax-financed social benefits such as unemployment benefit II, basic security in old age, subsistence assistance and housing benefit in a single benefit and at a single state agency, also in the sense of a negative income tax.
Self-earned income is to be counted less than today.
This is how we would like to connect the tax and social system.
Basic security must become less bureaucratic, more dignity-preserving, more performance-based, more digital and, above all, more opportunity-oriented.
In addition, the passive-active swap should be further developed, whereby funds received by a beneficiary can be converted into wage subsidies for a job that is subject to social insurance contributions.
Better supplementary earnings rules for ALG II
We Free Democrats want better rules on additional earnings for unemployment benefit II (ALG II) and the planned liberal citizen's income.
The current rules are demotivating and they hardly reward leaving basic security step by step through one's own work.
But better rules on supplementary income make it possible to do just that: they form a solid ladder that leads out of Hartz IV.
The income of young people from families receiving ALG II should not be counted at all up to the amount of a mini-job.
In the future, young adults will no longer be liable for claims of the state that are based on the fault of their parents - such as the late notification of employment by the parents.
Increase sheltered assets
We, the Free Democrats, want to expand the protected assets in the basic income support system.
This applies in particular to pension assets, owner-occupied property and the appropriate motor vehicle required for employment.
We want to prevent people from having to liquidate their hard-earned retirement provisions, even if they have not received state support.
We want personal responsibility and effort to pay off.
De-bureaucratize unemployment benefit II - with a uniform rate
We free democrats want with the unemployment pay II and/or with the desired liberal citizen money a uniform rate for all adult benefit takers - independently of the relationship status.
In the case of reclaims by the job centers, we are introducing a de minimis limit for very small amounts.
Both measures reduce the administrative burden
and ensure that basic benefits are more transparent and closer to the citizen.
This saves everyone the sometimes degrading verification of living and family conditions.
Grandfather pension
Against the backdrop of the challenges posed by demographic change and the transformation of the labor market, it is imperative to modernize the pension system, make it financially sustainable and strengthen the funded part of old-age provision.
We Free Democrats want to make the pension enkelfit in this way.
Enabling retirement provision according to the modular principle
We Free Democrats want to organize old-age provision according to the modular principle.
In this way, modules from statutory, company and private pension schemes can be flexibly combined depending on life circumstances and adapted to modern life courses.
All entitlements from this "pension building block" are to be flexibly carried over when changing between employers or between employment and self-employment.
Enabling flexible retirement
We Free Democrats want to make the retirement age more flexible, following the Swedish model.
Those who retire earlier receive a lower pension, those who retire later receive a higher pension.
Those who reach the age of 60 and, with all pension entitlements, at least the basic social security level, should decide for themselves when retirement begins.
We are abolishing additional earnings limits, and partial pensions are possible without complications.
On the one hand, this provides more financial stability because people stay in the workforce longer on average;
on the other hand, flexible retirement fits better with diverse life histories.
We are strengthening the reduced earning capacity pension.
Those who can no longer work for health reasons need strong support.
Facilitate pension splitting
We Free Democrats want to make pension splitting easier and more widely known.
In the annual pension information, this possibility should be pointed out in a simple and understandable way.
It must also be possible to split pension points at any time, even for limited periods.
This must be possible for married, partnered and also for unmarried parents.
Partners should be able to decide flexibly on the division of family and gainful employment and thus also on pension entitlements.
Introduce statutory share pension
We Free Democrats call for the introduction of a statutory share pension.
We therefore propose to place the mandatory first pillar of our pension system on two pillars in the future, thereby finally ensuring demographic stability and raising the pension level again in the long term.
Exactly the same proportion as before will be spent on pension provision - divided as usual into employee and employer contributions.
What is new is that, in addition to the larger amount that continues to flow into the pay-as-you-go pension insurance, a smaller amount of, for example, two percent of gross income is invested in a long-term, opportunity-oriented and funded pension that is managed independently as a fund, i.e. the statutory equity pension.
For years, Sweden has been showing us how equity savings can be organized so successfully and with so little risk.
With our model, all contributors - especially low-income earners - will acquire real property for their old-age provision and receive higher old-age pensions.
Introduce a basic pension - target the fight against old-age poverty
We Free Democrats want to introduce a basic pension.
Those who have worked and paid in must always have more than the basic income support in old age and also more than people who have not worked and paid in.
We achieve this by means of an allowance in the basic old-age pension for income from the statutory pension insurance.
We want to bring the application and payment of the basic pension together under the umbrella of the pension insurance.
There is no need to go to the social welfare office, poverty among the elderly is combated in a fair and targeted manner.
Improve company pension plans - abolish double contributions
We Free Democrats want to strengthen company pension plans and make the statutory regulations more attractive.
Only collectively bargained companies have the option of broader forms of investment and, in particular, higher equity ratios.
We want to give all companies the option of a "pure defined contribution plan" (higher proportion of shares) and the automatic inclusion of entire workforces (with an "opt-out" option for individual employees).
In addition, the double contribution to statutory health and long-term care insurance for all forms of occupational and private provision must be ended, because it undermines confidence in the reliability of politics.
Introduce retirement savings deposit
We Free Democrats want to introduce a retirement savings deposit account.
Without an obligatory insurance shell, we thus combine the best of Riester pensions (allowance subsidy), Rürup pensions (tax subsidy) and the American "401K" model (flexibility and return opportunities).
Pension entitlements must be transferable (portability) and it must be possible to change providers.
This strengthens competition
and makes private pension provision more attractive for everyone.
Better investment opportunities for pensions - open up investment rules
We Free Democrats want to make it possible for life insurers, pension funds and provident funds to invest more and more easily in venture capital, start-ups, shares or infrastructure projects.
These forms of investment offer higher return opportunities with low risk, especially for long investment periods.
And higher returns enable higher pensions.
We also want to open up the investment rules for state-subsidized pension plans, such as Riester contracts.
The residential Riester remains unaffected.
Savers should decide for themselves which risk/return mix and forms of investment are right for them.
This also opens up the pan-European pension plan (PEPP) to state subsidies in Germany.
Overall, subsidized pension plans must become simpler and more consumer-friendly.
Fairness for all generations
A far-sighted financial and social policy that has tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in mind is crucial for the future opportunities of the entire country.
That is why we are committed to future-proof social systems,
fairness for all generations,
smart investments in the future
and a budget system that consistently keeps these goals in mind.
Generational balance in regulatory impact assessment
We Free Democrats want to strengthen the sustainability impact assessment of laws,
anchor it effectively in parliament,
and supplement it with generational accounting.
This involves comparing the benefits provided by society for future generations with the burdens that arise.
Debt brake 2.0 for social security funds
We Free Democrats want a "debt brake 2.0" for social security.
It is intended to stipulate that additional non-insurance benefits must in future be financed entirely from the federal budget.
This means that the federal budget's debt brake can no longer be circumvented by shifting social benefits to insurance companies.
The system of pay-as-you-go financing will be consistently implemented again, thus ensuring the sustainable financing of social insurance.
In doing so, we do not aim to reduce benefits, but to allocate them correctly.
In return, however, the federal government must reimburse them.
Generational equity in the pension adjustment formula
We Free Democrats want effective demographic factors in the pension adjustment formula for a fair balance between the generations.
This will require, among other things, reactivating the catch-up factor in the pension adjustment formula.
This was introduced in 2008 and ensured consistency in the development of wages and pensions until the grand coalition suspended it, thus placing additional burdens on the younger generations.
Without a catch-up factor, contributors will have to finance the fact that pensions will rise faster than wages in the long term.
Driving forward digitization for older people - support program for residential homes
We Free Democrats want to create a second education system that allows people to continue their education without red tape, even in retirement.
Older people should also have access to fast Internet in retirement or senior citizens' homes.
In order to enable digital participation for all age groups and intuitive usability for all Internet users alike, we want to oblige public bodies to offer their digital services with low barriers as standard and ideally barrier-free.
Abolish discriminatory age limits
We Free Democrats demand the abolition of discriminatory age limits.
Laws and statutes with restrictive age limits are to be reviewed for their possible discriminatory character and any repeal or adjustment is to be made on the basis of objective and performance-related criteria.
