There is another way: Only justice secures the future! Time is pressing. Germany needs change
Germany has a government that was elected with high hopes - because of Schröder's promises and Lafontaine's program.
But it has failed to bring about a change in policy.
The federal government has brought a lot to the big corporations and banks, but little to most people in Germany.
It has once again made war a tool of German policy,
and it has failed to deliver on its job promises.
We see not only the crises of this country and the failure of the ruling policy.
We value the intellectual, cultural and ethical richness of the people who live in Germany.
We are aware of the economic, financial and political power and the great opportunities of the Federal Republic of Germany.
The result is all the more outrageous, with millions of unemployed,
increasing social division and exclusion,
and a policy that dismantles democratic standards
, cuts education and future opportunities for young people,
socially discriminates against women, and pushes millions of them into poorly paid part-time work and socially insecure jobs.
Social solidarity has become a discontinued model under the governments of Kohl and Schröder.
Privatization of social security and a scandalous redistribution of social wealth from the bottom to the top are the ominous results of this policy.
The East, already cheated of many opportunities from 1989, is threatened with irreversible decline - the youth is leaving.
At ever shorter intervals, war is the instrument of NATO's rulers to assert their dominance in this vulnerable and conflict-ridden world.
Instead of eliminating the roots of international terrorism - exploitation and oppression, lack of prospects and cultural destruction - further causes for it are promoted with wars of aggression and violation of international law.
The CDU/CSU's alternative to this policy is Stoiber, not Justice, Peace, Work.
The SPD and the Greens on the one hand, and the CDU/CSU on the other, are fighting over government power and over nuances of the same policies.
But at the beginning of the new century, the opposing forces are also evident in Germany.
Movements critical of globalization have put new questions on the agenda of this society and gained influence.
The intellectual debate in the Federal Republic has gained a socio-critical dimension.
In parts of the trade unions and the churches, in women's, youth, peace and anti-racism initiatives, there is audible opposition to the prevailing neoliberalism.
And Germany has a party that opposes war, social rigidity and social injustice in the Bundestag and in public.
The Party of Democratic Socialism wants realistic politics.
It does not shy away from the small step or the historic compromise.
It is sticking to its goal of contributing effectively to a center-left alliance in Germany.
But there are no goals because of which it would say "yes" to involvement in war policy.
There is no coalition because of which it would say "yes" to the continuation of a policy of social coldness.
There is no argument on the basis of which it would be willing to acquiesce in the abrogation of democratic and libertarian rights.
The PDS wants a new policy.
Together with those affected, with trade unions, associations, clubs, initiatives.
It fights for a rich future for children and young people and does
not accept the social division to the detriment of women.
The PDS has done much to create conditions for a political and social alternative.
On the part of social democracy, however, these conditions clearly do not yet exist.
Therefore, there can be no other decision for the PDS at present: It enters the 2002 Bundestag election campaign and the new legislative period as an opposition party to the current government policy and its all-too-similar conservative alternatives.
That's what we want voters to know.
They can count on that.
Germany needs this PDS, which fights against the domination of big business in state and society,
wants the engagement of the people
and defends the natural foundations of life.
Its social goal is democratic socialism - a society in which the free development of individuals becomes the condition for the free development of all.
It is worth voting more PDS into the Bundestag: as a party of social justice,
§ as a peace and anti-war party,
§ as a party that sees East Germany as a chance for the future.
Germany needs more PDS - more urgently than ever!
New jobs - the basis for social justice and sustainability
In our society, gainful employment is the economic basis for a self-determined life.
Paid work is the decisive means for social cohesion.
Modern, socially just policies must therefore be more than adaptation to new conditions and support for the economy.
It must be a conscious shaping of social conditions.
In view of the challenges posed by the demographic development of society, it is important to promote solidarity between the generations, balance and justice within and between them.
Without overcoming mass unemployment, without a policy aiming at new full employment, it will not be possible to effectively renew the welfare state and move to a sustainable, socio-ecological development of society.
The income and living interests of the people must be asserted against the profit interests, especially those of the banks and large transnational corporations.
Longer-term economic requirements and social interrelationships must be brought to bear against the social blindness and short-term thinking of the markets, especially the financial markets.
The PDS defends collective bargaining autonomy against those who want to undermine and ultimately eliminate it.
Overcoming mass unemployment cannot be left to the market.
The federal government has not made the creation of sustainable jobs the focus of its efforts.
It failed to respond early to the looming global economic crisis.
It has dogmatically adhered to the policy of fiscal consolidation.
Germany is worse off than many of its European neighbors in terms of employment policy, social services and public investment in the future.
Employment-oriented policies must abandon two misconceptions in the coming legislative period: The claim that lower wages lead to more employment is refuted by the labor market situation, especially in eastern Germany.
The claim that tax reform would bring new jobs turned out to be false, because the relief for mass incomes was eaten up by the rise in prices and indirect taxes;
moreover, the tax giveaways to banks, large corporations and top earners also did not lead to job-creating demand, but encouraged corporate takeovers, mergers and speculative financial investments.
As a result, private wealth increased in the hands of a few, while at the same time revenues in the public coffers shrank.
Public investment fell to a European record low, the ability of policymakers to act and steer dwindled
Using economic policy instruments for employment policy
Economic and structural support is to be strictly linked to employment targets.
In the event of non-compliance with these objectives, the subsidies must actually be reclaimed.
Public economic and structural support should be focused on strengthening regional economic links and strengthening the position of small and medium-sized enterprises.
The demand for an immediate program for municipal investments should be implemented immediately.
Public contracts are to be put out to tender in specialist and smaller sub-lots much more than in the past, instead of using general contractors.
Start-ups need targeted sales and management support over several years.
The decreasing willingness of banks to provide financing can be countered by new, dormant forms of public-sector participation.
To facilitate the establishment and continued promotion of cooperatives.
The positive experiences of cooperatives and their networks in many European countries can also find applications in Germany.
Economic and monetary union must be complemented by employment, social and environmental union.
Environmental and social standards must not be left to the dictates of international trade organizations such as the WTO.
The tasks of the European Central Bank should be extended beyond price stability to its responsibilities regarding economic growth and employment.
Europe needs a new employment strategy with verifiable convergence criteria, including social criteria, and quantitative targets.
EU funds are to be redirected in favor of employment-promoting measures and structural policy is to be opened up with this in mind.
We want a public investment program in the EU that supports the ecological restructuring of transport systems and energy supply and the creation of trans-European information networks.
The PDS will not agree to a renationalization of agricultural and structural policy, especially against the background of EU enlargement.
Significantly reduce the unemployment rate!
Strengthening domestic demand through public investment in the future
and increasing mass purchasing power through active wage and socially just tax policies can increase demand for goods and services and create new living wage jobs.
Reducing regular working hours with full wage and salary compensation remains a key instrument for securing employment.
The same goes for turning the 1.9 billion hours of overtime into new jobs.
We therefore want to advance the reduction of overtime with an initiative to limit the statutory maximum working time to 40 hours and curb the coexistence of overtime and underemployment.
We will support initiatives to further flexibilize working hours if they increase employees' time sovereignty, and always reject them if they are intended merely to reduce labor costs.
We are opposed to older workers being forced out of the workforce without opportunity.
In our society, the need for social, cultural and ecological services is growing.
This need is not met by the market economy because the work cannot be organized for profit.
Necessary services are often provided poorly, inhumanely, or based on income, and thus exclude low-income people, when they are provided in a market economy.
We therefore call for the expansion of a publicly funded employment sector in which socially useful work is performed with public funding, primarily by non-profit or cooperative providers.
Such expenditures for public services also pay off economically from the point of view of financing work instead of unemployment.
In order to combine existing budgetary resources and public funding for this purpose, we propose the establishment of a "Fund for Regional Community Tasks''.
Some of the previous ABM and SAM funding can also be transferred to this fund.
Socially useful services, especially those that are close to people, must be paid for appropriately.
Instead of subsidizing low wages across the board, we advocate targeted public subsidies for social services that will be needed more in the future, such as nursing and care services.
Adequate care for the elderly cannot be achieved through wage dumping and the use of low-skilled workers.
Democracy and human rights must also apply in the workplace
Wage labor and other dependent employment are the fate of about 90 percent of all employed people in our country.
From year to year, they acquire more and more wealth, receive a smaller and smaller share of it as remuneration for their work, and are increasingly affected by unemployment.
Schröder's Alliance for Jobs, Training and Competitiveness did nothing to change this situation; instead, it was used unilaterally to assert the interests of business.
The PDS is in favor of dialogue between politics and the parties to collective agreements, but it will continue to resolutely oppose any interference with the autonomy of the trade unions or any circumvention of the political responsibility of parliament.
We also believe it is essential that the organizations of the unemployed also be involved in such a dialogue.
The reform of the Works Constitution Act, which was passed in this legislative period against all union proposals and the alternatives of the PDS, must not have been the last response to the challenges of the modern working world.
The world of work is still an almost democracy-free zone.
We will challenge the coming government with more far-reaching proposals and also put forward proposals to secure co-determination at company level.
At the same time, the next Bundestag must finally eliminate the anti-strike paragraph and reform the Collective Bargaining Act.
It is time to make it easier for collective agreements to be generally binding, to anchor the trade unions' right to take legal action and to ensure that collective agreements take precedence over company agreements.
In the shadow of the few winners of modernization, the modern working world takes on 19th century features.
Not only in spite of technological change, but often enough as a result of modern technologies, stress grows, bullying increases, and competition becomes unbearable.
That is why our parliamentary commitment to humanizing the world of work and strengthening workplace representation will remain one of our priorities in the next Bundestag.
Nowhere are women more persistently discriminated against than in the competition for a job, for qualifications and for career advancement.
The PDS will insist on legal regulations for the equality of women in the private sector.
Women in particular, but also all other employees, are increasingly becoming the victims of the targeted elimination of living wage employment.
We will therefore take parliamentary initiatives to reduce bogus self-employment, curb precarious employment and improve the situation for temporary and contract workers.
Health and occupational safety in the Federal Republic of Germany is below the standards of other EU countries in many areas.
However, the rising number of early invalidity cases is an unmistakable alarm signal for politicians to reorganize health protection in the workplace and at the same time facilitate the recognition of occupational disability and incapacity for work.
Advancing the social and ecological transformation of work and the economy
The supposedly better career opportunities for women have turned out to be an illusion almost everywhere.
72 percent of all able-bodied men have a job, compared with only 57 percent of women.
The German female employment rate is among the lowest in Europe.
Jobs for women are mainly in part-time, low-wage and marginal employment.
Women still lag far behind men in terms of income.
Consistent steps to redistribute paid gainful employment and unpaid domestic work remain indispensable for the PDS.
If unpaid work - especially in families and cohabiting couples - is not included in the concept of reducing working hours, nothing can change about the discrimination of women and men on the labor market and in the economy.
Family-friendly working time models and more and better facilities for childcare and support are a crucial means of achieving this.
The PDS will insist on legal regulations for the equality of women and men in the private sector.
Women are to be given preference in hiring and promotion for equal qualifications in areas where they have not been employed much up to now.
Companies bidding for public contracts should demonstrate non-discriminatory hiring, pay and working conditions.
The PDS will not accept the worse position of single parents due to the cancellation of the household allowance, but will look for ways to be able to compensate for this by taking childcare costs into account from the first euro onwards.
The PDS fights for the introduction of a statutory minimum wage that ensures a living wage, which is based on the standard in the construction industry and is adjusted to the general wage development with each round of collective bargaining.
Employment relationships below the collective bargaining agreement must not be expanded.
However, wage dumping must also be combated by changing public procurement practices.
Whether it is a matter of government investment or the awarding of public services, nowhere are federal, state and local governments allowed to participate in undercutting collectively bargained standards.
A public procurement law should regulate this in a binding manner
and include time-limited support regulations for the eastern German economy.
Instead of sticking to the irresponsible use of nuclear energy for at least two more decades, we are advocating a real energy turnaround.
The PDS demands to stop the operation of the German nuclear facilities as soon as possible and the nuclear waste transports to the reprocessing plants of La Hague and Sellafield immediately.
By promoting and using renewable energy sources, solar and hydrogen technology, we want to support regional economic cycles and value chains
and trigger employment impulses, especially in the SME sector.
The PDS advocates a significant increase in the share of combined heat and power plants in electricity and heat generation.
Energy consumption and CO² emissions are to be reduced in the coming legislative period in such a way that the generally accepted climate protection targets for the middle of the century are achieved on a pro rata basis.
This means that consumption must fall by around six percent and emissions by at least ten percent.
Major undesirable developments have resulted from the privatization of the postal service and the railroads.
In many areas, basic services for the population were abandoned in order to align corporate goals with the stock market and to conquer profitable new markets.
In the process, hundreds of thousands of jobs have fallen by the wayside, and in some cases safety and reliability as well.
Even the federally-majority-owned Postal Service has taken to the streets.
We want mobility that people can use to enrich their quality of life.
The foreseeable growth rates of individualized passenger and freight traffic on the roads threaten to lead to a traffic collapse and to further deteriorate the earth's climate.
To wait with a different transport policy, in particular with the expansion of regionally attractive rail networks and ecologically responsible waterways, and not to press ahead with the development of public passenger transport is wrong in terms of employment policy and irresponsible toward society's future.
In part, the traffic turnaround can be financed from graduated road user fees for truck transports.
In the development of air traffic, we are focusing on the increased use of modern environmentally friendly aircraft, the introduction of the kerosene tax and the gradual reduction of regional air traffic.
A viable agricultural and forestry sector is an important element in our idea of a socio-ecological transformation concept.
The crisis of consumer confidence triggered by BSE has forced agricultural policy throughout Europe to be put to the test.
It reveals that ongoing liberalization, through ever-decreasing producer prices, is imposing production practices on farmers that create food safety risks, harm the environment and destroy jobs.
That is why we are committed to strengthening an agriculture that further expands regional economic cycles.
The focus must be on quality production, environmental preservation and job security.
Extensive self-sufficiency in food and feed in the EU can contribute to solving the world hunger problem.
Food must remain safe, healthy and affordable for all.
The PDS does not want cuts in public agricultural spending, but rather its consistent orientation towards the ecological, economic and social sustainability of agriculture and rural areas.
This requires financial recognition of ecological services provided by farmers through adequate income.
A special concern of the PDS is the development of the value-added reserves in the new federal states through the use of modern agricultural structures as well as through targeted promotion and broad individual initiative.
We advocate that the land reform land that remains in federal ownership after privatization is completed in accordance with the Equalization Payments Act be transferred to the states free of charge for an active structural policy in favor of cultivators.
Agricultural research must be intensified and geared to the new requirements of sustainability.
The PDS is committed to social and democratic control of research and application of green genetic engineering to protect consumers and the environment.
The PDS will continue to fight for improvements in animal welfare and to advocate strict implementation of animal welfare regulations.
Do not restructure public budgets at the expense of the future
The consolidation of public budgets is a necessary but not a sufficient condition for government action.
It must neither be postponed nor pursued as an end in itself.
Declining net borrowing and reducing the debt stock are in the interest of responsible fiscal policy.
But providing for the future also means not jeopardizing the opportunities of future generations through unresolved social and economic problems.
For example, higher public spending on daycare centers, schools and training, on science, research and culture are today the prerequisite for professional qualifications, satisfactory gainful employment and high value creation and thus for tax and contribution revenues tomorrow.
The necessary investments must not be sacrificed to blind austerity policies.
Increase political capacity to act through socially just and forward-looking fiscal, budgetary, financial and monetary policy
That is why we stand in opposition to a policy that sees location logic and competitiveness exclusively as competition for the lowest tax rates and levies.
But we also stand against a policy that is increasingly financed by taxes on wages and consumption, while at the same time removing high private assets and profits of corporations, especially banks and insurance companies, from the financing of public tasks.
We want to reintroduce taxation according to ability to pay.
More social tax justice must expand the financial scope for public investment in the future.
We will achieve these goals through § a policy that strengthens solidarity-based federalism in the relationship between the federal government and the states and between the states and the municipalities
§ and puts an end to the restructuring of the federal budget at the expense of all other public budgets;
§ a performance-based income tax rate that exempts the real subsistence minimum from taxation, more consistently captures the income actually earned and eliminates the considerable imbalance to the detriment of single parents;
§ individual taxation and abolition of spousal splitting while compensating for income losses for lower and middle income groups
§ proper taxation of gains from the sale of company shares and other financial assets;
§ a taxation based on performance within the framework of corporate income tax by increasing corporate income tax rates in line with profits
§ and a stronger alignment of corporate taxation with the financing and liquidity requirements of small and medium-sized enterprises in particular;
§ the restriction of tax structuring options and tax loopholes, for example through a minimum taxation for profits and other income;
§ a levy and tax reform that ensures a higher participation of large assets and inheritances in the financing of public tasks and above all in the promotion of charitable purposes.
§ assets equivalent to the amount of residential property normally used by the owner should remain tax-exempt;
§ the replacement of the so-called eco-tax by a primary energy tax, the revenue from which would be used in particular for the expansion and financing of local public transport and an ecological investment program;
§ an extension of the reduced VAT rate - for example, to pharmacy-only medicines and labor-intensive craft services - and by applying higher VAT rates to luxury goods;
§ a consistent taxation of stock market and other speculative profits, introduction of a Tobin tax;
§ the improvement of the personnel and, above all, material possibilities of the tax authorities in order to ensure more regular audits and to combat tax evasion;
§ a monetary policy whose political objectives are geared towards solving employment, social and ecological problems, both nationally and internationally, particularly within the European Union.
From Germany's Edge to Europe's Center:
Eastern Germany needs a new departure
Social and economic reality is passing harsh judgment on four years of Red-Green policies in East Germany.
Since 1997, economic growth in the east has lagged behind that in the west; the gap is widening again.
Last year, the East German economy contracted.
Since 1998, employment has increased in the west, while in the east the number of jobs subject to social insurance contributions fell below the 5 million mark for the first time.
On the other hand, the unemployment rate in the east increased from 1.8 times to more than 2.3 times the rate in the west.
The number of long-term unemployed rose by more than 10 percent, youth unemployment by 15 percent. Unemployment, a lack of apprenticeships, lower incomes, vacant housing and emigration are not raising the expectations of many East Germans for a livable future in their region.
The "Chief Concern East" remained an empty phrase.
We are sticking to our guns: East Germany needs a new departure!
A perspective that is sustainable in the East and in the West and that is realized by people living in East Germany.
A perspective that uses, demands and promotes the East Germans' experience with two political and social systems, their qualifications and their creative will to perform.
A perspective that makes eastern Germany an attractive place to live.
Use EU enlargement to the east as an opportunity!
Time is of the essence.
The social and economic unification process is at an impasse.
The EU's imminent eastward enlargement in 2004 makes many people fear that their living regions will become mere transit routes in the larger EU internal market and the forgotten backyard of West German economic centers without prospects.
We are committed to ensuring that these fears do not come true.
The PDS sees and seeks the new opportunities for East Germany.
The expansion of the EU can become an opportunity for eastern Germany.
We want to use this with all our strength: in the municipalities, in the states and regions, in the federal government and in Europe.
If eastern Germany moves geographically from the edge of the EU to the center with the eastward expansion, this must also succeed economically, socially and culturally!
Not least the manifold traditional connections with the Eastern and Central European states provide a basis for this.
We promote ambitious goals.
We are committed to making the eastern German states viable as a European region with a future - independent of special alimentation and without social distortions.
In this way, we want to make a new Solidarity Pact III and special payments to the eastern German states from 2020 superfluous.
We are counting on a new wave of modernization in and for eastern Germany.
We are focusing on new elements in policy: from adjustment to the West to internal social and economic integration by building up and strengthening East German performance potential, by developing East Germany as an interlinked area of the old and new EU, by restructuring political decision-making competencies and by flexible and responsible financing.
Innovations and new economic structures for sustainable products and services
Increasing the market shares of eastern German companies is a key issue for the self-sustaining economic development sought in eastern Germany.
The decisive basis for this is corporate development.
We aim to launch an innovation, investment and start-up offensive for eastern German companies.
New technological developments - such as hydrogen technology and other forms of renewable energy - offer the opportunity to make eastern Germany an important location for environmentally compatible energy production.
We want regional innovation, competence and cooperation centers to bring about closer integration of technology-intensive production and service companies with suppliers and with high-performance scientific and educational institutions in the region and to improve the opportunities for start-up companies.
Entrepreneurial people with creative ideas, a sense of social responsibility, a willingness to take risks, independence and above-average commitment need intelligent public support instead of discouragement from the restrictive lending conditions of the major banks.
For us, intelligent support also means overcoming narrow economic thinking and action in favor of economic benefits, for example by making vacant publicly available real estate available to start-ups at symbolic rents.
The relocation policy should primarily target companies with high regional integration effects
and a socio-ecological re-industrialization,
the promotion of regional economic cycles
and the revitalization of rural areas.
The reorientation of funding policy includes increased support for business associations and networks between small and medium-sized enterprises, scientific and educational institutions, and regional actors as opposed to individual funding, in order to limit disadvantages resulting from the eastern German business landscape and to strengthen the innovative potential in the regions.
This also includes a stronger concentration of funding on focal points, on innovative competence centers and production clusters as well as on production and service complexes with greater potential for expansion and regional impact.
The competitive and sustainable eastern German agricultural structures, especially the cooperatives, are to become the motors of a consumer-friendly agriculture with diverse forms of cooperation in processing and marketing.
For us, agriculture also means preserving nature as a basis for production through ecologically oriented sustainable management.
Don't wait until 2004, take action now!
We now want facilitation in local border traffic.
We now want thoughtful planning for a transportation project eastward expansion.
Traffic congestion in border towns is already barely tolerable.
The expansion of cross-border transport links, especially for freight transport, can also serve as a model for a socio-ecological change in Germany's transport policy as a whole.
Regional economic linkages need regional transportation routes, regional hubs, and fares that support regional public transportation.
It is also urgent that an "Education and Language Offensive for Eastern Enlargement" be started without delay, which should lead to a joint cross-border education initiative with Poland and the Czech Republic.
Successful eastward enlargement needs social and cultural exchange, regional openness and mutual knowledge, visiting and meeting projects, and multilingualism.
In order to take advantage of the opportunities offered by eastward expansion, a reorientation of subsidy policy is needed.
The action program "Border Regions" presented by the EU Commission does not deserve this name.
Border regions must receive a substantial substantial increase under this special program.
Transport infrastructure must be promoted above all within the regions and not just for the major trans-European networks.
Small and medium-sized enterprises need effective adaptation assistance and, above all, support for the development of cross-border cooperation.
Active preparation for eastward expansion is to become an outstanding award criterion in German federal funding policy.
At the same time, this focus must be reflected in federal budget policy.
Cross-border cooperation must be particularly focused on the development of mutual research and production cooperation.
EU enlargement to the East is a new opportunity for internal unity.
The superficial image of West German donors and East German takers can thus be experientially refuted.
With the eastward enlargement, the chance for a common perception of problems is renewed.
The Bavarian-Franconian border regions face similar challenges as Western Pomerania, Brandenburg and Saxony.
This calls for a cooperative federalism based on solidarity:
If eastern Germany gains a new perspective in the eastward expansion, this benefits all the Länder, and conversely it harms all of them.
For this we do not need a Commissioner for Eastern Germany in the Federal Government, but rather a Commissioner for Eastern Integration who networks activities, drafts and structures basic guidelines, mediates contacts and who establishes a "Permanent Conference on Eastern Germany".
Setting political signals for a new departure!
We maintain that the people in eastern Germany need clear political signals that the new departure is serious and should lead to an improvement and equalization of living conditions.
Quality of life is most evident in the community space.
In view of demographic developments and economic structural change, eastern German cities are facing additional complicated tasks.
The burden of "old debt,'' modernization loans, and lost revenue from more than 1 million vacant apartments can no longer be borne.
The old debts of GDR housing must finally be cancelled.
The "Urban Redevelopment East" program must be equipped in such a way that the eastern German housing industry can survive economically and
urban and socially compatible redevelopment and conversion concepts can be implemented.
The equalization of living conditions also means, above all, the equalization of wages.
Policymakers must support the collective bargaining partners with a roadmap for wage alignment.
Discrimination against East German professional qualifications must end immediately,
the remaining transfer gaps in pension and benefit entitlements must be closed now, and any remnants of pension injustice must be abolished.
Special area regulations - as in the case of East German pension values, social welfare and maintenance rule rates - must be overcome in the coming legislative period.
This also applies to other regulations of social security and subsidy law.
We want reasonable indicators for assessing social and economic development to apply uniformly in East and West.
After all, we do not forget about the problems in eastern Germany and those in western Germany on the coast, in the Ruhr region, in the Palatinate or in the Rhön.
Thinking and acting in the East-West pattern must be overcome politically, socially and economically.
We advocate the recognition of the equivalence of land and building ownership in the interest of East German users of recreational and leisure land.
We oppose discrimination in termination and compensation law, excessive user fees, and inappropriate participation in public burdens.
Shaping social security means guaranteeing self-determination
For the PDS, social security remains an indispensable independent task in a democratic state.
We measure social, economic and technological development by whether it leads to social progress.
Growing productivity and efficiency, rising gross domestic product and national economic wealth must strengthen and promote social security for all.
For us, successful politics is measured by whether it improves the conditions and prerequisites so that people can lead a self-determined, dignified life in which they find recognition and determine their own social development in freedom and equality.
The PDS advocates that the resources of this society guarantee the future opportunities of the younger generation as well as a dignified life in old age.
Secured social rights and freedom from existential fears are conditions for independent action, initiative and risk-taking.
The welfare state does not merely distribute a cake that was previously baked in the economy; it is also an indispensable prerequisite for productivity, creativity, motivation and innovation.
The market alone does not produce social cohesion, motivation and commitment.
As a result of social development and the accompanying individualization of living environments, families and communities are hopelessly overburdened with the sole task of guaranteeing social security in the event of unemployment, illness, disability, accident, old age, child rearing or nursing care.
The adaptability, flexibility and mobility demanded in the economy run counter to individual life planning, the willingness to assume long-term responsibility for children and to build stable social networks.
Without welfare state institutions, without large, generally binding solidarity communities, social reliability cannot be achieved.
The renewal of the solidarity principle is the axis of our reform concept.
We want to strengthen the solidarity principle as opposed to the pure benefit and equivalence principle.
We want to contribute to a new social consensus on what income guarantees the welfare state must guarantee and finance.
It is about structural changes for the future, more efficiency
and a balanced relationship between expenditures and revenues.
Renewing the solidarity foundation for revenue
The performance and acceptance of social insurance schemes are based on their revenues.
For us, the reduction of mass unemployment and the creation of additional employment opportunities subject to compulsory insurance remain indispensable political tasks, also for the continued existence of social insurance.
In addition, the PDS advocates levying contributions on a broader basis of solidarity that takes into account changes in the structure of gainful employment.
At the same time, the one-sided burden on wages and salaries subject to social security contributions can be counteracted.
In the future, employers' shares of social contributions are to be calculated according to value added instead of payroll.
Job-destroying rationalizations would be less strongly rewarded, the position of labor-intensive companies vis-à-vis capital-intensive ones would be improved, and it would become more difficult for companies to flee into employment without social insurance or into undeclared work.
Today, social insurances are predominantly employee insurances.
We want to expand them into insurance schemes for all gainfully employed persons, including civil servants, the self-employed, freelancers and members of parliament: by integrating existing parallel security systems, by making insurance compulsory for all earned income.
For us, renewed solidarity in terms of revenue also means raising the income thresholds for assessing contributions.
In health insurance, we want to raise the compulsory insurance limit to the contribution assessment ceiling in pension insurance and also make income from asset ownership subject to contributions.
Life in human dignity for all
The PDS advocates the anchoring of basic social rights in the Basic Law, which concretize the principle of human dignity and the principle of the welfare state.
These include the basic rights to social security, to work and employment promotion, to health care, and to education and training.
The PDS adheres to its goal of introducing a uniform means-tested basic social security as the foundation of the social security system.
This is the only way to ensure that no one's income slips below the poverty line of 50 percent of average net income.
Entitlements to various social benefit institutions, which often add up to little more than the minimum subsistence level, can be brought together unbureaucratically by means-tested basic social security.
It is flexible and open to the growing diversity of employment biographies and social lifestyles.
Housing and accommodation are among the most important conditions of social security and human dignity.
Housing should therefore be affordable for all and housing should be safe.
The PDS is committed to affordable, safe and self-determined housing.
This includes that different forms of housing are socially recognized and that housing for rent in communal and cooperative housing or housing in ownership are promoted on an equal footing.
Public funding will continue to be necessary to prevent homelessness.
Since there is no uniform housing market in Germany, differentiated housing policy strategies are required in the various regions of Germany.
With the "Basic Security in Old Age," the federal government has for the first time anchored the idea of basic security in social benefit law - even if only for one group of people, at a level that is too low and under conditions that are too bureaucratic.
Over the next four years, we want to improve this tax-financed basic benefit and introduce it for additional population groups.
This also includes a needs-based increase in social assistance rates
and a reform of child maintenance law.
For people with disabilities, we want to create an independent law to compensate for disadvantages, which will unite previous assistance in a uniform benefit law.
People with disabilities need reform that produces civil rights-based federal and state equality laws with effective prohibitions on discrimination and disadvantage, so that disability produced by society can also be limited and eliminated by it.
Eliminate child poverty - create a basic security for children
Children have an independent right to education and development of their personality.
One of the greatest challenges facing the welfare state in the coming years will be to better reconcile gainful employment with raising children.
A society in which children still represent the greatest risk of poverty, which views children as a burden on career advancement, family prosperity or as an obstacle to participation in the workforce, is depriving itself of its own future.
In the coming years, the focus must be on providing financial security for life with children, making
gainful employment and professional mobility more feasible while simultaneously raising children by expanding public childcare
, and making it easier to overcome the traditional division of roles between women and men and
build stable social networks.
Today's marriage and family support should be consistently transformed into support linked to cohabitation with children.
We want to gradually expand the current child benefit into a basic living wage for children that covers the socio-cultural subsistence minimum for children in line with their age.
Children whose parents have no income of their own or a very low income receive the living child benefit immediately.
For all other children, child benefits should be increased in the short term to 210 euros and thus to half the average subsistence level.
This would merge existing benefits, make tax allowances superfluous, and eliminate the injustice of counting child benefits toward social assistance.
Only in this way can the right of all children to social integration and individual development be given a reliable material foundation.
We want to expand childcare, not only because children need other children, but also so that mothers and fathers can better combine work and education - regardless of the level of earned income.
We want all children up to the age of 14 to have a legal right to institutional, publicly funded all-day care or publicly funded recreational activities.
We demand that more independent entitlements for women be created in social insurance.
Entitlements resulting from child-rearing and care activities must be improved, and
the switch between part-time and full-time employment must be made easier under social law.
We want a law to improve the compatibility of childcare and gainful employment that provides for periods of time off with wage replacement and basic benefits for mothers and fathers that can be spread out over the first 14 years of a child's life.
For a health care system based on solidarity
The PDS defends the welfare state principle of the health care system, a solidarity-based needs-oriented health care provision with the medically necessary for all.
Statutory health insurance must remain a fully-fledged insurance against the risk of illness.
The aim of a reform must be to guarantee efficiency and good quality of medical care for all people
and no discrimination against socially disadvantaged people,
of people with disabilities
or chronically ill patients.
Parity-based financing of the statutory health insurance funds must be maintained.
We adhere to these principles of social solidarity precisely because we are aware of the growing social importance of health.
The demand for health care and the number of employees in this field will continue to grow in the wake of increasing innovative possibilities in medicine and an aging population.
We reject cuts in benefits, more co-payments and two-tier medicine, or more competition among health insurers for the healthiest members and lowest contribution rates.
Our proposals for reforming the contribution assessment bases and calculating the employer's share on the basis of the company's gross value added will eliminate the main causes of the health insurance funds' financing problems.
The PDS also wants to stop the shift of public financing obligations to the health insurance funds.
Benefits such as maternity pay and funds for care of sick children are to be secured through federal funding.
Despite modern infrastructure and existing professional qualifications, the German healthcare system often achieves only mediocre results in the prevention, detection and treatment of diseases in an international comparison.
Outdated structures and misguided incentives result in quality losses and inefficiencies.
This is where fundamental reform must come in.
Above all, it is necessary to overcome the rigid separation between outpatient physicians, hospitals and rehabilitation facilities through better cooperation and integration.
The same applies to collaboration between primary care physicians and specialists or psycho-social professions.
We advocate modern forms of care such as physician networks, health centers and polyclinics.
They are a way to integrate medical activity, avoid current deficiencies such as overuse and misuse, and address underuse.
In addition, we are committed to strengthening family physician practice.
What is needed are more sensible forms of remuneration that allow more care and do not encourage medically unjustified services.
Physicians and their staff in eastern Germany need sufficient fees to avert a threat to care.
We want to promote competition for medical quality.
Importantly, service and product providers must demonstrate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of their offerings.
And it is about more transparency in medical care and strengthening patients' rights.
Hospitals must provide citizen-oriented care and.
appropriate working and wage conditions
as well as the necessary training and further education
The scandalous exploitation of young doctors in particular, but also of nursing staff, must be brought to an end.
Untapped potential in prevention and health promotion are important starting points for reform.
We want to expand prevention and care services, especially for children, women, the chronically ill, senior citizens and socially disadvantaged people.
To this end, the performance of the public health service must finally be strengthened again.
Every government so far has shied away from limiting the pharmaceutical-medical device industry's price gouging.
We advocate legal regulations that push back the influence of the pharmaceutical industry on medical services.
Changing social conditions require a fundamentally new understanding and approach to nursing.
Dignified care and assistance in old age and in life situations requiring help are the declared goal of the PDS policy in the present and in the future.
This requires a solid material and financial basis.
Elderly people in need of care and assistance have a right to a self-determined life in dignity and with human warmth as well as personal attention without fear and violence.
Secure income for the unemployed
Long-term unemployment and the social and regional division of the labor market have become entrenched at a high level.
Other parties are taking this fatal development as an opportunity to dissolve unemployment assistance in the social welfare system.
They want an insurance benefit for qualified unemployed people with good labor market prospects and a municipalized social welfare benefit for those to whom, at best, simple service jobs in the low-wage sector should still be open.
The PDS opposes this division.
We want to restore the solidarity-based unity of unemployment benefits for all the unemployed
and secure incomes when jobs are lacking.
Wage replacement is intended to protect the unemployed and the employed from the ruinous competition of labor at any price.
We want to introduce a tax-financed basic benefit for the unemployed.
This is intended to top up wage-related benefits if they are below the socio-cultural subsistence level.
Uniform legal and support regulations should apply to all unemployed persons.
No unemployed person should have to go from the employment office to the social welfare office anymore because of insufficient or missing benefits.
This basic benefit for the unemployed also relieves municipal budgets of the direct costs of unemployment.
A quick and lasting return to active working life must be supported through improved placement closer to the labor market, through qualification and support measures.
Promotion and qualification should be oriented towards future labor market needs.
In view of the persistence of mass unemployment, we believe that job-creation measures within the framework of employment promotion remain indispensable.
However, we do not want them for the purpose of pure employment, but in a way that makes economic and social sense for current and, above all, foreseeable future public service requirements.
Something especially needs to be done about the extremely high unemployment rate among people with disabilities.
This includes a significant tightening of the employment obligation for severely disabled people for employers with a drastic increase in the compensatory levy.
Unemployment insurance must be better adapted to the accelerated changes in the world of work.
We want to make it a labor insurance for all working people, creating entitlements not only to income but also to qualifications.
At the same time, it should have a stronger preventive focus, realize qualification requirements in advance of actual unemployment, enable job rotation, and thus provide a backstop for flexible transition strategies between different employment relationships, but also between gainful employment and family work.
Temporary withdrawals from working life for the purpose of private care work must be safeguarded for women and men.
At the same time, all measures of active labor promotion should be open to women and men after care phases.
Countering the further dismantling of the solidarity-based pension system
The 2001 pension reform breaks with the traditions of the welfare state that have been in place since 1957 to ensure a standard of living in old age.
It increases the risk of poverty in old age, especially for low-income earners, part-time workers, the unemployed, and insured persons with gaps in their employment histories.
Women are particularly affected by this.
In addition, the principle of "equal contributions lead to equal benefits'' does not apply to women in private pension plans because women have a higher average life expectancy than men.
Women are the main losers in the overall pension reform package.
In the meantime, facts have been created through the conclusion of collective agreements and private pension contracts, while rising unemployment and falling employment subject to contributions have made the model calculations for long-term contribution rate stabilization a waste of time.
The expected "pension reform" threatens to further reduce the benefits of the statutory pension insurance and increase private provision.
The main concern is that the retirement age will be raised.
We will not go down this road.
We will continue to work to improve the benefits of the statutory pension insurance system to make it age-proof.
These include the introduction of a pension based on a basic amount for those insured for many years
and the further expansion of independent old-age provision for women.
The PDS firmly rejects an increase in the retirement age.
The state subsidy for private pension provision is to be redesigned so that the principle of "equal contributions - equal benefits" once again applies to women.
Finally, we want occupational pensions to become the primary form of security alongside the statutory pension.
The establishment of occupational pension schemes in company and industry associations is to become mandatory.
Self-determined life through knowledge and culture,
Education and research
Education, knowledge and culture - these are the key resources in the 21st century.
Bringing out knowledge and new insights and using them for all, enabling equal access and participation for all, awakening and fostering the thirst for knowledge - that's what it's all about.
Precisely because knowledge quickly becomes obsolete and modern technologies and processes require increasingly specialized knowledge, the indispensable foundations of modern education include an understanding of interrelationships, the ability to learn throughout life, and social and historical knowledge about one's own society and culture as well as about foreign cultures.
The opportunities for access to and appropriation of education, knowledge and culture determine the social opportunities, real freedom and social participation of each and every individual, and thus at the same time the future viability of modern societies.
Education, knowledge, cultural offerings, art and the opportunities for cultural self-expression as basic conditions for a self-determined life must be open to everyone without restriction - regardless of their gender, age, social and cultural background, income or physical condition.
In order for everyone to be able to use the possibilities of the Internet, the digital divide that separates users from non-users must be closed or bridged.
All people should be able to have the prerequisites for using the Internet.
Education, culture and knowledge are predominantly components of social and state services of general interest that must be constantly maintained and expanded at a higher level.
We insist on this, especially in the mass media.
A democratic society needs public, democratically structured providers that are not subject to the profit principle.
Education and knowledge have fallen behind in Germany.
Compared with 29 OECD economies, Germany's share of public spending on education as a percentage of gross domestic product ranks only 23rd.
Only 8 percent of people from lower-income backgrounds now enroll in higher education, compared to more than 70 percent of high-income families.
The progress achieved in the 1970s under Social Democratic government responsibility in terms of the social permeability of the education system is now being substantially called into question.
It is precisely here that the PISA study highlighted the shortcomings of the German education system.
The state of daycare centers and schools reveals the appreciation of children and young people
The PDS wants to secure funding for the future task of education.
By setting new priorities in the budgetary policies of the federal and state governments and by creating an appropriate financial and tax policy framework at the federal level, we want to ensure that Germany reaches at least the OECD average level of education spending within four years.
We want equal opportunities for all.
Equal opportunities begin at the start.
For this reason, an institutionally secured and publicly funded supply of childcare places must already be available for young children.
Not only schools, but also daycare centers and kindergartens fulfill an educational mission.
Education and knowledge must not depend on one's wallet.
Educational opportunities are life opportunities.
Preserving equal opportunities and developmental possibilities for all children also means doing justice to the special importance of motor stimulation.
Sport in the sense of physical education should begin at preschool age and be systematically continued in school sports.
This is a basic prerequisite for health and for holistic development in view of the prognosis of further increasing lack of movement in learning and later professional activity.
Gifted and talented people should be better supported.
For us, creating equal opportunities also means providing special support for children with learning difficulties or disabilities.
We want to prevent the demographically induced decline in student numbers from 2005 onwards from being used as an excuse for further cuts in education.
The PDS is pushing for an education policy offensive.
School classes must be smaller, absenteeism must be reduced and educational content and forms of teaching and learning must be modernized.
Social learning is to be encouraged.
Special efforts are needed at the elementary school level - including integration and language support - to counteract the exclusion of foreign children.
We want to create the conditions for more all-day schools with childcare facilities.
School organization and school schedules must be reviewed and reformed in the direction of an integrated comprehensive school.
A democratic education system includes effective opportunities for students, parents and teachers to have their say on the necessary reform of educational content, school organization and school hours.
In teacher training and continuing education, the pedagogical, didactic and methodological elements must be strengthened and better linked to subject-specific qualifications.
Public investment in the maintenance and modernization of school buildings, taking into account accessibility, and in the material and personnel equipment of schools is urgently needed.
The PDS advocates a joint federal-state special program "School Offensive 2003 - 2006".
This includes the renewal of teaching and learning materials outside the usual acquisition rules, as this provides additional employment impetus.
We cannot allow our children to work with outdated textbooks and in antediluvian classrooms and subject areas.
This includes lowering class frequencies to no more than 25 students per class
and the autonomy of the individual schools in terms of content vis-à-vis the supervisory authorities.
Privatization of state schools
or the shift in responsibility for collecting sponsorship money to finance schools under the heading of "autonomy".
Start into an independent life
All young people need a real chance to complete vocational training appropriate to their interests and abilities.
At the same time, one of the tasks of vocational education and training is to support underperforming and disadvantaged young people in such a way that they can achieve a full qualification.
Above all, training places must go to the regions, to the young people.
In order to be able to offer all young people a training place with vocational prospects, the many qualitatively different dual, school-based and substitute training courses are to be systematized and further developed into a plural vocational training system with equivalent training courses.
The transition to such a plural system requires even more urgently that all companies participate in the financing of vocational training.
Companies that do not offer sufficient training places themselves must contribute to the financing by paying a levy.
Vocational training must not be left to short-term business calculations.
That is why we continue to advocate that apprentices be taken on for one year after their training.
And that is why we want to improve the development of new job profiles and training courses oriented to medium- and long-term changes.
The renewal of universities must become a central federal-state task in the coming legislative period.
We cannot afford overcrowded lecture halls and outdated technical equipment at universities and technical colleges in the 21st century.
We want to strengthen the transparent and pluralistic influence of social groups on universities.
We do not want only wealthy large companies to be able to influence science and research.
We uphold the responsibility of science and research to society and want to strengthen social influence without giving up the freedom of research.
Universities need equal co-determination bodies and democratically constituted student bodies with freedom of politics and opinion.
Germany will need more scientifically qualified specialists in the future.
We therefore call for open and socially equitable access to higher education.
For us, this also includes a need-covering and parent-independent education subsidy
and the legal exclusion of tuition fees nationwide.
Access to higher education for qualified professionals without a high school diploma is to be further facilitated.
The diversity of study programs at universities must be expanded
and their internationalization promoted.
At the same time, the equivalence and permeability of the courses offered by universities and universities of applied sciences must be established.
Actively promote the establishment of women's studies programs and women's and gender studies programs.
We want more women in higher education and research: an approach to filling every second professorship and junior professorship with a female scientist must become visible.
With the introduction of employment insurance, we want to create better social-law entitlements to further training during working life and at the same time ensure the financial participation of companies in this task for society as a whole.
In the coming years, the federal and state governments will be particularly challenged to create nationwide continuing education offerings and to strengthen continuing education as an equal component of our education system.
For responsible research
We advocate the freedom of research in social responsibility and the general availability of its basic results.
The previous funding of non-university research institutions must not be continued unchecked into this millennium.
The PDS demands the creation of a "colored list" analogous to the "blue list".
Its purpose is to promote ecological, social, intercultural and feminist research.
We need a public science sector to ensure the economic freedom and independence of research.
Funding for technology-oriented research is to be concentrated on issues and projects relating to the sustainable development of the environment and society.
Reproductive medicine and genetic engineering have produced results that seemed unthinkable just a few years ago.
They are extremely controversial in society because they raise fundamental ethical questions about the future of human nature.
Our society urgently needs this debate, because all historical experience shows that such decisions cannot be left to professional circles or economic interests.
The evaluation of the use of genetic engineering in diagnosis and disease control focuses on the one hand on people's legitimate desire for health and on the other hand on the desire for recognition of their respective physical constitution.
The PDS is committed to an open debate with and beyond the professional public involved.
Genetic engineering opens up new opportunities for the diagnosis and treatment of previously incurable diseases.
On the other hand, the temptation to carry out interventions in the human germ line, to realize eugenic programs and economic profit has become incomparably greater.
The interest of embryonic stem cell research and access to female reproductive capacity must not take precedence over women's right to self-determination and human dignity.
Genetic diagnostics therefore requires a political framework that balances the right to self-determination
and the fundamental moral values of our society.
Cultural diversity is part of society's wealth
We support the constitutional view of Germany as a constitutional, social and cultural state.
We are committed to further concretizing the federal government's increased responsibility in the area of cultural policy and its cooperation with the states in cultural and media policy.
We support all efforts to stabilize federal funding for cultural institutions, to
maintain the cultural infrastructure in eastern Germany
and to secure capital city cultural funding in agreement with the other states.
We support the project of a federal and state cultural foundation.
A reform of foundation and non-profit law, the promotion of honorary office and the introduction of a copyright succession remuneration ("Goethe-Groschen") can be new sources of cultural funding.
The expanding cultural and media industries at local, national and European level secure employment and cultural identity.
This growth market needs regulation:
public cultural funding, organized remotely from the state and co-financed by the business community, remains necessary to enable cultural diversity, which the market alone cannot ensure, but which is a prerequisite.
This requires an active cultural policy on the part of the states, the federal government and the EU that also reaches out to grassroots and socio-culture.
Freedom, democracy and security in the open society
The equal democratic participation of all in the shaping of society, equal rights for all - regardless of property, social status, gender, religion, ideology, sexual identity, skin color, origin, age, state of health or lifestyle - are essential features of a free, democratic society.
The PDS defends the Basic Law.
On its basis, we fight for the primacy of social responsibility, the
protection of civil rights,
against the surrender of economic policy to the play of free forces
and for a socialist future.
It describes a state that understands its inhabitants as subjects, that shapes the social and economic sphere, that wants to be democratically controlled and that fulfills its tasks in dialogue with the population.
The Basic Law wants to rule out the possibility that democracy can be economically blackmailed or bought.
Instead, it contains proposals on how even significant economic decisions can be democratically controlled.
Our constitution is not a dead ritual, but a call to action for everyone.
Anyone who wants to mutilate it must meet with the resolute resistance of all democrats.
It is the duty of politicians to bring the reality of our country ever closer to the constitutional mandate and not, conversely, to trim the constitution to fit the unsatisfactory reality.
The PDS stands up for those precepts of the Basic Law that are in danger of being undermined: for example, for human dignity, for the
prohibition of aggressive war, for the
social obligation of property, for the
separation of powers, for freedom of
assembly and expression, for
freedom of association, and
for the basic right to asylum.
A society that tolerates or even promotes social divisions and exclusions, that replaces social, politically established rules with private elbow room and the law of the economically stronger, produces growing insecurity, fears and conflicts.
A society that surrenders to supposed economic constraints not only fosters a feeling of helplessness and being at the mercy of others,
but also endangers the functioning of democracy through obvious unequal treatment.
Often tax evasion, subsidy fraud, corruption on the one hand, disregard for the social needs of life in society on the other hand are the result.
A dwindling sense of security among people is a central problem for a democratic society.
It diminishes the subjective value of democratic rights of freedom and citizenship.
For us, public safety has two sides: The experience of being able to influence and control one's own circumstances is just as much a part of it
as the experience of being able to rely on state institutions when it comes to protecting life and limb, possessions and property, solving crimes and prosecuting criminals.
For us, democratic civil rights and civil liberties, like fundamental social rights, are indispensable conditions for democratic security policy, because security is created where effective state action is subject to the control, influence and participation of the population, not where democratic civil liberties are restricted.
Expanding democratic influence
The opportunities for direct citizen participation are to be expanded at all political levels through practicable forms of direct democracy, popular initiatives, referendums and plebiscites.
The active right to vote is to be lowered to 16 years.
The right to vote and stand for election is to apply to all who have been permanent residents of Germany for at least five years.
We demand that the five-percent blocking clause be lifted.
The PDS is committed to significantly strengthening the rights of residents vis-à-vis administrations in approval procedures, plans and programs by expanding citizen participation and information rights as well as broadening access to courts.
We want to expand and improve the right of petition so that the public can represent its interests more effectively in dealings with the state and so that citizens' interests and expertise are given greater weight in legislative processes.
Individual rights must be strengthened, and the petition process must be made more open and public.
Particular weight is to be given to the commitment of thousands who address the Bundestag with mass petitions.
Here we want to facilitate opportunities for direct dialogue between representatives and re-presented.
We adhere to the parliamentary petition process with the central role of the petitions committees.
At the same time, we are considering relieving their workload and supplementing it with democratically elected ombudsmen with parliamentary responsibility.
A clarification of competences between the European Union, the national level, the federal states and the municipalities is, like
the separation of powers, an important prerequisite for a democratic state.
For the PDS, it is important to delegate more responsibility downwards in order to increase the proximity of politics to citizens and problems.
Democracy requires transparency of procedures and decisions.
The PDS is committed to the development of the Internet for increasing the transparency, service and quality of public administrations and institutions as well as politics.
Politics for and with the Sorbs, Danes, Frisians, Sinti and Roma who have lived here for centuries.
The Federal Republic must fulfill the obligations it has entered into internationally to protect the minorities who have lived here for centuries and to promote their linguistic and cultural interests.
The formulation of corresponding federal policy principles is on the agenda and must result in an article in the Basic Law.
Only if their national identity is respected nationwide and federal funding is secured can the members of these minorities cultivate their language, culture and traditions on an equal footing and secure a future for their ethnic groups in Germany.
Minority associations shall be involved early and comprehensively in the preparation of political decisions affecting their interests.
Strengthening the capacity to act and responsibility of cities and municipalities
Direct democracy, social responsibility, public spirit, tolerance and ecological reasonableness develop most sustainably where people can experience the results or failures of politics firsthand - in the cities and communities.
That is why we propose that municipalities should have more rights and real opportunities to regulate and shape public affairs on their own responsibility.
Local self-government, which is anchored in the Basic Law, is to be restored and strengthened through more rights of disposal over financial resources, expanded powers and direct opportunities to shape policy.
A reform of municipal finances that leads to a stabilization of municipal revenues by increasing the tax share of municipalities remains indispensable for us.
In the process, the trade tax is to be modernized, but not abolished.
Municipalities must also be relieved financially of problems they did not cause, such as unemployment.
When the federal government allocates tasks to the municipalities, funding must be secured.
Democratize the European Union
The European Union must become more democratic and transparent.
For many problems of economic, social and societal development, viable solutions can only be found within a European framework.
For the PDS, democratization of the EU means, in particular, strengthening the European Parliament and the population's ability to exert influence.
The Convention set up at the Laeken Summit opens up the opportunity to discuss the future of a unifying Europe, involving the candidate countries, both with parliaments and governments and with the general public, and to initiate a European constitutional process.
The PDS wants the Convention to present a comprehensive and far-reaching reform proposal for the future of the European Union.
Following approval by the European Council, it was to be put to the people of the EU member states and the states joining the EU in the same year in a Europe-wide referendum at the same time as the European elections in June 2004.
As a European socialist party, the PDS will work within the framework of this broad reform debate to ensure that the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union is given legally binding force as the core of a new constitution to be created, and that
the economic and monetary union is supplemented and realigned by a social, employment and environmental union.
We want the European Parliament to be given the right of co-decision as well as a right of initiative and
the national parliaments to be given more rights of co-determination and control.
In order to strengthen the role of citizens in Europe, we advocate - on an equal footing with national citizenship - the expansion of European citizenship.
End discrimination, make equality a reality
We continue to advocate the elimination of all discrimination against women.
For us, the truly equal participation of both genders in political and economic power as well as in gainful employment and family work is a decisive benchmark for the development of democracy, self-determination, freedom and justice.
Women do not have adequate influence on actual decisions in politics and business, and they are underrepresented in the relevant bodies.
In the area of political participation, we will present a quota law for all party lists for elections.
We will continue to push for an Equality Act for the private sector with binding quota regulations.
Women must have the right to fully determine their own lives.
We therefore continue to call for the deletion of Section 218 without replacement.
Whether women want to have a child must be their decision alone.
We oppose all legal and social discrimination against people on the basis of their sexual identity and demand that conditions be created for the full and equal acceptance of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people in society.
We want equality for all lifestyles.
Public safety needs concepts instead of hectic activities
Those who want public security must ensure internal peace, social balance and social justice, not a reduction in freedom and self-determination.
If you want public safety, you have to understand and fight the causes why people turn away from this society, why they commit crimes.
For us, pointing out the social causes and conditions of violations of the law does not mean releasing the perpetrators from their personal responsibility.
The PDS takes the fears and concerns of many people about crime and terrorism very seriously.
But we oppose policies that fuel people's concerns and fears in order to restrict fundamental rights and freedoms.
And no one can guarantee absolute safety.
A policy of public safety begins with the preventive prevention of crime within the framework of the rule of law and the welfare state.
Everyday violence, vandalism, property crimes often grow where funds for social housing, public centers, active social work, investments in social cohesion are cut.
It is our concern to change the causes and conditions of violations of the law in holistic social and domestic policy concepts.
For example, we continue to campaign for the decriminalization of drug use by addicts
and the liberalization of cannabis, following the example of our European neighbors
We want a police force that is close to the citizens, accessible to all, and democratically structured under the jurisdiction of the federal states.
Police officers must be adequately paid, well trained and well equipped.
The courts should be able to conduct proceedings more quickly as well as in closer proximity to the crime.
We advocate better staffing and technical resources for law enforcement agencies in uncovering white-collar crime, subsidy fraud, misappropriation of public funds, corruption and health-endangering violations of consumer protection rules,
as well as stricter punishment for such offenses.
We oppose a policy that seeks to establish public safety through ever new, spectacular laws, but does not ensure the effective application of existing laws.
We will work to ensure that the Bundestag reviews next year whether the recent anti-terrorism laws, which we opposed, actually contribute to better protection against terrorist attacks.
German history has produced depressing consequences and experiences of surveillance state methods.
The PDS strives for an open society in which secret services of any kind are superfluous.
We adhere to the principle of separation between the police and intelligence services that has grown out of historical experience.
The protection of the fundamental rights enshrined in the constitution needs the commitment of everyone.
We are firmly opposed to the privatization of police, sovereign security tasks.
Security must not be a privilege of the wealthy.
Consistently outlaw and punish attacks on physical integrity
Attacks on physical integrity are an elementary violation of human dignity.
They threaten civil coexistence.
Women and children as well as the disabled, the elderly and those in need of care are still exposed to sexualized, psychological and physical violence.
Any form of violence against people must be consistently outlawed and resolutely punished.
We relentlessly advocate the social outlawing and criminal prosecution of right-wing extremist and racist attacks and violence against people of a different skin color, origin or way of life.
The PDS stands for increased efforts to combat violence against women and children.
The protection of women and children against sexualized violence under criminal and civil law must be improved.
These include more victim and witness protection programs, comprehensive funding for women's shelters and intervention centers, child counseling centers, and emergency call initiatives.
This includes better social and psychological assistance for the affected people and their families.
It is urgently necessary to take consistent action against the circumcision of girls, which is also practiced in Germany, and to effectively support initiatives in other countries.
Combating right-wing extremism
Right-wing extremism, neo-Nazism, nationalism, racism, anti-Semitism, intolerance of certain lifestyles, extremist, religiously packaged fundamentalism are gnawing away at the foundations of democracy.
Because they make gender, descent, skin color, origin, religion, state of health the decisive characteristics and turn against elementary principles of civil coexistence, against the dignity and the equal right of every human being.
Anyone who opposes fundamental rights in a democratic society, freedom, equality, the separation of powers and equal democratic participation for all in this way should be fought politically and, where necessary, under criminal law.
We demand the consistent prosecution of racist and right-wing extremist, neo-Nazi and nationalist incitement to hatred and acts of violence
, as well as better education about anti-Semitism, racism and xenophobia.
The PDS wants the establishment of a public observatory for anti-Semitic, racist and right-wing extremist activities.
The PDS will continue to advocate broad alliances to fight the extreme right in the future.
We will continue to actively participate in it and stick to our demand for better public support of antifascist and antiracist groups.
Open borders for people in need
Human dignity, human rights are not divisible.
We defend the individual fundamental right to political asylum and demand open borders for people in need.
A state that turns away people in need violates an elementary humanitarian duty.
The PDS advocates that not only state but also non-state and gender-specific persecution be recognized as grounds for asylum.
We continue to advocate for the abolition of discriminatory special laws, such as the Asylum Seekers' Benefits Act or the Residence Obligation.
Hundreds of thousands of people live here illegally.
They are often victims of unscrupulous exploitation.
We must create prospects of legal residence for them.
The PDS advocates an EU-wide harmonization of asylum and migration policy on the basis of human rights standards.
The German government must abandon its blocking position in the Council of Ministers regarding the establishment of minimum human rights standards in EU refugee policy.
A new asylum and migration policy must say goodbye to the failed rigorous policy of closure, which not only puts the lives of refugees at risk at the external borders of the EU, but also contributes to the emergence of "shadow societies" of illegalized persons in the member states.
They must be given prospects for legalization.
Concepts of refugee defense, such as "safe third country" and "safe country of origin," which undermine the Geneva Refugee Convention, should not be included in a common EU asylum policy.
With its human rights-oriented refugee policy, the EU should become an international role model for other states and alliances of states and expand protection for people in need.
The PDS demands the full implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child
and the adaptation of the law on aliens and asylum with regard to the protection and rights of refugee children under the age of 18.
The Federal Republic of Germany is a country of immigration
The PDS advocates clear and transparent regulations that implement requirements from constitutional and international law and create clear legal entitlements.
People always come to us, never just "workers".
They need legal equality within the framework of a democratic immigration and settlement law.
The ethnic groups that have been living in Germany for a long time due to labor migration have the right to protection and promotion of the cultivation of their language, culture and traditions.
Legal regulations should also prevent migrants from being abused for wage and social dumping.
An anti-discrimination law must protect against everyday racism, against exclusion.
We need an active integration policy for those who immigrate and for those who have lived here for a long time or always.
At the same time, an active immigration policy obliges society to make social investments in language support, in cultural institutions, in concrete integration assistance and social work.
We want to strengthen intercultural education in schools across all subjects and promote multilingualism; in
the area of culture and youth, we call for more funding to promote democratic youth culture
and for international youth exchanges.
Respect for the other and the foreign is a condition of existence of a democratic society in a globalized world.
Solving global problems peacefully, cooperatively and equitably
"Peace,
Freedom,
Justice,
Human rights
and a life in dignity" - German foreign policy must be committed to these goals.
Peace can only grow where justice prevails.
Freedom exists only where people can live without fear of violence and without worrying about their daily bread.
The lasting safeguarding of peace and freedom therefore categorically demands that the antagonisms prevailing in the world today between rich and poor, North and South, strong and weak, be overcome.
German foreign policy should contribute to this through its own actions, through appropriate action in the European Union, in cooperation with other states and in the UN.
For the other parties in the German Bundestag, Germany's regained state sovereignty is demonstrated by its willingness and ability to wage war and to live with it as a normality.
For the first time since World War II, German soldiers were sent to war, against constitutional dictates and out of area;
armed forces are once again seen as a means of enforcing foreign policy interests.
We are not resigned to this.
Today, Germany is one of the strongest nations in Europe with global political weight.
We are adhering to the culture of military and power-political restraint that has long characterized Germany's postwar history.
In the Bundestag, the PDS has rejected the participation of the Bundeswehr in wars and military interventions for good reasons and has demanded the withdrawal of these military contingents from the areas of operation.
This will remain so.
The PDS wants to resolve conflicts by civilian rather than military means.
Germany must prove itself to be a fair partner in the world for global justice, sustainable development and prosperity.
As a country with close global economic ties, Germany must play an active role in creating a peaceful, viable and sustainably developing world.
For us, this also means that Germany must use its membership of the EU to enforce a social.
and ecological policy
At international level, we advocate the strengthening of international institutions such as the UN and OSCE and the reliable integration of Germany into these institutions.
Germany's future lies in a united Europe,
a Europe that rejects the hegemonic claims of others without making its own claims to supremacy,
a Europe that continues to develop its welfare state traditions
and is committed to a just world order.
Shape globalization
The past decade began with great hopes for peace,
for more democracy,
more justice
and an ecologically renewed world.
Far-reaching programs for the salvation and betterment of the world were decided at United Nations conferences, but were not realized.
Instead, the contrasts in the world have been exacerbated by unchecked capitalist globalization.
The policy of capitalist globalization, which is oriented toward the power interests of large industrial nations, leads to disastrous consequences.
They are unmistakable: more instability, more violence, more injustice.
Instead, we want to shape globalization according to the model of a cooperative world economic order: social, ecological, democratic.
We want to ensure that Germany becomes an asset in the democratic control of international financial flows.
and the involvement of international corporations in social responsibility.
The aim is to dry up all money laundering from illegal transactions, which is estimated to be worth 1,500 billion dollars a year worldwide.
But it is also about wealthy individuals and corporations escaping taxation by fleeing to tax havens and driving tax dumping.
It is therefore necessary for the Federal Republic of Germany to work for the abolition of tax havens.
The swift implementation of the OECD sanctions catalog against tax havens is a first step in this direction.
State room for maneuver must be regained, the corrosive power of transnationally operating capitals must be pushed back, and
international options for development must be strengthened.
This also includes the introduction of a tax on foreign exchange transactions (Tobin tax).
If a global agreement is not achievable, it should be introduced in the EU.
Agreeing on monetary cooperation would be another step toward stabilizing international financial markets.
Transnational corporations and investors must be held to social responsibility.
That is why we support measures to enforce social standards in global trade.
We affirm union efforts to establish binding codes of conduct and transparency measures that require companies to provide information about their investment activities and their social, environmental and employment impacts in each country in which they operate.
Procedures for social control of these investment activities must be developed.
International organizations such as the International Labor Organization or the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights must be given greater support and strengthened in their assertiveness.
The guidelines for the issuance of Hermes export guarantees are to be bindingly aligned with environmental and social compatibility and the observance of human rights.
Transparency, parliamentary control and the involvement of non-governmental organizations must be guaranteed.
We also reject the planned new regulation of the credit business (Basel II agreement), because any further withholding of loans to small businesses and making them more expensive will further kill off small and medium-sized businesses.
For us, education, research, health and water are public goods that must be excluded from the negotiations on the global liberalization and privatization of public services.
Public contracts and public procurement must be tied to compliance with social and ecological standards.
We advocate the release of patent rights for basic human care products - for example, drugs owned by pharmaceutical corporations that are not available to fight serious and widespread diseases such as AIDS in Africa for price and patent reasons.
Within the framework of the World Trade Organization and other international institutions, Germany should advocate fair development.
In our view, this includes the creation of global political and economic framework conditions that enable developing countries to develop their own markets and at the same time gain access to the markets of the North.
This includes reducing export subsidies from rich countries.
In the interest of immediate disaster relief in the event of volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, floods, etc., the system of international disaster management must be improved.
We want to ensure that the credit programs of international organizations focus on long-term cooperation, which is a prerequisite for the independent development of the debtor countries: resource-saving technologies in the field of food production and energy generation, health, water, education.
Such development programs must be linked to women's empowerment.
Bring about a turnaround in development policy - overcoming poverty
The number of international agreements in which the industrialized countries have made voluntary commitments to development cooperation is hardly manageable.
Unkept promises are also a source of hopelessness and anger at Western arrogance in many countries around the world.
German foreign policy should aim to break this cycle.
The German government must fulfill its promise to spend 0.7 percent of gross domestic product on development projects.
Germany should take the initiative for an international "Marshall Plan for Development" that commits all states to reallocating arms spending to development support.
The large industrialized countries of the OECD recently spent about 800 billion dollars annually on armaments, and
less than five percent of this sum was spent on official development assistance.
We say: Instead of an armaments boom, 100 billion dollars should be invested in water production and water supply and sanitation!
This would be an effective contribution to a peaceful world, to resource efficiency, to more jobs and prosperity development.
Of paramount importance for the countries of the South continues to be the reduction of their immense debt burden.
Signals of a new departure in development policy must be given by continuing and extending comprehensive debt relief for the poorest countries and generous debt relief agreements with the other developing countries.
Development programs are primarily intended to strengthen a domestic market-oriented economy in developing countries, to help build and expand social infrastructure and to promote their cooperation.
Comprehensive programs are needed to make independent contributions by Germany to the implementation of the goals formulated at the United Nations Millennium Summit.
In particular, it is about concrete contributions to poverty reduction, the fight against mass diseases, and sufficient access to water for all people.
Defend international law, strengthen and democratize the United Nations
A change of course in international policy is essential if violence in the world is to be reduced.
Conflicts that have been unresolved for decades, such as those in the Middle East, South Asia or Africa, and which repeatedly threaten to escalate, must finally be resolved fairly.
This requires new models and forms of regulation for peaceful coexistence and joint development.
Under U.S. leadership, the long-running campaign against "evil" was declared after the shameful terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001.
We have strongly opposed responding to terror with war.
Similarly, we oppose using counterterrorism as a pretext to advance strategic and economic interests, as NATO and the U.S. administration in particular are doing.
Civilization must be defended in a civilized manner.
The PDS condemns all terrorism, regardless of who it comes from and what motives are used to justify it.
We maintain that terrorists must be pursued efficiently
and must be brought before international criminal jurisdiction
and that their financial sources must be dried up - also by curbing the international arms markets.
- The United Nations must play a key role in the fight against international terrorism.
The adoption of a comprehensive convention, the establishment of a counterterrorism center, and the development of law enforcement tools are among them.
The speedy establishment of the International Criminal Court should be seen as an urgent task.
We want a world in which the most important decisions are made in the UN and not in self-mandating military alliances, such as NATO, or in organizations, such as the G7/G8 group.
The international order can be permanently based only on the rule of law and not on the power of the strongest.
The United Nations finally needs the resources it needs to preserve and develop a more peaceful world: Competencies, finances, personnel.
The strengthening and reform of the United Nations must not be put on the back burner.
It is in the interest of a more stable world order that the voice of the so-called Third World becomes louder in the international community.
This must be reflected in the weight of the UN General Assembly and in the distribution of seats in the Security Council.
The United Nations must be given a new responsibility also in the development of global economic, social and environmental policies.
This includes that the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank have to be integrated into the UN and have to be oriented towards the goals of poverty reduction, a society-wide promotion of development and the enforcement of human rights.
Disarmament now
After a brief interruption at the beginning of the 1990s, defense spending is on the rise again - also in the Federal Republic.
New setbacks loom in the global outlawing, control, and destruction of nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons of mass destruction.
The U.S. is pushing to build a new missile defense armament that will bring more uncertainty.
NATO's new strategic concept is designed for worldwide intervention to enforce strategic interests - oil, gas, water, to prevent flight and to secure trade routes.
A defensive alliance became an intervention alliance.
Military solutions to conflicts are becoming more and more the norm.
But there are alternatives to military logic.
The logic of peace is based on forward-looking policies, on economic and social reconciliation of interests, on the development of civil instruments of conflict management, on the intensive promotion of the dialogue of cultures.
It aims to overcome military structures and instruments.
A Germany without the Bundeswehr
and a world without war are and remain the goal of PDS policy.
Helping this logic to break through is a long-term task that must be started without delay.
The seriousness of preventive and sustainable conflict management must be measured against budget figures.
Funding for civil conflict resolution, including for the Civil Peace Service and peace and conflict research, must be increased substantially.
We want the NATO military alliance to be dissolved and replaced by collective security structures within the framework of the UN and its regional organizations, such as the OSCE.
Immediately, we advocate that the Federal Republic withdraw its participation in NATO's New Strategic Concept, withdraw its support for NATO's current buildup and rearmament program, and insist on the cancellation of first-strike nuclear doctrines.
We will not agree to new rounds of expansion of the alliance.
We stand by our proposals for a medium-term reform of the Bundeswehr.
100,000 servicemen and women are more than sufficient to fulfill the constitutional mandate of national defense.
Since the Federal Republic is now surrounded only by friends and partners, unilateral disarmament steps mean more security, not less.
We want a volunteer army composed of temporary soldiers instead of general conscription.
We call for a halt to the extensive modernization and procurement programs aimed at making the Bundeswehr fit for worldwide military operations.
The personnel strength of the Bundeswehr is to be gradually reduced, and 80 percent of the funds freed up in the defense budget are to be transferred to a federal conversion fund to enable a socially and environmentally compatible transition from military to civilian work and social structures in the regions where the Bundeswehr is based.
One-fifth is to flow into international cooperation and development projects of the federal government.
To organize this conversion process, a Federal Office for Arms Conversion and Disarmament is essential.
We will continue to press for arms exports to be banned and for a significant reduction in arms exports to be achieved in the next legislative period.
Seizing the European opportunity
The planned enlargement of the European Union by initially up to 10 states in 2004 offers the chance that in the near future the European Union will include all European states that wish to do so.
At the same time, we are aware that the candidate countries have many social and economic problems to solve.
The PDS advocates and supports the forthcoming accession of Central and Eastern European countries as well as Malta and Cyprus.
The PDS will work for a partnership cooperation with Russia,
with the states of the CIS
and with other neighbors of the European Union.
This would overcome the post-war division of Europe.
At the same time, new opportunities could open up to counteract neoliberal globalization and the increasing marginalization of entire regions
, and to put a stop to the resurgence of nationalisms in Western and Eastern Europe.
The PDS is committed to the cooperation of the left in Europe in order to strengthen the resistance against social and democratic dismantling.
Our goal - a Europe of democracy and solidarity - includes supporting the networking of trade union and workplace structures, social movements and initiatives, such as Attac and Euromarsch, and supporting the struggles against privatization in public services and against the dismantling of social networks.
Economic cooperation instead of competition between locations,
a domestic market-oriented industrial, structural, environmental and employment policy instead of social dumping and social cuts,
harmonization of corporate and wealth taxation instead of a ruinous race for low taxes and
a Europe-wide financial equalization - these are the perspectives of the PDS for an alternative Europe.
This Europe should be peaceful
, socially just,
democratic
and ecological
with openness to the world and open borders -
a Europe without nationalism and xenophobia
that sees itself as part of this one world, feels responsible for it and shapes it together with the peoples and states of other continents.
The PDS rejects the militarization of the EU and the EU intervention force.
Instead, the PDS is focusing on the development of a real civil power, the EU,
whose common foreign and security policy is characterized by military de-escalation,
quantitative and qualitative disarmament policy,
the expansion of civil conflict management structures
and the promotion of international cooperation within the framework of the UN and OSCE.
The development of European independence includes not shying away from emerging conflicts with the USA.
There is ample reason for this, as can be seen in disarmament issues alone, in environmental policy debates and in the attitude toward the International Criminal Court.
Democracy needs committed citizens - change needs initiatives, movement and cooperation
With its election program, the Party of Democratic Socialism makes political proposals for the work of the 15th German Bundestag in the next legislative period until 2006.
Our plans are reasonable, feasible and financially viable.
The PDS will be judged by how it has advocated this in parliament and in society.
We advocate the preservation and strengthening of the rights of parliaments and members of parliament.
Our policies are verifiable across the country through the work of tens of thousands of members, 6,250 local elected officials, 200 mayors, six state parliamentary groups, and MEPs.
Consistency, predictability and credibility were also characteristics of the work of the PDS parliamentary group in the 14th German Bundestag.
The policies of the PDS have attracted public attention, criticism, opposition and approval.
Many people share with us the insight that things cannot go on as they have in our country, that alternatives are possible.
We are encouraged by this:
In the federal elections in September 2002, the Party of Democratic Socialism aims to become the third strongest party in Germany.
The PDS is an open, a democratic-socialist party.
Our own history teaches us not to see plurality and democratic majority rule as unwelcome hardships and political weaknesses.
A party that believes itself to be know-it-all and in possession of the only correct doctrine is overwhelmed by social changes.
The Group will seek cooperation in Parliament and in the constituencies: with trade unions and works councils, unemployment initiatives and social associations.
With the women's movement.
With the peace movement as well as with critics of globalization, anti-fascist and anti-racist organizations.
With civil and human rights groups.
With sports clubs.
With environmental, consumer and tenant groups.
With the associations of land users and allotment gardeners.
With parent representatives and with scientists who are committed to democratic education reform.
With the unions of gay and lesbian people, of people with disabilities, of seniors.
With church and religious organizations.
And: with youth, school and student groups, those who represent the future of our society.
Their resolute advocacy of greater social justice, peaceful coexistence in a complex society and its social cohesion cannot be replaced by any political party or election program.
That is why we do not see ourselves as a proxy, but as a part and at the same time a partner of democratic, social and political movements and initiatives.
With the election program, we are laying the foundation for the parliamentary work of our group.
It identifies policy projects that can be implemented over the next four years.
And it invites to develop and realize further new projects together: against the pact of the economically powerful.
For the socially dependent and weak,
for peace, for the
preservation of the environment
and for the future opportunities of the youth.
