A good country at this time
Germany is a lovable and livable country in which it is possible to live, work and reside well:
The vast majority of our citizens have never been as well off as they are today.
Our economy is growing.
There is more employment in Germany than ever before.
The number of unemployed is at its lowest level since 1991, and the unemployment rate is lower than it has been in decades.
Young people are also finding training and work again: youth unemployment is the lowest in Europe.
Wages and pensions have increased significantly and continue to rise.
The social security systems are solidly financed, as they have not been for decades.
We have a high level of internal and external security in Germany.
That is why we can live freely and self-determined.
These successes of the CDU/CSU-led federal government benefit everyone, especially lower and middle-income earners.
Nevertheless, there are also unsolved problems in Germany and people whom we have to help because they are less well off or even worse off.
That is and remains our mission.
Germany is a stable country.
With consolidated democracy and a functioning rule of law.
With an open society and a high level of personal well-being.
With freedom, internal and external security, growth and competitiveness, social security, good education, efficient infrastructure and an intact environment.
We are a country with a distinctive, strong identity that offers its people a home and a foothold even in stormy times.
None of this can be taken for granted.
It was and is hard-earned by the citizens of this country.
It took a major political effort to redevelop our country's creative forces and its economic dynamism.
Since the joint implementation of Agenda 2010, since Chancellor Angela Merkel and the CDU/CSU took over government responsibility, since the major pension reform of 2007, our country's development has been moving in the right direction.
Over the past four years, confidence in Germany as a business location and in the reliability of the economic framework has grown steadily and enormously.
That is why we stand by what we have created and achieved together with our coalition partners for a decade.
There will be no turning away from our successful policies, no turning backwards to the mistakes of the past with the Union.
Today, we live in the most beautiful and best Germany we have ever had - despite all the crises and challenges that exist elsewhere.
The vast majority of people in Germany are satisfied with their living situation.
Many people identify with this country out of inner conviction and are committed to its future.
We live in peace and real friendship with all our neighbors.
Around the world, Germany is admired and recognized for many things, for what we have created in our own country and for the values for which our country stands.
And worldwide, Germany is a sought-after partner when it comes to resolving crises and conflicts and overcoming global challenges.
All this fills us with gratitude, joy and pride, and it gives us strength for the challenges of the future.
In many countries there are wars and crises, instability and uncertainty.
Human rights are trampled underfoot, the rule of law is disregarded, and freedom of speech and of the press are threatened.
Millions of people are threatened with death, on the run, or cheated out of their future by bad policies.
In Africa, in the Middle and Near East, in our European neighborhood, and in countries long considered exemplary.
The world seems to be coming apart at the seams, with international uncertainties increasing rather than decreasing.
It is Germany's task to be an anchor of stability in the world.
The Union guarantees: Germany and Europe can be relied on as partners in these troubled times.
That is why we must not stand idly by while our country is badmouthed and sold short by a few: By left-wing and right-wing populists and radical forces who defame our democratic institutions and our free press and try to divide our country.
This requires the courageous and active commitment of all those who bear political responsibility.
We must fly the flag for democracy, freedom, human rights, the rule of law and Europe.
Across party lines and party-political interests.
The CDU and CSU are ready for this.
Good future for tomorrow
We must not slacken our efforts, we must not rest on what we have achieved today.
In a world that is changing at great speed and constantly creating new challenges, it must be fought for, defended and expanded again and again.
Germany is part of the global context and developments.
Much of what takes place in other parts of the world has implications for us as well.
Only if we respond early and wisely to coming changes will we create the best for our country.
We want Germany, our children, grandchildren and ourselves to continue to do well in the future.
We are consistently setting the course for this:  Our prosperity and quality of life depend to a large extent on the steady and sustainable growth of our economy.
It must remain internationally competitive, expand its capacity for innovation and create sufficient new jobs.
Also and especially in the digital age and in the age of globalization.
Climate protection and the protection of natural resources are of existential importance.
Worldwide, population and prosperity are growing.
This increases the consumption of raw materials and the emission of CO2.
We must prove that an intact environment, growth and prosperity are not opposites, but two sides of the same coin.
That is why Europe is leading the way in climate protection and environmental protection, that is why we stand by the global climate agreement of Paris.
Security and stability are prerequisites for any kind of good life and economic success.
CDU and CSU are the parties of internal security.
Only a state that is capable of acting can ensure freedom
and security.
We stand behind the work of the police, intelligence services, security agencies and the Bundeswehr.
We stand by our responsibility within the framework of the UN, NATO and the EU.
We are part of the international alliance in the global fight against terrorism, organized crime, drug trafficking and against new threats on the Internet.
We combat the causes of flight and, through development policy and civil crisis prevention, help to ensure that people have prospects for the future and for staying in their home countries.
We fight all forms of protectionism and advocate international trade agreements and cooperation.
The modern globalized world in which we live is not compatible with isolationism or foreign policy isolation, nor with a policy that focuses only on what appears to be one's own national interest.
In the social market economy, we rely on the strength and creativity of the individual, of employees and entrepreneurs.
We are committed to providing opportunities for advancement for all those who are willing to make their contribution.
But we also know that solidarity and social justice are indispensable.
We leave no one behind and want to give as many people as possible a chance to participate and take responsibility for their own lives.
This is our European social model, which we also promote and advocate worldwide.
We want to strengthen the center of our society and the cohesion in our country.
To achieve this, we will continue to rely on families and children, small and medium-sized businesses and trades, voluntary work and civic engagement in the future.
The CDU and CSU have a joint project.
The Future Project Germany: Prosperity and Security for All.
We want to secure the existing good and create even better together.
Germany is a country of possibilities and opportunities.
Our future has just begun.
Politics by conviction
The CDU and CSU are united by the Christian image of man, in which man is the center of attention and human dignity is inviolable.
We are united by a common foundation of values
and a commitment to the social market economy.
Our roots are Christian and social,
liberal
and conservative.
We have been successfully shaping policy on this basis for many decades.
In an ever-changing world, there is a need for firm convictions, stability and order, moderation and middle ground, and curiosity about new things.
We want reliability in change.
We need a strong and efficient state, especially in difficult times.
This is also what the Union stands for.
Values such as family are particularly important to young people,
Cohesion
and home are becoming increasingly important.
With our values-based approach, we provide the right answers.
We aim to initiate, shape and win social debates.
We reject preconceived ideologies and images of the enemy.
Instead, we want practical and pragmatic solutions to concrete problems.
We will continue to strengthen political education.
We are two independent parties with many common and some different positions.
But always we are a Union determined to work together and to achieve common success for our country.
Responsibility for Germany
With Angela Merkel as chancellor and under the political responsibility of the CDU/CSU, our country has successfully mastered major national and international challenges in the past decade.
We have shown that we can govern well.
The citizens know this, and that is why they trust us to solve the pressing issues of the future.
We want to continue to live up to this trust.
Interest in politics is currently higher than it has been for a long time.
This is a tremendous opportunity for our democracy.
We can and want to get people from all ages and walks of life excited about politics and
strengthen acceptance of our free democratic basic order.
Politicians are rightly called upon to provide education, guidance and leadership.
We are facing up to this challenge with clear positions and proposals, as set out in this government program.
Today in particular, it makes a big difference who governs: The CDU and CSU only make promises that we can keep.
This is a central issue of political credibility and sets us apart from some of our competitors.
Promising everything to everyone will end up disappointing most.
The CDU and CSU are people's parties.
We bear responsibility for all people and give them a political home.
People from different walks of life, urban and rural, women and men, older and younger, people with disabilities, employees and entrepreneurs, locals and immigrants.
We are a centrist party and our policies are aimed at all people in Germany.
We are competing with the other parties for a majority and a mandate to govern in the federal election.
But we are also partners when it comes to the future of our country.
It has proven its worth that the democratic parties have repeatedly found common ground across party lines on major and existential issues.
This is a great strength of our democracy and should remain so in the future.
We bring people, positions and goals together, but do not level differences.
The strength of our policy lies in bringing together supposed opposites.
We know our responsibility for Germany.
We are convinced that we understand more about the economy, growth and jobs than others.
At the same time, we have always wholeheartedly embraced our social responsibility.
We have proven that for many decades.
Citizens can continue to rely on this in the future.
Good jobs for tomorrow too - full employment for Germany
Germany now has the lowest unemployment rate in over 25 years.
During our time in government, the number of employees has grown by 5 million.
There are currently 44 million employment relationships, more than ever before.
Half a million new ones are added every year.
Many of them are subject to social security contributions and well paid.
The number of vacancies is growing steadily.
Youth unemployment is the lowest in Europe, and
the number of training places on offer exceeds the number of applicants.
That was not always the case.
The red-green coalition left more than 5 million unemployed in 2005.
During the time in government of Chancellor Angela Merkel and the CDU/CSU, we succeeded in halving unemployment.
In June of this year, unemployment was below 2.5 million, which corresponds to an unemployment rate of only 5.5 percent.
This is a great confirmation of our policy.
We are not satisfied with this success.
Social is what creates work.
Every unemployed person is one too many.
We have set ourselves an ambitious goal: We want full employment for all of Germany by 2025 at the latest.
In West and East, in North and South.
We will halve the number of unemployed again.
We have a clear concept for this.
No other party in Germany is as committed to the goal of preserving existing jobs and creating new ones as the CDU and CSU.
Because we know: More jobs mean more economic growth, higher wages, more tax revenue, more social contributions, more prosperity for our country.
Secure jobs
Germany has more industrial jobs than any other country in the European Union.
Almost every fifth workplace is one of them.
It is not only in the automotive industry, in mechanical engineering, in the optical industry or in the chemical industry that products "Made in Germany" have a global reputation.
These jobs are a cornerstone of our economic success.
That is why we need to preserve them.
We will ensure that the framework conditions for Germany as an industrial location remain good in the future.
This includes stable non-wage labor costs and social security contributions as well as tax fairness in comparison with other countries in Europe and worldwide.
We want to secure a wide range of value creation in Germany in the future as well: from basic industries to industrial production and refinement to services.
We are fighting for every production sector and for every job.
Necessary regulations on environmental and climate protection must not lead to the relocation of jobs to countries with lower environmental requirements.
We want the German automotive industry to maintain its global market position in the future.
Past mistakes must be corrected and eliminated for the future.
We want Germany to produce the best and the cleanest cars.
We want Germany to become a leader in the production of alternative environmentally friendly drive systems, such as electromobility,
and to bring the development of autonomous vehicles to market maturity.
We will continue to improve the governmental and legal framework for this.
Create new jobs
In addition, we want to attract large numbers of new and future-proof jobs to Germany.
These include, in particular, jobs in the fields of digitalization, biotechnology, advanced environmental technologies, healthcare and services.
Our country needs suitable and qualified specialists in large numbers.
We will therefore significantly step up our efforts in the areas of education, training and continuing education.
We want to enable more women to work on a social security basis.
We also want to provide young people between the ages of 25 and 35 in particular who do not have a qualification with the aim of enabling them to earn their own living in the long term.
In this way, we make better use of the labor potential in our country, create new growth and further reduce unemployment.
No job should remain unfilled due to a lack of skilled workers.
We have already significantly improved and simplified the process of attracting skilled workers to Germany in recent years.
This need will continue to increase in the coming years - due to our good economic development and because of the declining number of young people newly entering the workforce.
Sufficient skilled workers available to the labor market in the various fields, in turn, entail the creation of more jobs.
That is why Germany needs a set of rules for managing immigration into the labor market that is geared to the needs of our national economy.
Such a "Skilled Worker Immigration Act" will combine the regulations already in place and, where necessary, make them more efficient.
The prerequisite is proof of a concrete job and the securing of a livelihood.
We reject immigration into the social security systems.
With a wisely managed and limited immigration policy for skilled workers, we support the creation of jobs in Germany and noticeably reduce the attractiveness of illegal immigration and migration.
Helping the long-term unemployed
The CDU and CSU want an opportunity to work for everyone in Germany.
After all, work serves the self-realization of the individual and creates quality of life.
We are not resigned to the high number of long-term unemployed.
We will significantly improve their qualification, placement and re-integration into the labor market.
We will increasingly give the long-term unemployed, who have no chance on the regular labor market due to special circumstances, the opportunity to engage in meaningful and socially valuable activities.
This is a strong contribution to cohesion in our country.
We will provide funding so that young people whose parents are affected by long-term unemployment can find their way into training and work throughout Germany.
Quality of work is important to us
Performance must be worthwhile.
Those who make an effort must have more than those who do not.
The CDU and CSU stand for performance and fairness.
Germany's employees should share in the good economic development of our country.
During the time of the red-green government, wages hardly increased at all.
This has changed for the better during the CDU/CSU's term in office: Because we are the guarantor of a good economic and labor market policy.
The introduction of the statutory minimum wage in Germany has basically proved its worth.
Everyone should be able to live from their work.
That is why we are sticking to it.
In practice, however, it has become apparent that many regulations are too bureaucratic and not very suitable for everyday use.
This affects our agriculture and gastronomy in particular, as well as other businesses.
Our declared goal is therefore to reduce unnecessary bureaucracy right at the beginning of the new legislative period.
Low-income employees are to participate in the general wage increase.
We realize the mini-job that grows with you.
In a modern, progressive labor market, workforce flexibility and mobility are important.
At the same time, it is our declared aim that people in all parts of Germany should increasingly be able to find work and training close to home.
We want to ensure that jobs are not only created in metropolitan areas.
We are ensuring this with a targeted structural policy that also opens up new prospects for rural areas.
We want men and women to receive equal pay for equal work.
We have taken an important first step in this direction with the Pay Transparency Act.
We will review the impact of this law and, if necessary, take further steps in close cooperation with the social partners.
We want employees to be able to participate more fully in the success of their company.
To this end, we will make the framework conditions for employee participation more attractive.
Disability must not pose a risk of poverty for the person concerned or his or her environment.
We have achieved fundamental improvements with the Federal Participation Act.
Being able to contribute to one's own livelihood through work has a special meaning for people with disabilities.
There needs to be more openness in hiring employees with disabilities.
We will modernize working time law in such a way that the collective bargaining partners can use additional scope for flexibility, as opened up by the European Working Time Directive, within the framework of collective agreements.
This does not increase the total weekly working time.
Flexibility in the labor market is important and has helped create hundreds of thousands of new jobs.
Temporary employment relationships may not simply replace permanent employment relationships.
Therefore, we will put an end to obvious abuses.
Especially career starters who have or want to start a family need a reliable perspective.
We have already achieved important improvements for employees through the reorganization of temporary work, agency work and contracts for work and services.
We want more women in management positions in business and administration.
We have achieved initial successes with the introduction of the women's quota on supervisory boards, but we also know that further efforts are needed.
We want to achieve equal participation of women in management positions at all levels in the public sector by 2025 at the latest.
Strengthen self-employment and small and medium-sized enterprises
The self-employed, freelancers, skilled trades and SMEs are the backbone of our economy and stand for high quality standards worldwide.
They create by far the most jobs and training positions and thus make an important contribution to the common good.
We want to publicly recognize and promote their performance even more in the future.
More young people than before should take the step into self-employment.
To achieve this, we need a new start-up culture in which success is recognized and failure is not defamed.
Those who start their own business often take greater risks and work harder and harder for their success.
We will develop a "Master Plan for Self-Employment" by 2019.
Obstacles on the path to self-employment must be removed, comprehensive advice and support guaranteed, and unnecessary bureaucracy avoided.
We will continue to improve the conditions for venture capital.
We also want to make it easier for start-ups to access venture capital through tax incentives: Those who invest in start-ups should be able to take this into account for tax purposes.
We are committed to dual training in companies and schools and want to strengthen it.
We will receive the master craftsman's certificate.
We will examine how we can introduce or reintroduce it for other occupational profiles in line with EU requirements.
We will ensure that higher vocational education becomes more widely available.
By means of a "master craftsman bonus", we want to make it possible for fees incurred when a master craftsman exam is passed to be reimbursed in full or in part.
Strengthen collective bargaining partnership
In Germany, we have good experience with the cooperation of collective bargaining partners, i.e. employers and employees, for the benefit of employees and economic development.
This is the envy of many other countries in Europe.
We therefore want to strengthen and encourage collective bargaining autonomy, collective bargaining partnership and collective bargaining commitment.
We want to structure statutory regulations in such a way that additional flexibility, leeway and room for experimentation are created for companies for which a collective agreement applies or is applied, or an agreement is reached with the works council.
The Remuneration Transparency Act with its graduated regulation is a good example of this.
We are establishing a "National Continuing Education Strategy."
We develop these together with employers, trade unions and the relevant bodies.
After all, lifelong learning, education and qualification are of central importance for all sectors of the economy and society.
Every employee should have the best possible career and labor market prospects.
Agriculture has a future
In Germany, agriculture, forestry and the food industry make a significant contribution to value creation, but also to quality of life, cultural and landscape conservation.
Particularly in rural regions, they provide valuable and modern work, training and learning places.
The CDU and CSU have always been the party of agriculture and forestry.
In particular, we also value modern peasant agriculture and the diversity of family farms.
We want to promote and maintain them.
Agriculture must have a future in Germany.
Our mission statement is a diverse, sustainable, competitive, soil-based and land-based agriculture in farmer ownership.
We stand up for the preservation of creation.
That is why we reject animal cloning.
We want agriculture and society to work together as partners and therefore promote dialog.
The CDU and CSU stand for the protection of property.
Broad-based ownership is the foundation of any farmer-owned agricultural and forestry production.
We advocate that agriculture and the food industry remain in an independent portfolio.
The EU's Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) is very important to us.
We stand for continuity in the Common Agricultural Policy and for maintaining the 2-pillar model.
We also advocate the continuation of direct payments after 2020.
The CDU and CSU are a reliable partner for farmers.
We will pay attention to agri-structural goals and especially promote active farmers, young farmers and small and medium-sized farms.
We want farms to have more time for stables and fields.
That is why we will reduce bureaucratic burdens for administration and businesses.
We need more exemption rules for small farms and must prevent multiple inspections.
We will set up an innovation fund for farmers.
We want to accelerate technical, biological and digital progress through agricultural research and innovations such as precision agriculture.
In this way, we can make a further contribution to resource conservation and climate protection.
This is another reason why the equivalent expansion of digital infrastructure in rural areas is so important.
For us, conventional and organic agriculture are not in conflict and are both promoted in a targeted manner.
Through a livestock strategy that takes greater account of animal welfare, we want to create social acceptance
and increase investment and planning security for farms.
Agriculture and animal welfare are not opposites, but are interdependent.
We see further improvements in animal welfare as a cross-border challenge and are striving for uniform standards in the EU.
For the CDU and CSU, animal protection is an important concern, because animals are our fellow creatures.
The introduction of a new government animal welfare label can help to increase animal welfare
and improve market opportunities for the farms concerned.
Further development in animal welfare must be practical.
Species protection is important and indispensable.
However, in order to prevent misdirection, the protection status of animals and plants should be regularly reviewed in the light of population trends and adjusted if necessary.
Land is the basis of production for our farmers.
We want to curb land consumption and will reform and simplify the compensation area system to this end.
In doing so, we want the impact on nature to be compensated financially, wherever appropriate, rather than through additional set-aside.
The revenue thus generated will be used to promote legitimate environmental concerns in other ways.
The primary task of agriculture is the supply of food.
We want to promote an appreciation for these high-quality local products through consumer education from an early age.
Therein lies great potential to use food properly
and reduce waste.
Market prices must be fair and provide producers with an adequate income.
We call for a permanent risk equalization reserve so that businesses can set aside tax-free in good years for years with slumps.
Market and production risks should not rest with the producer alone.
We want to promote a fair supply chain with market responsibility from processing level and trade.
At EU level, we are working to improve crisis instruments.
We will pay particular attention to the concerns of deep-sea fishing, especially in connection with the UK's exit from the EU.
In the spirit of sustainable timber and raw materials management, we want to continue to strengthen and utilize the potential of the forest in the future without sacrificing central concerns of environmental and landscape protection.
More freedom, less bureaucracy.
Germany's public administration is to become one of the most citizen- and user-friendly public administrations in Europe at the federal, state and local levels.
By introducing a digital citizen portal and an electronic citizen account, we will ensure that virtually all administrative services are available electronically throughout Germany.
Whether it's a tax return, an application for child benefit, car registration or a resident parking permit.
This saves time and money and enables additional value creation.
We have made progress in reducing bureaucracy and have relieved business and consumers of red tape during this legislative period.
Citizens' annual paperwork burden was reduced by 8.5 million hours during this legislative session.
Since 2015, the "one-in, one-out" rule has applied.
This arrangement has proven successful and will be continued.
Especially for medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen, excessive bureaucratic requirements are a serious impediment to their economic success.
We therefore need a new legislative and administrative culture that focuses on avoiding or limiting new regulations.
In the case of new legislative projects, control and regulation should - as far as justifiable - be dispensed with until a need for it has been clearly demonstrated.
The success of a government is not measured by the number of laws passed.
That is why we are aiming to reduce the number of new bills by at least 10 percent in the coming legislative period.
Renew and expand transport infrastructure
Germany is a model country worldwide for its infrastructure.
This is the basis of our leading international position in quality of life, work, growth and prosperity.
We therefore want to further strengthen our roads, railways and waterways and make them fit for the traffic growth of the future.
We have increased our investment in infrastructure by 40 percent to record levels during this legislative period.
We want to at least maintain this high level of funding for infrastructure.
The new Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan provides an excellent basis for further measures.
We are building on this policy.
We want trains to arrive on time and people to be stuck in traffic jams less often.
This also reduces noise and exhaust pollution from traffic.
The networking of different modes of transport offers great potential for this.
We will also continue to rehabilitate roads, highways and bridges, implement new projects and close existing gaps.
We want to make it easier to plan and implement infrastructure projects and to access funding.
Wherever possible and justifiable, the CDU and CSU will shorten the duration of planning procedures by cutting red tape.
To this end, we will pass a Planning Acceleration Act.
For replacement new buildings, administrative court proceedings should be limited to one instance.
We will therefore shorten the planning and approval procedures for particularly important projects on a case-by-case basis.
In doing so, we are guided by the positive experience gained from the German Unity transport projects.
We reject a general speed limit on German highways.
New trucks must be equipped with an automatic braking system that cannot be switched off by the driver and prevents rear-end collisions.
We want to reduce the number of serious accidents and traffic fatalities with targeted measures that are necessary due to local conditions.
Safety in traffic is of great importance to us.
Our goal in expanding the infrastructure is and remains: More mobility with less noise.
We have invested a record amount in noise prevention and protection since 2013.
We continue to do so.
We have made great progress in noise abatement on federal highways and freeways through the construction of noise barriers and the use of whisper asphalt.
We are now also increasingly targeting rail transport.
From 2020, the ban on noisy freight cars on the German rail network will halve rail noise.
We want to use the entire range of available measures, through modern technology, through active and passive noise protection.
We want Germany to remain the logistics world champion.
We will therefore strengthen freight transport.
To this end, we are creating improved competitive conditions for the environmentally and climate-friendly rail system.
We will consistently pursue the reduction of track access charges for rail freight.
At the same time, we are continuing the catalog of measures developed with our transport and logistics industry to strengthen competitiveness.
Among other things, this involves expanding and modernizing the supply of parking spaces for trucks on federal highways in line with demand.
Shipping, inland waterways and aviation are central pillars of global mobility.
To achieve this, we need fair international competition rules and improved national framework conditions.
In maritime shipping, we will receive the German flag.
We support the modernization and digitalization of our ports so that they remain powerful hubs in global competition.
In the future, integrated transport systems will be of paramount importance.
Young people in cities and metropolitan areas in particular are increasingly turning to interlinked concepts that combine individual and public transportation and communication systems.
The enormous possibilities offered by digitization will lead to the emergence of completely new mobility concepts in the future.
Germany is also said to be a leader in this area.
We are harnessing the potential of digitization for local public transport - and making it even more attractive: with a standardized digital ticket throughout Germany: simple, fast and unbureaucratic.
We want to intelligently network our transport associations and merge them into one system.
There will be an app and a digital ticket that passengers can use to travel anywhere in Germany.
In rail transport, we want to test innovative technologies and drive forward the electrification of important rail lines.
For passengers, we want punctual trains, a well-timed local and long-distance service (Deutschlandtakt) and modern stations in all regions.
We are placing a clear investment focus on modernizing rail infrastructure and accelerating the electrification of smaller rail lines.
We also want to enable mobility free of obstacles for all citizens.
A key project here is a program to promote accessibility at train stations.
Leading the energy turnaround to success
An economic and industrialized country like Germany needs a secure, affordable and clean energy supply for the long term.
The CDU and CSU are committed to this goal.
The decision to phase out the use of nuclear energy for power generation, which we took in 2011, was the right one and is supported by a broad majority of the population.
We have thus brought a decades-long debate to a conciliatory conclusion and will have completed the phase-out by 2023 as planned.
With the Final Repository Search Act of 2013, we have created a reliable framework for action.
With the transfer of a large part of the power plant operators' waste management provisions to the federal government, which was resolved in 2016, we are securing the necessary financial conditions for this.
The conversion of the energy supply to renewable energies has made considerable progress in this legislative period.
We have created a binding expansion path that gives all stakeholders planning security.
The market-based restructuring of the subsidy system has drastically reduced the expansion costs for offshore wind, onshore wind and photovoltaic systems.
We have stabilized the EEG surcharge, relieved the burden on energy-intensive companies, restructured the electricity market and created the conditions for the expansion of the major transmission networks by 2023.
Electricity must remain affordable for all companies and businesses as well as private consumers in the long term.
To this end, we are consistently pursuing the market-based introduction and system integration of renewable power generation.
Germany must remain a uniform electricity price zone.
Accelerating network expansion and removing bottlenecks are our top priorities.
This enables us to reduce costs to a considerable extent.
There should be no disadvantages for property owners, investments and jobs.
Modern electricity storage technologies are of great importance for the success of the energy transition.
We are continuing our efforts in research and funding.
Germany is to become a location for battery cell production again.
In addition to the further expansion of renewable energies, we want to further develop sector coupling: managing production and demand and linking electricity generation with areas such as transport, buildings and heat (so-called sector coupling) are becoming increasingly important.
This effectively limits costs and further increases security of supply.
Promote research and new technologies
Research and innovation are the basis of growth and prosperity.
We depend on bright and responsible minds.
Only if we invest steadily and sufficiently in basic research, applied research and new technologies will we be able to maintain our leading position in international competition.
Today's investments in research and development mean jobs, prosperity and quality of life, including for the people of tomorrow.
That is why we have significantly increased spending on research and development during our time in government.
Three percent of the gross domestic product is now invested in this area by the state and private industry.
By 2025, we will increase research and development spending to a total of 3.5 percent of gross domestic product.
This is a record figure and a sign that Germany continues to lead the way in this area.
We will enable tax-based research funding of 2 billion euros.
In order to effectively support small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, we will introduce a right to choose between existing project funding and tax-based research funding.
This measure further increases Germany's attractiveness as a location for top researchers from all over the world
and attracts investment in new, future-proof jobs.
The research and application field of artificial intelligence will gain immense importance.
So are high-performance and supercomputers, handling big data, quantum technology and robotics.
These areas are important focal points of our future government work.
In addition to the "Digital Agenda," we will develop a "Biotechnology Agenda" to ensure that Germany also maintains its opportunities in this highly innovative field of research.
We want to lead Germany into the group of the three best in the world in research on cancer, dementia and infectious diseases.
We are expanding research into the treatment of other common diseases and into pediatric and adolescent medicine.
Germany has excellent basic research and strong R&D departments in companies.
We will increasingly support innovation processes and promote leap innovations.
Using globalization for Germany's future
Our world is moving ever closer together: Through rapid technological development, especially in the area of communications and the Internet, through the international division of labor and the ever-increasing exchange of goods, services and capital.
Globalization, which has been going on for many decades, has benefited the vast majority of countries and their citizens enormously.
It has also contributed significantly to the creation of our prosperity.
Germany is an export nation that particularly benefits from open markets and international supply relationships.
The process of globalization also needs rules and standards to prevent excesses and undesirable developments.
That is why cooperation within the framework of the G7 and G20 is so important; that is why we need the European Union and the United Nations, the OECD, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
We are committed to international and multilateral cooperation between countries and regions.
We will intensify transatlantic relations again.
The U.S. is and will remain a key partner, including in the areas of trade and economics.
We want to breathe life into the CETA free trade agreement concluded between the EU and Canada, and we continue to strive for a free trade agreement between the EU and the USA.
We will protect ourselves against unfair trade practices.
Focus on families and children
Families and children are our great happiness.
When two people are there for each other and take responsibility, they contribute to a humane and stable society.
Wherever people take responsibility for children and their education, they make a valuable contribution to our common future.
It is a great encouragement that young people in particular are increasingly willing to do this
and that the number of births is rising again.
For us, promoting marriage and families remains one of the most important tasks of the state.
That is why marriage and families are under the special protection of the Basic Law.
We do not prescribe any particular family model to families.
We respect the different ways of living together.
People should decide for themselves how they live together and organize their everyday lives.
Responsibility is also assumed and lived out in other forms of cohabitation that are designed to last: for example, by single parents, patchwork families, non-marital cohabitation and the existing registered civil partnerships.
The CDU and CSU are committed to this.
Since 2013, we have introduced ElterngeldPlus, reformed the Maternity Protection Act, and adjusted child benefits and child allowances in line with increases in the cost of living.
We have invested around 5.3 billion in the construction and operation of daycare centers and are
helping financially weak cities and communities with around 7 billion euros in the overdue refurbishment of schools and facilities.
In the next four years, we want to focus our support on families and children even more strongly than before.
We are not resigned to child poverty.
We want all our children to receive the best possible upbringing, education and care, regardless of their parents' background and living situation.
We want families to have time for each other and with each other, so that they can consciously shape and experience the most beautiful time of their lives.
And we want young families to be able to purchase more residential property for themselves and their children than before.
Children's rights in the Basic Law
The Basic Law already places marriage and the family under the special protection of the state.
Children also need special protection.
The protection of children is a constitutional priority for us.
That is why we will include their rights in the Basic Law.
Strengthen education and care
Parents' freedom of choice with regard to the education and care of their children is important to us.
This assumes that care is actually available wherever parents want or need it.
In recent years, under the government responsibility of the CDU and CSU, a legal right to a kindergarten place and a legal right to a daycare place have already been introduced.
Many thousands of childcare places have been created as a result.
We will therefore also introduce a legal entitlement to childcare for primary school children in the coming legislative period: This will also ensure care in this important phase of life.
In doing so, we will pay attention to flexibility, take a needs-based approach, and maintain the diversity of existing care options, such as daycare centers.
With the new legal entitlement, we are helping young families to better combine work and family.
We also want to provide incentives for more commitment on the part of entrepreneurs.
We will extend the tax exemption for employer subsidies for childcare costs through the end of elementary school.
In parallel to increasing the number of childcare places, we will ensure that the quality of education and care is further expanded.
A key role is played by equipping daycare and childcare facilities with sufficient and well-trained staff.
Relieving the burden on families
We will noticeably improve the financial situation of young families by raising the child allowance in two steps to the level of the adult allowance and increasing child benefits accordingly.
As a first step, we will increase child benefits by 25 euros per child.
300 euros more per child per year is a strong signal.
At the same time, the child allowance will be increased accordingly.
We will implement the second step depending on the economic situation, but at the latest in the following legislative period.
Improve compatibility of family and career
Employees already have a legal right to part-time work.
To make it easier to return to full-time work, we also want to create an entitlement to temporary part-time work in companies above a certain size in the future.
We will quickly discuss the type and content of the regulation with the social partners.
We will ensure that single mothers and fathers who have given up work after the birth of their children receive regular counseling on opportunities for reintegration into the workforce.
Together with the collective bargaining partners, we will develop flexible models that enable families to spend more time together.
We will examine whether more scope for family time can be created within the framework of family and lifetime working time accounts.
Making home ownership possible for families
We want to do more to help young families buy their own home than we have in the past.
This should apply equally to existing buildings and new buildings.
To make the dream of owning one's own home more attainable, we will reintroduce a building allowance of 1,200 euros per child and per year.
The building allowance is to be paid over a period of ten years.
This entitlement is to apply to all purchase contracts or building permits newly concluded or issued since July 1, 2017.
We want to introduce allowances for adults and children in the real estate transfer tax.
The competence of the federal states is preserved.
This is to apply to the first-time acquisition of owner-occupied residential property.
Regulations for new buildings to protect the environment and climate and reduce energy costs often take decades to pay for themselves.
In addition to KfW's existing subsidy offers, we will therefore examine solutions that allow these costs to be amortized over the entire life of the building, thus easing the burden on young families' credit lines.
Improve social appreciation for families
We want to achieve greater social recognition of the enormous contribution that families with children make to our country.
Participation and involvement in public and social events must be possible more easily than before.
The CDU and CSU stand for a good family culture.
We want families and children to have more right of way than before in public authorities and institutions, for example at airports, ticket offices and museums.
Because families and children are the foundation of our society.
We want to create a contact and information point for all family matters so that young families can make the best possible use of the variety of support services offered by the state.
Equivalent living conditions throughout Germany
Germany is a country with great diversity, different traditions and mentalities.
In north and south, in east and west.
In rural regions as well as in cities and metropolitan areas.
This diversity is a true treasure that we want to preserve and increase.
This presupposes equivalent living conditions throughout Germany.
No one should be left behind because he or she is at home in a particular region.
It must be possible to have equal access to education, work, public infrastructure and services of general interest everywhere in Germany so that the whole of Germany is and remains worth living in.
Promoting and strengthening rural areas
Over the next four years, the CDU and CSU will create the conditions for good development in all regions through a "Rural Area Offensive".
Scales and rules developed for more densely populated areas often do not fit the needs of our rural areas.
In order to ensure nationwide availability of services of general interest there as well, we will examine which deviations, special regulations and opening clauses are necessary.
This also applies to investment promotion and building law.
The CDU and CSU will ensure adequate medical care in rural areas.
This also includes the maintenance of nursing facilities and hospitals, the rapid availability of emergency medicine, and the provision of obstetrics and midwifery services, including prenatal and postnatal care.
We will promote the creation of "medical care centers."
The interests of rural areas are to be given special consideration in the allocation of study places in medicine.
We want a decentralization strategy.
To increase the attractiveness of rural areas, the establishment of public authorities, schools, universities and research institutions in the area is a suitable instrument.
This has been impressively demonstrated by experience in Bavaria.
We want work to come to the people more than it has in the past.
This also applies in particular to rural regions in the new federal states.
The expansion of renewable energies has shifted a considerable amount of value creation back to rural areas.
Therefore, the plannable, predictable and market-based progress of the energy transition is of particular importance for these regions.
The rapid development of digitization and communications is making it possible for private companies to settle in rural areas more than before.
To achieve this, the widespread availability of fast broadband and mobile communications coverage is absolutely essential.
CDU and CSU ensure superfast Internet in all regions.
We want to further develop the existing joint tasks "Improvement of the agricultural structure and coastal protection" and "Improvement of the regional economic structure" with a special focus on rural areas.
In the future, urban development funding should take better account of the needs of rural areas.
To this end, we will develop it into an instrument of urban and municipal development.
Tourism is a strong local economic force that we intend to further expand in the coming years.
For our rural areas, nature tourism in particular is a driver for development.
Home and identity are often particularly strong in rural areas.
Voluntary commitment makes an outstanding contribution to this.
We want to prevent existing volunteer structures from suffering from declining populations.
This requires special support, especially from local and state governments.
Full-time support and central contact and advice centers are important.
To this end, we will establish a new volunteer foundation.
Liveable cities
Over the past four years, the federal government has significantly increased funding for urban planning and development, thus making an important contribution to quality of life in urban agglomerations as well.
The financial situation of cities and municipalities in metropolitan areas varies widely.
In addition to booming cities with full employment and a good financial situation, there are cities and municipalities that are suffering from industrial structural change and have been bled dry financially.
We are not resigned to voluntary services being cut
and the quality of public facilities such as schools and childcare facilities suffering.
Help for these cities and municipalities is also a task for the state as a whole.
The German government has created a fund totaling 7 billion euros through which such municipalities can be supported, particularly in the repair of schools and educational facilities.
We know that more support is needed to solve the problems.
Equal opportunities in east and west
Since German reunification, the new federal states have seen flourishing landscapes in many places.
and future-proof jobs have been created.
We want this development to progress everywhere.
By reorganizing federal-state financial relations, we have ensured that the new states will continue to receive the support they need even after the Solidarity Pact expires.
With the gradual alignment of pension values in the east and west, we have taken another important step toward completing unity.
The federal government, together with the states, will take measures to create a new structural perspective for regions with special development needs.
This includes good rail and road connections, broadband expansion with fiber optics and 5G, and research activities for modern energy technologies.
The promotion of company settlements in the particularly affected regions must be safeguarded under European law.
The long-term phase-out of lignite must proceed in parallel with concrete new structural development.
By standardizing transmission system charges nationwide, we are making it more attractive to create jobs in the new federal states.
Commission "Equality of living conditions
We will set up a commission on "Equality of Living Conditions" after the Bundestag elections.
Representatives from the federal, state and local governments are to work together.
In doing so, we will ensure that the disadvantaged regions, cities and municipalities in particular are also adequately represented.
By mid-2019, the Commission is to present proposals on how the Basic Law goal of equivalence can be achieved better and faster, and what changes are required to achieve this.
Prosperity and quality of life
Sound public finances
We want to leave our children and grandchildren an orderly community: With our own room for maneuver and without crushing burdens from the past.
The state may not permanently spend more than it takes in.
That is why sound public finances are so important.
We have made considerable progress along this path, and we want this to continue in the future.
In recent years, the CDU and CSU have restructured the federal budget
while at the same time significantly increasing spending on education and research and investing heavily in public infrastructure.
Thanks to good economic growth, low interest rates and sound budget management, we have managed not to take on any new debt since 2014.
No other government has managed that since 1969.
In this way, we also comply with the debt brake of the Basic Law.
We even generated substantial surpluses and used them to finance additional investments and unforeseen expenses.
In the meantime, even the "general government budget," i.e. the budgets of the federal, state and local governments as a whole, is showing a surplus.
This success is the envy of many.
Germany's general government debt ratio has fallen from 77.5 percent in 2011 to 68 percent in 2016.
We have again complied with the 3 percent criterion of the European Stability and Growth Pact since 2011.
In doing so, we are sending a clear signal beyond Germany to the whole of Europe.
In addition to consolidating the federal budget, we have relieved the federal states and cities and municipalities of up to 100 billion euros since 2014.
We have restructured the financial relationship between the federal government and the federal states from 2020 as part of a major national effort.
The states receive just under 10 billion euros a year from the federal government so that they can fulfill their tasks and comply with the debt brake.
In this way, we are also making an important contribution to the east-west alignment and to the equality of living conditions throughout Germany.
Exemplary federal states such as Bavaria will even be debt-free from 2030.
We promise for the coming government period: In the next four years, we will continue to comply with the debt brake of the Basic Law.
We will continue not to take on any new debt in the federal budget.
We are using the financial leeway resulting from the good economic situation to fulfill our internal and external governmental tasks by
investing in education,
research and infrastructure,
promoting families and children,
and cutting taxes, which should primarily benefit the working middle class of our society.
In the medium and long term, we also want to pay off existing debt.
Depending on further economic developments, we want to start this as early as the next election period.
Fair and equitable: lowering taxes for all
A strong state that provides security, education, social safety, public infrastructure and a good environment needs revenues to fulfill its tasks.
Fair and equitable taxes and duties serve this purpose.
Sustained economic growth and new jobs help ensure that government revenues develop in a stable manner.
Strong shoulders carry more than weak ones, but no one should be burdened by taxes in such a way that performance and willingness to perform decline.
In 2013, the CDU and CSU promised not to raise taxes in this legislative period.
We have kept this promise.
We have even cut taxes.
As a result, we have significantly boosted confidence in a stable fiscal framework and encouraged many people to work harder and perform better.
We are sticking to this successful course.
Our country owes its great success in recent years in part to the solidarity of its citizens and their understanding of necessary reforms and community cooperation.
We now want to give something back from this success through our tax concept:
Unlike other parties, we say: We do not want any tax increases.
They would affect skilled workers and SMEs, slow down investment in our future and therefore do more harm than good for everyone.
We reject that.
We will ensure that the tax rate does not increase either.
We will gradually abolish the solidarity surcharge on income tax for all as quickly as possible from 2020.
For the coming legislative period, we are starting with relief of around EUR 4 billion.
The good economic situation makes it possible to reduce income tax by a good 15 billion euros.
This relief should primarily benefit the middle of our society, i.e. families with children, employees, tradespeople and SMEs.
We will make income tax rates fairer overall and reduce the so-called "middle-class bulge".
The top tax rate, which increasingly applies to the incomes of skilled workers, craftsmen and SMEs, will in future only apply to taxable annual incomes of 60,000 euros.
We will noticeably improve the financial situation of young families by raising the child allowance in two stages to the level of the adult allowance and increasing the child benefit accordingly.
As a first step, we will increase child benefit by 25 euros per child.
300 euros more per child per year is a strong signal.
At the same time, the child allowance will be increased accordingly.
We will implement the second step depending on the economic situation, but in the following legislative period at the latest.
If there is a functioning exchange of information between the tax authorities internationally, the flat-rate final withholding tax is to be replaced by individual taxation.
If capital gains are already subject to tax, this should not lead to disadvantages for the investor.
Our goal remains to introduce a financial transaction tax as part of enhanced cooperation with other EU countries.
During implementation, we will ensure that distortions of competition are avoided
and that the interests of Germany as a financial center are safeguarded.
Only as a strong and competitive financial center can Germany continue to actively shape the regulation of international financial markets.
We have played a key role in driving forward the international fight against tax avoidance and tax evasion.
Joint, internationally coordinated action against the erosion of the tax base and against profit shifting has replaced national egoisms in tax policy.
This is the purpose of the major OECD/G20 project "BEPS", which we helped initiate and which 100 countries have now joined.
Gaps in taxation are closed, and tax abuse is consistently prevented.
We successfully oppose harmful tax competition.
We want to continue along this path and ensure fair tax competition.
The inheritance tax was revised in 2016 in a broad consensus between the federal and state governments.
Plannability and reliability are particularly important for family businesses and SMEs in order to guarantee the continuation of the companies and secure jobs.
We therefore reject any deterioration in inheritance tax.
We rule out the reintroduction of the wealth tax.
Large contributions are still lost to the state through tax fraud.
We therefore want to develop binding standards together with the countries in order to combat tax fraud even more effectively in the future.
With our "Citizen-Friendly Administration" program, we will ensure that the processing and submission of tax returns is fundamentally simplified everywhere in Germany.
Pre-filled electronic forms are to be available to every taxpayer, in which essential information on income, number of children and amount of social security contributions are already taken into account.
Best education and training
The CDU and CSU are the guarantors of good education
and training.
All children in Germany should receive the best available education and training, regardless of their parents' background, income or level of education.
Only then can they make the most of their lives.
At the same time, continuing education and lifelong learning secure our jobs and our prosperity.
According to the Basic Law, school education is a matter for the states and will remain so.
Nonetheless, we have a responsibility to the state as a whole: The equivalence of living conditions presupposes the equivalence of education.
Over the past four years, we have eased the burden on the states in the areas of higher education and research.
We have transferred BAfG to the sole responsibility of the federal government and significantly increased it.
Following the fundamental reform of the Meister-BAfG, more people can now benefit from it than ever before.
We have set up a special fund totaling 7 billion euros from which schools in financially weak municipalities can be refurbished.
We are continuing along this path:
We are committed to permeability between school types and training paths.
We are as committed to the lower-performing students as we are to the high-performing ones.
We want to maintain the Gymnasium as an independent form of school in the future.
By introducing a new legal entitlement to needs-based care at primary school age, we are creating a key prerequisite for ensuring that this important stage of education is successful for as many children as possible - including those from educationally disadvantaged backgrounds.
We will support the federal states in promoting the digital skills of students as comprehensively as possible through further training of sufficient teachers.
As a successor to the expiring Higher Education Pact, we want to work with the states to strengthen good teaching and digitally innovative universities and universities of applied sciences.
We will continue to strengthen vocational training and, to this end, establish the "higher vocational training" model together with the states, chambers and social partners.
This means more and new opportunities for advancement for dual-trained employees.
In this way, we are opening up attractive new career prospects for upwardly mobile people who do not have a high school diploma or a university degree.
Additional guidance, tailored support services and qualification will increase the attractiveness of vocational training and ensure that more people graduate.
In addition, we will define common education policy challenges in an ongoing dialog with the states and drive forward their implementation.
In this way, we have already been able to reduce the number of school dropouts by more than a quarter between 2006 and today.
This encourages us to continue on this path.
Opportunities for young people
Young people and adolescents need comprehensive support and guidance.
This includes sufficient education and care services, to which the federal government contributes.
In recent years, the number of training places in Germany exceeded the number of applicants again for the first time, although the situation still varies greatly from region to region.
This made it possible for almost all applicants to find a training position.
A few years ago, this would have been unthinkable.
We have reformed the Advance Maintenance Payment Act and increased both the maximum age limit and the limit for the period of entitlement.
This benefits not least the young people themselves and their life situation.
Mobility is crucial for young people and their development.
We will therefore talk to the federal states about reduced-price access for schoolchildren, trainees and students to local and regional public transport, which could be based on the Hesse ticket, for example.
Property and housing for all
Sufficient and affordable housing of good quality is an important prerequisite for a good life in Germany.
Demand for affordable housing has risen steadily and significantly in recent years.
In the last legislative period, we already achieved an increase in newly built housing to a total of 1 million homes.
To this end, we have provided billions of euros in support to the German states in the area of social housing.
We want 1.5 million new homes to be built in Germany from 2017 - 2021 in the coming election period:
That means an increase of 50 percent compared to today.
In this way, we are taking considerable pressure off the housing market.
In the coming legislative period, we will once again significantly intensify our efforts:
Housing construction is the best protection for tenants and the best means of combating escalating rents.
We are not relying on excessive regulation, but on stimulating public and private housing construction.
This includes the creation of student housing.
In the coming legislative period, we will not adopt any measures that make the creation of housing more expensive.
We will examine the extent to which cost-cutting potential can be tapped by abolishing superfluous regulations.
We will provide tax incentives for the construction of new rental housing and reintroduce the declining balance depreciation method for a limited period.
n the past year, a law to this effect was not passed due to the opposition of some federal states.
After the federal election, we will take another run at it.
We want to reform and improve the housing allowance system to better reflect individual living situations.
Landowners who make agricultural land available for building purposes should be able to reinvest the income generated in the process in rental housing on a tax-privileged basis.
In this way, we relieve the burden on cities and conurbations.
We will ensure that the discounted sale of federal land to cities and towns is further facilitated.
For overriding social reasons, we deviate from the principle of economic efficiency in these cases.
We will provide tax incentives for energy-efficient building refurbishment, thereby creating additional incentives.
We will promote the purchase of owner-occupied housing, especially for families with children.
To this end, we are introducing a new building allowance of 1,200 euros per year for each child, payable for ten years.
We want to introduce tax-free allowances for adults and children for real estate transfer tax.
The responsibility of the federal states remains intact.
This should apply to the first-time purchase of owner-occupied residential property.
In the first half of 2018, we will bring about binding agreements between all parties involved at a "housing summit" of the federal government, federal states, municipalities, construction and real estate industry.
Health and care at a high level
Germany has one of the best healthcare systems in the world.
We will ensure that people continue to receive good medical and nursing care in the event of illness, need for care or an accident - regardless of their income and place of residence.
The freedom to choose a doctor and hospital and competition among health insurers and health insurance companies enable patients to choose according to the quality and cost-effectiveness of the care they receive.
Our health care system has proven itself with the freelance medical profession, its self-administration and its statutory and private health insurers.
We reject the introduction of a so-called citizen insurance.
We are guided by the interests of our patients: We will tailor care even more closely to them personally.
By improving the networking of all those involved in the provision of care, we will ensure that many good individual medical and nursing services always become a good team effort as well.
Especially the care of elderly, often multiple and chronically ill people, seriously ill children and mentally ill people requires this.
In order to continue to offer excellent medical and nursing quality, treat emergencies in a way that covers costs, and strengthen hospital hygiene, hospitals need adequate funding.
We therefore want hospital reimbursement to take account of price trends, and in particular full compensation for tariff increases.
We guarantee good medical care in rural areas.
We will safeguard the supply of local pharmacies by prohibiting the mail order of prescription drugs.
The past few years of government have been good years for health and care: After a large number of health care reforms in the past, our health care system has now been stable and efficient for around ten years.
We want to attract even more people to work in healthcare.
Following the modernization of training in the nursing professions, it is important to
further improve the working conditions of our nursing staff both in our hospitals and in the care of the elderly.
We will therefore resolutely implement the improvements in staffing levels that have been initiated.
We will abolish school fees for the training of physiotherapists, occupational therapists and speech therapists and the other medical professions.
We have already abolished school fees for nursing care for the elderly.
We will swiftly implement the "Master Plan for Medical Studies 2020".
This includes a strengthening of general medicine and science-oriented work as well as an allocation of study places that takes into account other aptitude criteria in addition to the Abitur grade.
We also strengthen patients' rights by providing more comprehensible health information and greater transparency with regard to the quality of medical and nursing services.
That is why we will create a "National Health Portal" that bundles scientifically validated and comprehensible information and makes it available on the Internet.
The freedom to choose a doctor and competition among health insurers and health insurance companies enable patients to choose according to the quality and cost-effectiveness of the care they receive.
It remains the task of policymakers to create fair competitive conditions.
With the Innovation Fund, we are promoting forward-looking forms of care.
The aim is to fundamentally develop standard care by improving the interlinking of care provided by physicians in private practice and hospitals, as well as increasing cooperation between different medical specialties and professional groups.
On the basis of our hospital reform, we will ensure easily accessible hospital care in the area and further strengthen cooperation with specialized hospitals and university hospitals.
In doing so, we are bringing medical advances to care across the country even faster.
Germany has excellent medical research.
We want to further expand these in order to be able to treat widespread diseases such as cancer, diabetes or dementia, but also rare diseases, even better.
We are increasing research efforts to develop new antibiotics and new research methods that support appropriate and economical antibiotic use.
We will resolutely exploit the opportunities offered by digitization in the healthcare sector.
The E-Health Act is a first important step in this direction: we are ensuring the protection of highly personal data and giving patients the opportunity in the future to make essential health information available to the doctors treating them.
This benefits everyone and can save lives.
With a comprehensive reform of long-term care insurance, we have finally given dementia patients equal access to all benefits and are strengthening support in particular at the beginning of a need for care.
In this way, we strengthen family caregivers.
We are continuing along this path.
The further increase in the number of people in need of care calls for efforts by all stakeholders to ensure a diverse range of care services throughout the country.
We will therefore be launching a "Concerted Action on Care".
We want to make greater use of the opportunities offered by rehabilitation to maintain independence, expand appropriate services and improve cooperation between social insurance institutions in this area.
We want to better protect children of parents in need of care and other dependents whom they are obligated to support from being overburdened.
Recourse to children should only take place above an income of 100,000 euros.
We are resolutely driving forward the expansion of hospice and palliative care.
It clearly shows that people are at the center of everything.
In all phases of life, until the end.
Germany has an efficient healthcare industry that benefits the care of people in our country and secures high-quality jobs.
Their products and services are in demand worldwide.
We want to strengthen and expand this sector.
International health policy is a hallmark of German politics.
Their success is also in our own interest, because diseases know no borders.
Secure and stable pensions
We owe a great deal to our older fellow citizens in Germany.
Through their work, they have ensured that Germany has become a prosperous, affluent country with a high quality of life.
In doing so, they have paved the way for a bright future for us.
This deserves respect and recognition.
Those who have worked all their lives should be able to live on it in old age.
The CDU and CSU are therefore committed to ensuring that pensioners' incomes remain predictable and appropriate in the future.
The CDU and CSU reaffirm the pension reform of the Grand Coalition of 2007, which has
comprehensively and successfully set the course for the development of the retirement age up to 67, the pension level and pension contributions up to the year 2030.
This also reliably ensured intergenerational equity.
Our successful policies over the past twelve years have resulted in new jobs
and growth.
This has significantly improved the long precarious situation of pension insurance and stabilized the statutory pension.
The pension level has therefore developed better than predicted in the forecasts: Currently, the pension level is 48.2 percent and has thus increased by 0.3 percentage points compared to the previous year.
This benefits millions of retirees.
Due to the good economic situation, pensions have risen above the inflation rate in recent years.
Pensioners are once again sharing in the economic success of our country.
At the same time, employees' pension contributions will remain stable beyond 2020.
We have increased the credited periods for reduced earning capacity pensions twice during this period.
In this way, we are combating old-age poverty among those who had to retire early due to illness.
In the new legislative period, we will push through further improvements for this group of people.
In the maternity pension, we have introduced an additional pension point for children born before 1992.
This means a pension increase of around 30 euros per child for almost 10 million mothers nationwide.
With the gradual adjustment of pensions between East and West starting this year, we have taken a further step toward completing German unity.
We will eliminate disadvantages for German ethnic German immigrants in pension insurance that have resulted from changes in pension law.
With the Company Pension Strengthening Act, we have significantly improved the attractiveness of company pensions, also by changing the crediting rules for basic benefits.
For a quarter of a century, there has been no comparable positive development for pensioners.
We want to continue and consolidate this development with a clear concept:
The further development of the pension after 2030 is to be regulated in a cross-party and cross-faction social consensus involving the collective bargaining partners.
To this end, we are setting up a pension commission to draw up proposals by the end of 2019.
The statutory pension should remain the central pillar of old-age provision.
In addition, company pensions and private provision (e.g. Riester pensions) are also of great importance for sustainable and good retirement provision.
Our goal remains to avoid poverty in old age.
Should the need for action in occupational or private pension provision arise before 2030 as a result of the Commission's recommendations, we will take the necessary measures.
Further strengthen women's policy
Women are shaping our country in all areas of life today: In business, society, voluntary work and politics.
Nevertheless, their full equality has still not been achieved everywhere.
Under our government's responsibility, the so-called women's quota for women in management positions in the economy, the Pay Transparency Act and the amendment of the Maternity Protection Act have been passed since 2013.
In the new legislative period, we will resolutely drive forward equality in management positions in the public sector.
We want to have achieved this by 2025 at the latest.
By creating a legal right to temporary part-time work, we want to make it easier for women and men to reconcile family and career.
We have strengthened sexual self-determination
and improved the protection of women and minors from violence.
Policy for the elderly and seniors
Life expectancy in Germany has been rising steadily for decades.
Many seniors are fit and able, play sports, travel or volunteer for others.
Still others need care and attention at a very early age.
The CDU and CSU want to be partners to all older people in Germany.
To meet their needs and desires, we need a broad and comprehensive range of activity and support.
The elderly and senior citizens are a valuable part of our society that we cannot and do not want to do without.
Their life experience and advice are important to us.
We want them to be able to participate actively for as long as possible and to be provided with the necessary assistance.
We rely on mature road users and reject mandatory driving tests for older drivers.
Education and further training for seniors, too, will become considerably more important.
Two years ago, we took the first step toward adapting to the new challenges by offering Flexi pensions.
We will advocate for further improvements.
Culture and media
The Federal Republic of Germany is a cultural nation that is open to the world and anchored in European tradition:
art and culture are cornerstones of our coexistence and promote the personal development of each individual.
Culture is also indisputably a location factor.
Above all, however, culture is a bridge builder and door opener, a mirror of our self-image.
Culture also creates values beyond the standards of economic usability.
Culture is an expression of humanity.
Our cultural policy is committed to the freedom of culture and art.
This is a lesson learned from two German dictatorships in one century.
Remembering the consequences of tyranny and dictatorship remains an everlasting task.
This applies above all to the confrontation with National Socialism.
The reappraisal of the Nazi dictatorship and its crimes must be continued.
We want to keep alive the memory of injustices suffered not only out of respect for the victims and their relatives, but also because it is part of the historical memory of our country.
This also applies to coming to terms with SED injustice in the former GDR.
The Stasi Records Authority makes an invaluable contribution to this.
We are committed to their continued existence.
As a result of the distribution of responsibilities anchored in the German Basic Law, the states and municipalities are committed to promoting culture; they provide the lion's share.
We want to continue to be a reliable partner for them in the future in the care and development of our rich cultural heritage
and strengthen the diversity of culture in the area.
In addition to state responsibility, civic engagement is indispensable.
Free and strong media are a central element of our free democratic order.
We want to ensure their diversity and independence in the future through appropriate framework conditions.
This includes fair competitive conditions and measures to ensure the quality of the media, as well as offerings to strengthen media literacy.
All generations should be able to deal competently with common media.
Children should already learn interdisciplinary media skills at school, especially with social media.
We are committed to the established dual media system of public and private broadcasting.
We want to further strengthen our foreign broadcaster, Deutsche Welle, and ensure adequate funding for its tasks.
Cultural education is of paramount importance - for the development of the individual personality as well as for the self-image of our society:
Without education there is no culture and without culture there is no education.
It makes a decisive contribution to a culture of understanding in a diverse society.
In this regard, the maintenance of our language is very important to us.
It is elementary for social integration.
Filmmaking in Germany should be strengthened even further, because films are valuable as an economic product and as a cultural asset.
This also applies to computer games.
We positively accompany the development of e-sports and ensure suitable framework conditions.
Germany is the country with the highest density of theaters, operas, orchestras, museums, literature houses and festivals in the world.
Nowhere are more books written and read than here.
To safeguard this wealth, we strengthen the living and working conditions for artistic creation.
After all, creative people have to be able to make a living from their intellectual output, even in the digital age.
The cultural nation of Germany thrives on its great heritage
and on the impressive achievements of contemporary art and culture.
Both must continue to be protected and strengthened.
Mobility for all
A functioning infrastructure and mobility are of great importance for Germany as a business location and for the quality of life of every individual.
This applies to rural areas as well as metropolitan areas and the big city.
Individual mobility must be just as available as the use of local public transport or rail.
This will only be possible in the long term if we do not see the concerns of mobility and environmental protection as opposites.
Particularly in cities and conurbations, the levels of nitrogen oxides (NOX) are still above the prescribed limits in some cases.
We cannot and will not accept this, because we want to comprehensively protect the health and quality of life of our citizens.
The CDU and CSU are committed to quickly and significantly reducing the environmental impact of cities and restoring compliance with European standards.
We want to achieve this by 2020 at the latest.
This will require a smart approach and a major effort.
We want an individual reduction plan for each affected city, the implementation of which is regularly reviewed.
We want to counter NOX and particulate matter pollution with targeted traffic strategies developed jointly by policymakers, local authorities and automakers.
We reject general driving bans for certain types of vehicles.
Until electromobility has finally established itself, modern diesel vehicles will remain an important option due to their low CO2 emissions.
We will also exploit the potential of digitization in the transport sector - among other things, through the intelligent networking of different transport services and shared mobility.
The networking of traffic lights and vehicles will improve the flow of traffic in cities,
reducing consumption and pollutant emissions as well as commuting times.
We support the drive system turnaround in transportation and are pursuing an overall strategy that is open to all technologies to promote the market ramp-up of alternative fuels and drive systems such as electromobility and fuel cells.
We are continuing to promote the development of a nationwide charging and refueling infrastructure that opens up all regions for electric and hydrogen mobility - and are installing 50,000 charging stations throughout Germany.
We want to significantly expand electromobility, especially in cities.
Following the example of Deutsche Post's Street Scooter, we want to vigorously promote and encourage the conversion of the vehicle fleets of public authorities, craft businesses and cab companies, as well as buses and trains.
This enables us to reach those vehicles with a particularly high mileage, thereby reducing pollutant emissions disproportionately.
The development of automated driving will mean that public transport will be available flexibly at the push of a button.
We will ensure that Germany becomes the international innovation leader in autonomous driving.
We expect the cities concerned to also promote bicycle mobility, similar to the situation in the Netherlands or in the city of Mnster.
Young people in particular are often willing to switch to bicycles.
The federal government will continue to promote bicycle traffic and the construction of bicycle paths.
We are launching a program to promote high-speed bike lanes that run independently of existing state highways.
Consumer protection remains important
Everyone in Germany should be able to trust that the products and food they buy are safe.
Germany has very high standards, and we will continue to stand up for them in the future.
In particular, we also want to strengthen consumers' rights in the digital world.
That is why we will advance digital tools for consumer protection.
This applies, for example, to digital contracts that trigger automatic compensation payments in the event of train or flight delays.
We will continue to fund and support the Federation of German Consumer Organizations and Stiftung Warentest.
Opportunities in the digital age
Progress and innovation have existed since time immemorial.
Often they were controversial at the beginning.
In the end, they were always successful when they improved and enriched people's lives.
This was the case with the invention of the wheel and printing, the car, the telephone and TV, the introduction of the PC and the triumph of the Internet.
The process of digitization already began many years ago.
It now permeates all areas of government and society, from Silicon Valley to the smallest village in Germany: in production, business and administration, in work and private life.
And it is proceeding at a speed that has never been seen before.
This is a historic revolution that no single country, no company and hardly any citizen can escape.
Germany is also part of this global change.
It depends on us whether we make the best of it for ourselves or passively watch others change the world.
The CDU and CSU want digital progress and innovation to serve people:
That they make the world of work more humane, protect the environment, improve healthcare and enhance the quality of life.
We are convinced that digitization offers immense opportunities for Germany, its citizens and its economy.
We will seize them courageously and use them resolutely.
In order to secure existing jobs and create new ones, Germany must also be a world leader in this area.
Digitization is a matter for the boss
We adopted the German government's "Digital Agenda" back in 2014 and have been implementing it ever since.
We have decisively advanced the expansion of high-speed Internet throughout Germany, invested heavily in research, and brought together the key players in business and politics at the annual Digital Summit.
We have increased IT security, provided
better support for start-ups, and
passed the OpenData and eHealth Acts.
Likewise, more public WLAN and the abolition of roaming charges in Europe.
The next few years will determine which countries are successful and at the forefront of digitization.
We are setting the course for this:  Digitization is a matter for the boss.
For this reason, a new position of "Minister of State for Digital Policy" is being created in the Federal Chancellery.
We will set up a Cabinet Committee on Digital Policy to further improve coordination between ministries.
The German Chancellor will appoint a "National Digital Council" to facilitate a close exchange between policymakers and national and international experts.
We want the brightest minds to put themselves at the service of this transformation.
State-of-the-art data infrastructure
Nationwide access to the fastest possible transport of data through state-of-the-art and secure technical infrastructure is the crucial prerequisite for success in the age of digitization.
Broadband coverage will be expanded nationwide in Germany by 2018.
Now we're going further:
we're creating the "gigabit society".
Germany is supposed to be the country where data is available in real time everywhere and for everyone.
In town and country, in east and west.
For all foreseeable applications: For the Internet of Things, in transportation, in medicine, in communication.
To this end, we will drive forward the nationwide roll-out of state-of-the-art fiber-optic networks and implement them by 2025.
Germany and Europe must become the lead market for the new 5G mobile communications.
This new generation of mobile communications enables data transmission in real time.
5G is thus becoming the key technology of the digital transformation.
We are already laying the foundations for the expansion by 2020 and will complete it by 2025.
To this end, we are creating an environment that encourages investment
and are driving forward the roll-out of optical fiber to connect 5G base stations.
We will quickly determine and make available the necessary radio frequencies.
We want to be first in the allocation of mobile communications frequencies for 5G.
We will invest the proceeds in fiber-optic expansion.
Digital citizen portal
Our administration has made great strides in citizen friendliness and service in recent years.
But people still spend many hours going to the authorities or filling out forms.
We want the state to lead the way if the benefits of digitization are to be enjoyed by all citizens.
We will establish an electronic citizen portal and an electronic citizen account.
This should make virtually all administrative services available electronically throughout Germany.
Important information, such as the number and date of birth of children, should only have to be provided to the state once.
The cumbersome filling out of many forms will be eliminated because the relevant information will be electronically accessible to the authorities.
Every citizen will be able to manage their administrative affairs from any location.
To this end, we are also creating the possibility for a legally compliant and practicable electronic signature with which citizens and economic operators can easily and securely identify themselves.
Then we can put manual and electronic signatures on an equal footing.
Through the citizen account, we ensure that every citizen knows which of his or her data is available at the state and who accesses this data.
In this way, we create data transparency and prevent possible misuse.
Opportunities for business and labor
Many work and production processes will undergo profound changes worldwide.
Large numbers of existing jobs will disappear, but many millions of new jobs will also be created.
Our goal is clear: At the end of the transformation process, there should be more jobs in Germany than there are today.
Germany is now a global leader in the networking of machines and people in the field of industrial production (Industry 4.0).
We want to build on this lead and extend it to all areas, including services and administration (Economy 4.0).
By using new technologies and production processes, such as 3D printing, we can create additional growth opportunities.
The digitization of the world of work offers opportunities for new jobs, markets and technologies to improve people's lives.
We want to improve the compatibility of family and career with new working time models.
This is where digitization can help us.
Digitization is generating large amounts of data, the processing of which can contribute to greater value creation: Data is the raw material of the future.
Within the framework opened up by the General Data Protection Regulation, we will draft a data law.
This is intended to regulate general access to data for economic purposes
as well as the powers of security authorities and the legitimate data protection interests of citizens.
Germany has been a leader in automotive technology for over 100 years.
We want to remain the No. 1 car country
and become the innovation leader for autonomous driving and the networking of traffic.
Because in the future, most cars and trucks will drive autonomously, reinventing mobility.
People will be stuck in traffic jams less, there will be fewer serious accidents, mobility will become possible and affordable for everyone.
We have already created the legal conditions for autonomous driving in Germany.
We want to be the best at building smart cars and smart roads.
This will require a major effort, which we want to put into action together with the automotive industry.
Microelectronics is a key technology and of great importance for many economic sectors, especially automotive and mechanical engineering: from basic research to production.
For this reason, Germany must continue to be a location for a high-performance microelectronics industry.
In the age of digitalization, more and more services will be available via Internet platforms.
Today, millions of citizens already buy online: Clothes, books, food and much more.
Here, Europe and Germany can and must do better than before, because most of these platforms are based in the USA or China.
We want to help ensure that major new platforms, e.g. in the areas of connected mobility and health, can emerge in Germany and be successful worldwide.
To do this, we may have to adapt antitrust law.
We want to ensure that fair and open competition is possible between platforms for the benefit of the consumer.
This includes the ability to transfer one's personal data between different platforms.
Many ideas that have changed the world in the field of globalization have originated in young companies, the so-called start-ups.
Germany has made up ground in this area.
People with ideas come to Germany from all over the world, found companies and create jobs.
We will encourage and support them.
Through tax incentives for research and a skilled labor immigration law, as well as through better start-up and growth financing and less bureaucracy.
We will examine the introduction of a one-stop store specifically for these companies.
Particularly in an increasingly digitized society, the basic provision of postal services to the population remains an important priority.
Nationwide, fast and affordable delivery of letters and parcels remains an important location criterion.
We will therefore review existing regulations and adapt them where necessary.
We want efficient and secure digital payment services.
Even in the age of digitization, however, cash remains an important means of payment.
All of these applications will only succeed if people can be confident of safe operation from the outset.
Smart, comprehensive and advanced IT security is the foundation for a successful digital Germany.
We will make sure of that.
Opportunities for education and knowledge
We can only really take advantage of the great opportunities associated with digitization for Germany if we have a sufficient number of well- and excellently trained workers in all areas.
That's why we need a "digital education offensive": for schoolchildren, trainees, students and teachers alike.
But also for employees who want and need to gain qualifications and further training, because lifelong learning is already a matter of course today.
With a digital pact, we will ensure that our general and vocational schools have the necessary equipment to prepare enough young people for their professional lives in the digital age.
We ensure that all schools nationwide are connected to the high-speed Internet.
The same is true for universities.
We support the creation of an innovative new education cloud that will set new standards beyond Germany.
We will support the federal states in promoting the digital skills of students as comprehensively as possible through further training of sufficient teachers.
We are launching a "National Continuing Education Strategy", which we are developing together with employers, trade unions and relevant bodies.
Opportunities for the environment and development
Through the new possibilities of digitization, we can better protect our environment
and offer people in developing countries better education and job opportunities.
The energy transition will be far more successful if we use digitization to network the generation, marketing and consumption of energy.
This increases the security of supply and limits costs.
In agriculture, satellite-based "precision farming" can save millions of tons of fertilizer and prevent environmental damage.
Impending environmental damage can be detected and prevented at an early stage through digitization.
This applies to preventing soil erosion, protecting rainforests and the sea, and many other areas.
We will also use the opportunities offered by digitization in development cooperation.
Digital networking allows predictable and therefore favorable solutions for resource distribution, thus contributing to the prevention of hunger and epidemics.
Through digital solutions, we create transparency and thus a means of combating the rampant corruption that prevents developing countries from achieving healthy growth.
Opportunities for health and quality of life
Work is underway around the world to make ever better use of digitization for people's health.
The aim is to learn more about the causes of disease and thus to be able to detect serious illnesses earlier and to treat them better and in a more targeted manner.
The use of telemedicine makes it easier to make high-quality medical care available to more and more people, regardless of where they live.
State-of-the-art assistance systems will relieve people of heavy tasks in everyday life and support them in a variety of ways.
This can be particularly important for older people and help them to remain independent in their familiar surroundings for longer than before.
We are committed to protecting human life and human dignity, especially in borderline situations.
In view of the rapid developments in medicine, we want to take advantage of the opportunities,
but also maintain ethical boundaries.
Europe: For sure!
The world seems to be out of joint in many places.
Authoritarian state systems are on the rise, seemingly stable states have broken up.
Millions of people are on the run.
Even in our neighborhood, the territorial integrity of Ukraine is challenged by Russian aggression.
The new U.S. administration has also not yet determined its position on many foreign policy issues.
The times when we could completely rely on others are a bit over.
We Europeans must take our fate into our own hands more consistently than before.
That is why the CDU and CSU want a strong, self-confident and dynamic Europe.
A Europe capable of safeguarding its interests and facing up to its international responsibilities.
A Europe of freedom, security and prosperity, which - if necessary - it can also defend together.
Citizens' approval of Europe has increased.
Tens of thousands across Europe took to the streets for "Pulse of Europe", France and Germany have moved closer together.
This time we must seize the opportunity and make Europe fit for the present and the future.
Peace Project Europe
The founding of the EU was the lesson learned from the devastating civilizational catastrophes of the First and Second World Wars.
More than 60 years have passed since then.
Since then, there has not been a single war between EU member states, not a single outbreak of violence.
Europe is a peace project.
This is a unique success, justification and mission at the same time: we must assume our common geostrategic responsibility for freedom and peace and help to manage conflicts in our neighborhood.
That is why the EU got involved in the Russia-Ukraine conflict, that is why we are fighting together for the Paris climate agreement.
We support the proposal for a European Defense Union and for a European Defense Fund.
We are committed members of NATO and work for its success.
But the EU must arm itself independently if it is to survive in the long term.
Europe as a security guarantee
Europe must be an effective security guarantee for the internal and external security of its member states.
In an increasingly globalized world, no country in Europe can safeguard its interests alone and without support from others.
Europe must effectively protect its external borders against illegal migration, strengthen the border management agency Frontex and complete the European asylum system.
Until the protection of the EU's external borders works, we are sticking to internal border controls.
Europe must also conclude agreements along the lines of the EU-Turkey agreement with other countries in the region and in northern Africa.
We must prevent thousands of refugees from being smuggled through half of Africa by unscrupulous smugglers, only to drown miserably in the Mediterranean.
Europe has a shared responsibility for refugees who are persecuted or in great need and thus entitled to protection.
Here, all European states must fulfill their responsibility.
The EU must implement the European entry and exit register agreed at our insistence as quickly as possible so that we know which third-country nationals are staying with us and to make it easier to put a stop to terrorist threats and smugglers.
The EU urgently needs a better exchange of information between the security authorities of its member states, because Islamist terrorism and organized crime have no borders.
Prosperous Europe
With the common market and the European single market, the EU had created the conditions for a decades-long economic upswing of its member states.
This was ensured by the free movement of goods, services, capital and labor, state aid and competition law, and the abolition of border controls.
In recent years, some countries have lost their international competitiveness.
The result was an ever-increasing national debt.
We are ready to help in solidarity to overcome the problems especially in reducing the high youth unemployment, because we want the success of the whole EU.
This is only possible if jointly agreed rules such as the Stability Pact are observed.
We want to achieve the lasting stabilization of the euro zone.
The benchmark must remain the same: We continue to rule out the communitization of debt.
We are ready to work with the new French government to gradually develop the euro zone further, for example by creating our own monetary fund.
Europe has a responsibility for research and development, for a digital single market and for completing the Energy Union.
Europe has the opportunity to once again become an engine of growth.
This will require great effort and recognition that job creation and economic growth are central to our future prosperity.
Europe as a community of values
The EU has been a community of values from the first day of its existence.
Committed to protecting democracy, the rule of law and religious freedom.
The European Charter of Fundamental Rights outlaws the death penalty and protects human dignity.
All countries that have joined the EU so far have had to be measured against these criteria.
Great Britain has decided to leave the European Union.
It is in our interest to maintain intensive economic and political ties with the UK even after BREXIT.
The aim must be to limit the negative impact of BREXIT on people and the economy.
However, it is also clear that anyone who leaves the EU cannot continue to benefit from all the advantages of the community.
We recognize the strategic and economic importance of Turkey for Europe as well as the diverse relationships between the people of our two countries.
We would therefore like to further deepen relations between the European Union and Turkey.
Close and special cooperation serves both the people in Europe and in Turkey.
We therefore want the strongest possible cooperation between the European Union and Turkey
, as well as close strategic cooperation on foreign and security policy issues.
However, we reject full membership for Turkey because it does not meet the requirements for accession.
We view with great concern the recent developments in Turkey with regard to the rule of law, in particular freedom of expression and freedom of the press.
Germany and France as the engine of Europe
Franco-German friendship, as established by President de Gaulle and Chancellor Adenauer, has been the linchpin of the European Union since its inception.
Many important initiatives have come from our two countries.
France and Germany have always had the strength to agree on major projects.
This is how it should be again in the future.
In these difficult times for foreign policy, we are determined to revive the Franco-German friendship and make it a success.
Our commonality can give new impetus to the whole of Europe.
We aim to approximate and harmonize corporate income tax between our countries.
This would be a clear signal of our willingness to fight for markets and investments.
The development of machines with so-called artificial intelligence (AI) will represent a major technological innovation worldwide.
It will have major consequences for all areas of business and life.
Germany and France should tackle this challenge together and fight for international technology leadership.
After Airbus and Ariane, it would be another major European project.
In addition to the Franco-German friendship and cooperation, intensive collaboration and cooperation has also developed in the relationship with our neighboring country Poland.
We want to continue this and, to this end, we are also intensifying joint German-French-Polish cooperation within the framework of the Weimar Triangle.
Security internally and externally
For a strong state: increasing security, fighting crime and terror
Security is the basic prerequisite for a free and self-determined life,
for living together in the family
as well as in the community.
Safety is always concrete: It is
about safety in everyday life, at home, on streets and squares, on buses and trains, by day and by night.
It's about safety from assault and battery, from organized crime and home burglary.
It is about security from Islamist terrorism that targets innocent people and children.
We need a strong state that protects its citizens and
also protects the weaker ones.
We do not tolerate lawless spaces.
The Union is and remains the party of internal security.
Germany has been one of the safest countries in the world for years.
We owe that to our police, our security agencies and intelligence services.
Your employees perform their demanding service, taking risks and dangers so that we can continue to live our usual lives.
We owe them a great debt of gratitude and appreciation.
They have the right to expect us to do everything we can to make it easier for them to perform their duties.
Personnel, material and legal when it comes to passing necessary laws.
The CDU and CSU have fought hard in this federal government to push through legal changes, some of which were years overdue.
Without our persistent insistence, without our perseverance, many things would not have succeeded or would have come even later:
We have finally tightened the penalties for residential burglary, telephone connections of burglars can finally be monitored, serial crimes can be better solved and video surveillance can be used more intensively.
With anti-terror packages, we have strengthened our security agencies and we have improved the criminal law protection of police and rescue workers.
The assets of criminals can be seized more easily.
We have established a new, robust Federal Police counterterrorism unit.
We have facilitated the deportation of criminals.
We have strengthened the security authorities in terms of personnel as never before.
With the first IT Security Act, we have significantly improved protection against cyber attacks.
We are determined to be even better at fighting terror and crime than we have been in the past, because we will not bow to the inhumane terrorism that is gripping the world, now or in the future.
There must be no zones of differing security between the individual states.
That is why we will, among other things, develop a common model police law for all federal states.
Networking and sharing state-of-the-art technology is our answer to new challenges.
The Amri case has made it clear that terrorist threats traveling throughout Germany can pose a threat that extends far beyond the jurisdiction of the respective federal state.
That is why we will further develop the Joint Counter-Terrorism Center in consultation with the Lnder so that binding measures can be jointly decided there.
In particularly dangerous situations, we will deploy the Bundeswehr in a supporting role under the leadership of the police.
In doing so, we first want to exhaust the existing legal framework.
When countering a particularly serious terrorist attack, the police may reach the limits of their capabilities.
The Bundeswehr is then to support the police.
Such police-led operations need to be practiced regularly.
We will increase the number of police officers in the federal and state governments by another 15,000.
This makes it possible to also increase police presence on streets and squares, in trains, at train stations and airports.
At public danger spots such as shopping malls, in front of soccer stadiums and at traffic hubs, we will increase the use of intelligent video technology, including for tracing purposes, and introduce a minimum data retention period.
We will further increase the search pressure in drug and street crime:
Through covert operational measures, regular checks, open police presence, accelerated deportation of criminals with a foreign background, and targeted residence bans and their enforcement.
We want to use existing DNA traces to determine a criminal's or suspect's physical appearance, origin or age.
We want to facilitate security authorities' access to existing databases when it comes to preventing or solving serious crimes.
To this end, we will adopt a new data law that protects both the information interests of the security authorities
as well as the legitimate data protection interests of the data subjects.
We want to protect our country even better against cyber attacks from home and abroad, and are investing in technology and hiring sufficient experts for this purpose.
We want to enable dragnet searches throughout Germany, because criminals must not be able to rely on there being search-free zones.
In times of terrorist threats, the work of the BND is essential.
The CDU and CSU are clearly committed to the Federal Intelligence Service.
Cooperation between the BND and other services worldwide is essential.
Help people in need, manage and reduce migration, consistently repatriate rejected applicants
We have risen to the challenge of the largest refugee movement of the post-war period to date.
We have helped many people in need, giving them shelter and a place to stay.
We have effectively reduced the number of those who do not have the right to stay.
We have declared Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia to be safe countries of origin and have thus been able to significantly reduce the number of asylum seekers.
The same must apply to Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia.
We have stored the data of all asylum seekers in a new core data system and taken effective measures against those who are not entitled to protection.
We are stepping up our efforts to repatriate and, if necessary, deport those whose applications for asylum are rejected by a final decision.
People are still drowning trying to reach Europe, especially from North Africa.
We will vigorously combat the inhumane activities of smugglers
and create opportunities for migrants without a protection claim to be deterred from crossing to Europe.
At the same time, we want to help improve their living conditions on the ground together with international organizations.
Following the example of the EU-Turkey agreement, we also want to conclude similar agreements with African countries.
A situation like the one in 2015 should not and must not be repeated, as all parties involved have learned from this situation.
We want the number of refugees coming to us to remain permanently low.
This makes it possible for us to meet our humanitarian obligations through resettlement and relocation.
We want to further improve civil defense and disaster control in Germany and work to ensure that it is properly equipped.
A strong state needs a strong civil service overall.
Especially in times of uncertainty, we need public institutions that perform state and municipal tasks well and comprehensively.
We rely on an efficient public service with motivated employees, sufficient staff and up-to-date equipment.
We stand by the tried and tested two pillars of the public service, the collectively bargained employees and the professional civil service with its principles of salary, pensions and allowances.
We will strengthen the judiciary through more personnel and more efficient procedural law.
The security of our population and our security authorities is a matter close to the hearts of the CDU and CSU.
That's why we champion their interests throughout the year and at all levels.
Germany's role in the world
As a politically strong country in the center of Europe and a globally networked economic nation, Germany has a vital interest not only in its own security
, but also in a permanently peaceful, stable and just order in the world.
We make relevant contributions to create, strengthen and defend such an order.
In this way, we are fulfilling our responsibility, which has become greater since reunification.
We want to strengthen Bonn as a German location for the United Nations, as the headquarters of international non-governmental organizations and as a venue for international congresses and conferences.
We are also fully committed to the agreements of the Bonn/Berlin Act.
The federal city of Bonn is the second federal political center.
We are guided by our commitment to values of human dignity, the protection and promotion of human rights, the rule of law, democracy and tolerance.
Our international activities and engagement take place within alliances and international organizations, first and foremost NATO and the EU, as well as within the framework of the United Nations and the OSCE, and in close consultation with our allies and partners.
For us, strengthening bilateral and multilateral cooperation is therefore at the heart of German foreign and security policy.
We want Germany to stand for reliable engagement in alliances.
The USA is and remains our most important non-European partner.
We owe them a great deal:
Their trust and support after the Second World War made Germany's path back into the family of free democratic nations and German reunification possible in the first place.
And even in view of the challenges we can foresee in the future, we Europeans share common values with our North American partners that are closer, stronger and more durable than with any other region in the world.
We therefore have a fundamental security policy interest in a strong and reliable partner, the USA.
We acknowledge Germany's special responsibility towards Israel.
Israel's right to exist and its security are part of Germany's reason of state.
We advocate a two-state solution.
We call on Russia to permanently comply with and implement the Minsk Agreement and continue to maintain a constant dialogue.
Bundeswehr as guarantor of our security
For over 60 years, the Bundeswehr has been the guarantor of our external security.
Due to her high level of commitment, her professionalism and her humanity, she has earned the highest recognition at home and abroad.
We stand by the Bundeswehr, its soldiers and civilian employees, and will ensure that it can continue to fulfill its tasks in missions worldwide,
in alliance and national defense, and in support and aid measures at home.
To ensure that the Bundeswehr is up to these tasks and that soldiers receive the equipment and working conditions they need, we have initiated a turnaround on the basis of the German government's new White Paper of 2016.
After 25 years of contraction, the Bundeswehr is growing again.
It now receives more staff, more modern equipment, adequate funding.
For example, the number of Bundeswehr personnel is expected to increase by 18,000 by 2024.
We have cleared the material backlog over the past four years and launched equipment worth 30 billion euros.
In view of the security situation, a refocus on alliance and national defense is required in addition to international engagement.
The additional material required for this, the modernization of the existing as well as the acquisition of new capabilities require additional investments to the previous investment plan.
To enable the Bundeswehr to play its part in our country's cyber security, we have set up a new cyber command with its own cyber inspector.
We will invest in highly qualified personnel and cutting-edge technology.
IT security and cyber defense must become the focus of research and strategy.
The expansion of the University of the Federal Armed Forces in Munich as a central research center for cybersecurity must continue.
The Bundeswehr must continue to expand its computer network operations capability and anchor offensive cyber capabilities in its capability spectrum.
In addition to personnel and materiel, Innere Fhrung is indispensable for the performance and operational readiness of the Bundeswehr.
We want to strengthen them.
After 60 years, the Bundeswehr can be proud of its own successful history and traditions.
Central to the growing Bundeswehr is "turnaround finance."
As agreed at the 2014 NATO Summit in Wales, we want to gradually increase our defense spending toward 2 percent of gross domestic product by 2024.
This decision serves our own security against external threats.
It was adopted by the Alliance unanimously and with the support of then U.S. President Obama, and at the time it was supported by the entire German government, the CDU, CSU and SPD.
Its implementation is also a question of reliability.
To meet today's foreign and security policy challenges, the instruments of diplomacy, police, security and defense policy, and development cooperation must be better aligned and coordinated within a networked approach.
That is why, in parallel to increasing the defense budget, we will
also increase funding for development cooperation on a 1:1 scale until the ODA quota of 0.7 percent of GDP is reached.
For the networked approach, we want to create central coordination within the federal government and in parliament.
Development Cooperation and Human Rights - Marshall Plan with Africa
Millions of people live in the world's poorest countries, often under concrete threat from climate change, civil wars, bad governments or terror.
Helping these people - also in cooperation with the EU - and giving them better prospects in their homeland is a humanitarian imperative.
But it is also in our interest to fight hunger, disease and need, because they often lead to terror and war and thus to flight and displacement.
Germany has more than doubled its spending on development cooperation since 2005, from 3.9 billion to 8.5 billion this year.
A considerable portion of these funds is used to combat the causes of flight and helps ensure that people can remain in their traditional home region.
Our special efforts are directed at the continent of Africa.
Many African countries are among the poorest in the world.
Overpopulation and corruption often undo all efforts to improve the situation.
Africa needs help against hunger, support for vocational training, especially for women, protection against climate change, for building rule of law and security, and much more.
We work with some countries in Africa in the form of migration partnerships.
Africa will not be able to turn things around on its own.
That is why the German government has taken the initiative for a "Compact" with Africa as part of its G20 presidency.
That is why we are canvassing our friends and allies for more engagement on the African continent.
CDU and CSU propose a Marshall Plan with Africa.
Such a modern Marshall Plan of the 21st century should enable the recipients in Africa to act as entrepreneurs on their own responsibility.
Together with the African Union, we want to see the emergence of a new middle-class culture of self-reliance.
Our Marshall Plan with Africa should trigger a broad wave of support in other countries as well.
The main aim is to mobilize private investment.
Good climate also for tomorrow
Protecting the environment and climate is of central importance to us.
We want to preserve the ecological balance of our planet and enable all people in Germany to live in a healthy and intact environment.
Environment and prosperity, growth and climate protection are not opposites.
Only through high-quality and sustainable growth can we secure our quality of life in the long term.
And we can only solve the major environmental problems caused by decades of overexploitation of nature's resources worldwide by using state-of-the-art technology.
We therefore want both: a good environment and a good economy.
Environmental protection out of responsibility
The preservation of creation has always been a core concern of the CDU and CSU.
Germany has achieved and accomplished an enormous amount in environmental protection in recent years.
Our rivers and lakes are clean again, our skies are blue again.
Together with other countries, we have ended forest dieback and acid rain and ensured that the hole in the ozone layer is closing again.
In many parts of the world, however, there are major problems that we must work to solve, also in our own interests.
The pollution, littering and overfishing of the world's oceans can become a major disaster.
We must act before it is too late.
Soil erosion and the destruction of tropical rainforests are far from being stopped and threaten our livelihoods worldwide.
Biodiversity in fauna and flora is threatened almost everywhere in the world, including here in Germany.
Germany is a pioneer in international environmental protection.
With Klaus Tpfer and Angela Merkel as environment ministers, we set the course early on for close international cooperation on environmental issues.
Germany is a global leader in resource efficiency and green technology (green tech).
In this way, we also want to provide effective support to other countries.
Climate protection is protection for the future
The continuation of global warming can have dramatic consequences worldwide and therefore requires joint action.
Entire countries and their populations are affected.
But even in our temperate latitudes, the continuation of climate change would lead to irreversible damage that would primarily affect our children and grandchildren.
The Paris Climate Agreement of 2015 is the greatest success to date of international efforts to limit global warming.
Virtually all countries in the world have signed up to the agreement.
We regret the U.S. government's decision to withdraw from the agreement and,
together with France and other countries, will resolutely advocate for the preservation and success of the agreement.
At the G7 summit in Elmau two years ago, it was decided to decarbonize global energy production by the end of this century.
In the long term, a large proportion of fossil fuels such as coal, oil and gas must be replaced by environmentally friendly energies.
With the initiation of the energy turnaround and the expansion of renewable energies, Germany has made an important contribution to this and shown alternatives to fossil energies.
However, our example will only set a precedent if the energy transition succeeds and the competitiveness of our economy is maintained.
That is why the energy turnaround must be organized in a market economy.
We have taken a big step forward in this since 2013.
We are sticking to our existing energy and climate targets and implementing them step by step.
This also applies to the climate protection plan adopted in 2016.
We reject dirigiste state intervention in this area and rely instead on market-based instruments.
So that the climate has a future.
Sustainability as a mission
Two years ago, the global community of nations adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in New York.
Germany made a significant contribution to its establishment.
It goes far beyond the field of environmental policy to include areas such as education and health.
In Germany, we have drawn up a new National Sustainability Strategy through which the agreed goals of the 2030 Agenda are also to be implemented in Germany.
What holds our country together
Community and cohesion
Germany is characterized by a wonderful unity in diversity.
Scenic, cultural and human.
It has developed over centuries and is the result of diverse developments that have accelerated in recent decades:
Millions of Germans have lost their homes due to flight and expulsion from eastern and central Germany.
Many came and still come as ethnic Germans from Russia as well as from Central, Southern and Eastern Europe.
With the economic miracle came guest workers from Italy, Greece, Yugoslavia and Turkey.
Later refugees from Vietnam and Sri Lanka, and now most recently from Africa, the Middle East and the Near East.
Globalization, television and the Internet, technological progress, and social and demographic developments have all contributed to the fact that the reality of our lives has changed and evolved.
Today, Germany is a modern country with a strong and distinctive identity.
Perhaps even stronger than before.
We have preserved our cultural roots
and strengthened our cohesion.
At the 2006 World Cup in Germany and on countless occasions since then, millions of people from all ages and walks of life have impressively demonstrated this: It is a joyful, unconstrained and self-confident commitment to a Germany of which we can be proud.
A patriotic commitment that excludes no one and is directed against no one.
There must be no place in Germany for anti-Semitism, xenophobia, hatred of foreigners, intolerance or discrimination.
We expect all people in Germany, regardless of whether they have a migration background or not, to respect the Basic Law and the laws. There will be no exceptions to this in the future.
Anyone who fights our basic democratic order, rejects Israel's right to exist, endangers domestic peace or violates the law must expect the full force of our constitutional state.
Moreover, every country depends on a unifying bond in the form of internal cohesion and identity.
This is our liberal guiding culture, which we preserve and strengthen: For the present and for the future.
The Leitkultur is an unwritten prerequisite for good coexistence in Germany.
That is why the state, politics and society stand up for them and support them:
Our country includes old and new Germans, people with and without German passports, with and without a migration background.
The vast majority as well as ethnic and social minorities.
We exclude no one and ask everyone to contribute to a good future for Germany.
It is in the interest of both sides that integration takes place and succeeds.
In this way, we will prevent the emergence of parallel societies and multiculturalism.
The German language is a particularly important part of our identity and guiding culture.
We want to promote and value it even more in the future, as an official language, as a cultural language and as a colloquial language, in the family, at school and in everyday life, at all levels.
We have already made great progress in recent years through early childhood language support, language and integration courses.
We strive to ensure that people who want to live permanently in Germany learn German in order to improve their chances on the labor market and of participating in society.
Conversely, because we are a cosmopolitan country with strong international ties, we also want to provide greater support for foreign language learning.
Equal rights for men and women apply to all people living here, regardless of where they come from.
The success of integration will depend largely on women.
That is why we will pay special attention to promoting women with an immigrant background.
Our history, with all its ups and downs, is our common distinctive heritage.
We want to teach it to everyone who lives permanently in Germany, and not just in the classroom.
Everyone who is new to us should become familiar with it.
Our dialects, traditions and customs, as regionally different as they are, give Germany a sympathetic face and the continuity of tradition.
That is why they deserve government support at all levels.
Ideally and materially.
Regional and local identity depends on publicity.
That's why we support a strong and vital regional media landscape.
Voluntary commitment, the willingness to work for others and for the community, is particularly pronounced in Germany.
They are perhaps the most valuable and important part of our guiding culture.
We also want to convey this to those who did not grow up with it.
Therefore, every young person who wants to should have the opportunity to volunteer.
The readiness for personal achievement, teamwork and solidarity has made our country strong, not only economically.
That is why our work and responsibility culture is also an inseparable part of this.
We want to work with everyone to breathe life into what makes our country what it is - especially young people, because they are our future.
Volunteering and sports
We owe a great debt of gratitude and appreciation to all the people who do voluntary and honorary work in Germany, in the emergency services, in sports or in culture:
They make our country better and more humane, relieve the burden on state structures and make a significant contribution to cohesion.
They are heroes of everyday life.
Without their commitment, many things in Germany would not be possible - from rescue services to nature conservation.
That's why we want to achieve a culture of respect and attention for all those who put themselves at the service of the community.
We want more people to get involved in clubs and organizations, especially young people.
We will strengthen and promote volunteerism at all levels, because its contribution is irreplaceable.
We want to relieve volunteers and associations of bureaucracy and support them with consulting services.
The establishment of a volunteer service agency or a volunteer foundation can contribute to this.
Sport inspires millions of people and makes an important contribution to health, mobility and participation into old age.
And likewise for the communication of values and the cohesion of our society.
Popular sports and elite sports are both important.
We will continue to promote them and preserve the unique diversity of our sports clubs.
Christian churches and religious communities
Freedom of religion is one of the important and defining fundamental rights of the Basic Law.
State and religion are separated for good reasons.
Religious faith, churches and religious communities, however, have their firm place in our society.
The Enlightenment and our Christian-Jewish heritage continue to shape Germany today and are and remain an important foundation.
That is why it is good that Jewish life is once again at home in Germany today.
For decades, the Christian churches have made an indispensable contribution to intellectual life in Germany and to social cohesion.
In church educational and care institutions, in nursing and care for the elderly, in youth work and in many other areas.
The great commitment of people involved in the church in dealing with the refugee crisis is an impressive example of this.
We are particularly committed to helping millions of Christians who are oppressed and persecuted for their faith in other countries.
In the future, we will appoint a special representative of the German government for worldwide religious freedom.
The celebrations of the 500th anniversary of the Reformation have once again brought home to us how closely our history and our culture are linked to the Christian churches.
We will therefore continue to support the work of the churches in many ways.
Religious Freedom in Germany
Freedom of religion applies to all people in Germany: Christians and Jews, Muslims, Hindus and Sikhs, Buddhists, Bahais and many others.
They are free to develop and live their faith as far and as long as this is compatible with our legal system.
We encourage everyone to engage in interfaith dialogue and to stand together for our country.
Muslims living in Germany have long contributed to the success of our country with their ideas and their work and therefore belong to our society.
In the German Islam Conference, we already started the dialogue with the Muslims living here and their organizations years ago.
We expect tangible successes and will commit all dialog partners to this.
We want to help peaceful Islam in Germany, which is willing to integrate, to organize itself on the basis of the Basic Law in such a way that it can be a negotiating and dialog partner for the state and society.
We reject and do not accept the misuse of Islam for hatred, violence, terrorism and oppression together with all peaceful Muslims.
Mosques where hate and violence are preached, where Salafists or dangerous people meet, must be closed.
The persons concerned must be prosecuted with the severity of the law and, if they are not Germans, deported.
We reject political influence from abroad.
So that integration succeeds
In recent years, Germany has taken in many people from different countries and cultural backgrounds.
We want those who live in Germany permanently or for a few years to integrate into our society and become part of it.
For this, we follow the approach of challenging and encouraging.
To this end, we aim to conclude binding integration agreements.
We have also laid the groundwork for this with the Integration Act of 2016.
We have expanded language and integration courses and improved measures for integration into the labor market.
Through regular integration monitoring, we want to review the success of our efforts and correct undesirable developments at an early stage.
This is in the interest of all parties involved.
We want as many newcomers to Germany as possible to be able to earn their own living as soon as possible.
To this end, learning the German language and a willingness to engage in vocational training are essential.
Those who refuse to integrate and disregard our legal system must expect consequences that can extend to the loss of their residence permit.
Permanent dual citizenship must always remain the exception.
In the future, it should no longer be passed down through many generations.
To achieve this goal, we want to introduce a generation cut for citizens who are not from the European Union.
This cut is to be made after the generation of children born in Germany who have acquired German citizenship by birth in Germany.
To this end, we are striving for the rapid conclusion of agreements with the main countries affected.
Election call
The CDU and CSU want to continue to bear responsibility for Germany.
On September 24, it's all about setting the right course.
We are convinced that we have the right answers to the opportunities and challenges of the future.
They demand our courageous and forward-looking political action.
Our offer is aimed at all people in Germany.
We want them to continue to trust the CDU and CSU and the reliability of our policies.
We are campaigning for a strong mandate for a new government mission: for a Germany in which we live well and gladly.
So that Angela Merkel remains Chancellor of our country.
We therefore call on all voters: Give both votes to CDU and CSU in the federal election on September 24.
