It is time for more justice!
2017 is a decisive year.
The SPD is running to set the course for the future of Germany and Europe with Martin Schulz as chancellor.
The elections this year are fundamental decisions about what kind of society we want to live in.
Values that were taken for granted are at stake.
We fight for these values, as we have always done in our long history.
For a society that treats every person with respect and dignity.
Regardless of gender, origin, sexual identity, religion.
Regardless of whether someone has a disability, is ill or in need of care.
Regardless of employment and livelihood.
We fight for the freedom to speak and publish one's opinion.
For a free press and an independent judiciary.
When we look around Europe and the world, we see these values in danger.
Standing up for these values was the origin of social democracy.
That's what we stand for - then and now.
Our country today is more democratic, open, modern and free than ever before.
Committed people live here with their families, friends and neighbors.
Here, motivated employees, as well as self-confident trade unions and successful companies, work together in a strong social market economy.
We are proud of our democratic constitutional state, which puts human dignity first.
Our cultural life is unique.
The same applies to our civil society with its many different clubs, associations and initiatives, welfare organizations, churches and religious communities, in which millions of people volunteer their time.
Many say that they are actually doing well.
But they also feel that things are not fair everywhere in our society.
They talk about their difficulties, their parents' hopes and their children's goals.
They are all united by the desire for a just society
that holds together.
It is the desire for a country where we are there for each other and treat each other with respect.
More justice and respect for the life achievements of all people strengthen our democracy.
This includes ensuring that social cohesion in our country becomes stronger again and that decent dealings with one another are not lost to political radicalization.
We want people to be able to live safely in Germany.
Justice is the central prerequisite for cohesion and prosperity.
We will make incomes and opportunities more equitable.
Societies that are cohesive and socially just are better able to cope with problems.
Just societies are more economically successful and innovative.
In more just societies, people are happier and mutual trust is stronger.
Justice makes our country richer in many ways.
Justice also means social security.
Secure and good jobs,
confidence that there are good and equal educational opportunities for all children,
Social Security and Public Safety go together.
Everyone has the right to be able to move safely.
The state must ensure the safety of all people.
If we ensure greater justice and security, this will pay off for Germany as a business location.
For global trade and the digitalization of our economy, we need fair framework conditions
and state-of-the-art infrastructure.
Our goal is to take advantage of the opportunities arising from digitization and global networking.
Economic power,
Innovative spirit,
technological progress,
Sustainability
and the preservation of natural resources are the foundations for the future of Germany and Europe.
The SPD is a partner of the trade unions, business and science - because economic strength is the joint success of many.
We want a society of culture and art that enriches our lives in many ways and promotes reflection on ourselves.
International crises and immigration pose new challenges for Germany and Europe.
An open society needs a strong democracy
that promotes cohesion and solidarity,
enforces rules and thus ensures security.
Peaceful coexistence only works with the recognition of values and rules that apply equally to everyone.
This is as true for Germany as it is for Europe.
The SPD stands for the European idea like no other party.
For more than 500 million people, this idea of a united Europe is the promise of a life in peace, freedom, security and prosperity.
What we want is an economically dynamic,
more democratic
and more social Europe
that puts people at the center,
builds understanding
and creates cohesion.
Europe is a peace project
and the SPD, as a peace party, stands for a foreign policy of clever diplomacy.
In the spirit of Willy Brandt's policy of détente, our aim is to build bridges.
Rearmament and saber-rattling do not solve conflicts.
Europe, the U.S., Russia and China share responsibility for peace in the world
and the fight against international terrorism.
Therefore, only dialogue between governments, understanding between peoples and a lived solidarity between North and South can lead to more global security.
The future of Germany and Europe will be what we all make of it together.
Change processes cannot be prevented, but they offer the opportunity to change things for the better.
They can be shaped politically!
What we need is the confidence that it is worth fighting for a better future and the courage to go for it.
For social democrats, the future is a promise of better coexistence, equal opportunities and just coexistence in an open and inclusive society.
That is what the SPD is working for and that is what we are fighting for.
With Martin Schulz as chancellor and a strong SPD in the Bundestag, Germany will become fairer, more progressive, more solidary and more sustainable.
It's time to act now!
It's time for more justice!
It's time for more family, best schools and good care
There are years when the family needs more attention and more time than in others.
Parents want to be there for their children
and keep up professionally.
They also often face the challenge of caring for relatives in need of care.
We ensure that family, career and care go hand in hand better.
We enable parents to share professional and family responsibilities fairly.
To do this, they need a good range of daycare centers and schools, as well as more time and money.
These wishes and needs are central to our policies, because family is a firm anchor in our lives.
For us, family is where people take responsibility for each other - from marriage between a man and a woman to single mothers and fathers, patchwork families and same-sex couples.
Our education policy creates equal opportunities for all.
Because it is still too often the parents' wallets that decide.
That's why we're making education tuition-free.
And this is true from daycare through training and first degree to master's degree and master craftsman's/technician's examination.
We will modernize schools and invest in the expansion of all-day schools.
Children, parents and teachers should experience that education is worth a lot to us.
It is our job to help young people find their way.
This can only be achieved with an independent youth policy that provides young people with suitable offers for their respective life situations.
The same care and energy we use for our children is needed for the elders in our family.
Older people must be able to participate in social life and determine their own lives for as long as possible.
If they need help or care, they should be able to rely on getting the support they need.
Care is not a private matter.
Those who care for others, we do not leave alone.
Family is the center of life.
And happy families who can live without worries give us strength for the future.
Family working time and family allowance:
We want family and career to be perceived as a double happiness.
Many parents wish to be able to divide their work and child rearing as partners.
So far, however, this has meant having to put up with financial and professional disadvantages.
We want to change that!
We support parents: with the introduction of family working time and family allowance.
It is still the case that many young fathers return to their jobs full time after a short period of parental leave.
Although most would like to work a little less than before to have more time with family.
Mothers, on the other hand, often return to work part-time after a year of parental leave, even though they would like to work a little more.
This not only prevents work and child-rearing from being shared as partners, but also has negative consequences for women: lower income, poorer opportunities for advancement and a lower pension later on.
As a first step, we have already introduced ElterngeldPlus, which makes it easier for parents of very young children to combine parental leave and part-time work.
In a next step, we will introduce a family working time.
If both parents share their working hours as partners, they receive the family allowance.
It amounts to 150 euros per month for both parents if they each work 75 percent to 90 percent of the respective regular full-time (this corresponds to 26 to 36 hours per week, depending on the company or collectively agreed full-time hours).
Families with low incomes in particular should be able to afford a fair division of family and career.
Of course, single or separated parents and rainbow families will also receive the family allowance.
We will support the trade unions in supporting this arrangement through collective bargaining.
More time for the family also requires a cultural change in the working world.
This includes moving away from "presence competition" at work.
Employers have a responsibility to provide family-friendly work and meeting schedules, home office and business travel arrangements.
The public sector should be a pioneer in this respect and promote the sharing of gainful employment, child-rearing and care in a spirit of partnership.
Good education from the start:
We ensure a sufficient supply of crèches, daycare centers, day nurseries, after-school care centers and all-day schools.
We are gradually abolishing daycare fees, thus relieving the burden on all families who now still have to pay for care.
We will also invest in education and care in the afternoon and introduce a legal entitlement to all-day care for daycare and elementary school children - with financial participation from the federal government.
The aim must be to improve the compatibility of family and career by offering childcare at different times of the day to meet demand.
With a nationwide law, we will increase the quality of daycare centers with federal support.
We need better equipped daycare centers and a healthy diet.
With additional educators, the children in the groups can be better cared for.
To achieve this, we want to upgrade the profession and improve training.
We will support this with a skilled labor offensive.
In addition, we want to further professionalize and upgrade day care for children.
Tackling Child Poverty:
Child poverty must not exist in a country as rich as ours.
Because it also means, above all, poorer access to education, culture and sport - and thus poorer opportunities for the future.
We will eliminate discrimination against children of poor parents and enable them to participate on an equal footing.
In particular, we will also take into account the special life situation of children growing up with one parent.
We want to improve labor market participation and the financial situation of parents as well as the participation opportunities of children - regardless of their parents' social situation.
Good, needs-oriented daycare centers and all-day schools are the key prerequisite for this.
At the same time, we want to introduce a child benefit that is graduated according to income and the number of children and that combines child benefit and child supplement.
With a view to the politically desired goals (prevention of child poverty, access to education for all children and equal support for all children regardless of their parents' income), we will regularly review and, if necessary, adapt the concept of livelihood security for children with its various interacting instruments.
Every child is of equal value to us and no one should become poor because of their children.
We will also further strengthen the rights of children and families with regard to participation opportunities in the area of child and youth welfare (SGB VIII).
Strengthening children's rights:
We will anchor the rights of children in the Basic Law.
Children are their own personalities and need their own rights.
Parliaments, administrations and courts should give priority to children's interests wherever children's rights are affected.
The right of children and adolescents to grow up without violence - especially sexualized violence - is a fundamental child right.
The protection of children and young people against sexualized violence must be extended and further strengthened.
This includes effective protection of minors from harmful media and the continuation of assistance for those affected.
The independent commissioner for child sexual abuse issues plays an important role here.
We want to extend this function further.
Assistance for those affected must be made available as low-threshold and unbureaucratic as possible.
We will continue to advance efforts to combat sexual violence nationwide.
To protect against bullying, parents, children and employees in educational institutions must be made more aware of this issue and prevention measures must be implemented at all ages.
Politics for young people:
For us, an independent youth policy means coherently linking different policy areas.
We therefore want to further develop our overall youth policy strategy in a broad discourse together with children, young people and their associations.
Our guiding principle is that all young people must be able to go their own way, have freedom and lead a self-determined life.
An important basis for our actions is the proven instrument of the Federal Government's Child and Youth Report.
With a legally anchored "youth check," we will also examine all political measures in the future for their concrete effect on young people.
Above all, young people need an education and training system that provides the best possible support.
and individual freedom.
That means, for example: In all-day schools, there must be as many alternative options as possible - and at the same time, young people need time outside of school.
A good transition from school to training requires early career and study orientation and, if necessary, uninterrupted career entry support.
We support these with nationwide youth employment agencies.
In addition to the training guarantee for all young people, we also want to increase the quality of dual training, for example to make social professions more attractive.
With a minimum training allowance (collectively agreed solutions have priority), we want to enable independence during training.
At every stage of life, it must also be financially possible to switch between vocational and academic education.
We therefore want to improve the benefits of BAföG - in particular to be able to support existing, alternative educational biographies, for example by starting studies later or studying part-time.
We ensure that educational and training opportunities do not depend on where parents live.
In addition to expanding public and social housing, we want to make targeted investments in student and trainee dormitories to help young people take their first steps outside the parental home.
After completing their training, young people need secure prospects for the future.
That's why we want to introduce a notice period for employers who do not want to take on trainees at the end of their training.
We will abolish fixed-term employment contracts.
Opening up second and third chances in school and vocational training is also a matter of course for us.
We don't want to leave any young person behind.
The end of compulsory education must therefore not result in young people not being given the chance to attend school or vocational school.
We are focusing on prospects through targeted support instead of tougher sanctions for under-25s in SGB II.
Young people should have a democratic say.
We want to lower the voting age for federal elections and elections to the European Parliament to 16.
In this way, we enable young people to participate politically at an earlier stage.
At the same time, we motivate them to become more active in defending their interests and rights.
Because their vote counts.
We will expand political education for young people - above all through the Federal Agency for Civic Education as well as through political youth associations, independent organizations and other political education programs.
Places for children and youth work are just as much a part of basic services as daycare centers and schools.
That is why we will maintain and expand them.
The youth associations are a supporting pillar of our youth work.
We want to further increase their financial support in the federal budget.
More and more young people between school and university or starting a career are using youth volunteer services for their own orientation.
There, the number of seats must be increased to meet demand.
The young generation is shaping the globalized world.
We therefore want to promote international youth volunteer services, international youth exchanges
and significantly expand Erasmus+ as the EU's central education program.
We support those who cannot afford the exchange.
Best schools:
No matter where learning takes place: Schools need to shine - the buildings, but also their equipment.
And we need the best teachers.
That is why we want to join forces in a "National Education Alliance".
Education is a joint task of the federal, state and local governments!
With a new Article 104c of the Basic Law, we are breaking the ban on cooperation as a first step.
The federal government should be able to invest directly in educational facilities such as daycare centers, schools, after-school care centers and vocational schools in financially weak municipalities.
Beyond that, however, we want the ban on cooperation to be lifted completely.
Wherever it makes sense, the federal government must be able to help make education better.
We will further develop the federal school renovation program into a school modernization program.
In this way, we ensure well-equipped classrooms, barrier-free buildings and modern equipment, including digital technology.
Together with the states, we will press ahead with the comprehensive expansion of good all-day programs.
Our goal: a legal right to all-day education and care.
As a first step, we will enforce this for elementary schools over the next four years.
Together with the states, we want to expand school social work.
This is because schools with all-day programs that extend beyond the classroom need multiprofessional teams.
Good all-day schools must also open up to partners outside the school
and involve children and young people in shaping the programs on offer.
School is a place of education, of teaching values, and a place of learning for living democracy.
We will encourage voluntary work by students.
Even at all-day schools, young people need time freedom.
To improve the quality of teaching, we want to promote the exchange of good concepts and support this with accompanying educational research.
Schools need good learning and teaching materials that reflect the reality of life and the diversity of life models in an age-appropriate way.
New findings on successful learning and teaching concepts must be made available to schools more quickly.
We also want to further develop the training and continuing education of teachers accordingly, because teachers must constantly adapt to new challenges -
to cultural diversity
and the variety of life models at their school,
to the joint learning of children with and without disabilities, to
all-day teaching or to new developments in digital education.
We will continue and further develop the "Quality Initiative for Teacher Education" of the federal and state governments.
Digitization is changing how we live and work, and it is also changing how we learn.
Education in and for the digital world encompasses all areas of education and aims at digital self-determination.
Digital education must be the subject of school and classroom development.
Competencies in handling, deploying, designing and using digital media and technology are important.
That is why we will work with the states to develop new educational standards for all educational areas and school levels.
Pupils should acquire digital skills across all subjects.
Digitized learning materials must be openly available, for which we want to make greater use of open educational resources.
For this to work, we need networked digital learning platforms.
The federal and state governments must also work together to ensure that educational institutions have up-to-date technical equipment.
Digital independence affects all generations.
The adult education centers play an important role in adult education.
We create offerings for older people so that they can make better use of the opportunities offered by the digital society.
Living well in old age:
Never before have people grown old as healthily as they do today.
After their working lives, they usually have a long period of life with a good quality of life ahead of them.
They support their children and grandchildren.
They are involved in clubs, associations, neighborhoods.
They want to live self-determined, independent lives in good neighborhoods
and at the same time be able to rely on receiving the necessary support if they need more help or even care.
We therefore want to support livable and safe neighborhoods for all generations.
This includes the expansion and further promotion of places of encounter such as multigenerational houses, which
rely on voluntary commitment and support it at the same time.
To enable older people to remain active for a long time, we support nationwide and interconnected offerings for health, care and household-related services - legal, accessible to all and affordable.
A joint effort by the federal, state and local governments and the social insurance funds is needed here.
Dignified living conditions must be ensured for all living models and forms of housing.
To this end, we will provide greater support for the conversion to barrier-free housing and continue the "Age-appropriate conversion" program, as
well as supporting communal forms of living with a "Community-based self-determined living" program.
Family work time for caregivers:
Those who care for relatives need more time for attention and often also financial support.
We are introducing family working time for caregivers.
For example, we enable people who care for family members to take time off from work with a wage replacement benefit: family members providing care can reduce their working hours in full or in part for up to three months and receive a wage replacement benefit during this time, the amount and scope of which is based on parental allowance.
In addition, if employees wish to reduce their working hours for a longer period of time to care for dependents, they will receive the family care allowance.
It amounts to 150 euros per month and is paid to employees who work 75 percent to 90 percent of the respective regular full-time hours; this corresponds to 26 to 36 hours per week, depending on the company or collectively agreed full-time hours.
When it comes to care in the family, services such as home help are being used more and more frequently.
A special challenge is presented by working relationships in which 24-hour care and support is realized in the home.
Here we want to develop alternatives.
We will direct existing government support toward this goal.
It is important to us that state support is linked to the social security of employees.
In order to be able to coordinate help and support services well, advice on the care services available must be improved.
Care support centers play an important role as points of contact close to home.
Here, people in need of care and their relatives receive advice, support and the help they need in organizing care.
We will expand their support for people in need of care and their families.
It's time for modern training and safe work
After school, the course is set anew.
In this context, getting started in training and work is crucial.
Young people have dreams, goals or are still searching.
For them to take a successful path, it has to go hand in hand: The young people must be motivated and want to make something of their lives, the training companies must show good offers
and the universities offer excellent teaching and research.
Vocational and academic education are of equal value!
We want to strengthen both paths, as it is precisely the interlocking of these disciplines that constitutes our innovative strength.
Apprentices and students deserve equal respect and recognition.
We need more graduates in both fields.
Dual education is one of the strengths of our education system.
The skilled trades play a prominent role here, accounting for around a quarter of all apprenticeships.
Dual training ensures that we will still have the skilled workers we need to secure our prosperity tomorrow.
That is why it is now important to modernize them and make them even more attractive.
Students at German universities should have excellent study conditions.
Universities and colleges are places where human curiosity and creativity create new knowledge.
Autonomy, participation and reliable finances are important framework conditions for good universities.
In this way, they can assume responsibility and help shape social development.
We want to strengthen STEM education (mathematics, information technology, natural sciences and technology) along the entire education chain
and, in particular, attract women to train or study in these fields.
We ensure secure employment with the goal of full employment in Germany.
Our country is economically successful.
This is primarily the result of the high level of commitment shown by the employees who work to achieve success on a daily basis.
It is also the result of a social partnership in which trade unions can assert the interests of the workforce on an equal footing.
And it is the success of responsible and innovative entrepreneurs who, together with employees, are moving our country forward.
We give all those who advance our country through their work and commitment the respect they deserve.
People should feel this in their daily lives.
Work is in a state of flux.
Technological innovations,
digital networking,
different lifestyles,
the desire to reconcile family and career, and a growing diversity of forms of employment are new challenges - also for policymakers.
We are adapting the framework conditions,
because we want work that is geared to people's needs and enables them to lead self-determined lives.
For this, we need a new partnership in the labor market.
We are convinced that only together can we move our country forward!
Better working conditions benefit everyone, not only employees but also employers.
Those who have good work are satisfied.
And those who are satisfied and without existential worries can concentrate intensively on their work.
Our goal: permanent work - socially secured and paid according to collective agreements.
This must once again be the norm for all employees.
Men and women who have lost their jobs should quickly find good work again.
We will support people through better training opportunities.
At the same time, we are creating more security through strong unemployment insurance.
Modernization of vocational training:
Those who have to decide on their future profession need advice and support at an early stage.
Targeted career or study orientation must already take place at school.
In addition, youth employment agencies are important points of contact during the transition from school to work.
We want to establish them across the board.
We will continue the "Alliance for Education and Training" of trade unions, industry, the federal government and the states.
Our goal remains the guarantee of an apprenticeship place
and thus the entitlement for all young people living in Germany to a high-quality and fully qualifying apprenticeship.
The focus is on the in-company training position.
We want to strengthen sector-specific training funds supported by trade unions and employers.
We want to expand assisted training, which supports not only young people but also parents, schools and companies, throughout Germany.
At the same time, we will strengthen the instrument of training-accompanying assistance to
enable support in the event of learning difficulties or problems in the social environment.
We will also launch an initiative to expand part-time training.
We are not resigned to the fact that there are still 7.5 million functionally illiterate people in Germany.
That's why we're creating more federal offerings to strengthen basic education.
Vocational schools are crucial for the quality of dual education.
This is where the skilled workers of tomorrow learn.
With a vocational school pact, we want to modernize their equipment
and ensure that enough good teachers are available.
Such a pact must be jointly supported by the federal and state governments.
We will involve the companies and training companies.
Those who undertake demanding training should also be paid properly.
That is why an appropriate minimum training allowance is needed.
Collectively agreed solutions have priority, in particular declarations of general applicability, whereby collectively agreed training allowances apply to all.
In future, employers are to observe a notice period if they do not wish to take on trainees after they have completed their training.
We will amend the Vocational Training Act and focus here on improving the quality of training.
Time off for vocational school days must apply to trainees regardless of age.
German craftsmanship thrives on its excellent quality and outstanding reputation.
To ensure the safety and quality of training, we will strengthen the system of trades requiring authorization as well as the master craftsman's certificate.
We need a training strategy for the world of work 4.0
to keep pace with changes such as digitization.
To this end, the Vocational Training Act must be further developed.
In-company trainers have a key role to play here.
Regular continuing education must be standard.
This includes additional qualification for the training of people with disabilities.
The dissolution of the time and place constraints on continuing education through digital educational offerings opens up new access points for those who previously had difficulty participating in continuing education.
This also makes it easier to gain further qualifications while working.
We want to link the advantages of vocational and academic education by increasing permeability in both directions.
Dual study programs are a successful way of combining vocational and academic education.
We will make them more comparable nationwide and define quality criteria together with the states and the universities.
We will regulate the practical phases of the dual courses of study in the Vocational Training Act.
We want to achieve a breakthrough in the social opening of universities: We will double the number of scholarships for vocational training graduates.
In addition, we want to make more advanced training scholarships possible and decisively expand dual courses of study.
We will abolish fees for technician, master craftsman and specialist courses for participants.
And those who have the master craftsman's certificate should also be able to study for a master's degree in the future.
Good universities:
Universities and science are there for the people.
We need outstanding teaching, excellent research, connection and exchange between science, business, culture and society, strong international visibility, social responsibility and reliable working conditions.
We will strengthen the basic funding of universities
and give non-university research a reliable perspective.
We will maintain the temporary funding of the science and higher education pacts beyond 2019/20 and convert it into reliable and permanent funding.
The federal government will make use of the new possibilities in the Basic Law and, in this spirit, work together with the states and the scientific community to strengthen the basic funding of universities.
We will provide targeted support for university medical research.
Young talents should be able to make their way in science.
That is why we want to provide universities and research institutions with incentives for reliable career paths.
Our goal is to significantly reduce fixed-term contracts,
anchor equality in science,
and counteract discrimination.
We advocate for a minimum of 40 percent women in leadership positions in science.
That is why we want a binding quota for all federal measures that have a direct impact on personnel.
In addition, we will also advocate for reliable employment conditions for student assistants.
To improve the quality of teaching and to reduce the number of dropouts, we need better student support.
Overall, we will make excellent teaching a core focus of our higher education policy.
Overall, we will make excellent teaching a core element of our university policy.
Good teaching must also lead to good career prospects.
We will also encourage universities to be more open to cooperating with universities of applied sciences on new doctoral models.
The digitization of universities can only be achieved by the federal and state governments working together.
We are committed to creating more high-quality online learning opportunities at universities so that studying is increasingly possible in a location- and time-flexible manner.
To this end, we will launch an equipment initiative to support universities in digitizing their campus systems and learning platforms.
We will improve networking between universities in the area of digitization overall.
We want to promote the idea of a digital "Open University" in which people without a high school diploma can also participate.
Education and science should be able to make greater use of the opportunities offered by digitization.
We want to promote open channels for scientific communication and publication (Open Access).
We also need a science-friendly copyright law.
The legislator must decide what must be guaranteed as license-free basic access.
We will therefore create more legal certainty for everyone.
In doing so, we will also take into account the interests of authors
and ensure fair remuneration for the use of their works.
Digital methods should be able to be used legally in research and teaching.
Examples of this are text and data mining, i.e. the analysis of digital databases.
Universities of applied sciences are an important pillar of our science system.
We will support them with a federal-state program to recruit additional scientific staff.
In addition, we will support them in developing and implementing an internationalization strategy.
We want to ensure the success of the Bologna reforms.
To achieve this, we need to set quality incentives across Europe so that study entry phases are designed more flexibly and freedom to shape studies is extended.
We will significantly limit the sprawling number of different, highly differentiated degree programs.
This is another way in which we can noticeably reduce dropouts.
We want to give bachelor's degree graduates with a doctorate or several years of professional experience full access to the higher federal civil service.
We also want to increase the number of master's degree places.
As part of a university social pact, we will improve student counseling and support, expand the dining halls, and push ahead with renovation and new construction for student housing.
Student services are important partners in achieving these goals.
More equal opportunities through better BAföG:
The Federal Training Assistance Act - the BAföG - is a social democratic success story.
Alongside the freedom from fees, it is the most important instrument for more equal opportunities in education.
We will therefore improve benefits, gear support more closely to new life situations, and adapt BAföG to the many different educational pathways.
This includes a needs-based increase in funding rates that is regularly reviewed and adjusted.
We want to expand the student BAföG in general education schools and in non-dual training programs.
The student BAföG is to be opened up further through higher income limits.
We will significantly raise the age limits and create more flexible funding entitlements - for example, for part-time studies and continuing education master's degrees.
We want to give greater consideration to social and political commitment in our funding.
We will further develop and strengthen the Meister-BAföG.
We will place education and training funding under a common "BAföG-Plus" umbrella.
Secure work and good wages:
We want a strong economy
and companies that create good jobs.
We want a functioning labor market that recognizes the value of work.
At the same time, the framework conditions must be changed so that people can look to the future with more confidence.
That's why we will abolish permanent employment contracts without a fixed term in order to give young people, in particular, prospects and more planning flexibility for their professional and private lives.
We will restrict the factual grounds for fixed-term contracts and limit the possibility of chain fixed-term contracts.
Public employers have a special responsibility here.
We want to enable living wage jobs instead of precarious employment.
Temporary workers and contract workers need better protection.
We have already achieved a great deal with the introduction of a maximum period of temporary employment and the principle of "equal pay for equal work".
We will continue along this path.
Our goal is to ensure that temporary workers are paid the same as permanent employees from day one.
This may only be deviated from by representative collective agreements.
The linking of a temporary employment relationship to a work assignment (synchronization) is to be inadmissible.
We will significantly expand the co-determination of works councils in the use of temporary work and contracts for work and services.
We will combat the abuse of contracts for work and services.
We will curb the anti-employee and ever-expanding spread of "work on call."
We also want to reduce marginal employment,
combat abuse
and open up the path from mini-jobs to work subject to social insurance contributions.
We will abolish the exceptions to the minimum wage for the long-term unemployed.
Where regular work is performed, regular pay must also be paid.
We will evaluate the exemptions for those under 18 for their impact and seek their elimination where possible.
We want a pact for decent wages and stronger collective bargaining.
The prerequisites for good wages and good working conditions in all sectors are strong trade unions and a high level of collective bargaining coverage.
We will therefore continue along the path we have taken of granting legal privileges to collective bargaining partnerships.
We give companies covered by collective agreements more scope for action than companies not covered by collective agreements.
We will further improve the possibility of declaring collective agreements generally binding and specify the requirements.
The legal certainty of the general binding nature of collective agreements must also be guaranteed retroactively, if necessary.
We want collective agreements to remain in force until they are replaced by a new collective agreement, for example in the event of the outsourcing of operations or parts of operations.
More use must be made of tariff regulations when awarding public contracts.
In order to better protect the rights of employees, we will introduce a right of collective action for trade unions.
Shaping digital work:
Digitalization is fundamentally changing the world of work.
It opens up opportunities and harbors risks.
Digital work must also be good work.
The concept of employee and company must be adapted in line with the changes brought about by digitization
so that the protective function of labor law is maintained.
It is a political task to shape the digitization of our working world.
For us, Work 4.0 means that the legal framework, collective bargaining agreements and company structures must be interlinked in order to take advantage of the opportunities.
More self-determined working time is a central goal to enable more work-life balance.
Employees are to be given more options for their working hours and place of work, provided this does not conflict with operational concerns.
We therefore want to introduce a law on optional working hours in close consultation with trade unions and companies,
in which employees' legal entitlements, financial support in certain phases of life and incentives for the negotiation of optional work concepts are interlinked.
An important component here is the right to return to the previous working hours after a period of voluntary part-time work.
Women in particular are affected by the so-called part-time trap.
This has a particular impact on pensions.
We will give them the opportunity to keep the planning about career and professional life in their own hands.
We also want to make long-term accounts more attractive for employees and companies.
If a lot of work is involved, it must be possible to save up for additional hours worked.
In quieter phases or when more time is needed for the family, less work can then be done.
We therefore want to examine whether and how long-term accounts can be organized across companies.
Digitization enables more flexibility and better opportunities for balancing family and career.
The Optional Working Time Act is also intended to create a legal framework for mobile work.
Our goal is for the collective bargaining parties to reach agreements on this.
Employers should have to give reasons if the request for mobile work is denied.
Even in a digitalized working world, rest periods are still necessary!
We will create a clarification of the right to be unavailable in order to limit burdens associated with location and time-flexible work.
To reduce mental stress in the workplace, we will expand occupational health and safety law to include more binding regulations.
This relates in particular to the more effective implementation of risk assessments
and the expansion of the co-determination rights of works and staff councils.
The monitoring of compliance with occupational health and safety and labor law must be improved.
This also requires better equipment for the Financial Control of Clandestine Employment.
The increasing digitization of the economy and society has led to serious changes in the postal markets as well.
However, while the main regulatory framework in this area is almost 20 years old, a private competitive market has developed in the postal services industry, which is particularly labor-intensive, all too often to the detriment of employees.
In order to maintain a high level of basic postal services for the benefit of consumers in the future
, while at the same time ensuring better working conditions for employees,
the legal framework must be adapted.
In the course of digitalization, personal data is increasingly being collected.
It is necessary to regulate by clear specifications which data may be processed for which purpose and under which conditions in the company.
To protect against misuse of personal data, we will create an Employee Data Protection Act.
The resources of works councils in the introduction of IT systems and software must be strengthened so that they can effectively prevent comprehensive behavior and performance monitoring.
More democracy in the workplace:
Co-determination is central to the success of the social market economy.
It is an expression of our idea of economic democracy.
Only with co-determination at eye level can change in the world of work be shaped successfully.
We want to strengthen them by law.
We will lower the threshold for parity co-determination to 1,000 employees.
Employment beyond the core workforce must in future be systematically taken into account in the thresholds for one-third and parity co-determination.
German co-determination law must also be extended to companies in foreign legal form with their registered office in Germany or to the German branch.
At the German and European level, we are committed to closing loopholes such as those that can be used to avoid co-determination when establishing a European Company (SE).
We will work to ensure that the SE Participation Act clarifies that co-determination in an SE must be renegotiated if the number of employees in Germany rises above the thresholds of German co-determination laws.
Furthermore, the One-Third Participation Act must be adapted to the regulations on group accounting in the Co-Determination Act and with regard to the coverage of the Kapitalgesellschaft & Co. KG in the Co-Determination Act.
Continuing education and in-company qualification are gaining in importance.
This is why works councils need more rights of participation here - for example, by expanding the existing right to make proposals and provide advice to safeguard and promote employment and by a general right of initiative to introduce in-company vocational training and continuing education measures.
There are still too many companies without co-determination.
The systematic obstruction of works council elections and the work of works councils is illegal
and anti-democratic and
must be consistently prosecuted as an official offense.
The formation of corresponding focal prosecutor's offices will increase the effectiveness of prosecution - also for other violations of labor law.
We want to increase the scope of employee co-determination by further simplifying the election procedure.
The special protection against dismissal for the initiators of a works council election must be improved.
Co-determination rights in the use of outside employment, for example in the case of contracts for work and services, must be strengthened.
The civil service is to be further democratized and modernized.
The co-determination and participation rights of the staff councils must be expanded accordingly.
Trade union shop stewards need reliable protection against discrimination in the workplace.
We will create security for so-called whistleblowers.
Upgrading Social Professions:
People who work in health care, nursing, education, social services and education professions deserve more recognition.
We therefore want an employment policy that strengthens social services.
The providers, services and institutions are just as much responsible as the federal, state and local governments.
This is because the public sector defines the framework conditions and the financial resources.
Because of the many challenges facing our society, the social professions will continue to grow in importance.
This increase in importance must also be reflected in income.
That is why we want to upgrade the social professions.
In the future, full-school training is to become genuine dual training.
By doing so, we not only make them tuition-free, but also create a training allowance!
An incentive that will lead to men also increasingly taking up these professions.
We are creating a uniform federal framework for the health professions.
In order to counter the fragmentation of labor law agreements and collective bargaining agreements, a generally binding sectoral collective agreement for the social sector is necessary.
Promote continuing education:
In the working world of tomorrow, continuing education will play a key role.
We therefore need a further training offensive.
Existing qualification offers are to be expanded and coordinated with each other - also in connection with collective bargaining strategies.
The aim is to provide employees with qualified, independent advice and the right to take advantage of further training and to be released from work for this purpose.
The costs of the measures as well as the livelihood security should - depending on the benefits - be shared fairly between the company, society and the individual.
The aim must be to give all employees the same opportunities for continuing education and training: Women and men, younger and older employees, part-time employees and employees with family responsibilities.
If necessary, this also includes a childcare service.
We are striving for coherent federal funding for continuing education,
which we want to implement together with the collective bargaining partners.
Within the framework of a National Continuing Education Conference, the various continuing education instruments must be meaningfully coordinated with one another.
There is also a need for regional monitoring of skilled workers, as well as innovation and consulting centers for companies on the subject of Work 4.0.
The digitization of the world of work places special demands on vocational education and training.
By using digital media, modern vocational training and continuing education courses can be designed in a contemporary manner
and the digital skills of educational staff in educational institutions and companies can be strengthened to this end.
Elements of digital learning also make it easier to gain further qualifications while working thanks to their flexibility in terms of time and place
and opens up access for non-formal learners as well.
Small and medium-sized enterprises in particular can benefit more from this.
Develop unemployment insurance into labor insurance:
The new working world 4.0 opens up opportunities -
but also presents us with the challenge of providing new security for employees.
They should be supported throughout their working lives so that they do not remain unemployed for any length of time.
And during a period of unemployment, they should be able to build on existing qualifications.
We will introduce a right to continuing education.
Unemployed persons who do not find a new job within three months are to receive an offer of a qualification measure from the Federal Employment Agency in order to increase their chances of placement.
The right to continuing education includes a comprehensive competency assessment of all skills and talents.
This is the basis for targeted further training advice.
Further training measures can also consist of catching up on a vocational qualification or starting retraining.
Here we will work closely with the trade unions and local companies.
There is to be a new unemployment benefit Q (ALG Q) for the duration of participation in qualification measures.
We will introduce that.
The receipt of ALG Q is not counted towards unemployment benefits.
The amount of ALG Q corresponds to the unemployment benefit.
After completion of a comprehensive qualification measure or retraining, the entitlement to unemployment benefits resumes according to the previous rules.
We will continue to develop unemployment insurance into employment insurance and, accordingly, push ahead with a transformation of the Federal Employment Agency into a Federal Agency for Employment and Qualification.
Employment insurance must not react only when there is unemployment!
Even those who are in employment should already be able to access independent counseling.
The aim here is to show what career prospects employees have with their existing qualifications and what options are available for continuing professional development.
Building on the counseling, in-service qualification measures can be funded by the employment insurance if necessary.
In the future, all citizens should have a personal development account after entering professional life, which they can use to secure periods of further training.
It is to be provided with a publicly funded start-up credit.
A large proportion of the unemployed are currently no longer in the unemployment insurance system, but in the basic benefits system for jobseekers.
We will strengthen unemployment insurance again.
Many unemployed people do not receive unemployment benefits because they have not worked for at least twelve months within the last two years, the so-called framework period, for which contributions are required.
Although they have usually paid contributions to unemployment insurance, they no longer receive benefits from the insurance.
We will change that.
In the future, anyone who was employed for at least ten months within three years prior to becoming unemployed and subject to social insurance contributions should already receive unemployment benefits.
In future, income-related contributions are to be levied on self-employed persons who take out unemployment insurance.
Despite the good situation on the labor market, there are still many people who are unemployed for a longer period of time.
They in particular need individual and tailored support in order
to (re)achieve social participation through participation in working life.
We therefore want to improve the framework conditions in the job centers and their personnel and financial resources in such a way that this individual support can also be provided and a high quality of advice and support can be ensured.
In doing so, we will take greater account of the interests of the unemployed and strengthen their rights.
We want to finance work instead of unemployment and will therefore expand publicly subsidized employment
and create a permanent, social labor market.
We will incorporate the federal "Social Participation" program into the Social Code II as a standard benefit.
With the social labor market, we are creating new prospects for the long-term unemployed who have no realistic chances on the primary labor market in the foreseeable future.
This is also of high importance for regions that are particularly affected by long-term unemployment.
All employment promotion offers must be designed in such a way that they also enable women and men with family responsibilities to participate successfully.
We make targeted offers for single parents.
We also want to improve the possibility for children from families dependent on unemployment benefit II to have contact with both parents.
To this end, we will introduce an additional requirement for contact if both parents care for the child.
In order to improve the opportunities of long-term unemployed women, we want to anchor the tried-and-tested equal opportunities officers in SGB II (basic benefits for jobseekers) as well.
In the future, we will also offer further training to the long-term unemployed who have not been entitled to activation benefits under Social Code Book II because of the imputation of partner income.
We want to improve individual support for jobseekers in the job centers.
The focus must be on maintaining and expanding employability as opposed to rapid placement.
We will remove the harsher sanctions for under-25s from SGB II.
We will abolish the sanctioning of benefits for housing costs.
No one should become homeless as a result of a sanction.
In addition, we will double the protected assets in SGB II.
It's time for a strong economy and innovations
Germany is a strong country.
With strong companies and an innovative middle class that produces many world market leaders.
With modern craft businesses and retailers as well as more and more young and creative startups.
Despite all the crises in recent years, it is clear that our social market economy is a successful model.
Companies are ensuring that employment is at an all-time high.
The unemployment rate is at its lowest level in decades.
Real wages are rising again and there are more jobs subject to social security contributions.
They form the backbone of our working society.
This does not happen by itself, but shows: Our political measures work!
For us, a strong economy always means that everyone shares fairly in the successes.
Equity is the central prerequisite for economic innovation and progress.
Growing inequality in income and wealth, on the other hand, jeopardizes our future opportunities.
This has been proven by numerous studies and is now also confirmed by the OECD and the World Economic Forum.
Our economic policy is committed to economic and fiscal as well as social and environmental sustainability.
Growth, sound budgeting, social justice and the preservation of natural resources form the quadrilateral of our political goals.
We want to commit the federal government's economic and financial policy to these goals.
The key to the success of our economy is higher investment.
Investments pay off many times over - for private investors, for the state and for society as a whole.
The SPD will launch a new investment offensive in Germany.
We will encourage and support companies to invest more again.
This also applies to the federal, state and local governments.
We will provide more money for research and development
to secure jobs and economic progress.
New findings from science and research offer the opportunity to develop technical, economic and social innovations.
This is how we will advance social progress.
Companies in Germany are innovative!
Public research funding makes an important contribution to this.
We strengthen the rights of consumers and create better protection and more transparency.
Our goal: consumer-friendly markets offering safe, sustainable products from good work.
Citizens and companies in Germany should be able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by digitization and global networking.
We are investing in fast fiber-optic connections that will enable high-speed Internet everywhere in Germany.
And we want an open and free Internet.
At the same time, citizens should retain control over their data.
Strengthening crafts, SMEs and the industrial base:
The strength of our successful national economy lies in its diverse economic structure
- from the medium-sized family business to the large industrial enterprise, from the regional craftsman's firm to the small high-tech forge
- as well as the broad value chain from the basic materials industry to the end product and the associated services.
While other states have focused unilaterally on services and the financial economy in recent decades, we have been careful to preserve the full breadth of our economy.
Unlike other countries, we therefore still have a strong industry in Germany.
We want to further expand this broad base.
We want Germany to remain the location of the leading automotive industry.
The future of the automobile is electric.
That is why the establishment of battery cell production in Germany is of central strategic importance.
This will determine whether we can continue to cover the entire value chain of the automobile in the future.
Industry 4.0 is the fourth industrial revolution - after the steam engine, electrification and automation.
Each of these processes of change was shaped by social democracy and the trade unions in a socially acceptable way.
We will also actively accompany the digital transformation of our economy.
Together with trade unions, companies and associations, we will work to ensure that Industry 4.0 becomes a successful model for Germany.
To achieve this, it is important that we win over small and medium-sized enterprises and the skilled trades in their entire breadth for digitization.
The networking of industry, SMEs and crafts with startups will help determine the success of Industrie 4.0.
There is enormous potential in this - both for economic and social progress.
We will organize this change according to social principles.
With the economic policy program "Innovation Motor SMEs", we will support our SMEs in their transformation.
The focus here is on measures that secure skilled workers for companies, promote innovation and provide targeted relief for SMEs and the skilled trades.
At the same time, we will promote export-oriented SMEs with an active foreign trade policy.
Securing skilled workers is the most urgent problem facing the skilled trades and many SMEs.
In certain professions, it is now difficult to find trainees.
For this reason, we will, among other things, improve training and career guidance,
invest in equipping vocational schools - including as learning workshops for Industry 4.0 technologies -
introduce a right to continuing education,
abolish fees for technician and master craftsman courses,
and create modern immigration law.
The boundaries between industrial production and services continue to dissolve.
Companies will develop new business models with new services ("smart services") from acquired data.
We will therefore examine the extent to which funding programs for technological innovations can also be extended to data-driven business models, such as the successful Central Innovation Program for SMEs (ZIM).
Together with partners from science and industry, we want to establish regional innovation agencies.
They drive socially meaningful innovation approaches, support the digital transformation in the area and, above all, the exchange of knowledge between science and companies.
In addition to traditional technology and knowledge transfer, we also rely on newer approaches such as open innovation.
We will promote the use of digital technology in small and medium-sized enterprises.
Small and medium-sized enterprises are to receive a grant for digital equipment if they seek advice beforehand and submit a digitization concept.
We want to provide financial support for small and medium-sized companies by means of a "research bonus" if they hire personnel for research and development.
Medium-sized companies in particular need this support in order to take advantage of their growth opportunities.
We will also continue to expand our existing research and innovation programs.
And we will improve the write-off options for research and development expenses for companies and the self-employed.
Following the example of North Rhine-Westphalia, we also want to introduce a SME and innovation check for legislation.
In this context, we will also increase funding for the ZIM and Industrielle Gemeinschaftsforschung programs.
Digitization is also changing the retail sector to a particular extent.
We want to evaluate the results from the retail dialog platform in order to develop strategies for vibrant city centers and for local supply in rural areas.
We want to test the strategies at model locations together with local stakeholders and use the results to enable a roll-out for other municipalities.
It is essential to consistently exploit the opportunities of digitization for retailers and consumers.
The rapid growth of the Internet is also due to the availability of free software, which still operates a large part of the infrastructure today:
We want to transfer this idea and increase the share of free software in administration and educational institutions in order to support innovative start-ups in the regional market.
Germany is benefiting from the increasing global demand for environmentally friendly products, technologies and services.
Hundreds of thousands of people now find work here.
We want to continue this success story of ecological industrial policy.
With their energy transition know-how, companies from Germany have the best sales opportunities all over the world.
We want to support small and medium-sized enterprises in particular on their way to the world markets with our foreign trade policy.
In this way, we also contribute to a global clean energy supply and an intact environment.
The structural change in the energy industry will continue.
Very special challenges have to be met in the regions in Lusatia, Central Germany and the Rhineland, which have so far been dominated by lignite.
Here, regional economic structures must be established and expanded that tie in with the industrial tradition of these regions
and promote good, collectively agreed work.
We will tackle this challenge together with the states, the affected regions, the trade unions, the companies and the citizens.
The ongoing energy transition is helping us to do this.
New technologies - storage and batteries, development centers for materials and process technology - are needed on a large scale.
We want to use federal funds to bring together the new economic activities in the affected regions.
Reduce unnecessary bureaucracy - relieve the burden on small and medium-sized businesses:
Our society needs clear rules.
On the other hand, we will abolish unnecessary bureaucracy.
Companies should be able to focus on their core business and not on filling out forms.
Unnecessary bureaucracy hits small and medium-sized enterprises and the self-employed particularly hard.
We will exempt companies from statistical, accounting and record-keeping obligations.
A good example of reducing bureaucracy and facilitating investment is the increase in immediate tax depreciation of low-value assets that we have pushed through.
In the future, it should be possible to complete most administrative procedures online.
That is why we want to ensure rapid implementation of digitization in the administration.
On the one hand, this ensures greater user-friendliness for citizens.
On the other hand, digitization enables the administration itself to work more efficiently and with fewer errors.
A modern and efficient administration will offer as many services as possible from a single source.
We want users to be able to identify themselves easily and securely with an access authorization for all administrative services.
No one should have to submit their data more than once.
Applicants should be able to track the respective processing status of the administration at any time.
Innovations and entrepreneurial spirit:
In Germany, we need more willingness to innovate and an even stronger start-up spirit.
Young entrepreneurs, the startups, help to ensure that bold ideas lead to new business models
and create attractive jobs.
They have the potential to form the SMEs of tomorrow.
Our goal is to ensure that companies can be established quickly and without bureaucracy.
We want company founders to get all their questions answered from a single source.
E-government solutions, in particular, enable targeted consulting and facilitate entry into new business.
Small and medium-sized enterprises often fail due to the bureaucratic hurdles for funding programs.
That is why we will simplify the application process so that company founders can get support easily and quickly and concentrate fully on their business model.
We will also further improve the framework conditions for venture capital.
Universities have always been an important place for innovation.
With a culture of courage, we want to inspire young scientists to start companies.
To this end, the topic of business start-ups must be more firmly anchored in teaching
and start-up semesters must be made possible for students.
Employees at universities are also to be given the right to a "founders' sabbatical".
Although women are better educated today than ever before, they only start up just under three out of ten companies.
Our goal is to help women start businesses more often.
The promotion of start-ups and self-employed women brings more economic growth, an increase in innovation and competitiveness
as well as more equal opportunities and equality in working life.
That is why we want to promote more women as founders,
including through better access to start-up capital and advice and support tailored to their needs.
We also want to support start-ups by people with an immigrant background and people with disabilities.
Failure must not mean the end for founders.
We want to establish a culture of "next chance" and also review insolvency law with this in mind.
We strengthen cooperatives!
This is because they are a crisis-proof form of enterprise in a wide variety of economic sectors.
To do this, we need funding programs that support strong member participation and provide guidance to smaller cooperatives.
We continue to advocate for the safeguarding of municipal services of general interest in the European internal market and in free trade agreements.
For growth and success, companies always need a state that is capable of acting.
A state that provides impetus for innovation.
We want to promote not only technical product innovations, but also social innovations.
Social innovations are new ways of solving social problems, for example through teleworking or consumption options such as car sharing.
We want to be open to new processes and solution strategies for all areas of our lives, from business to working life to environmental protection.
Research and development:
We need excellent research and development in order to meet the economic and social challenges.
With our research funding, we want to provide greater support for networking, interdisciplinary exchange and collaborations.
In the long term, freedom of research is the most important prerequisite for innovation.
The diversity of the research landscape in Germany is an important locational advantage.
Universities, universities of applied sciences, research-based companies and non-university research institutions are doing an outstanding job.
Research needs reliable funding.
By 2025, we want to spend 3.5 percent of gross domestic product on research and development.
As part of the new, permanent funding architecture for universities and research institutions, we will thus promote innovation.
We will continue to develop the successful Pact for Research and Innovation as an important and reliable pillar of this architecture, strengthening cooperation between universities and non-university research institutions.
We want to create additional opportunities for the federal government to directly fund research institutions at universities.
We will double federal research funding for universities of applied sciences.
For projects funded by the German Research Foundation, we want to continue the program flat rate (overhead) after 2020.
We need a national strategy for high-performance computing to better meet the skyrocketing demand at universities and research institutions for both storage and computing capacity.
We will promote forward-looking technologies that combine great value creation with new jobs and improvements for everyday life, for example in the healthcare industry, biotechnology and nanotechnology, environmental and climate protection technologies, materials research or robotics.
Here, aerospace also plays an important role for Germany as a location for business and innovation and for European cooperation, which we will continue to strengthen.
We want to drive the transfer of scientific findings to the development of products and services
and use this for better working conditions.
To this end, we will further expand transfer funding, validation research at the interface between research and application, and research into work, vocational training and services.
We strengthen knowledge-based networks of science, industry, SMEs and startups so that they can better perform their increasing tasks in research and transfer.
For answers to societal challenges, we need the creativity of researchers.
They need scientific autonomy and financial planning security for their work.
However, researchers should also be given more leeway to choose and pursue their research topics independently of short-sighted prospects for benefits and exploitation opportunities.
Together with the scientific community, we will create a new funding approach in which potentially disruptive innovations can be tested directly and unbureaucratically.
We want to increase citizens' acceptance of new technologies.
With transparency, information and participation, we will reduce fears and prevent anxiety.
Civil society will be involved in the German government's innovation dialog.
The results of the dialogue will be published.
Clear rules for the financial industry:
The real economy, citizens and the state need a financial and banking system that is secure and reliable.
We want to become the driving force internationally in the control and supervision of financial markets.
No financial market, no financial product and no financial actor may be without regulation and without control in the future.
The activities of the financial markets must be aligned with the needs of the real economy.
Regionally active financial institutions such as savings banks, cooperative banks and development banks are important financial partners for many people and companies in our country.
We see them as an important pillar for stability in the financial system and are therefore fighting to preserve them.
In terms of regulation, we will distinguish between savings banks, cooperative banks, development banks or small and medium-sized private banks, and systemically important large banks.
At international and EU level, there are efforts to introduce a clear and appropriate leverage ratio for banks.
We support that.
If a bank gets into difficulties, its shareholders and their wealthy creditors should be primarily liable (bail-in principle).
We advocate a clear separation of investment and commercial banking and a significant restriction on proprietary trading by banks.
This will curb high-risk speculation and the danger it poses to the stability of commercial banks.
For financial institutions outside the banking and insurance sector, for example hedge funds and other shadow banks, we call for a catalog of criteria to examine their significance for the financial system.
Such systemically important financial institutions should be subject to binding capital requirements and supervision.
To ensure that these regulations are successful, we will strive for a European solution.
All business relationships between banks and shadow banks must be transparent and "contagion risks" minimized.
In the area of derivatives trading, we want to swiftly complete the regulation of unsecured "over the counter" transactions and make bank- and exchange-internal trading platforms for anonymous trading in financial products ("dark pools") subject to supervision.
Minimum holding periods to limit high-frequency trading are a useful tool.
We want to significantly limit and better regulate the role of rating agencies in reviewing and assessing risks and in the advisory business.
To this end, we want to clearly separate the rating business from advisory services and ensure even more than before that sovereign actions are less frequently based on private ratings.
We want to place small, young and innovative financial service providers (FinTechs) under simplified supervision for start-up financing.
Good advice and customer protection must not be called into question in the process.
Germany is an important financial center.
We want to strengthen it
and attract further financial and regulatory institutions.
We support the goal of creating a single European capital market.
We also advocate the introduction of the financial transaction tax.
We are clearly committed to citizens' right to cash and will resolutely oppose efforts to abolish it.
Strengthen consumer rights:
In consumer protection, we need good laws
and their effective enforcement so that those who are right get right.
Qualified associations are to be able to have legal disputes that affect many consumers resolved with just one action in court (model declaratory action).
Consumer organizations can already enforce certain consumer rights by means of representative actions.
We will continue to expand this option.
Premature wear and tear of products annoys consumers
and harms the environment.
Therefore, warranty and guarantee claims must be more enforceable in everyday life.
For this purpose, products and electrical devices are to be labeled in a comprehensible and comparable manner with regard to their service life.
The ability to repair and update products must also be increased and better regulated throughout Europe.
We will introduce binding verification criteria for the award of sustainability seals.
Consumer protection also applies in the digital economy.
Citizens must be able to use products and services from the Internet safely.
In Internet commerce, the personal profile of data makes it possible to tailor goods and services to the wishes and needs of individual consumers.
However, it also allows, for example, the amount of the prices called to be based on ability to pay, age, place of residence or other factors.
We reject unfair individual pricing as a result of profiling from user data.
We will put effective regulations in place to counter such abuse.
In the case of "scoring," i.e., individual risk prediction for individual consumers, the data used and their weighting must be disclosed to the supervisory authority.
There should be clear rules on deletion periods and deletion obligations for negative, incorrect and outdated entries.
We are strengthening the rights of financial customers, because they should be able to engage in banking, stock exchange and insurance transactions safely and on an equal footing with financial service providers.
To this end, we want to regulate information systems
and ensure comprehensive transparency in the provision of advice - among other things, by strengthening fee-based advice as an alternative to commission-based advice.
We want to dissolve the control of financial investment brokers via the Trade Regulation Act.
It is to be subordinated to the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority in order to achieve uniform supervisory law.
Smartphone apps are taking on an increasingly important role in many aspects of life.
We want users to be informed comprehensively, clearly and understandably before downloading.
You should be able to reliably assess the functions of an app.
Consumers must have control over their data.
This also includes being able to take their data with them to new devices from other manufacturers.
We're all about freedom of choice in new digital markets.
For that, we need competition.
For example, high costs when switching providers (network and lock-in effects) must not make it difficult for customers to switch their mobile or network provider.
We will also strengthen consumer rights vis-à-vis intermediary platforms (sharing economy): more information for users and better protection against serious risks.
In addition to pure revenue, the value of user numbers and personal data should also play a role in the antitrust assessment of platforms in order to prevent monopolies and ensure plurality of providers.
We will adapt product and manufacturer liability so that damages due to programming errors or inadequate encryption or lack of IT security are also regulated in the same way as damages due to production errors.
Withdrawing money from foreign ATMs is a cost trap in Germany.
We want a cap on fees when withdrawing cash from foreign ATMs.
Current overdraft interest rates of up to 14 percent particularly affect people who are over-indebted and cannot open another checking account.
Therefore, we will introduce a "dispo cap".
We want to be able to skim off illegally acquired profits much better
and use the skimmed-off profits to finance consumer advice and information.
For digital financial transactions, we need the free choice of payment service provider and the highest possible security and data protection.
We advocate the right to anonymous cashless payment, taking into account the general legal provisions on, for example, the protection of minors and the fight against money laundering and terrorism.
We will continue to support the consumer centers and their federal association and expand their status as market watchdogs.
State regulatory authorities such as the Federal Motor Vehicle Authority are also to pay greater attention to consumer interests.
We will thus expand the Federal Cartel Office and equip it with competencies for economic consumer protection.
We will continue to promote independent consumer research.
Digitization in the city and in the countryside:
In 2025, we want to have one of the most modern digital infrastructures in Germany.
We are creating "broadband for all", also to overcome the digital divide between urban centers and rural areas.
We will ensure a nationwide digital infrastructure at a high level.
The provision of data speeds of at least 50 megabits per second is intended to be only a first intermediate step by 2018.
Our goal is gigabit networks.
By 2025, more than 90 percent of all buildings should be connected to it.
We will promote the investments required for this.
We will continue to drive forward the development of the fifth generation of mobile data transmission (5G standard).
For this, the antenna sites must be connected with fiber optics.
Mobile communications technology is creating further necessary bandwidths.
WLAN, or open wireless Internet, is part of a modern digital infrastructure.
We want all public institutions to make open and free WLAN hotspots available.
We want equal treatment in data transmission on the Internet and non-discriminatory access to data networks.
This net neutrality is crucial for the open and free Internet as well as for fair competition.
The exceptions to the principle of network neutrality that are possible under European law must remain strictly limited.
In these cases, the Federal Network Agency must take strict care to ensure that Internet quality does not deteriorate.
Data security and basic digital rights:
The aim of our data policy is to guarantee the right to privacy.
At the same time, we want to leverage the economic potential of data, because data protection and big data are not mutually exclusive.
We will create clear regulations on how data can be made available and who may use what data, when, for what purpose and under what conditions.
Citizens should have an overview of how their data is used at all times.
No new data monopolies should be created.
Personal data is particularly worthy of protection.
Users must always give their consent when personal data about them is collected, used or exploited.
Data storage and networks must be better secured against illegal access from outside.
The task of data policy is also to provide answers to future developments and to set the legal framework.
Many novel legal and ethical issues arise from the linking of data, the increasing use of new technologies - such as autonomous driving and the use of artificial intelligence.
We want to clarify these in a comprehensive dialog with civil society, science and business within the framework of a data ethics commission.
With the growing importance of the Internet and the increasing dependence on networked technology, the question of security on the Net is at the same time becoming a question of security in many important other areas.
The NSA scandal and cybercrime are unsettling people.
We want to reclaim the network's promise of freedom.
The success of the network is based precisely on its free and open architecture, which we want to maintain and expand.
We advocate regulations at the international level to protect citizens, businesses, and public institutions from spying and cyberattacks.
Our goal is an "international law of the net" that defines basic digital rights.
Against this backdrop, we want to establish Germany and Europe as a leading location for data privacy and IT security and will campaign within the EU for a digital charter of fundamental rights.
We want to remove barriers to the use and provision of digital services for citizens and businesses throughout Europe.
For example, a startup offering services in Germany is immediately part of the entire European single market.
We will consistently remove obstacles to cross-border digital business.
We want to clearly regulate the supervision of digital services in Europe.
It's time for a strong welfare state
Our welfare state is an achievement.
It provides a social balance,
strengthens our economy
and gives people the security they need,
to determine their own lives.
Citizens should be able to rely on receiving an adequate income in old age after decades of work and being provided for in the best possible way in the event of illness or need for care.
And in the event of job loss, they expect to be well covered.
A welfare state that supports its citizens increases security and promotes social progress and change.
We will make the welfare state even better so that everyone can rely on it in the future.
Medical progress should once again be financed jointly by employers and employees.
And we ensure that citizens can rely on receiving the best medical and nursing care, regardless of income or where they live.
To this end, we are creating a citizens' insurance system into which everyone pays and through which everyone receives the necessary medical services.
Two-tier medicine should no longer exist.
In terms of old-age provision, we are guided by the principle that after decades of work, pensions enable people to live adequately in old age.
The welfare state is there for everyone, which is why we will also secure new forms of employment such as solo self-employment and include them in social insurance.
A citizens' insurance for all in health and care:
We want to insure all citizens in the same way.
The goal is parity-based citizen insurance.
Parity means: Employers and insured persons will again pay the same share of the total insurance contribution.
That is why we are abolishing the unilateral additional contribution paid by the insured.
We will automatically include all those with statutory insurance for the first time and up to now in the citizens' insurance scheme.
This also includes civil servants, for whom a tariff eligible for assistance will be created in the citizens' insurance scheme.
Public employers can choose whether to pay an employer's contribution for civil servants with statutory insurance or, as before, to assume a share of the treatment costs directly via the allowance.
Previously privately insured persons can choose whether they want to switch to the citizens' insurance scheme.
We are making statutory health insurance more affordable for the self-employed with low incomes.
To this end, we will make the assessment of contributions for the self-employed dependent on income and thus reduce contributions for low incomes.
The financing of the citizens' insurance must be fair.
Social tasks must also be financed on the basis of solidarity.
In addition, our goal is to relieve people with chronic illnesses from co-payments and to improve benefits for dental prostheses and visual aids.
Citizens' insurance is also to be introduced in the area of nursing care.
We want to provide citizens with better protection against care risks.
With citizens' insurance, we are creating a uniform fee schedule for physicians.
Until now, private patients have often been given preference because their treatment is remunerated at a higher rate.
We will put an end to that.
This means that the reimbursement of medical services is based on the needs of patients and not on whether they have private or statutory insurance.
Ensure health care:
Good health care should not depend on income or where you live.
In city locations or attractive districts, good and barrier-free medical care is often standard.
We want this to apply to rural and structurally weak regions as well as to urban districts with social problems.
To this end, we are creating integrated demand planning for all medical care.
The prevention of diseases (prevention) and rehabilitation, for example after a serious illness, must be strengthened as part of this planning, and care must also be included.
We also need more family doctors than we have today, because they are the first point of contact in the event of illness.
The competence of pharmacists must be efficiently integrated into the care structures.
We advocate for more and better paid nursing staff in hospitals.
That is why we want to implement binding personnel standards.
The nursing profession must be fairly paid, more flexibly perceived, and provided with more opportunities for advancement.
We will discuss the current working conditions of nursing assistants and professionals and develop concrete proposals to improve the attractiveness of the nursing profession.
We need better working conditions in nursing
and easier access to training and study.
The Nursing Professions Act is an important contribution to this.
Well-trained nurses provide culturally and gender sensitive care.
Good and safe care for patients is only possible with sufficient staff.
Nurses for the elderly and employees in nursing care perform demanding and hard work that must be better recognized.
We will implement an immediate program for more staff in elderly care to provide short-term relief for employees.
Midwives make an indispensable contribution as companions at the start of life - before, during and after birth.
We need to make the profession more attractive and improve working conditions.
The value of their work must also be reflected in their pay.
The other health care professions also perform key tasks in the provision of medical care to citizens.
We will therefore continue to develop them.
It is also important to make more money available for necessary investments in hospitals.
This is because the funding gap is large and can no longer be closed by the states alone.
We want medical innovations to be available quickly and at fair prices from day one.
In a European comparison, Germany is in the top group when it comes to pharmaceutical prices.
In a system financed on the basis of solidarity, however, they must not be determined solely by the market, but must also be ethically justifiable.
For this reason, it should be determined again and again in the future whether new medicines are safe and necessary - and at what prices they will be financed on the basis of solidarity.
We will consistently drive forward digitization in the healthcare sector.
For example, telemedicine can decisively improve care structures in less populated areas or even make them possible in the first place,
and the electronic patient file can ensure the participation and self-determination of patients, insured persons and their relatives and a seamless cross-sector treatment process.
We are accelerating expansion in all areas and supporting innovation.
For us, the basis remains a reliable, uniform telematics infrastructure that ensures an unparalleled level of protection for sensitive data.
We ensure rapid deployment and continuous further development.
Our focus is on ensuring that patients have sovereignty over their data and can decide voluntarily and independently about access and disclosure.
We will strengthen patients' rights and create a patient compensation fund as a federal foundation.
The fund supports patients in the event of treatment errors when liability systems are not effective.
The representation of patients and insured persons in all bodies must be strengthened.
Healthy living:
Preventive health care and prevention should be financed jointly by all responsible parties - the federal government, the states, local authorities and social insurance funds.
We will support preventive measures in daycare centers, schools, companies and care facilities and launch a "Healthy City" program(.)
It is to be closely linked to the "Socially Integrative City" program and will particularly promote measures to address demographic change and social inequality.
In addition to urban planning measures to reduce pollution, this also includes supporting local authorities in creating an environment that is conducive to physical activity, especially for children, and ensuring healthier nutrition in daycare centers, schools and other all-day facilities, including the necessary human resources.
It is primarily people with low incomes who suffer from environmental pollution and are particularly exposed to noise and air pollution in cities.
We are committed to strengthening public health services.
Family planning should not depend on money.
That is why we will use tax revenues to ensure free access to contraceptives for low-income women.
A new intergenerational contract: safeguarding the value of work and dignity in old age
A pension that secures the standard of living is essential for social security and confidence in the welfare state.
Pension policy and future retirement incomes concern old and young people alike.
Like other social security systems, old-age provision in particular must constantly adapt to changing circumstances while remaining reliable for all generations.
We face two key challenges with regard to pensions: We need to stabilize the pension level and safeguard the benefits of the statutory pension.
We need a new intergenerational contract and a social consensus on the efforts needed to stabilize the pension system.
We want to ensure dignity in old age by providing reliable benefits without limiting the development opportunities of younger people through excessively high contributions.
At the same time, it is clear to us that the contributions paid in must be matched by appropriate benefits.
In terms of old-age provision, we continue to adhere to the principle that decades of work also make it possible to live adequately in old age.
It is about one of the most important values in our social market economy: the value of work.
The fact that work performance remains recognizable in old age and social decline and harsh cuts are avoided is the basis for trust in old-age security policy.
The central goals of our old-age security policy are therefore:Sicherung the standard of living in retirement that has been earned over decades.
No increase in the current standard retirement age.
We will ensure that the standard retirement age can be reached in good health and with the capacity to perform.
Preventing poverty in old age.
Any gainful employment must also provide security for old age.
In addition, targeted improvements are needed for those who do not have an adequate pension at the end of a long working life.
A fair financing of the pension.
Contributors must not be overburdened.
Higher incomes must be adequately involved in the solidarity-based financing via tax subsidies.
That means concretely:
Double halfway line: Statutory pension level of at least 48 percent and contribution rate of 22 percent
We are setting a legally defined double stop line for the contribution rate and pension level.
As a first step, the further decline in the level of the statutory pension will be stopped immediately and stabilized at least at the current level of 48 percent by 2030.
To this end, we will introduce a law directly after the Bundestag elections, thus enabling people to live in dignity in old age.
We safeguard the reliable statutory pension as the foundation for securing the standard of living in old age.
To avoid overburdening employees and employers, the contribution paid on a parity basis will not rise above 22 percent.
Launch dialog for a new intergenerational contract:
However, a lasting stabilization of the pension level is not a trivial matter, but can only be achieved through a national effort and a consensus across society.
We will therefore immediately launch a dialog for a new intergenerational contract and initiate a reform program that goes far beyond pension policy to mobilize all potential for strengthening the statutory pension:
Labor force participation must be increased through qualification, child-friendly infrastructure and family-friendly working life models.
In this way, a desirable increase in the number of births can also be promoted in the longer term.
A systematic immigration policy must prevent labor shortages.
The pension system must be stabilized for a transitional period starting in the mid-2020s through additional tax revenues and a broadening of the insured base.
The basis for financing infrastructure, education and pension systems must be accelerated digitization
and the resulting productivity increases.
Strengthening collective bargaining coverage for good wages.
In order for us to achieve these goals, comprehensive reforms and investments must be tackled over the next four years.
In order to further increase the labor force participation of women in particular
, we will continue to improve the compatibility of family and career,
among other things through a comprehensive expansion of all-day and marginal care (also in the elementary school sector),
family-friendly working time models within the framework of an optional working time and the right to temporary part-time work.
In this way, we also contribute to a child-friendly social environment and an increase in the birth rate.
With increased investment in further training and qualification, we must continuously respond to new qualification requirements and changing needs for skilled workers and thus prevent unemployment as well as shortages of skilled workers.
To this end, we will establish a right to continuing education, develop unemployment insurance into employment insurance, and create new incentives for continuing education, for example through unemployment benefit Q during qualification and through a personal employment account that enables time off for continuing education and offers everyone a personal starting credit.
In order to counteract demographic trends,
prevent a shortage of skilled workers
and positively influence the ratio of contributors to pension recipients,
it will also be important to successfully integrate refugees into the labor market and systematically manage immigration through an immigration law.
The framework for these and other measures must be provided by growth-friendly economic and financial policies that enable the necessary investments.
Above all, this includes taking advantage of the opportunities presented by digitization.
By further strengthening collective wage agreements, a pact for decent wages (especially in the service sector) and a training and qualification offensive, we will set the course for good wage development in the future.
Such an overall effort will only succeed with a federal government under social democratic leadership, in which a social democratic chancellor sets the policy guidelines,
because the SPD is deeply concerned with the cohesion of society through a solidarity-based system of old-age security.
In this way, we also ensure acceptance of the statutory pension insurance among younger people.
A new intergenerational contract will only be sustainable if the younger generation can credibly rely on receiving an adequate pension.
Financing will be fair, based on
solidarity
and parity.
Stabilizing the pension level requires substantial resources and, in addition to moderately higher contributions, will be financed by a higher tax subsidy for pension insurance and a new demographic subsidy.
Long years of work must pay off: the solidarity pension
Those who have paid contributions for 35 years or more and/or have credited periods for raising children and caring for them should be entitled to a statutory solidarity pension if there is not a sufficient number of earning points and no substantial other income in the household.
With the solidarity pension, we want to guarantee an old-age income for long-term employees that is ten percent above the average basic social security entitlement at the place of residence.
Regionally varying housing costs are thus taken into account.
Coverage of uninsured self-employed:
In the future, self-employed persons who are not covered by a pension scheme will be included in the solidarity community of the statutory pension insurance.
The aim is to ensure that self-employed persons who were previously uninsured under the statutory pension scheme receive adequate old-age provision.
They benefit from all the benefits of the statutory pension insurance and participate in the solidarity pension insurance through their own contributions.
For start-ups and small businesses, there will be rules to avoid financial overcharging.
The inclusion of the previously uninsured self-employed is the first step toward our goal of expanding the statutory pension insurance system into an employment insurance system.
Improve reduced earning capacity pension:
Reduced earning capacity is now a key risk for old-age poverty.
For many employees, it is not possible to reach the statutory retirement age in working life for health and physical reasons.
Reduced earning capacity is not based on a voluntary decision by the person concerned.
We therefore need improvements that reach all pensioners with reduced earning capacity and also take better account of those who have no opportunities on the labor market for health reasons.
Flexible pension transitions instead of raising the standard retirement age:
The increase in the standard retirement age decided in 2007 will be completed by 2029.
There will be no further increase with us.
Instead, we want to continue to promote flexible retirement options that take into account different occupational burdens and work histories.
The aim must be to ensure that the standard retirement age can be reached in good health and with the capacity to perform.
With the pension package and the Flexi-Rente, we have ensured in this legislative period that, after 45 years of insurance, retirement at the age of 65 and more flexible transitions between working life and retirement are made possible on a permanent basis.
To this end, we have also strengthened prevention and rehabilitation measures.
We intend to continue along this path.
Making company pension schemes more attractive:
Strong pension systems are characterized by a powerful combination of statutory pensions and occupational pensions.
In addition to the statutory pension as the main pillar, we want as many employees as possible to be able to make additional provision for their old age through occupational pension schemes.
We have created a new framework for company pension schemes that makes it easier to extend them to small and medium-sized companies in particular: based on collectively agreed solutions, binding and with the involvement of employers.
If this solution is not sufficient, we will create a statutory obligation to provide a company pension.
Simplify private retirement planning:
The "Riester pension," the state-subsidized private pension plan, has still not met expectations when it was introduced in terms of savings, returns and distribution.
By increasing the basic allowance and providing transparent and comprehensible product information, we are making it easier to take advantage of the high level of state support, which benefits low-income earners and child-raisers in particular.
We want to supplement state-subsidized private pension provision with a standard product for which public-sector sponsorship can also be considered.
In addition, the option of paying additional contributions into the statutory pension insurance scheme and thus increasing entitlements should be re-established.
We want to set up a fund for those people who suffered considerable disadvantages in the transition of the GDR's old-age pension system to federal German law, which cannot be resolved in pension law.
A fair and modern pension concept with a stable pension level of at least 48%, a renewed intergenerational contract, a statutory solidarity pension for long-serving employees and improved old-age protection, including for the previously uninsured self-employed, will only be possible with a social democratic-led federal government.
It's time for investment and fair taxes
Germany is a strong country.
The economy is growing and the employment situation is good.
To keep it that way, we need to invest today.
And: We must ensure that everyone shares in the prosperity.
Among industrialized countries, Germany has one of the worst public investment ratios.
As social democrats, we want to modernize our country
and money for our children,
for an efficient infrastructure
and for social cohesion.
We want to work together with the citizens of our country to ensure that we remain successful in the future.
Right of way for investments:
That is why our tax and financial policy is all about giving priority to investment.
We want the best schools and free childcare,
modern infrastructure in urban and rural areas and fast Internet for all.
We want to shape our country in such a way that we create the best conditions for our citizens' future.
We want to modernize our country.
The best schools.
With our school modernization program, we ensure well-equipped classrooms, digital education and state-of-the-art equipment.
With our vocational school pact, we are tackling the urgently needed modernization of vocational schools.
Childcare: We ensure a better supply of crèches, daycare centers, day nurseries, after-school care centers and all-day schools.
We are abolishing daycare fees.
Investing in skilled workers: We are making education and training free of charge - training as well as initial studies up to master's degree and master craftsman and technician examinations.
New and affordable housing.
We will expand public and social housing construction.
We will make it easier for low- and middle-income families to buy their own homes by introducing a family building allowance.
Modern traffic routes.
We want modern roads, railways, waterways and air transport that enable digital, low-emission and safe mobility for everyone - whether in the city or in the countryside.
Fast Internet for all.
In 2025, we want to have one of the most modern digital infrastructures nationwide in order to overcome the digital divide between urban centers and rural areas.
Investing in innovation.
We are promoting new ideas with our "research bonus" for companies, improved depreciation options for research and development expenditures, and good funding for the science and higher education pacts.
Cohesion now and in the future.
We support important programs such as "Social City" or "Living Democracy", which combine urban development, security, strengthening our democracy, commitment and help for young and old.
This serves social cohesion.
Energy efficiency as a contribution to climate protection.
We will make Germany the most energy-efficient economy in the world.
We want to develop the public building stock and public transport into models of sustainable and energy-efficient consumption.
Security through strong and citizen-oriented police.
We ensure that our security authorities are well positioned.
To this end, we are creating an additional 15,000 jobs and providing modern equipment.
We will finance the additional future investments in these areas from the surpluses in the federal budget until 2021.
The federal government's financial planning offers enough leeway for this.
We therefore pursue a tax and fiscal policy that ensures the community's ability to act and yet is designed to be sustainable, fair and without new debt.
Time for relief on taxes and duties:
For us, it's about tax fairness.
We want to reduce the tax and contribution burden on employees with medium and small incomes.
We place an emphasis on families and single parents.
Strong shoulders can and must carry more than weak ones.
That's why we don't make tax cuts with a watering can!
We relieve the burden on families:
We will further relieve the burden on families with children by
gradually abolishing daycare fees together with the federal states and creating a legal entitlement to all-day care at primary school age.
With over three billion euros that we intend to use for this purpose, we are ensuring that families are relieved of the costs of childcare.
With the family working time and the family allowance of 300 euros per month, we create time for the family, for the children and for the care of relatives.
And we are making education free of charge, education as well as first degree studies.
We support education and training through improved BAföG benefits.
All of this relieves the burden on families in our country in particular.
Our family rate:
All current married couples will continue to be able to take advantage of spousal splitting in the future.
For the future, we are introducing a family tariff with a child bonus.
Married and unmarried parents with children, as well as single parents, benefit from the child bonus of the family tariff.
In the future, each parent is to be able to deduct 150 euros per child from his or her tax burden.
A couple with three children can save 900 euros a year with the child bonus alone.
In the family tariff, spouses can transfer income shares of a maximum of 20,000 euros to each other.
In this way, the splitting advantage resulting from the constitutionally required exemption of mutual maintenance obligations will also be preserved in the future.
Today's married couples are free to choose between the previous system of spousal splitting and our new family rate with child bonus.
We want to distribute the tax burden fairly between spouses in the case of different income levels.
Our extended child support:
To support parents with low incomes, there is already a child supplement.
Through it, the receipt of unemployment benefit II can be avoided.
Many do not use it - almost always due to lack of information.
We want the child supplement to benefit everyone for whom it is intended.
That is why we will combine the child benefit with the child supplement to form an extended child benefit for low-income families and improve it for single parents.
Less bureaucracy, via this one simple path, leads to an additional nearly one million children benefiting concretely from our policies.
We relieve the burden of social security contributions:
We relieve the burden of social security contributions without reducing benefits.
The key issue for employees here is the reintroduction of parity financing of statutory health insurance.
They benefit through equal contributions from employees and employers.
Employees will thus be relieved of five billion euros per year.
Our low-income relief:
In particular, we would like to provide more support to employees who have a very low income.
They pay little or no income tax, but are particularly burdened by social security contributions.
Many women, especially single parents, work part-time.
Therefore, we are introducing a contribution relief for employees earning between 451 euros and 1300 euros, so that the employee contribution to the social insurances in this zone will increase only gradually.
However, unlike the current regulation for employment relationships between 451 euros and 850 euros, employees should nevertheless acquire the full pension entitlements that they would acquire if the employee contribution were not reduced.
Therefore, the social security funds are reimbursed from budgetary resources for the lost contribution revenue in order to guarantee full pension, health, long-term care and unemployment benefits.
Our proposals for stabilizing pensions and for a solidarity pension benefit current and future pensioners because they can expect secure pensions.
Those who turn a blind eye to this risk old-age poverty, rising contributions and a higher retirement age.
Our reform proposals will help contributors because the federal budget will share in financing this task.
We relieve the burden of the solidarity surcharge and taxes:
Our tax reform proposals will primarily address the so-called "middle class bulge."
We combine relief and more justice!
We achieve this goal in two ways:
Abolition of the solidarity surcharge for lower and middle incomes:
Seriousness comes first when it comes to taxes.
Those who want to relieve the burden must explain how they deal with the solidarity surcharge.
Medium incomes are significantly burdened by this levy.
That is why we are abolishing the surcharge for lower and middle incomes from 2020.
This will benefit many citizens -
especially the self-employed and smaller businesses, which will have more room for investment.
The relief volume comprises around 10 billion euros.
The federal budget can cope with this without distortions in the fulfillment of government tasks,
all the more so because of the revenue improvements resulting from the consistent crackdown on tax fraud and tax avoidance.
Singles who have 52,000 euros in taxable income and married couples who have 104,000 euros in taxable income can benefit from the partial abolition of the solidarity surcharge.
To achieve this, we are raising the exemption limits substantially accordingly.
Anyone below this level will no longer have to pay the solidarity surcharge in the future.
Those with higher incomes will continue to pay the surcharge for the time being.
As before, the increased exemption limit is followed by a sliding zone.
When the Solidarity Pact expires at the end of 2019, the federal government's special financial expenditures for creating equal living conditions in the new federal states will be reduced.
Therefore, the solidarity surcharge cannot be levied unchanged.
The remaining tasks are to continue to be shouldered by the very high incomes.
However, the remaining solidarity surcharge cannot be levied on a permanent basis either.
We will therefore also gradually reduce the remaining solidarity blow.
A fairer income taxation:
In addition, we are planning a fairer income tax that provides relief for many people and is revenue-neutral.
The current tax rate of 42 percent already starts at 54,000 euros of taxable income for singles.
In the future, we will levy this tax rate at 60,000 euros of taxable income.
This will relieve many employees of an additional nearly two billion euros.
To finance this, we would like to raise the top tax rate on a linear-progressive basis to 45 percent, which would then be due from 76,200 euros of taxable income for singles / 152,400 for married couples.
If the good economic and budgetary situation continues, we will also regularly examine an increase in the basic tax-free allowance beyond the annual adjustment based on the results of the subsistence level report.
Wealthy people bear responsibility:
High-net-worth citizens in particular should and can make a greater contribution to financing public investments and relieving the burden on lower and middle incomes.
We would therefore like to levy the so-called wealth tax of three percent on the top tax rate from a taxable income of EUR 250,000 for single people.
We want to tax income from work and capital equally again by abolishing the final withholding tax.
Time for a fair inheritance tax reform:
We will tax very large inheritances more heavily.
With a more comprehensive inheritance tax reform with fewer exceptions, we will ensure that greater fairness is finally realized in the taxation of inheritances.
In the past reform, we managed to avoid taxing very large inheritances at all.
However, the CDU/CSU has prevented us from achieving balanced justice in this area.
We were not able to push through all of our proposals.
We will take these up in the new federal government.
We want a sales tax on financial products, the so-called financial transaction tax.
This must be designed within the framework of European cooperation with a broad tax base and low tax rates.
We want to withdraw special privileges for individual interest groups and also review other tax subsidies.
In a social market economy, executive compensation in companies should be in reasonable proportion to the average wages of employees.
In fact, many managers earn 50 or even 100 times more than their employees.
We will limit the tax deductibility of managers' salaries to 500,000 euros.
Combat tax fraud and avoidance:
Tax evasion is criminal.
It cannot be that employees and the vast majority of companies pay their taxes honestly and others underestimate or even evade their taxes.
Some even have taxes "refunded" that were never paid.
This causes billions of dollars in damage to our society.
We will therefore fight hard against tax fraud, tax avoidance and money laundering.
We make policy for the decent.
In Germany, we want fair tax enforcement - from tax collection to tax auditing.
We want all the federal states to have reasonable staffing levels in their tax administrations, tax investigations and tax audits.
All assets obtained from a crime and all unlawful gains should be consistently confiscated.
We want to stop tax fraud with the help of manipulated cash registers.
We will continue to develop the measures taken to date.
We take into account the needs of small businesses and associations.
We want to ensure that the lawful collection of taxes can actually be secured, even in the case of transactions via platforms on the Internet.
We do not accept tax avoidance practices within Europe.
By introducing a common corporate tax base and minimum tax rates, we are ensuring fairness in Europe and preventing dumping.
In this way, we also close gaps between national tax systems that are used by multinational corporations to avoid taxes.
Tax justice must be enforced at national, European and international level:
We will expand the possibilities of telephone surveillance for the prosecution of particularly serious cases of tax evasion.
Currently, monitoring is only possible in cases of gang-related VAT fraud.
In addition to helping build efficient national tax systems, it is important to stop capital outflows through tax evasion and avoidance.
The large sums of money that flow abroad in this way, bypassing the tax authorities, are not available for investment in our future.
The revelations through the "Panama Papers" have made it clear that we need a seamless program to combat money laundering and tax fraud at the international level.
Since 2017, there has been improved transparency through the automatic exchange of information.
We want to fully implement the initiative for fair international tax competition.
With this OECD BEPS initiative, we will increase the transparency of international transactions,
better align national tax systems and curb harmful tax competition internationally.
In this way, we prevent companies from artificially understating their profits and evading their tax responsibilities.
We also want a European transparency register in which all owners, beneficiaries as well as responsible persons of a company are listed transparently for tax authorities.
We will again advocate a "blacklist" of OECD tax havens
and restrict pure asset investments in the countries on this list.
There must be no more anonymous letterbox companies whose sole purpose is to evade taxes.
We want a ban on anonymous financial transactions in offshore areas and tough sanctions for banks that do not comply with the rules - up to and including the withdrawal of the banking license.
It's time for a good life - in the city and in the countryside
Our cities and communities are home and home away from home.
This is where life happens.
This is where life chances are decided and whether social cohesion works.
We want people to feel at home where they have their center of life - whether in the city or in the country.
For us, these are not opposites: City and country belong together!
Your own four walls are crucial for a good life.
That is why rents must remain affordable in metropolitan areas as well.
Many also have the dream of owning their own apartment or house.
We want to help make this dream come true and will do more to promote home ownership in urban and rural areas.
In rural areas, we ensure a strong public infrastructure so that no region is left behind.
The SPD is the local party.
We are an advocate for the municipalities.
Financially capable municipalities are the basis for a good quality of life and vibrant local democracy.
During the last legislative period, the SPD effectively relieved the burden on municipalities and made them more capable of acting again.
We will build on this.
We want to strengthen the investment power of municipalities, relieve them of social costs and help them reduce their old debts so that even highly indebted municipalities regain their ability to act.
Local government funding sources will continue to be indispensable.
That is why we will reform the property tax to make it constitutional and stabilize the trade tax.
The goal is equal living conditions in all regions, in urban and rural areas, in east and west, in north and south.
Affordable Housing:
We want housing to remain affordable, especially for middle- and low-income earners.
When people have to spend more than a third of their income on housing, that's too much.
We will therefore further improve the rent brake:
We will strengthen the position of tenants by making the previous rent more transparent and requiring landlords to provide information.
If it turns out that when the apartment was rented out, the tenants were charged more than was permissible, they will in future be able to claim back the entire overpaid rent.
We also advocate for better and more binding rent indices.
Incorrect information in the lease agreement about the living space leads to excessive rents.
We therefore want to clarify by law that the actual living space alone determines the amount of rent and ancillary costs.
If the landlord modernizes the house, he usually recovers the costs through the rent.
We will limit the permissible rent increase after modernization.
Modernization measures in rented housing should not be paid for unilaterally at the expense of tenants.
We will specify the landlord's right to terminate on the grounds of personal use in order to counteract excessive use and circumvention possibilities.
Those with a low income receive a rent subsidy through the housing allowance.
We want to regularly adjust the amount of the housing allowance to prevent people from having to move away from their familiar neighborhood.
With the Alliance for Affordable Housing and Construction, we have embarked on a new path.
Together with all those involved in housing construction, we are increasing the construction of new affordable housing.
We will continue to do so.
We have significantly increased funding for social housing in recent years and will continue to do so due to the growing need for social housing.
We will continue social housing construction and urban development policy after 2019 as a joint responsibility of the federal, state and local governments.
Only together with the states and municipalities can we ensure that sufficient new housing is created.
We are committed to more apartments in the public
and operational property.
With investment incentives and uniform nationwide standards, we want to work with the states to make construction more attractive and thus boost new construction activity.
This includes enabling municipalities to plan faster and better.
We want to strengthen the community-oriented sector in the housing market.
We will support and promote municipal and cooperative housing companies, building groups, private investors and landlords who are committed to social cohesion in the neighborhood and create permanently affordable housing.
In all of this, it is important to create not only affordable housing, but also good housing for all generations in livable neighborhoods.
That's why we want to further promote age-appropriate remodeling, among other things.
Building new is not affordable for many people due to high building land prices.
We want the federal government to set an example and take housing and urban development policy goals into account when selling public land and buildings.
To this end, we will amend the BImA Act.
We limit speculation with land that is ready for construction
and make it easier for municipalities to pursue an active land policy that creates new housing.
More people should be able to fulfill the dream of owning their own four walls.
This also serves to improve retirement security.
We will make it easier for low- and middle-income families to buy their own homes by introducing a socially differentiated family building allowance.
We will reduce additional burdens on purchases by introducing the principle of "he who orders, pays" also for brokerage costs when buying residential property and by reducing other ancillary costs.
In order to prevent apartments in rural town centers from standing empty and falling into disrepair, we want to support families in purchasing existing buildings with a "Young buys old" program.
Liveable cities and villages:
For us, city and country belong together.
Well-developed cities need well-functioning rural areas and vice versa.
For this, we need better cooperation and networking.
We will therefore promote urban-rural partnerships more strongly.
Rural community development must be supported by all levels of government with the involvement of civil society.
People living in small towns and in rural areas will continue to need supply options with shopping facilities and services close to home in the future.
They need attractive local public transportation,
good health and nursing care,
good childcare,
intergenerational living space,
a wide range of educational, cultural, leisure and sports facilities
and fast Internet.
We are creating "broadband for all" to end the digital divide between cities and rural areas.
We want to pay particular attention to the needs of women in rural areas, especially in the areas of mobility, work-life balance and health care.
In this way, we will improve equal opportunities, especially for young women.
We want to provide targeted support to regions that are structurally weak or undergoing change.
We will continue to develop the tried-and-tested joint federal-state task of "improving regional economic structures" for better economic prospects in urban and rural regions throughout Germany.
To this end, we also want to sustainably strengthen local tourism development with better framework conditions.
We want to support regions with special demographic challenges in the tasks of providing public services, in healthcare, in education, in mobility, in dealing with vacancies in residential and commercial properties, and in volunteering.
Research and innovation, broadband expansion and securing skilled workers are also to be promoted in the future.
We also want to open up regular economic development programs to structurally weak regions.
This benefits small business owners such as a cabinet maker or a baker.
In this way, the regions remain vibrant and at the same time we ensure that young people in rural areas have prospects for the future.
Vibrant local centers with appropriate infrastructure are important for the attractiveness of rural areas.
But functioning neighborhood networks, civic engagement and a vital club life as well as active civic participation also contribute to the quality of life in rural areas.
With these aspects in mind, we want to target federal funding more precisely in the future.
We want to support self-organized infrastructure projects such as community buses, village stores or cultural and sports centers.
Neighborhood management, citizen participation and civil society involvement are the key success factors of the federal "Socially Integrative City" program.
We promote vibrant neighborhoods and social cohesion.
That's why we want to further expand the program
, devoting more resources to qualified personnel: Neighborhood managers, integration managers and neighborhood pilots.
More attention to each other in neighborhoods increases the sense of safety and responsibility.
That's why places like schools or neighborhood centers, sports clubs and also local community involvement need to be strengthened.
Affordable and sustainable mobility:
Mobility is of central importance for a progressive society.
Citizens should be able to be mobile - whether privately or to get to their work.
For the economy, mobility is an important location factor.
At the same time, modernizing transport is crucial to Germany achieving its climate emissions targets.
Mobility must be affordable and environmentally friendly.
Germany needs a traffic turnaround.
Road, rail, waterway and air transport must not be viewed in isolation.
We want to establish an "Alliance for Affordable and Sustainable Mobility".
As part of this alliance, we will develop a reliable timetable for making mobility in Germany digital, pollution-free, barrier-free and safe by 2050.
We will make local public transport even more attractive.
We will continue to provide federal financial assistance for the maintenance and expansion of our municipal roads and for the maintenance, expansion and barrier-free modernization of public transportation, and we will adjust it to meet increasing demand.
At the same time, we expect the federal states to also provide local public transport with earmarked funds in line with demand from 2019.
In order to ensure social standards for employees in local public transport, we believe that compliance with collective bargaining agreements and the requirement for a transfer of personnel in the event of a change of operator are indispensable components.
In the Passenger Transportation Act (PBefG), we will clarify that social standards for the protection of employees
as well as qualitative and ecological standards also apply to own-account transport services.
We will continue to promote new mobility concepts such as car sharing and strengthen transport services in rural areas with more model projects.
Good examples of this are call and citizen buses.
The car retains its important role in individual mobility, but it must be developed into a zero-emission means of transport.
We want to advance electromobility for both climate and industrial policy reasons.
At European level, we advocate ambitious limits for pollutant emissions from passenger cars.
We want state-of-the-art electric cars to be developed and produced in Germany.
We will promote the expansion of the charging infrastructure in cities and rural areas.
We also want to further strengthen research and development in fuel cell drives and other low-emission drive technologies in Germany as a business location.
We want commuters not to be permanently stuck in traffic jams.
We will therefore invest more to maintain and expand transport routes.
We have decided to extend the truck toll for vehicles over 7.5 tons to all federal highways.
However, we reject a toll for vehicles under 7.5 metric tons because it would burden craft businesses in particular.
We will use the revenue from the truck toll to invest in roads and bridges.
We want to plan and build our public transport routes faster by involving citizens at an early stage, reducing bureaucracy and deploying staff in a targeted manner.
Privatization of road infrastructure and the transport infrastructure company remains out of the question.
Public-private partnerships in road construction can only be realized if their economic viability has been transparently demonstrated with the involvement of the Federal Audit Office.
We want to improve the infrastructure for bicycle traffic.
This includes more inner-city bike lanes, secure parking, and regional bike lanes.
More charging stations must also be made available for e-bikes, including at public buildings.
Punctuality, good service and high quality must be the hallmark of the railroads.
Deutsche Bahn must be managed in the interests of its customers.
For us, the focus is not on maximizing profit but on maximizing rail transport in Germany.
We will continue to use regionalization funds to ensure attractive local rail passenger services.
With a rail pact between politics and business, we want to ensure that twice as many customers as today use the railroads by 2030.
To achieve this, we will lower the rail toll for passenger and freight transport.
In return, the railroads must invest in more service, more reliability and more innovation.
We will create optimal transfer opportunities at hourly intervals in all major cities and important medium-sized centers.
We will swiftly present the necessary "Deutschlandtakt" timetable and modernize the rail lines.
We will promote the attractiveness of train stations
and improve the safety of rail passengers by increasing the number of federal police and video surveillance at stations.
Long-distance buses ensure that you can travel at affordable prices.
Medium-sized bus companies make an important contribution here.
It is important to us that good working conditions are guaranteed in the long-distance bus industry.
We want to introduce a digital mobility platform so that people in urban and rural areas can plan, book and pay for their own journeys across all modes of transport simply and easily.
New technologies such as driver assistance systems ensure that fewer people are killed on the roads.
We want to enable automated driving in Germany.
To this end, we will expand fast mobile Internet along the main transport routes.
Data protection and data security must remain guaranteed, as must the
highest level of security.
We want more goods to be transported by rail and water to reduce the burden on roads and the environment.
We will therefore improve the competitiveness of rail transport
and promote inland shipping as a more environmentally friendly alternative to trucks.
We are committed to a functioning water and navigation administration.
We are building on a strong maritime economy and want to strengthen the innovative power of our ports, shipping companies and shipbuilders in international competition.
We are also committed to the development and use of alternative energy sources for shipping.
Air traffic ensures Germany's connection to international traffic flows.
Thus, modern air and logistics hubs with capacity to meet demand are of great importance.
At the same time, aviation has a significant responsibility to achieve the international climate targets agreed in Paris in 2015.
We want to improve the networking of airports with each other and with other modes of transport.
In the future, the state must assume greater responsibility for ensuring that security is guaranteed at airports.
Citizens must be involved at an early stage in all planning at airport locations.
In this context, the nighttime peace and quiet for the population around the airport must be given special consideration in the procedures under the Air Traffic Act and is therefore of outstanding importance.
We will also strengthen the aircraft noise commissions.
We want to promote the development of alternative fuels and propulsion systems for aircraft.
Traffic generates emissions.
Too many people in Germany live in areas with high noise pollution and poor air quality.
We want to protect people tangibly from noise, pollutants and environmental toxins.
To reduce environmental pollution in inner cities, we will promote the purchase of buses and cabs with alternative drives, as well as the use of cargo bikes and the conversion of inner-city delivery vehicles.
We will continue to improve noise protection along highways, rail lines and around airports.
We are sticking to the goal of halving rail traffic noise in Germany by 2020.
The rapid conversion of noisy freight cars is important for this.
In aviation, we want to promote the rapid implementation of low-noise flight procedures and provide incentives for the use of quieter aircraft.
It's time for a healthy and clean future
Environmental justice is the goal of our policy.
Because a destroyed environment endangers health and deepens social inequality in our country and worldwide.
We want to preserve access to an intact nature for all people.
Fresh air, healthy soils, clean waters, diverse flora and fauna are all part of it.
We have a responsibility to preserve a healthy and clean environment for our children and grandchildren.
For many people on our planet, the chances of living in prosperity and peace depend on successfully combating climate change.
Climate protection policy is therefore always also peace policy and an expression of international solidarity.
At the climate summit in Paris in 2015, the United Nations agreed on a greenhouse gas-neutral global economy.
This means that only as many greenhouse gases may be produced as are absorbed by nature in the same period.
In Germany, we want to reduce CO2 emissions by at least 40 percent by 2020 compared with 1990 levels, and by 2050 we want to achieve greenhouse gas neutrality as far as possible.
In line with the Paris Climate Agreement, we will therefore continue to develop the Climate Protection Plan 2050.
There, under social democratic leadership, it was possible for the first time to draft a concretization of greenhouse gas reductions in Germany by 2030 and 2050, which makes it possible to combine the
preservation of the competitiveness of the German economy with functioning innovations and closed value chains with the climate targets.
An SPD-led federal government will engage in dialog with companies, trade unions and employees in the affected sectors.
Because we know that social, economic and ecological questions cannot be answered successfully individually, but only by taking into account their interdependencies.
Within this framework, we focus on technology neutrality and openness to innovation.
We will implement the results of this dialog within the framework of a national climate protection law.
This includes reviewing environmentally harmful and competition-distorting subsidies.
We will make Germany the most energy-efficient economy in the world.
This is a task for society as a whole.
Completing the energy transition:
Energy must be environmentally friendly and affordable.
At the same time, reliable supply must remain assured.
For us, these are three equally important goals of the energy transition.
It is a question of justice that we continue to expand renewable energies.
Renewable energy from wind power (offshore and onshore) and solar power is the most cost-effective form of energy generation in the long term.
They make us independent of oil, natural gas and uranium from conflict regions.
They contribute to local value creation and a fair energy market.
For the energy transition to continue successfully, the various energy sectors must be more closely linked.
So far, the energy transition has mainly taken place in the electricity sector.
Through sector coupling, the energy turnaround is to be carried even more strongly into the heating and transport sectors.
We want to promote storage and other technologies for sector coupling as well as the flexibilization and digitalization of the energy transition in a targeted manner through a technology-open legal framework.
and through research and development programs.
Rapid grid expansion at distribution and transmission grid level is crucial to the success of the energy transition.
Existing power lines are to be better utilized with the help of new technologies.
We will expand energy efficiency measures.
In particular, we want to develop the public building stock and public transport into models of sustainable and energy-efficient consumption.
We will continue to improve the energy efficiency standards of products and services.
By 2050 at the latest, we must generate energy in a way that is largely greenhouse gas neutral.
In doing so, we ensure that Germany's industry remains internationally competitive.
We will further develop European emissions trading so that it can fulfill its function as a central climate protection instrument.
If this cannot be achieved, we will start negotiations to agree minimum CO2 prices at European level.
In doing so, we will take into account different competitive conditions in climate protection and prevent "carbon leakage."
The complete energy turnaround will only succeed if conventional energy sources complement the expansion of renewables along the way.
Natural gas, renewable gas from power-to-gas plants, and the existing gas grid infrastructure are becoming increasingly important in the energy mix for flexible, secure, and low-carbon power generation.
Modern cogeneration plants will play an important role in the energy system.
We will therefore promote them accordingly.
Protecting our drinking water and health are our top priorities.
That is why we have pushed through an indefinite ban on unconventional fracking.
The risks to people and the environment here are greater than the economic opportunities.
That is why we stand for it to remain a ban.
In addition, we will review and continuously adjust protection standards in conventional natural gas production.
The last German nuclear power plant will be shut down in 2022.
We must deal responsibly with the nuclear waste left behind by society as a whole.
This applies not least to the corporations that have made a lot of money from nuclear power plants for decades.
The black-yellow phase-out has resulted in a loss of seven billion euros from the elimination of the nuclear fuel tax alone.
This pass-through to taxpayers is irresponsible.
The final disposal of nuclear waste must be eternally safe by human standards.
We will actively lobby other countries to phase out nuclear energy.
In the EU, we will work to abolish subsidies for the construction of new nuclear power plants.
In Germany, we will regulate Hermes loan guarantees for exports in such a way that nuclear energy projects are excluded from them.
We want everyone to share in the returns from the energy transition.
That's why tenant electricity models are so important to us.
Tenants should benefit financially from feeding renewable energies into the grid and generating their own electricity.
We will continue to support homeowners to economically retrofit their homes and buildings for energy efficiency and renewable energy.
At the same time, we will ensure that housing remains affordable for tenants.
Falling electricity prices on the stock exchange and gas suppliers' purchase prices must be passed on to consumers.
We want to examine alternative financing models for the energy transition.
We will promote citizen energy cooperatives.
Municipalities should be able to remunicipalize their network infrastructure if it is ensured that network operation can be provided safely and efficiently.
Municipal utilities have a key role to play in implementing the energy transition.
Biodiversity protection:
An intact environment is indispensable for a healthy and good life.
We will better protect endangered animal and plant species and their habitats.
Land consumption in Germany is too high.
In the long term, sealing and unsealing of surfaces must be balanced.
Land that is already in use should be converted and recycled instead of always taking up new land.
We also need more nature in the city - in residential areas, in parks and on rooftops.
We will create the planning, conceptual and financial conditions for this.
Green spaces also have an important social function.
They are places of exchange and encounter.
The measures from the Nature Conservation Offensive 2020 must be implemented.
Together with the federal states, we will drive forward the national goal of two percent large-scale wilderness areas in Germany.
We will also implement the federal Blue Ribbon program for the renaturation of rivers and floodplains.
We will secure further properties relevant to nature conservation and formerly used by the military for nature conservation and future generations.
We will also develop and implement a peatland protection strategy.
We want to increase the proportion of areas with natural forest development to five percent of the total forest area, for example ten percent of the public forest area.
Hunting should be contemporary and close to nature.
In our national waters, we will regulate fishing and other uses in a manner consistent with conservation.
At the same time, we support fisheries in using only environmentally sound fishing methods.
We will counteract the overfishing of our seas by implementing scientific catch targets.
We are reducing pollution of the North Sea and Baltic Sea from plastic, fisheries waste and nutrient inputs, as well as from noise.
In international marine protection, we are lobbying the United Nations for large-scale protected areas on the high seas.
This also affects the international waters of the Arctic.
We will continue to advocate for the establishment of an Arctic protected area with the international marine conservation organization "OSPAR".
Circular economy and resource efficiency:
The rapidly increasing consumption of natural resources worldwide is leading to problems that will burden our children and grandchildren in particular.
Current consumer habits and modern technologies are leading to more and new types of waste, which is why we are calling for a rethink away from the throwaway culture and
towards strengthening sustainable systems, such as leasing and lending systems.
We will provide households and businesses with more information about resource-saving alternatives.
The goal must be to avoid waste, make products more durable and recycle more.
The reduced use of resources leads to lower material and energy costs and
at the same time strengthens the competitiveness of the German economy.
We will focus public procurement more strongly on resource-conserving products and services
and anchor the topic more firmly in education and training.
Responsible agriculture and healthy food:
We want an agriculture that is based on environmental protection and nature conservation,
the interests of consumers
and the welfare of the animals.
Agriculture - full-time and part-time - should ensure fair working conditions and fair pay for employees.
Many farms are threatened in their existence and need a new economic perspective.
This is because more and more farms are losing out to industrial plants.
We want to strengthen the position of farmers in the value and marketing chain of their products.
Regional marketing initiatives should receive support, including through a federal regional marketing program.
As a result, a larger share of the value added remains in the region.
A fair price for food helps to secure the existence of farms in the long term.
We will work to ensure that all companies base their production on the guiding principle of sustainability.
and the interests of consumers.
Organic farming is currently the most sustainable form of agriculture.
To meet the demand for food, conventional and organic agriculture are equally necessary.
The SPD is therefore committed to both forms of production.
We will reduce the use of pesticides and fertilizers to the absolute minimum and amend the Federal Soil Protection Act.
Furthermore, we are committed to GMO-free agriculture and food.
We will ensure that the precautionary principle and freedom of choice are also guaranteed in the case of so-called new genetic engineering methods,
and that plants and animals produced in this way do not enter the market unregulated.
We support farms that practice species-appropriate animal husbandry
and want food from species-appropriate husbandry to be labeled.
To this end, we will introduce a state animal welfare label based on the criteria of the German Animal Welfare Association.
The idea of animal welfare is to be firmly anchored in education, training and continuing education.
Testing and approval procedures for housing systems, animal welfare indicators and better housing and transport conditions are intended to contribute to greater animal welfare.
We want to develop a national and European farm animal strategy and create a modern animal protection law that protects the dignity and welfare of animals.
We will ban interventions on animals for purely economic reasons, such as beak trimming, tail docking or thigh branding in horses.
The use of medicines, especially antibiotics, in animal husbandry must be reduced to the necessary level.
We want expert keepers for pets, too.
There must be a clear definition and a ban on keeping for torture breeds.
We want to drive forward the protection of wildlife.
We will stop the illegal trade in wild animals and the trade in wild catches at commercial animal exchanges.
We want an ombudsman office for better animal welfare.
With a right of action for associations, we will give recognized animal protection organizations the legal means to take more effective action against animal protection violations.
Animal testing must also be further reduced.
Agriculture occupies a special position in environmental and construction planning law.
We will eliminate missteering.
Under building law, for example, large animal husbandry facilities in outdoor areas are now only to be permitted if the municipality issues a corresponding development plan
and carries out an environmental impact assessment.
This helps environmental protection
and strengthens the acceptance of agriculture among the population.
Agriculture receives more tax support than any other sector of the economy.
We want the principle of "public money only for public services" to apply.
Public services include food security as well as the protection of nature, the environment, the climate and animal welfare.
Until 2020, European agricultural subsidies will be paid in two ways: on the one hand, lump-sum payments, the amount of which is based only on the area farmed.
And on the other hand, funds that flow specifically into the development of rural areas,
including climate protection, nature conservation, animal welfare and stables.
We will work to phase out flat-rate subsidies by 2026.
We want to effectively counter the concentration of agricultural land in the hands of large agricultural corporations or non-agricultural investors.
The food industry's export policy must be in line with sustainability in Germany and the export markets.
We reject agricultural production that is oriented only to export to the world market.
Agricultural products produced in Germany must not be produced and exported at the expense of developing and emerging countries.
We will implement a national strategy against food waste so that agricultural products are once again more appreciated.
Target marks for the various sectors as well as intensified information campaigns are intended to bring about a change in thinking.
We want everyone to have the opportunity to eat healthy.
In doing so, we rely on quality standards, transparency, easy-to-understand labels such as the nutritional value traffic light, and clear origin labeling.
All children and adolescents need a healthy diet.
We want to provide them with balanced meals in daycare centers and schools.
To this end, we want to make the standards of the German Nutrition Society binding.
We will provide permanent support for the networking centers for school catering and further expand the National Quality Center for Healthy Nutrition and Schools.
We reject genetically modified organisms in agriculture and patents on life.
We stand by seed purity and zero tolerance for unauthorized genetically modified organisms in food.
Animal products based on feeding with genetically modified plants must be labeled throughout Europe.
We advocate for legally compliant labeling of vegetarian and vegan products.
We will network food inspection nationwide,
introduce a uniform inspection catalog and make inspection effective and comparable.
A key role is played by government supervision at the slaughterhouse, whose role must be strengthened.
Results of official food inspections are to be published as a matter of principle.
We also want to inform consumers with easy-to-understand symbols such as the smiley or the hygiene traffic light.
The establishment of focal prosecutor's offices in Germany and Europe to combat organized crime in the food industry is necessary.
We want to protect consumers from harmful substances in food and packaging.
We will therefore work to ensure effective implementation of EU chemicals legislation.
It's time for more safety in everyday life
Security is a central need of people.
It is the responsibility of the state to provide this security.
Dangers must be identified, crimes must be fought, criminals must be prosecuted.
For this, we need a strong constitutional state capable of acting.
Only the rich can afford a weak state and buy private security services, for example, which
is why preventive measures and an active social policy that combats social inequality are firmly part of our concept of security.
Physical injuries, vandalism, thefts and, above all, residential burglaries affect people's safety and sense of security.
We want our authorities to consistently address everyday crime - through more prevention and effective prosecution.
The opponents of our open society have regrouped - in various terrorist and extremist movements.
We name them for what they are: a threat to the Western world, an attack on liberal democracy.
That is why we will consistently take action against terror and extremist violence using all means available under the rule of law.
We have created the legal basis for this.
What matters now is the consistent implementation of the laws.
Protection and security through an efficient police force and judiciary:
We want more police officers visible on our streets.
We need more investigators to better and more quickly solve so-called everyday crime such as residential burglaries and theft.
To this end, we want to better equip the police: with more and well-trained personnel.
This also applies to other areas of crime such as organized crime, where specialized investigators must conduct time-intensive police investigations.
We want to create 15,000 new police positions at the federal and state levels.
Where video technology helps prevent danger and preserve evidence, it should be used.
The legal foundations for this are in place.
We will expand the counseling services for citizens to protect themselves against crime that the police already offer in many places.
Better cooperation between the authorities should ensure greater safety.
We want to further strengthen the Federal Criminal Police Office in its central coordination function.
We also advocate for a reduction in overtime for the Federal Police.
Our investigative authorities should be equipped with modern IT and communications technology for their work in line with technical progress.
Our police deserve recognition and respect for their important work.
This must also be reflected in a modern service law, for example with a lifetime working time account.
Attacks on policemen and policewomen or on fire and rescue service personnel are severely sanctioned.
An effective state requires an effective police force and judiciary.
For this reason, courts and public prosecutors' offices are also to be better equipped in terms of personnel and technology.
We will strengthen their digital and intercultural competencies.
We want crimes to be solved quickly and punished consistently, and citizens to be able to enforce their civil claims quickly.
We are also committed to a citizen-friendly, diverse and even more transparent judiciary, so that those who are right get right.
In this way, we increase citizens' trust in our constitutional state.
We will continue to work on joint history statistics of reported crimes and actual convictions.
Customs also performs valuable work in the fight against crime.
This applies to the successful investigations of criminal arms trafficking as well as to the areas of financial and tax fraud and minimum wage control.
Customs must be put in a position - particularly in the interests of the skilled trades - to take even better action than before against undeclared work and illegal employment.
That is why we will strengthen customs and develop it into an effective federal financial police force.
We reject the militarization of public security.
With us, there will be no deployment of the Bundeswehr as auxiliary police in Germany beyond what is already permissible.
Protection from crime as well as from prosecution are tasks of the police professionals trained for this purpose.
Counterterrorism - more cross-border cooperation and prevention:
With a triad of repression, prevention and exit assistance, we have created the basis for countering extremism in the long term.
The next step must be stronger coordination in Germany and in Europe.
Where necessary, we are tightening laws to combat terror and violence.
However, we will not be successful with tightening the law alone.
Only in the interplay of crime prevention, deradicalization, strengthening the cohesion of society
and the work of the police, judiciary and intelligence services does greater security emerge.
We will standardize the data systems of the federal and state security authorities, taking into account data protection requirements.
We will also improve cooperation between the police and the Office for the Protection of the Constitution to avert danger.
Criminals and terrorists must not be allowed to enter the European Union.
This means strengthening controls at the external borders of the Schengen area and effectively implementing the border control system of the Schengen member states.
We also want to improve aviation security and controls at airports and make structural changes to this end.
We want to involve the European Police Office (Europol) and the European Border Management Agency (Frontex) more closely in the fight against terrorism.
With the initiative to establish a European Public Prosecutor's Office, we will ensure that crimes can be prosecuted more effectively across national borders in the EU in the future.
Closer cooperation between security authorities at the European level is urgently needed.
Following the example of the Joint Counter-Terrorism Center in Germany, we call for an anti-terrorism center at the European level in which all security authorities can exchange information.
Foreigners who commit serious crimes should be deported immediately after serving their sentence.
We have already made it easier to deport foreigners who have committed crimes.
We want to enforce a zero-tolerance policy toward preachers of hate and Islamists.
A large number of fundamental Islamists in Germany radicalize themselves here, in our country.
We will close extremist Islamist mosques and cut off their funding.
We will continue to cooperate with the many non-radical mosque communities and Islamic associations.
We strengthen the good local counseling and prevention structure and ensure at an early stage that young people in our country do not become radicalized.
We will counter hate propaganda on the web with alternative messages.
Fight against right-wing extremism:
Attacks on our free society are also threatened by nationalists: right-wing extremist attacks and assaults have increased menacingly in recent years.
This spreads fear and terror among the threatened groups of people.
Right-wing extremist groups and individuals also pose a terrorist threat, which we will resolutely counter.
Social democrats have been fighting for tolerance and against racism, right-wing extremism, discrimination and misanthropy for over 150 years.
One important lesson learned from the NSU trial is that security agencies must be particularly sensitive to anti-Semitic, racist and other inhuman attitudes within their own ranks.
This also applies to the Bundeswehr.
We will support them in this with suitable programs.
We are committed to ensuring that crimes with a right-wing extremist background are better recorded and statistically evaluated in the future.
The regulations for victims of crime provided for in the Residence Act must be complied with so that they can obtain their rights and criminals can be sentenced for their actions.
In addition to consistent criminal prosecution, we also want to expand prevention work.
We have already more than tripled funding in the federal "Live Democracy!" program in recent years.
We continue this path of prevention.
A comprehensive strategy against violent right-wing extremists includes deradicalization.
That is why we will secure the structures of prevention work in the long term with a law on the promotion of democracy and prevention of extremism.
In addition, we will take up the recommendations of the independent expert group on anti-Semitism and implement them in our prevention work.
Intelligence reform:
We need powerful intelligence services that are legitimized by the rule of law and subject to comprehensive parliamentary control.
In this context, the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution is supposed to function as an early warning system for our free and democratic society.
We will continue the reform process of the Federal(s) Office.
We will take into account the current hazard situations.
We have reformed the Federal Intelligence Service and finally brought it out of the legal gray area through more transparency and control.
We have placed foreign intelligence on a clear legal footing and significantly strengthened the Parliamentary Control Board.
We are sticking to our line and are basing this on the final report of the NSA Committee of Inquiry.
Modern Disaster Response:
We have a functioning aid system for disasters in Germany.
The federal, state and local governments are working hand in hand here.
At the heart of this is the commitment of the many volunteers and full-time staff in the fire departments, the technical relief organization and the aid organizations.
We want to preserve broad volunteerism.
That is why we are strengthening the Federal Office of Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance and the Federal Agency for Technical Relief.
The federal government is to assume its existing responsibility for disaster control to a greater extent, in addition to the responsibilities of the states.
Combating crime on and from the Net:
Crime on the Internet is rising rapidly.
The spectrum of cybercrime ranges from online extortion with computer viruses and credit card fraud to child pornography and arms trafficking on the "darknet.
The Internet is a free space, but not a lawless one.
We want to continue and further develop the IT Security Act in order to adequately counter the new threats.
We will better equip the security authorities in terms of personnel and technology and bring in more specialist expertise.
It is necessary to promote research and development of IT security technology
and strengthen the training of IT security professionals in order to maintain technological competence and digital sovereignty.
We want to enable the counterintelligence units of our intelligence services, both technically and legally, to take more effective action against cyberattacks and espionage by foreign intelligence services.
We will expand the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI)
and strengthen its neutral role and advisory function: The BSI is to become a service provider for citizens, companies and public authorities by certifying secure hardware and software and providing information about cyberattacks, digital security risks and corresponding protection options.
Manufacturers and providers of digital products and services must disclose security vulnerabilities and fix them as quickly as possible.
We will create a clear and fair chain of liability also for digital products and services as well as a seal of approval for IT security.
A so-called algorithm TÜV is to ensure that no one is discriminated against or comes to harm as a result of software-based decisions.
We want to make simple and secure solutions for electronic identification and encryption available to everyone.
Sensitive data must always be sent in encrypted form, especially in public administration.
We want to achieve a secure IT infrastructure through certification, approval rules, reporting requirements and better product liability.
In addition, we want to counter the spread of hate crime and so-called fake news.
They are a great danger to peaceful coexistence
and to a free and democratic society.
In the beginning are the words, then the deeds follow.
Anyone who publishes criminal slogans on the Internet and incites violence against Jews, foreigners or others must be consistently held accountable.
The dissemination of illegal content such as incitement of the people, insults and disparagement on social networks is to be prosecuted better and faster.
We are therefore committed to improving the training and equipment of police authorities and the judiciary in this area.
Social network providers must also be held accountable.
That is why we are introducing a reporting obligation for providers on how to deal with tips about illegal content, as well as uniform complaint management standards.
Above all, however, providers must cooperate effectively with law enforcement agencies.
To this end, we will establish domestic contact points and short response times.
Those who do not comply are to be punished with heavy fines.
In parallel to national steps, we advocate for Europe-wide and international rules in this context.
Fight against white-collar crime:
Companies must act in accordance with the law.
In practice, there is increasing uncertainty as to what conduct in business life constitutes the criminal offense of breach of trust.
We will ensure greater legal clarity here.
In addition, we are placing sanctions for criminal misconduct by companies on a new legal footing.
To this end, we are creating criteria to provide law enforcement agencies and courts with sufficiently sharp yet flexible sanction options.
The current upper fine limit of 10 million euros is too high for smaller companies
and too low for large corporations.
We will therefore introduce a flexible fine cap.
Financial scandals such as the "Panama Papers," rotten meat scandals and allegations of bribery at large companies usually only become known through internal whistleblowers.
Such courageous action by employees must be better protected by law.
We want to protect them from disadvantages under labor law.
We will also ensure that criminal proceedings for white-collar crime can no longer be dropped after payment of a sum of money in the event of high amounts of damage.
In addition, the protection of whistleblowers is to be integrated into the management guidelines ("Code of Conduct") of business and administration.
It's time for an orderly migration policy
We stand for a humanitarian refugee policy.
The right to asylum must remain untouched in the future.
The world's brutal wars and human rights crises continue to force many people to flee.
Every second refugee worldwide is a child!
With an overall migration concept, we ensure control and prevent excessive demands.
We must fight the causes of flight in the home countries,
secure Europe's external borders
and distribute refugees within Europe in a spirit of solidarity.
We will better integrate recognized refugees
and return rejected refugees more consistently to their countries of origin.
And we need an immigration law that regulates in a transparent and comprehensible way who can immigrate to Germany for economic reasons and who cannot.
Fighting the causes of flight:
We want to tackle the causes of flight with foreign,
security
and development policy initiatives.
Our goal is to stabilize failing states
and contain violence and civil wars.
We are therefore committed to a new disarmament initiative,
the expansion of development cooperation,
fair international trade relations
and worldwide respect for human rights.
We want to help refugees at an early stage where they have first sought safety.
The United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) needs adequate resources and continued funding to do this.
All EU member states should take responsibility for refugee policy.
We want a solidarity-based distribution of tasks for refugee aid and a uniform decision-making practice in the European Union.
We no longer accept that individual Member States refuse to comply with the jointly agreed European asylum system.
We will continue to develop it to meet current requirements.
States that take in refugees are to receive support, for example for the expansion of community facilities, schools or for medical care.
States that refuse are to suffer significant disadvantages.
Solidarity is the basis of European cooperation.
In addition, in order to create incentives for the voluntary acceptance of refugees, we want financial support from the European budget for those countries that bear a major burden in taking in refugees.
If not only the incurred integration and accommodation costs are reimbursed, but in addition infrastructure funds are made available that also benefit the population in the country, the willingness to accept refugees can be increased.
Humane accommodation must be guaranteed in the process.
The external borders must be better protected against illegal border crossings.
This protection is the condition for open borders and for free movement within the EU.
We therefore want to strengthen the mandate and work of Frontex, the European border and coast guard agency.
In doing so, we will ensure that the dangers to refugees are reduced and that the imperative of non-refoulement is upheld.
In addition, we advocate for a European sea rescue program.
We must stop the dying in the Mediterranean.
Cooperation and agreements with third countries open up opportunities for us to curb illegal migration to Europe and Germany.
Basic prerequisite for us: Human rights are respected and the Geneva Refugee Convention is observed.
Asylum procedures will in principle continue to be conducted on European soil.
We also want to create contact points along the escape routes.
There will be not only food and medical care, but also counseling services.
We want to show people what alternatives there are for them to fleeing.
If you want to curb illegal migration, you have to create legal immigration opportunities.
Together with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), we want to take in more people eligible for protection in the EU in a controlled manner via fixed quotas.
They are to be distributed among all EU member states according to a fair key.
On legal routes,
without criminal traffickers,
without the risks of life-threatening escape routes
and with priority for women, children and families.
In this procedure, people apply before entering Europe.
Thus, the identity is also established in advance and a registration is made.
This is how we know who is coming to us.
And in this way we can better prepare, manage and order the integration of the refugees.
At the same time, we retain control over immigration to our country.
Faster asylum procedures, better integration, more consistent repatriation:
We want thorough and careful asylum procedures.
Moreover, the procedures still take far too long.
Our goal remains that the responsible federal office makes better and faster decisions.
We will continue to provide the necessary funds for this.
Integration work with those seeking protection should begin at the initial reception with language courses, the teaching of our values and the prevention of extremism.
The unbroken great commitment of citizens fills us with pride.
We want to support the work of the helpers even more.
According to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), over 50 percent of the refugees are women and children.
Gender-equitable housing is important to us.
We want to protect women traveling alone, pregnant women and women with children.
This also applies to children and young people traveling alone and queer people seeking protection.
We need special support facilities for traumatized refugees and their children.
Family reunification and living together as a family contribute to good integration.
Therefore, we will not extend the temporary suspension of family reunification.
Many women and girls suffer from sexualized violence, forced marriage or genital mutilation in their countries of origin.
That is why we want to better recognize gender-specific grounds for asylum.
We want to integrate recognized asylum seekers even faster.
We will expand mandatory and job-qualifying language course offerings, as well as education, training, and employment opportunities.
We expect that these offers will also be taken up.
We want to ensure that women in particular are not prevented from doing so by a lack of childcare.
We want to prevent the necessary integration work for refugees from being at the expense of the municipalities.
We will continue to support our cities and towns in funding this important work.
We want to increase the number of voluntary returnees among rejected asylum seekers.
States that refuse to readmit their citizens must expect consequences - for example, in the area of visa issuance.
We maintain that deportations to countries where people are in imminent danger of becoming victims of war or armed conflict will not take place.
We will not deport people into a lack of prospects and danger to their lives.
As the security situation in Afghanistan does not allow for a safe life, we will not carry out any deportations to Afghanistan until further notice.
We will also create an old-case regulation so that people who have lived in Germany for at least two years, have not committed any criminal offenses here, and have jobs or go to school will not be deported.
Using immigration as an opportunity - managing immigration of skilled workers:
We stand by the right to asylum.
The guideline for the reception of protection seekers is and remains Germany's sole humanitarian and legal responsibility.
Protection from persecution and human rights abuses must never be a matter of economic advantage.
For people who are primarily looking for work in our country, the asylum system is the wrong way to go.
With an immigration law, we regulate in a transparent and comprehensible way who is allowed to immigrate to Germany for economic reasons.
Immigration of qualified professionals is based on the interests of our country.
The shortage of skilled workers threatens our economic strength,
our social security systems
and ultimately our prosperity.
We therefore want to create an immigration law that will enable us to better manage the influx of qualified workers to Germany.
It is important to be at the forefront of the global competition for the brightest and most innovative minds.
We want to introduce a flexible points system based on the Canadian model and geared to the demand for skilled workers.
Criteria such as professional degrees, work experience, language skills, age and integration ability are taken into account.
Those who have sufficient professional qualifications and a job offer can immigrate to Germany.
In doing so, we will take appropriate measures to ensure equal opportunities for men and women.
How many qualified specialists can come to our country per year via the points system is to be flexibly controlled via a quota.
The quota is based on the situation on the German labor market.
It is determined each year by an independent commission of experts.
This provides both potential immigrants and citizens with a transparent overview of how labor migration is regulated in Germany.
In addition, we want to bundle the multitude of existing regulations and residence titles in the future in order to create more clarity and transparency in German immigration law.
We are examining the possibility of implementing a change of asylum seekers to the labor market-related right of residence.
It's time for an open and modern society
Seclusion or openness to the world?
Progress and justice or regression and exclusion?
That's what the next few years are all about.
We want a modern and cosmopolitan Germany -
with a society that holds together
and in which we live together in peace and freedom
- across cultural and religious boundaries.
It took a lot of effort to make Germany the democratic country it is today.
And it will continue to take energy to maintain, expand and improve it.
In society, in politics, in culture and in business.
For us, progress means consolidating the open society.
We want true equality - regardless of gender, religion, skin color, origin and gender identity or sexual orientation.
People with and without disabilities should have the same opportunities.
We do not prescribe life models, but support people to live as they wish.
Openness means tolerance and diversity.
The national minorities in Germany are part of this diversity.
Their traditions, their languages and their applications must be protected.
We want to enable newcomers to become part of our society.
The first 20 articles of our Basic Law are for us the basis of our common coexistence.
We will stand firm against the enemies of the open society.
Democracy and engagement:
We are making representative democracy more attractive again and defending it with passion against right-wing anti-democrats.
Their sweeping criticism of political representatives is becoming increasingly aggressive and their conspiracy theories increasingly dangerous.
We are firmly opposed to this.
Election campaigns and elections are feast days for democracy.
We want to renew this basic democratic understanding.
Voting belongs back in everyday life.
To achieve this, we need public appeals to vote, campaign days for democracy as well as improved postal voting, easier voting for Germans abroad, extended opening hours for polling stations ("election weekends") and mobile voting stations.
We are also committed to expanding the right to vote - for example, for permanently resident third-country nationals at the municipal level.
Lowering the voting age to 16 also strengthens our democracy.
We want to expand and strengthen political education as an offering for all.
Participation also means taking part in political, cultural and social life.
Also in civil society engagement opportunities and in political decision-making processes!
This includes, in particular, the right to participate fully in democratic elections.
We want to abolish the exclusion of people with disabilities from the right to vote.
To support parliamentary democracy, we want to strengthen direct democratic participation at the federal level.
We will further develop the right to petition the German Bundestag: through barrier-free access for people with disabilities, through better involvement of children and young people, through more public committee meetings.
We also want a lowering of the quorum for public petitions.
Our democracy thrives on citizens who are committed to society.
The willingness to do so is high.
This is also demonstrated by the commitment of many thousands of volunteers in refugee aid.
We honor the great commitment of many volunteers, but also of people in administration, welfare associations, churches and religious communities, initiatives and associations, who stand up for newcomers and who stand up against racism.
We thank them and recognize their work.
For many people, however, balancing work, family and civic engagement is difficult.
We want to create time for everyone to get involved as well.
It is important that women are equally represented in civic engagement in all areas and at all levels.
We will initiate legal regulations on educational leave in all federal states and combine them with a federal law on the promotion of volunteering.
The offers for civic engagement of older people must also be expanded.
We will specifically review and reduce the age limits for civic involvement, for example as a juror.
We will continue to promote the valuable work of volunteer dispute mediators and arbitrators.
Civic engagement must be valued.
We will significantly increase and structurally secure the financial resources for promoting civic engagement.
We want a German Commitment Foundation to be established for this purpose, with the involvement of representatives from the fields of culture, education, voluntary welfare work, and rescue and aid services.
Through the foundation, civil society, including associations, churches and non-governmental organizations, can have a say in how the funds are used for the structural promotion of engagement.
We want a non-profit law that takes into account the requirements for civil society organizations.
We will therefore include areas of sociopolitical importance in the catalog of charitable purposes.
We will continue to increase funding for youth voluntary services and the Federal Volunteer Service.
Self-governance is a proven fundamental principle of social insurance that relies on the commitment of volunteers.
We want to strengthen self-governance and, together with the social partners, modernize the procedures for social elections.
Welfare is an important player in civil society and an important partner for us.
Around 1.6 million people are employed full-time in welfare institutions and services; an
estimated 2.5 to 3 million people provide voluntary help in initiatives, relief organizations and self-help groups.
Churches, religious communities and associations do indispensable work here.
For openness and transparency of political processes:
We need more openness in political decision-making.
The transparency of government action must be improved.
The data of the public administration should in principle be available to the population if there are no weighty reasons against it.
We want to strengthen freedom of information and develop the freedom of information law into a freedom of information and transparency law.
Open data should be made available free of charge.
This can make an important contribution to the development of innovative technologies and new business models.
We want to introduce an "executive footprint."
Through this, we want to disclose for all to see the contribution of external stakeholders in the drafting of a bill.
This makes decision-making processes comprehensible.
A mandatory lobby register at the German Bundestag can also contribute to this.
We will set it up on a legal basis.
The public receives information about which advocacy group is working for whom and with which budget.
Greater transparency also means that all members of the Bundestag should disclose their income from sideline activities in full, down to the euro and cent.
In the future, we want to introduce a maximum annual limit of 100,000 euros per donor for party donations.
We also want to regulate sponsorship in the Political Parties Act.
The income from this is to be published in the statement of accounts.
Equality and equity:
For more than 150 years, equality between women and men has been a central goal of our policy.
It is a prerequisite for a sustainable, modern and just society.
We want the equal participation of women and men in all areas and to enable them to realize their life plans.
A modern gender equality policy is closely linked to good policies for families.
Because as long as family tasks are still predominantly taken on by women, it is women who experience professional disadvantages due to their family commitment.
Gender equality is a task for society as a whole.
It is a cross-sectional task that must permeate all areas: Family policy, labor market policy, social policy, education and legal policy - but also budgetary and financial policy.
This includes gender-responsive budget management.
We will bundle all equality policy measures in an Equality Action Plan in order to achieve equality between women and men.
We will systematically observe, measure and monitor whether the goals of the action plan are being met (monitoring).
To provide ongoing support for the gender equality policy, we will establish an office to provide advice and service.
And which helps to prepare results for the general public (consulting, service and transfer office).
We want women and men to be equal in professional life.
End discrimination against women in the labor market:
More than half of all employed women work part-time.
Women's disadvantages in the labor market lead to a pension gap of 54 percent over the course of their lives.
We do not want to accept that.
That is why we want living wage jobs instead of precarious employment.
We want to reform the Part-Time Work and Fixed-Term Employment Act - especially with regard to the regulations on the right to temporary part-time work (right to return to the old working hours) and participation in qualification measures.
This includes ending wage inequality between women and men.
On average, women receive 21 percent less pay than men.
As a first step, we have declared war on this wage injustice with a transparency law.
In addition, we will work with the collective bargaining partners to upgrade the social professions, in which women in particular work.
These include the occupational fields of health, nursing, care and early childhood education.
We want to transfer the school-based professions as soon as possible to the dual system with training allowance and tuition exemption or to dual courses of study.
In a second step, we want to develop the Transparency Act into an Equal Pay Act with a right of action for associations(.) In
doing so, we will include employees in small and medium-sized enterprises.
Because this is where most women are employed.
We will improve transparency with the help of comprehensive information rights.
We also want to introduce mandatory audits of pay structures according to predefined criteria, even in companies with 50 or more employees.
We motivate young people to take up professions that do not conform to traditional gender stereotypes.
It is a win-win for everyone if more women choose STEM professions (mathematics, information technology, natural sciences and technology) or a skilled trade, and more men work in the social and educational professions.
To this end, we promote early information in schools as well as career and study counseling that shows girls and boys the variety of professions and their future prospects.
With the women's quota for management positions in the private and public sectors, we have initiated a cultural change in the world of work.
Management bodies are to be made up of 50 percent women and 50 percent men.
That is our goal.
To achieve this, we need an overall strategy for women in leadership positions - and for all areas: Business and administration, media, culture and science.
The public sector has an exemplary role to play here.
We will therefore further increase the women's quota and extend its scope to all companies, to public corporations such as social insurance funds, and to all bodies such as management boards and supervisory boards.
In addition, we want to improve the career and advancement opportunities of women in the private sector with an Equal Opportunity Act.
This is also in the interest of companies that rely on competence and diversity at management levels.
The assumption of management tasks, even on a part-time basis, must become more natural.
We want women and men to participate equally in parliaments at all levels.
We will increasingly address women and win them over for political participation.
We want to further advance the scientific reappraisal of the women's movement with the involvement of the women's archives, digitally secure their holdings and make them accessible to the public.
Life free from violence and discrimination:
We fight against any form of inhuman behavior and against violence.
We want to further strengthen the rights of victims of domestic or sexual violence.
The ratification of the "Istanbul Convention" (Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence) is a milestone.
As a further step, we call for a third action plan by the federal government to combat violence against women (after 1999 and 2007).
We need an individual legal right to protection and assistance for victims and their children.
This also applies to refugee women and girls - regardless of their residence status.
The support system consisting of counseling centers, women's shelters and other protective institutions is to be expanded and further developed.
We are initiating the necessary measures in the assistance system with a federal support program.
To combat violence against women and girls in the approaches, we also need a prevention program.
A coordinating body at the federal level is to monitor the implementation of the Istanbul Convention.
We also take violence against men very seriously.
Men who have been victims of domestic and sexual violence also need support services.
We will therefore include appropriate measures in the action plan.
To prevent victims of crime from being traumatized again, we have consistently expanded the protection and rights of victims in recent years and ensured that victim protection has a firm place in the criminal procedure code.
With the new regulation of psychosocial process support, we have set another milestone in victim protection to give victims of serious violent and sexual crimes the emotional and psychological support they need.
We want to further consolidate this.
We are also concerned about reports of violence against people with disabilities, the elderly or those in need of care.
Together with the welfare associations, we want to develop concepts that put a stop to assaults and violence.
The General Equal Treatment Act (AGG) came into force eleven years ago.
We will continue to develop it.
To this end, we are strengthening the Federal Anti-Discrimination Agency and expanding the scope of the AGG to include state action.
We also want to anchor a right of action for associations in the AGG.
Every day we are confronted with outdated role models, with sexism in language, media and advertising.
We will declare war on sexism.
That's why we want to ensure that the Advertising Council takes consistent action against sexism and evaluate the instruments it has used to date.
If necessary, we will take legislative action.
In job applications, there is unconscious discrimination, for example on the basis of gender, appearance, age or a migration background.
Anonymized applications are one way to establish fairness in the application process.
Recognize diverse realities of life:
People should be able to live freely and safely regardless of their sexual identity - with equal rights and responsibilities.
The equality rights in Article 3 (3) of the Basic Law must be extended to include sexual identity.
We will strengthen initiatives against homophobia, bi-, inter- and transphobia.
We will improve the situation of trans and intersex people and ensure that they can determine their own lives.
This concerns medical, health, social and legal aspects.
We will therefore reform the transsexual law and other laws.
We support families in their diversity.
The understanding of family in Germany is broadening: family is where people take on long-term responsibility for each other.
We will therefore open marriage to same-sex couples and want marriage for all.
This explicitly includes the right of adoption.
We want modern family law that reflects the diversity of families.
Families with married, unmarried, or same-sex couples; separated, co-parenting, or single parents; stepfamilies, rainbow families, patchwork families, or foster families.
We ensure clarity in all these constellations by clearly defining rights and obligations.
The well-being of the children must always be the focus.
We advocate for more partnership in the care of children.
We therefore want to make it easier for parents to care for their children together, even after a separation or divorce.
The diversity of today's family constellations and scientific progress in reproductive medicine mean that biological parents are increasingly not social parents.
We are therefore committed to a modern law of parentage that takes these new constellations into account.
Guardianship law also needs to be reformed.
The best interests of the child must be paramount.
Where in the past the care of property was overemphasized, the responsibility of the guardian for the upbringing, care and development of the child is to be emphasized more strongly - in the interest of the children concerned.
We will strengthen the rights of foster children.
Because for children living in a foster family, continuity and security are particularly important.
People can become incapable of acting or making decisions as a result of illness, accident or disability.
A modern society needs reliable regulations for this case.
To this end, we want to raise awareness of the power of attorney for health care.
This is because it enables citizens to determine for themselves who is authorized to manage their affairs on their behalf in an emergency.
The ordering of care must always remain a last resort.
That is why we will strengthen the principle of necessity in guardianship law.
Care recipients must be able to rely on a good caregiver being appointed for them who respects their right to self-determination.
Inclusive Society:
For the next generation, the daily coexistence of people with and without disabilities should be a matter of course.
A human society must be an inclusive society.
We therefore want to make further progress in implementing the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
Inclusive living must be learned and experienced from the very beginning;
from daycare centers to elementary schools, secondary schools, and other educational institutions.
We support inclusive education along the entire educational biography.
In particular, by improving the necessary spatial, technical and human resources.
The legal basis for benefits for participation in society has already improved significantly with the Federal Participation Act.
The focus is on the person and his or her self-determination.
We want to build on this and continue to develop our participation services.
We want those affected to have access to these services without discrimination and without much effort.
We advocate that people with disabilities receive all long-term care insurance benefits - regardless of how they live.
We strive for an inclusive labor market that enables all people to work according to their abilities and offers them the necessary support.
All people should have fair prospects on the general labor market.
We want to avoid wage discrimination against people with disabilities.
The transition from school to training and work is to be improved, as is the path from workshops to the general labor market.
This includes general workplace accessibility regulations for all employers.
We will continue to develop the range of inclusive businesses and workshops with a view to an inclusive labor market.
Representatives for the severely disabled play an important role in the realization of an inclusive labor market, and we want to further strengthen their rights.
This relates in particular to the obligation to consult and participate in the hiring of persons with disabilities, in the case of warnings and termination agreements.
We advocate that the flat tax allowances for people with disabilities in the Income Tax Act be adjusted.
Social life must be inclusive at all levels for people with disabilities.
In this context, accessibility and reasonable accommodation are indispensable and need better legal provisions.
We will support local authorities in creating inclusive social spaces.
Child and youth welfare should be there for everyone - for children and young people with and without disabilities.
It must be equipped accordingly.
We want to bring together all services in child and youth welfare to ensure that families receive care from a single source.
Integration and Participation - Shaping the German Immigration Society:
Germany has long been a country of immigration.
This requires a comprehensive integration policy.
In doing so, we face a double integration task: on the one hand, the integration of people who immigrate or flee to us.
And secondly, the task of maintaining the cohesion of society as a whole.
We live in a diverse society based on shared values and norms.
The basis for all is the Basic Law.
Equal opportunities for participation for all is our guiding principle.
No one should have fewer opportunities because of their immigration history or cultural or religious background.
This also means that all children should be able to attend a daycare center.
Children who have been to daycare have better chances of starting school from the outset.
School and education are the key to a future with good opportunities for all children.
For those who come to us as young people, alone or with their parents, the end of compulsory (vocational) education must not mean that young people do not get the chance to attend school.
Vocational schools have a bridging function in language acquisition and initial practical experience.
We will strengthen them in this.
School and education are the key to a future with good chances for integration.
Therefore, the end of compulsory (vocational) education must not result in young people not being given the chance to attend school.
At the same time, we will improve the recognition of foreign educational qualifications.
We want to increase the proportion of trainees with family histories of immigration.
And we want more students with family immigration histories at universities and colleges.
To this end, we will create secure future prospects for foreign students in Germany.
Those who have successfully completed their studies here are to be granted a permanent right of residence.
Integration courses are to be better geared to target groups.
They should also be open to all asylum seekers and tolerated persons, unless it is clear from the outset that they will not remain in Germany.
We want to better link integration courses and job-related language support with labor market policy measures such as career orientation, training and employment in companies.
( ... )
We also want to reach women and mothers from immigrant families in particular.
Because they are crucial for the successful integration of the whole family.
A central element in the recognition of academic and vocational qualifications and post-qualification is the dovetailing of skills assessment and labor market integration.
Everyone and anyone should be able to have a skills assessment.
We will make the costs of recognition procedures socially acceptable and establish a legal right to counseling on recognition procedures.
We have ensured that protection seekers who are undergoing dual training can complete it regardless of the outcome of their asylum procedure and can then also apply for a job in the German labor market (3+2 rule).
We will ensure that this regulation, which is also important for training companies, is filled with life.
In addition, we are examining an analogous regulation for active students.
In our country, around 20 percent of people have a migration background.
We want the proportion of people with family histories of immigration to be reflected in the composition of the civil service.
Target setting, training campaigns and fair application procedures support this process.
This also includes openness to different cultures, which we want to implement in all areas of society, especially in the education and training of the health and nursing professions.
We are to learn more about the impact of immigration and emigration on social change.
This requires science-based analyses.
We have successfully campaigned for a sustainable, institutional strengthening of migration and integration research and better networking among researchers, and we intend to push this even further.
A modern citizenship law is an essential prerequisite for integration.
We continue to advocate the acceptance of multiple citizenship for children born in Germany to foreign parents and for naturalizations.
We have abolished the option obligation for children born in Germany to foreign parents.
We continue to stand by the principle of multiple nationality.
If this principle applies in naturalization practice in Germany, we want to strengthen mutual acceptance through bilateral agreements with other states and examine the extent to which the proposal of the Expert Council of German Foundations for Integration and Migration for a modern citizenship law can be implemented.
Sport and culture are a powerful driver of integration.
This is where people come together, get to know each other and break down prejudices.
We are proud of all the associations
and the many volunteers who work for the togetherness.
We will continue to support this commitment.
This also applies to all institutions and places that facilitate encounters - associations, trade unions, churches, religious communities or citizens' initiatives.
Sports are also a great opportunity to promote diversity in a variety of ways.
We want to create good framework conditions: for volunteer projects in sports that help overcome ethnic barriers, that counter homo-, bi-, inter- and transphobia, or that promote cohesion in society in other ways.
Interreligious dialogue and knowledge about religions and cultures are important for peaceful coexistence and mutual respect.
Those who have an enlightened knowledge of their own and other religions are often less prone to extremism.
We therefore want to make religious and ethics education available to all children.
We support Islamic religious instruction in state schools and in the German language also for preventive reasons.
Our goal is to ensure that Islamic religious teachers and imams are trained at German university chairs.
Muslims and Islam are part of our country.
We support the organizational development of Muslim communities and organizations if they establish themselves in Germany in accordance with German law
and if they respect the free democratic basic order.
If they meet the requirements, then the possibilities of our proven religious constitutional law are also open to them.
Cultural Policy:
An open and modern society needs living art and culture that reflects, criticizes and advances it.
Art and culture are expressions of human existence.
Culture stimulates discourse and contributes to the identity formation and development of each and every individual.
Art and culture are free.
In times of growing populism, an open culture is the key to dialogue.
Culture makes it possible to experience new things, builds bridges to the unknown and can ensure greater understanding.
The forms of expression are diverse - just like our understanding of culture.
Classical orchestras are included, as are amateur choirs, rock and pop music, electronic music, museums, socio-cultural centers, theaters, cinemas and literature, and the gaming industry.
The SPD stands by its claim of "culture for all": we make culture possible regardless of purse, school-leaving qualification, age, gender or origin.
Migrant communities have a positive cultural impact - we appreciate that.
Culture should continue to be borne "by all"; here the public sector has a mandate to ensure a basic service.
Citizens as well as the cultural industry are essential actors.
We want to use public cultural funding to enable a wide range of cultural activities at socially acceptable prices.
In addition, all federally funded facilities should offer free admission once a month.
We want to strengthen and comprehensively promote the creative industries.
We are committed to cooperative cultural federalism.
The federal, state and local governments must coordinate their funding activities even more closely than before and jointly set priorities in the sense of a conceptual cultural policy.
We stand by the side of the artists.
We will strengthen their rights and provide them with better social security.
They must be able to live from their work.
However, we do not lose sight of the other players in the arts and culture sector.
We advocate for equitable negotiation processes to advance cultural diversity and social justice.
We will ensure fair compensation rules for federal cultural grants.
The federal government and the federal cultural institutions must set a good example in this regard for the fair payment of employees and honorary staff.
We are campaigning for minimum remuneration and exhibition fees, and are looking into the introduction of an artists' collective right.
For the SPD, the solidarity-based financing of the artists' social security fund by the creators, the exploiters and the state is non-negotiable.
More flexible employment structures, changing employment biographies and the difficult income situation make it increasingly difficult for freelance cultural workers to cushion the risks of illness, need for care and unemployment and to provide for old age.
That is why we want to include solo self-employed persons as comprehensively as possible in the various branches of statutory social insurance.
Specific pension schemes that offer a scope of benefits comparable to the statutory pension insurance, such as the artists' social insurance fund, are to be exempted.
Arts and culture promotion are there for the whole society.
We want to promote art for its own sake and not only when it serves economic, social or political purposes.
Greater use should be made of expert juries for project funding.
Decisions about what to fund and how to fund it must also be made according to gender equity, inclusion, sustainability, integration, and aspects of arts education.
Cultural funding in the digital realm is intended to improve access to artistic works -
especially for those who have been excluded from art and culture up to now.
We want to make greater use of the dynamics of the independent cultural scene and take up its impulses for our society.
The still common distinction between high culture and subculture is outdated and misleading for us.
For us there is only culture!
We will relaunch the successful instrument of cultural development planning (Blue Book of Cultural Lighthouses) for Germany.
In the area of economic film funding, we want to further develop the German Federal Film Fund (DFFF).
We want to preserve our diverse cinema landscape and strengthen the framework conditions for artistically outstanding films.
We also want to promote the development of innovative and culturally valuable computer and video games, because computer games have become a cultural asset.
We want to preserve our cultural heritage and bring it to life.
Anniversaries of nationwide significance must also be promoted primarily by the federal level.
We also want to strengthen the federal government's historic preservation programs.
We want to make greater use of modern technology to safeguard our cultural heritage through digitization.
To achieve this, the federal and state governments must invest more in the German Digital Library, for example.
We support the digitization of the national film heritage through a coordinated concept by the federal government, the states and the film industry.
We want to strengthen the film heritage institutions of the cinematheque network in terms of personnel and funding.
Diversity is part of Germany as a country of immigration and
must also be reflected in the management of cultural institutions and in cultural education.
The cooperation of artists with educational institutions - not least in the all-day school sector - is to be intensified.
We support successful nationwide projects such as "Kultur macht stark".
We want to provide more support for libraries and socio-cultural centers.
We want to further expand gender equality in the arts and culture:
More women should take on leadership responsibilities in cultural institutions and artistic achievements should be rewarded regardless of gender.
The composition of juries, committees, etc. must be proportionate so that the artistic work of women can be adequately included.
Remembrance culture - commemorating and remembering:
Remembering and commemorating are central tasks of an open and modern society.
For us, the future is tied to an awareness of our history and our responsibilities.
The commemoration of the Nazi reign of terror must continue to occupy a prominent position in the culture of remembrance.
The violent crimes committed by the National Socialists are unique in human history.
The commemoration of the two German dictatorships must not lead to a relativization of the Nazi reign of terror with reference to the other, nor to a trivialization of SED injustice.
The memory of the systematic genocide of European Jews remains of extraordinary importance for social democracy.
We want to do a better job of investigating the crimes committed against victim groups that have been little studied to date.
In addition, we want to support historical-political educational concepts that increasingly rely on new media
and expand the digitization of memorial work.
International cooperation in memorial promotion serves reconciliation and peace.
Remembrance work offers a special opportunity to experience the connection with Eastern European countries and their history together.
The European Network Remembrance and Solidarity and the Foundation Flight, Expulsion, Reconciliation are of particular importance here.
Their exchange with international foundations, research institutions and universities is to be promoted more strongly than before.
We support the return of cultural assets seized during the Nazi era to their former owners or their legal successors.
Research into the origin of cultural assets (provenance research) is to be intensified for this purpose.
We need incentives so that private collection holdings can also be considered.
To make restitution fair and equitable, we will introduce legislation.
To this end, we also want to reform the "Advisory Commission" procedure.
We support the efforts of the German government, the churches and civil society to come to terms with the painful history together with the partners in Namibia.
During the colonial war in what was once German Southwest Africa, heinous atrocities were committed, especially by German imperial troops against the Herero and Nama people, which from today's perspective would be described as genocide.
We want to deepen the reconciliation between Germany and Namibia through a clear commitment to the moral and historical responsibility of our country
and improve the living conditions of the particularly affected ethnic groups.
We want to quickly create the legislative basis for a reform of the Stasi Records Authority.
The present recommendation of the Expert Commission from 2016 provides a good basis for this.
The work of the Federal Foundation for Reappraisal is to be strengthened both financially and in terms of personnel.
We will revise the federal government's memorial concept so that it also takes into account the outstanding sites of Germany's democratic history and describes how to deal with existing and future national monuments.
We want to make women's contributions to our cultural heritage more visible
and include them in the federal government's cultural funding, as well as orient it toward greater gender equity.
Media Order and Media Freedom:
The media world is changing through digitization.
The economic framework is also new.
Diversity, freedom of information and a free private press are and remain crucial to the success of our democracy.
Only if all citizens have access to media and information without great effort can they participate equally in democratic processes.
In some rural areas, it is difficult to maintain newspaper delivery.
We are therefore examining measures to secure distribution in rural areas.
A free press needs effective whistleblower protection:
there must be the same protection in all procedural systems and at all stages of investigation -
this applies, for example, to self-researched material and protection against seizure.
We want to introduce a press information law at the federal level.
Newspapers and magazines should also be able to develop freely in the digital environment.
They need a framework that will continue to make it worthwhile for them to produce media and, in particular, journalistic and editorial content.
Socially relevant content must continue to be findable on the Internet in the future.
It is therefore right to integrate "must-be-found" regulations into a contemporary media law.
If net neutrality and thus the open and free Internet is endangered, we will intervene.
The European level is becoming increasingly important for shaping media regulation.
The federal and state governments should therefore work together to establish modern rules that guarantee freedom of expression and diversity of opinion and prevent monopolies of opinion.
The diversity of newspapers, media outlets and publishers is a valuable asset that we want to protect.
We still need a balance between private and public broadcasting.
This dual media system can only survive if the public broadcasters are financed in such a way that they can perform their tasks and develop high-quality offerings, and if private broadcasting has corresponding revenue prospects.
Public service broadcasting must also meet the requirements of the digital society.
The 7-day provision rule of the public media libraries is no longer up to date and should be dropped.
The SPD advocates increased funding for our foreign broadcaster, Deutsche Welle.
Our children should be able to use media safely.
Providers are required to ensure the protection of children and young people.
Copyright in the age of digitalization:
Intellectual property is the raw material of the cultural and creative industries.
Almost everything we do on the Internet involves copyright actions - copying, reproducing, publishing.
We will improve the situation of authors and seek a fair balance of interests with the exploiters.
We want remuneration, not prohibitions.
To this end, the principle of flat-rate remuneration is also to be extended to those who earn money by marketing creative services on the Internet - for example, online platforms.
Many users on the Internet produce content themselves and thus also become authors.
We therefore need to take greater account of the legitimate interests of users.
We stand for a science- and education-friendly copyright law.
Authors and publishers are to be remunerated appropriately.
To achieve this, the framework conditions must be adapted.
In addition, we also need a clear legal regulation for the lending of e-books so that libraries can continue to fulfill their important information and educational mission in the future.
We support the efforts of the EU Commission and the European Parliament to create a modern and sustainable copyright law in Europe.
In this context, greater harmonization in the area of copyright limitations and exceptions - especially in education, science and research - and a reduction of national limitations are crucial.
The right of authors and publishers to appropriate remuneration must be given greater consideration.
The fixed book price is non-negotiable for us.
Digital cultural assets should, where possible under European law, in principle be placed on the same VAT level as analog cultural assets.
Sports:
Sport is a natural part of everyday life for millions of people.
It strengthens cohesion, is good for health and at the same time an important precursor for inclusion and integration.
Sports and sports clubs convey values such as fairness and respect and offer the opportunity to become more capable, to test one's own limits and to strengthen self-confidence.
In rural areas, but also in the cities, many sports facilities are dilapidated.
Here, the municipalities need support from the federal government.
We will advocate for a multi-year funding program for sports facilities in the municipalities to improve conditions for clubs and mass sports.
Sport thrives on millions of volunteer hours.
Those who engage in civic activities often have to deal with a great deal of bureaucratic requirements.
Here we will take up the suggestions of association members and put existing regulations to the test.
We recognize the growing importance of the e-sports landscape in Germany.
We will examine whether and how we can improve the framework conditions for e-sports.
As a partner of top-class sports, the SPD stands by the side of athletes.
For us, Olympic and Paralympic sports are on an equal footing.
We want to further improve the conditions under which high-performance sports are practiced in Germany.
This includes adequate financial support and good training conditions for the athletes.
Supporting the dual career of sports and work is particularly important to us.
Only a few athletes are able to make a living from sport during their active time.
In close cooperation with the German Sports Aid Foundation, we want to help top athletes build up a retirement pension at an early stage.
For the SPD, one thing is clear: sport must remain clean and fair.
The fight against doping and match-fixing is essential for fair competition and remains a central component of social democratic sports policy.
It's time for a better Europe - more social and democratic
European unification is a unique historical success.
It is based on the idea of free, peaceful and solidary coexistence of the people and peoples of Europe.
Even if some things need to be improved, one thing is definitely true: In no other region in the world do people live as freely and democratically and as peacefully and safely as in Europe!
That is why we Social Democrats are fighting for Europe - especially now, when the unification project is threatened from within and without as perhaps never before in its history.
We want a European Germany, not a German Europe!
Germany is a stable country.
We are also an anchor of stability for Europe.
That's what we want to be in the future, too.
However, we Social Democrats know that only everyone can lead Europe together and no one can claim that everyone else will follow.
Europe consists of many member states.
Regardless of their size, everyone is equal.
In this context, Germany shares a special responsibility with France for the cohesion of the EU and the unification of Europe.
But only in the equal cooperation of all member states can we achieve for the citizens of the European Union what we can no longer achieve alone as individual nation states in a changing world.
In this world where Asia, Latin America and Africa are growing, our children and grandchildren will only have a voice if it is a common European voice.
Europe is therefore not a loss but a gain in sovereignty, which we would no longer have as individual nation states.
The European model of society is based on the values of the Enlightenment
and combines freedom and responsibility,
economic success
and social security.
We will strengthen this common European idea.
In the wake of the financial and economic crisis and as a result of the refugee movements, confidence in the EU has suffered.
National antagonisms and egoisms have returned and populist, anti-European parties are on the rise.
We resolutely oppose these authoritarian and nationalist forces in Europe and fight for more European cohesion and solidarity.
We want a bold departure for a self-confident Europe.
A Europe that focuses on people and their everyday concerns.
A Europe that invests massively in training,
Work,
Economic growth
and environmental protection.
A Europe in which large corporations pay fair taxes.
A Europe that overcomes nationalism,
acts in solidarity
and gives people security.
Investing in jobs and training:
We want to renew the European promise of prosperity.
That is why we are calling for more investment in Europe's future.
Although Germany is a "net contributor," it is not the European Union's packhorse, but a net winner.
Millions of jobs in our country depend on others in Europe doing well too.
So well that they can afford our high-quality goods and services.
Around 60 percent of our exports go to the European Union.
Every investment in strengthening our neighboring countries and in successful European development is therefore at the same time an investment in our own future.
We want to lead Europe out of its weak growth by improving the economic competitiveness of our continent
and combating the far too high unemployment, especially in Southern and Western Europe.
That is why we need a broad-based European investment program:
With future investments in the cross-border European transport and energy networks,
in building the world's most modern infrastructure for high-speed Internet (European gigabit network),
in education and training,
Research and development
and combating youth unemployment.
To promote innovative start-ups, we want to improve the conditions for venture capital.
The EU must increase its competitiveness through an active innovation and industrial policy.
To this end, we will provide more funding for innovations.
With new measures, we want to achieve more targeted support and ensure that good ideas are turned into new products more quickly.
The Stability and Growth Pact must live up to its name.
The rules must be further developed in such a way that they reduce excessive debt,
but sufficient scope for long-term reforms
and sustainable growth.
The flexibility provided by the Stability and Growth Pact must be used to ensure that member states maintain sound budgets in good times so that they can successfully counteract crises with countercyclical policies.
The young generation is our common future.
We therefore want to significantly increase EU funding in the fight against youth unemployment and bundle it in a permanent youth employment fund.
We want to expand the European Voluntary Service and EU exchange programs such as Erasmus+.
And we need a European Mobility Program from which young people can be supported if they want to take up training or a job in another member state.
Social Europe:
We want a European social union that aligns its policies with people's needs,
ensures minimum social standards
and effectively prevents wage and social dumping.
At the European level, too, we want to establish the principle that there must be effective basic social security systems in all member states of the European Union.
The principle must apply in Europe: equal pay and equal working conditions for work of equal value in the same place - for men and women!
No tolerance for social dumping.
Our overriding goal is to strengthen fundamental social rights: By means of a social progress protocol, anchored in European primary law, we want to establish that social rights are of equal importance to the fundamental economic freedoms of the internal market.
In addition, we want effective EU rules against social dumping, especially in the areas of subcontracting, letterbox companies, fictitious posting of workers and bogus self-employment.
We will not allow companies to go abroad only on paper while continuing their activities in their own country.
What they are aiming for here is merely lower labor costs and reduced worker protection.
Violations of labor law should be punishable at the European level in the same way as violations of competition law.
Strong trade unions and collective agreements ensure that employees are paid appropriately.
We need to strengthen co-determination rights across Europe.
The social market economy, which in Germany has successfully turned employers and trade unions into social partners, is also our guiding principle for Europe.
Where trade union rights or collective bargaining autonomy have been suspended in the course of aid to states in crisis, they must be restored.
A strong social dialogue is an essential pillar of a more social Europe.
Therefore, the following applies: Employers' and employees' associations, as social partners with civil society, must be directly and more comprehensively involved in the development and implementation of European policy and supported in their work than in the past.
It must also be ensured that agreements reached by the social partners at EU level are respected.
Strong employee rights and high social standards are not an economic barrier; on the contrary, they can promote productivity and innovation.
The EU has always been a major driver of gender equality over the past 30 years.
European gender equality policy, with its wide range of activities, action plans and targets, has helped to determine and drive progress in gender equality policy in the Member States.
Therefore, we will advocate for the continuation of the EU gender equality strategy.
Deepening of the economic and monetary union:
We are not strong individually, but only together.
That is why we need a coordinated economic policy in Europe.
Our goal is to better coordinate the economic developments of Europe's member states.
We want to overcome excessive imbalances.
To achieve this, we need better and more effective integration of economic policy - with the establishment of an economic government for the euro area as a perspective.
The European economic government is to be composed of the members of the Commission with the corresponding area of responsibility - under the political leadership of a European Minister of Economics and Finance.
The economic government and its members must be legitimized and controlled in particular through the European Parliament.
For this purpose, a structure should be created within the framework of the European Parliament which would take over the task of a "Eurozone Parliament".
We want to create a common financial budget especially where we have a common currency with the euro.
It enables investment impulses and at the same time has a stabilizing effect as a balancing mechanism in the event of crises.
Effective taxation of the financial markets must contribute to its financing.
Through their greed and irresponsible speculation, they have brought Europe to the brink of the abyss.
Europe could only be stabilized through state aid.
But to date, financial markets are not making financial contributions from their financial market operations to the public good to repay at least some of these public costs of the financial crisis.
We support the low-growth and highly indebted EU countries
and work with them to ensure their stable economic development
so that a self-sustaining economic and social recovery can begin.
In addition, the European Stability Mechanism should be transferred into Community law and further developed into a European Monetary Fund.
We want to preserve the integrity of the common currency area; no member of the eurozone should be pressured to exit.
Europe as a whole needs clearer, more democratic structures and responsibilities than in the past to help states in crisis situations and to safeguard the common currency.
More growth and investment in Europe require solid revenues.
Therefore, Europe must finally take steps to harmonize corporate taxation and tax enforcement in Europe.
Europe needs instruments to effectively combat tax avoidance and tax fraud.
We want to enforce that companies pay their taxes where they generate their profits.
We want to systematically restrict the ability of companies to shift their taxable profits to other countries.
Peace Project Europe:
The European idea of living in freedom and responsibility secures peace in Europe.
European unification and enlargement is a unique and successful project of peace policy, both internally and externally.
German and European foreign policy must go hand in hand.
We make a preventive, comprehensive peace and development policy the strategic focus of European policy.
European foreign policy must also be more closely dovetailed with domestic issues, for example on refugee and migration policy, cyber security, trade, energy and climate policy.
At the same time, the EU's foreign policy must focus on strengthening international law.
and the protection of human rights,
Strong international institutions
and geared towards social and ecological sustainability.
Civil measures and means of violence prevention and conflict management are always our priority.
We therefore particularly want to enhance the civilian dimension of European foreign and security policy, for example by establishing a European civilian peace corps.
In the spirit of Willy Brandt, we also want to work towards ensuring that the tradition of détente and renunciation of violence is maintained in Europe.
and disarmament are the basis of a renewed pan-European security policy.
We also want to cooperate more closely in defense policy and advance the integration of member states' armed forces
- as part of a comprehensive, preventive EU security and defense policy embedded in international law.
27 member states of the European Union offer a great opportunity to become more efficient, more effective and more cost-effective through greater cooperation, including in defense spending.
Together with the EU members who already share our goals, we want to agree on the establishment of a European Defense Union, which must be subject to democratic and constitutional control.
The permanent cooperation provided for in the Lisbon Treaty is an important step and already enables concrete measures of closer cooperation and division of labor on the way to a European army.
Such an alliance is intended as a complementary effort to NATO, not as its competitor.
NATO is and will remain a supporting pillar of the transatlantic partnership.
It is essential for peace and security in a time of new international uncertainties and challenges.
EU enlargement policy remains important,
for peace,
Stability
and cooperation.
At the same time, the EU must ensure its ability to act through internal reforms.
All countries of the Western Balkans have a prospect of accession.
We support their rapprochement with the EU
and give the development of democracy
and the rule of law.
Cooperation with Turkey is a particular challenge for us.
Turkey is an important, albeit now very difficult, partner in many areas.
We view the current developments in Turkey with great concern
and condemn the mass arrests of journalists and members of the opposition
as well as the restrictions on fundamental rights such as the freedom of the media and science in all their severity.
The Turkish government's actions contradict the values of democracy
and the rule of law,
which are fundamental to the European community of values.
The truth is: neither Turkey nor the European Union is ready for accession in the foreseeable future.
However, accession negotiations are the European Union's only ongoing dialogue format with Turkey.
Isolating Turkey is not in Europe's interest.
Strengthening Turkey's democratic forces is in our particular interest.
We therefore advocate support and travel facilitation for representatives of civil society, Turkish-German businesses, the sciences and the arts, and journalists.
One thing is clear: If the Turkish government sticks to its confrontational course, it will distance Turkey from Europe.
If Turkey introduces the death penalty, it will openly decide against membership in the European Union!
Then the accession negotiations must be terminated.
Election campaigns and a vote on the introduction of the death penalty in Turkey will not take place on German soil.
A democratic Europe capable of action:
The EU needs strong institutions, first and foremost a strong European Parliament and an effective European Commission.
Instead of national egoisms, we rely on the community method.
At the same time, we recognize that there are different ideas within the European Union about the future and the functioning of the European Union.
That is why the EU must become more flexible.
Groups of member states should be able to lead the way on joint projects.
The European treaties explicitly permit this.
We also want the EU and its institutions to focus on what is really important: On the tasks of the future, which we can only master with joint European strength.
The United Kingdom wants to leave the European Union.
At the same time, however, it is clear that a country that no longer wants to be a member of the European Union cannot enjoy its benefits.
The four fundamental freedoms (free movement of goods, persons, services and capital) and the internal market are inextricably linked.
There is no "Europe à la carte" in the exit negotiations with the United Kingdom.
Of course, a close partnership with the United Kingdom will continue to be in our mutual interest, especially in foreign and security policy.
For us, however, the most important German interest in the negotiations is the preservation of European unification.
For a European Constitution for Growth,
social progress
and more democracy:
The EU is a community of indivisible and universal values such as democracy,
Rule of law
and respect for fundamental rights.
Member States must ensure compliance with these values not only before but also after accession to the EU.
We want to expand the existing mechanisms for this.
Only then will the EU be credible as a community of values.
In particular, we will resolutely oppose any restriction of the independent judiciary, freedom of assembly, freedom of expression and freedom of the press.
The competences of the European Parliament must be expanded in order to eliminate the democratic deficit of the EU and to be able to democratically control the new economic government.
To this end, we want to give the European Parliament full participation in economic and monetary policy, full budgetary rights, the right to elect individual commissioners and the right to initiate legislation.
In order to ensure the European Parliament's ability to act and to enable more democratic participation, we support a uniform European electoral law that should also provide for blocking clauses.
The EU Commission must be reformed.
This includes giving the commission such a structure that it can work in an actionable and decision-oriented manner.
We want to anchor the nomination of joint top candidates - as was done for the first time in the 2014 European elections - on a permanent basis.
Overall, we want to further strengthen European parties and expand the opportunities to get involved in them.
The European parties are the bearers of a transnational political will.
In order to further strengthen this important aspect of European democracy, we are also committed to ensuring that the seats in the European Parliament that will become vacant as a result of the UK's departure will in future be filled by MEPs elected on the basis of transnational lists.
In the medium term, a renewed European Union requires a revision of the Lisbon Treaty.
The goal is a European constitution that ensures that economic integration is combined with social progress and more democracy.
It's time for more peace and stability in the world
Social democratic foreign policy is committed to peace.
We rely on dialog instead of confrontation, on a fair balance of interests and negotiated solutions.
We want to fight conflicts at their root causes and work toward a just and stable international order.
Our policy is based on the conviction that the major global challenges of the future - from the fight against hunger and poverty to climate change, armed conflicts and worldwide migration movements - can only be tackled in partnership.
International politics is, in the sense of Willy Brandt, "the illusionless attempt to solve problems peacefully".
Both are still the hallmarks of social democratic foreign, development and peace policy today: the goal of a peaceful, just and rule-based international order and the willingness to take the most practical step possible, even if it is only small and fraught with risk.
Germany's responsibility in the world:
Our country has become a more demanded and required partner in shaping international relations.
We are ready to assume leadership responsibilities in Europe and beyond, together with our partners, and to make a stronger contribution to solving regional and global security problems.
Modern peace diplomacy, which relies on dialogue, assumes responsibility and focuses on a fair balance of interests, must be strengthened in terms of personnel and funding.
We want to continuously increase the share of the federal budget allocated to foreign affairs.
Germany should thus be able to live up to its increased international responsibility.
For the SPD, it is clear that détente, modern peace diplomacy, civil crisis prevention and crisis management remain priorities of German and European foreign policy. v
The SPD has played a key role in shaping the professional instruments of civil conflict management, including the Center for International Peace Operations (ZIF), the personnel pool of civilian experts and the Civil Peace Service (ZFD).
We want to further strengthen civil crisis and conflict prevention and provide it with more substantial funding - both at national and European level.
This also includes significantly expanding voluntary peace services.
In order to support sustainable stabilization and the establishment of rule-of-law structures in crisis countries, we want to significantly increase the deployment of civilian experts, especially police officers as well as lawyers, by creating a virtual personnel pool financed by the federal government.
Humanitarian aid serves to help people in need and to secure their existence and dignity.
In view of numerous conflicts around the world and the dramatic refugee situation, Germany has greatly increased its humanitarian aid.
We are committed to expanding our humanitarian engagement and to ensuring that the international community also lives up to its obligations.
International and civil society organizations must be able to rely on adequate funding for humanitarian assistance.
In the case of short-term humanitarian aid, the subsequent medium- and long-term structural development cooperation must always be considered and planned as well.
Nowhere is the link between human rights and peace and development policy more evident than in fragile states, where violence and extreme underdevelopment often go hand in hand.
Civil crisis prevention, mediation, post-conflict rehabilitation and stabilization must therefore be permanently strengthened.
This applies first and foremost to dealing with structurally weak or civil-war-torn states.
This is precisely where dialogue with civil society and political actors and targeted stabilization measures can help,
to promote human rights,
Alleviating poverty
and create conditions that enable peaceful coexistence and lasting reconciliation.
Reports of violations of international law, attacks on the civilian population as well as on aid organizations are increasing dramatically.
We are committed to strengthening international law and the International Criminal Court to end impunity for war crimes and crimes against humanity.
Those responsible for war crimes and crimes against humanity will be prosecuted and punished.
The SPD is committed to strengthening foreign cultural and educational policy and will significantly increase funding in the next legislative period.
More German schools, strengthening German foundation work abroad, expanding the work of the Goethe-Institut, the German Academic Exchange Service and other institutions are an important contribution to peace and understanding.
The social power of culture creates spaces of freedom and emancipation in culture, education, science and research
enables understanding and cooperation,
and shapes a modern image of Germany.
A new disarmament initiative:
We are firmly committed to global treaty-based disarmament of nuclear weapons, chemical and biological weapons of mass destruction, and conventional arms.
We want to prevent the threatening disintegration of the existing arms control and disarmament regimes.
A world without nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction remains our goal.
We support the fact that large parts of the international community are committed to the global elimination of these weapons.
We resolutely oppose irresponsible ideas about the creation of a European nuclear weapons power or even a nuclear armament of Germany.
Such considerations do not serve peace, but undermine basic elements of German and European security!
In the Two Plus Four Treaty and the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), Germany has committed itself under international law to explicitly renounce weapons of mass destruction.
However, we are currently experiencing a different trend worldwide and also in Europe: that of rearmament in both the nuclear and non-nuclear fields.
We therefore support regional initiatives for zones free of weapons of mass destruction
and strongly advocate the withdrawal of remaining tactical nuclear weapons from Germany and Europe as part of a pan-European disarmament treaty.
We Social Democrats have always stood up for our country's ability to defend itself and the transatlantic alliance.
That remains the case.
But at the same time we have always developed and pushed through offers for détente, arms control and disarmament.
This is precisely what is currently lacking in Europe, in NATO and worldwide.
Defense capability and deterrence and the readiness and serious will for arms control and comprehensive disarmament are two sides of the same coin.
Therefore, we will make a new attempt for détente and disarmament.
The agreement reached on Iran's nuclear program is an important success for global disarmament.
However, new initiatives to revive disarmament are urgently needed, especially in and for Europe.
To this end, we want to launch a dialogue with all allies and partners who bear responsibility for the security of our continent.
An important forum for dialogue in this regard is the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE).
If these approaches are to be credibly implemented, it is imperative that arms exports be curbed.
The SPD has therefore pushed through the most transparent and restrictive arms export policy ever seen in the history of the Federal Republic.
In the particularly sensitive area of small arms, the SPD has successfully campaigned for the legal rules to be tightened once again.
The "Political Principles on the Export of War Weapons and Other Military Equipment" dating from January 2000 must be further developed and, where necessary, enshrined in law.
In concrete terms, this means that we will introduce a legislative initiative to change Germany's arms export policy.
It will contain a fundamental ban on small arms exports to third countries outside the EU, NATO and comparable countries.
At the same time, we advocate a uniformly more restrictive arms export policy in Europe.
We also advocate stronger limits on arms exports at the EU level.
The rapidly advancing automation of weapons systems presents us with major challenges.
We call for autonomous weapons systems to be outlawed under international law.
In addition, we are working to ensure that new weapons systems are recorded internationally and included in an international regulatory framework.
This applies in particular to the increasingly important military sector of unmanned armed aerial vehicles (drones).
We categorically reject killing by unmanned military systems in violation of international law.
Drones must not increasingly be used as a weapon for killings in which civilians are repeatedly killed.
Modern armed forces to secure peace:
Today, the Bundeswehr assumes great responsibility for stability and security in the world in its various foreign missions within the framework of the United Nations, the EU and NATO.
As a matter of principle, the following applies to foreign deployments: Participation of the Bundeswehr in armed foreign missions takes place within the framework of the United Nations, on the basis of international law and within the framework of collective security systems pursuant to Article 24 (2) of the Basic Law.
The prerequisite is the approval of the German Bundestag within the meaning of the parliamentary proviso.
A German military contribution must always be embedded in an overall political concept.
The Bundeswehr has proven itself as an army in democracy and for democracy.
The central guiding principle of Innere Führung and the soldier as a citizen in uniform is the benchmark for service in the Bundeswehr
and the Bundeswehr's commitment to peace
and freedom worldwide.
We are committed to modern and efficient armed forces with adequate capabilities for national and alliance defense.
and international crisis management.
Soldiers must be able to rely on being provided with the best possible equipment and sufficiently qualified personnel.
They themselves need to be trained in the best possible way.
The necessary measures for recruiting junior staff and for the general conditions of the service are to be implemented accordingly.
This includes the creation of a separate pay scale within the framework of the Federal Pay Act for male and female soldiers and the further development of status and career law.
We will also improve and secure the care and aftercare of soldiers following combat deployment.
We will swiftly close the identified gaps in personnel and materiel and secure the necessary increase in the defense budget to do so.
However, we are firmly opposed to completely unnecessary and unrealistic rates of increase in the German defense budget.
An apodictic commitment to a share of annual spending on the Bundeswehr of two percent of gross domestic product would be tantamount to doubling our current spending and would mean more than 70 billion euros per year for German armaments and defense policy.
That will not happen with the SPD.
Not only because this would be a complete oversizing of expenditures, but above all because security and stability cannot be guaranteed by military expenditures alone.
On the contrary, economic development,
the fight against hunger and misery,
against climate change
and the improvement of living conditions
are ultimately the only sustainably effective measures against war, civil war and the ideological lure of global terrorism.
The SPD will therefore ensure that additional spending on Germany's defense capability is complemented by additional spending on crisis prevention, humanitarian aid and sustainable development.
Social democratic peace policy is always based on a comprehensive concept of security,
the social,
economic,
ecological,
cultural
and human rights aspects of conflict prevention and resolution.
This means that the focus is always on strong civilian instruments, which can be supplemented by a Bundestag mandate for military operations if necessary.
In the future, we will employ and qualify underage applicants for the Bundeswehr in the civilian military administration until they reach the age of majority.
They are not allowed to become a soldier until after their 18th birthday, in clear compliance with the Additional Protocol to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.
Strengthen international order and multilateralism, consolidate partnerships:
To achieve peace and justice, we need resilient global governance structures.
We rely on the strength of the law, not the law of the strongest.
And we are committed to achieving the UN General Assembly's Sustainable Development Goals, which represent the perspective of a social-ecological transformation in line with our social democratic convictions.
We therefore need a strong United Nations that is capable of action.
This is all the more true against the backdrop of announced funding cuts for development cooperation and international organizations by the new U.S. administration.
We support the German Security Council candidacy for 2019/2020 under the slogan "Peace, Justice, Innovation and Partnership".
We are also committed to multilateral cooperation beyond the United Nations.
For example, we want to strengthen the Council of Europe, which is doing valuable work, especially with regard to Turkey and Russia.
In addition, with Germany's successful chairmanship of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) in 2016, we have provided important impetus for a more active role for this forum.
The OSCE is and remains an important venue for understanding and confidence-building between East and West.
The USA is and will remain Germany's closest partner outside Europe - regardless of who is in power in the USA.
Europe and the U.S. are closely linked in a community of interests and values
whose foundation is the advocacy of freedom
and democracy.
At a time when these values are under pressure and under threat in many places, it is all the more important to further strengthen this partnership.
In addition, the current challenges and uncertainty in the world are too great for the U.S. and Europe to afford not to act together.
Syria, Iraq, Libya, Ukraine, the relationship with Russia, the fight against international terrorism, the shaping of the future global economic and trade order are some of the challenges where a transatlantic partnership capable of action is essential.
Nevertheless, as Europeans we are at the same time looking ahead with self-confidence: security and peace will depend more on ourselves in the future.
Détente, dialogue and clear principles as a sign of strength:
Our relationship with Russia is strained by the Russian government's actions in eastern Ukraine and the breach of international law by the annexation of Crimea.
Fundamental principles of the European peace and security order have been violated.
However, we are convinced that peace and security in Europe are only possible with, not without or even against Russia.
This requires de-escalation, a return to political dialogue and the differentiated application of sanction mechanisms.
The political process for eastern Ukraine, which successfully prevented the outbreak of open war, has stalled.
Nevertheless, we are holding on to him.
Substantial progress in implementing the Minsk agreement would entail a gradual lifting of sanctions against Russia.
In the long term, we are striving for an inclusive security architecture for the whole of Europe.
The policy of détente must be strengthened again in this sense.
The wars and conflicts in the Middle East and North Africa show how urgent it is to strengthen an international order based on international law and regional mechanisms, organizations and institutions for conflict resolution.
In Syria and Yemen, people are suffering the terrible consequences of war, terror and hardship.
The upheavals in Europe's immediate neighborhood have immediate implications for us, not least through migration toward Europe.
It is in our interest that the spiral of violence and state collapse in the region be broken.
The goal is to establish long-term structures of power sharing, religious tolerance and stable, good governance.
At the same time, the credibility of the international community, particularly in the Middle East, is measured by progress in the peace process between Israel and Palestine.
In view of Germany's special responsibility for Israel's security
as well as the increasing instability in the region, Germany, together with its European partners, must continue to support initiatives to revive the Middle East peace process with all its might.
The credibility of the international community, particularly in the Middle East, is measured by progress in the peace process between Israel and Palestine.
Based on the Oslo Accords, our goal is and remains the creation of two sovereign and viable states through a negotiated settlement.
We demand that actions, from any side, that stand in the way of a final peace settlement be stopped immediately.
There must be a halt to illegal settlement construction.
From the Palestinian side we demand the outlawing of terror.
Further democratic progress is needed at all levels in the Palestinian territories.
Just globalization, fair trade, development policy and Agenda 2030:
Social democratic peace policy advocates social justice on a global scale.
40 years after the establishment of the North-South Commission under Willy Brandt, the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) under Agenda 2030 combine poverty reduction and human development with environmental sustainability, economic development, peace and international cooperation.
For the SPD, sustainability always includes ecological sustainability,
social
and economic aspects
and issues of social participation.
The rich countries have a special responsibility to advance a socio-ecological transformation -
in their own economic, financial and social systems, in international politics and together with the countries of the global South.
We are therefore committed to an ambitious realization of the 2030 Agenda.
Accordingly, Germany, as one of the leading industrialized nations, must play a clearly visible international pioneering role in implementing the 2030 Agenda.
Germany must make every effort to achieve the sustainability goals nationally by 2030.
In addition, Germany must step up its support for the countries of the Global South in their efforts to achieve sustainable growth and make the SDGs a practice in multinational organizations.
Globalization can only be shaped with strong partners.
This includes governments with the power to act and an active civil society.
Together with our partners, the trade unions, churches, companies and non-governmental organizations, we want to increase our commitment to development cooperation.
We will continue to focus our work more strongly on regions of poverty and hunger.
Over 800 million people are affected worldwide.
We want to help build and secure life prospects for people in the global South.
In this way, we contribute to conflict prevention
and help people find prospects in their home countries.
Overcoming hunger and poverty in the world remains a key objective of our development policy.
We see rural development and, in particular, the promotion of small farmers as a key component of this.
For example, three out of four hungry people in developing countries live in rural areas.
This must be structurally strengthened through investment in infrastructure,
including social security systems, good and easily accessible education and health services,
the creation of jobs also outside agriculture, the
promotion of local value creation
and the protection of local markets from dumping imports.
The aim is to give people a perspective and thus, not least, to curb the causes of flight.
We also want to examine ways in which returnees can use the training and qualifications they have acquired in Europe to promote development in their countries of origin.
We also advocate for equitable access to land, water and fishing grounds for local people and
will not accept "landgrabbing" and the increasing monopolization of the seed trade by a few agro-business corporations.
Reliable and sufficient funding for development cooperation is urgently needed.
That is why we stand by the goal of spending at least 0.7 percent of gross national income on public development cooperation - and that is independent of spending on refugees admitted to Germany.
In addition, we want Germany to become politically involved in terms of content and personnel in other important multilateral institutions and forums such as the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the regional development banks.
Germany's financial contributions must reflect this ambition.
At the same time, we also want to enable the countries of the global South to tap their own financial resources through a fair and international tax system.
Last but not least, we advocate for innovative financing options.
We will therefore work, for example, on mechanisms to secure some of the economic benefits of free trade agreements for financing international aid and development cooperation.
Funding for climate adaptation and mitigation measures must be provided in addition to funding for official development cooperation.
We also advocate better European development cooperation that realizes a clear division of tasks between the EU and the member states.
The SPD is committed to fair trade.
Trade policy is not just an instrument of economic promotion.
At its core is the question of what rules we want to live by in a globalized world.
National unilateralism and protectionism do not promise success.
Open markets are good, but they
must also be free from distortions of competition.
If this is not guaranteed, effective protective measures must take effect, especially at the European level.
The best framework for these negotiations is the United Nations with its organizations for labor (ILO), trade (UNCDAT) and development (UNIDO), as well as the World Trade Organization (WTO).
Together with our partners in Europe and worldwide, we want to overcome the current blockades in the area of multilateral negotiations on world trade.
Bilateral trade agreements of the EU with important partners have become an increasingly used alternative.
Our goal is to agree rules in all trade, investment and economic partnership agreements for binding compliance with and implementation of human rights, environmental, consumer policy and social standards such as the ILO core labor standards, with concrete complaint, review and sanction mechanisms.
In the long term, we want to establish an independent international trade court to enforce the primacy of politics.
The negotiations with the USA on a Transatlantic Free Trade and Investment Agreement (TTIP) show that a deal along these lines is currently unattainable.
In contrast, intensive negotiations with the new Canadian government have resulted in forward-looking rules for the protection of workers' rights in the agreement between the EU and Canada (CETA),
public services of general interest
and for a progressive investment court.
Private arbitration courts are thus excluded.
This must also apply to all future EU trade agreements.
CETA must be ratified as a mixed agreement by both the European Parliament and national parliaments.
In the course of this parliamentary control, we will subject all aspects to careful scrutiny.
We will also examine the EU's partnership agreements with African states (Economic Partnership Agreements) to see whether they serve economic and social development in the developing countries concerned or further cement dependencies.
We want to support Africa in creating an African free trade area.
A new comprehensive approach to international tax justice is needed to gradually reduce worsening inequality.
This will also help countries mobilize sufficient domestic resources, for example, to expand education and social systems.
Tax evasion and avoidance as well as financial transactions for illegal purposes must be combated internationally.
We want more transparency in the form of a public and country-specific reporting obligation on profits and taxes paid on them for multinational companies.
We advocate far-reaching international rules and greater cooperation, including in international organizations such as the United Nations, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the G20.
For a sustainable climate policy:
The signing of the 2015 Paris climate agreement is a historic milestone in international climate policy.
We are also committed to an ambitious climate policy in the national, European and international framework.
We strongly support measures to adapt to climate change and protect the climate.
An important step in this direction is the development of an integrated European climate diplomacy.
In view of a growing world population and increasing demand for energy, the ecological and climate policy turnaround will not be possible without a fundamental global transformation of energy systems.
The SPD is committed to consistently shifting development cooperation in the energy sector to the promotion of renewable energies and the establishment of a decentralized and democratically controlled supply.
To this end, we also support further climate and energy partnerships with developing and emerging countries.
Worldwide, cities are already responsible for 70 percent of energy consumption and 70 percent of CO2 emissions.
Strong commitment is needed here, otherwise the climate targets cannot be achieved.
We therefore want to provide more advice and support to fast-growing cities in developing and emerging countries within the framework of urbanization partnerships: in urban planning, in energy efficiency measures and in the development of local public transport.
We stand by the industrialized countries' pledge to increase financial support for poor countries in climate protection and adaptation to climate change to $100 billion per year by 2020.
We also want to provide greater support for poorer countries, which are particularly threatened by climate change, in dealing with the consequences of climate change.
Protect human rights:
The universal validity and indivisibility of human rights are non-negotiable.
The protection and promotion of human rights are therefore core elements of social democratic foreign policy.
In Germany, at the European level and worldwide, we are committed to ensuring that human rights standards are implemented and further developed.
These include, in particular, outlawing the death penalty and torture worldwide, strengthening the rights of women, especially in violent conflicts, protecting and strengthening children's rights, supporting the International Criminal Court, the United Nations Human Rights Council and the Council of Europe, as well as further developing and resolutely implementing international human rights law.
We want to strengthen civil society worldwide and protect and expand the scope of action of human rights defenders.
In Germany, we want to strengthen and further develop the human rights architecture.
Human rights also include that lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex people can live everywhere free from violence and discrimination.
For us, freedom of sexual orientation, gender self-determination and protection against discrimination are universal human rights that we remember
and support our partners in development cooperation in demanding.
We will continue to develop the concept of the Responsibility to Protect (R2P).
Fifteen years ago, the United Nations established the importance of equal participation and the full inclusion of women in all efforts toward peace and security.
No country can develop economically, politically or socially if half the population has no say.
Women must be taken into account in negotiations as well as in the implementation of peace treaties, development programs and related support measures.
Peace agreements will only be effective and sustainable if women are actively involved.
Gender equality is also a key goal of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and a central prerequisite for sustainable growth and sustainable societies.
We will make this a basis for our development cooperation.
We want women to be better protected from sexual and sexualized violence in conflicts and the increasing use of this type of violence as a strategic instrument of warfare to be clearly outlawed and punished - also internationally.
In this way, we also support children living in conflict regions.
We will pay special attention to their welfare, protection and rights in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.
We Social Democrats stand for the fact that all people - regardless of their financial situation, but also regardless of where they live - must have access to adequate health care.
Health is a human right that must finally apply to everyone.
In order to combat neglected and poverty-related diseases in particular, investment in research - irrespective of economic considerations - is urgently needed.
The Global Fund against AIDS/HIV, tuberculosis and malaria must therefore be provided with sufficient budgetary resources.
Basic health insurance cover as social security is also important,
affordable medication
as well as non-discriminatory access, especially for women and mothers, to accessible healthcare providers.
We will also support initiatives and programs worldwide to build basic social security.
We Social Democrats also stand for ensuring that all people - regardless of age, gender, religion and social background - have access to education.
Education is the basis for sustainable social, ecological and economic development of societies.
For this(-)reason, we continue to advocate for the implementation of the human right to education.
Everyone should be guaranteed appropriate early childhood, school, vocational and higher education, as well as continuing education.
Many millions of people suffer from hunger and extreme poverty despite working.
Three quarters of humanity live without social protection
and in mass violation of workers' and trade union rights.
That is why the SPD continues to advocate for decent work worldwide.
This includes - also in the context of a consistent implementation of the National Action Plan "Business and Human Rights" - an expansion of corporate responsibility.
This includes a binding human rights due diligence obligation for companies, which includes accountability and transparency obligations for companies along the supply chains,
the establishment and expansion of social security systems
and the introduction of living wages to ensure social human rights across the board.
In public procurement, we advocate legal foundations to ensure compliance with environmental,
social
and human rights criteria.
Furthermore, we want to see corporate responsibility strengthened at the international level, for example as part of the initiative in the United Nations Human Rights Council for an agreement on transnational corporations and human rights.
We will support the international trade union movement and the International Labor Organization (ILO) in their struggle to implement core labor standards.
We will ratify the Additional Protocol to the United Nations Social Covenant and ILO Convention 169 on the Protection of Indigenous Peoples.
