The decision
Germany should decide.
A strong country needs self-confidence.
And good politics needs the trust of the citizens.
In order to lead our country into a good future, blockades must be broken up and paralyzing strife overcome.
The necessary directional decision should be made now and not in a year's time.
With Gerhard Schröder as Chancellor, we want to respond to the challenges of these times and create the conditions for a good future - for work, security and humanity.
That is why we want new elections to the German Bundestag this fall.
We know that political action at this time cannot take away all citizens' worries or fulfill all their wishes.
And we also know that there can be no quick and easy solutions.
But we are sure that together we can achieve great goals.
Goals that are worthwhile:
We want a strong economy
whose returns are fairly distributed, which is the basis for everyone's prosperity.
We fight for a strong and social state that gives its people the highest possible security.
We strive for a humane society committed to freedom, justice and solidarity.
With Gerhard Schröder as Federal Chancellor, we Social Democrats have laid the foundations for a good future.
Our path is clear.
We want to continue on this path, supported by the mandate of the voters.
We have confidence in Germany.
What we have achieved: renewal and cohesion
We took over government responsibility in 1998 to renew Germany fairly and sustainably.
The change was sorely needed, because the problems grew with every year of Chancellor Helmut Kohl's government.
At the end of the 1990s, our country was paralyzed.
The black-yellow legacy of Helmut Kohl
Helmut Kohl and his government of CDU/CSU and FDP left behind a heavy legacy in 1998; Angela Merkel was among them: It was
CDU/CSU/FDP that left us with the highest tax and contribution burden for employees and companies at 41.7%.
Non-wage labor costs increased from 35.5% to 42.0%.
It was the CDU/CSU/FDP that increased the federal debt by 395 billion euros from 1991 to 1998 alone (from 1999 to 2005 it was only 138 billion euros).
It was the CDU/CSU/FDP that were responsible for a social security system of illusions and a labor market policy without prospects that was no longer up to the challenges of globalization and demographic change.
It was the CDU/CSU/FDP that financed the reconstruction of the New Länder incorrectly - namely, considerably via the social systems - and that carelessly promised "flourishing landscapes.
It was CDU/CSU/FDP who represented German interests in Europe badly.
It was the CDU/CSU/FDP, whose fiercely conservative family policies had failed, that were criticized by the Federal Constitutional Court as socially unjust.
Helmut Kohl's slogans of spiritual and moral renewal, with which he began his chancellorship in 1982, have proven hollow and arrogant.
Helmut Kohl's self-righteous illegal handling of public money and party finances was evident in the Flick affair, the 1999/2000 party donation scandal and bribery scandals, and remains a black mark on German democracy.
Neither he nor his successor is willing to restore legal peace.
Much has been achieved, much is well on the way, some is still missing
We Social Democrats in the Red-Green coalition have brought Germany forward again in the seven years since 1998.
We have overcome stagnation.
We have acted with determination and assertiveness, even in the face of opposition.
We have renewed the country and we have held it together.
Agenda 2010 is the most important reform project in a long time.
It is the right policy response to global economies and the aging of our society.
Some reform successes are already there, much is beginning to take effect, some still needs to be started.
We know: There are still big problems.
The most serious and painful problem is that of unemployment.
We are proud of what we have achieved.
But we have not yet reached our destination.
Further efforts are needed.
Germany can be certain: The change makes sense and provides new security.
Agenda 2010 is having an effect.
We implement them consistently and develop them further.
The economy is competitive again
Our policies have made Germany and the German economy competitive again.
Even if some people deliberately paint a black picture:
Germany is strong.
No country in the world exports more than we do.
Government spending and non-wage labor costs decline.
Tax rates in Germany have never been lower than they are today.
Research and development priority
We have increased spending on education and research by 37.5%.
In terms of spending on research and development, Germany is now in the top group of major industrialized countries with 2.5% of gross domestic product.
Tax rates have fallen more sharply
Tax policy is always complicated.
Ours follows clear principles and produces tangible results for everyone.
Companies are relieved as far as it has to be for their competitiveness.
We have greatly relieved the burden on low and average earners.
The social balance is always maintained.
For this reason, the entry tax rate was also reduced by 11 points to the current 15 percent.
We have increased the tax-free subsistence minimum to 7,664 euros.
The multi-stage tax reform is the largest tax-cutting program in Germany's post-war history.
Labor market reforms take effect
Our labor market policy is starting to take effect.
New ways out of unemployment have been opened up by "Ich-AGs" and "mini-jobs".
The transformation of the Federal Employment Agency into an efficient employment agency is underway.
The reduction of long-term unemployment has begun.
All those who are able to work are now socially insured and in the employment service.
Young people in particular have better opportunities on the labor market.
Youth unemployment is falling.
The training pact is working, but not yet everywhere.
Employers have a duty to comply with it.
Germany has grown together
There are still difficulties to overcome.
But the successes in the new countries are increasing, and with them the courage is growing.
Germany's east is now one of the most innovative regions in Europe.
Business start-ups are on the rise.
Microelectronics, automotive industry, mechanical engineering, chemical industry and shipbuilding are dynamic growth cores.
East German industry grew by 8.8 percent in 2004.
The Solidarity Pact II bears our signature.
156 billion will flow into the new federal states by 2019.
With the CDU/CSU, the dismantling of the East would have taken its course instead of the reconstruction of the East.
Good education for all
There has been significant progress in education policy.
BAföG funding was almost doubled.
The number of first-year students in a cohort increased from 27.7 to 37.5 percent.
Children can learn with success in 3,000 new all-day schools.
The federal government is providing 4 billion euros by 2008 for 10,000 new all-day schools.
More help for all forms of family
No previous government has supported families as massively as Gerhard Schröder's.
Families now benefit not just from 40.2 billion euros as in 1998, but from almost 60 billion euros annually.
They also benefit significantly from our tax reform.
A married couple with 2 children pays up to 37,550 euros gross income no more taxes at all, if the increased child benefit is taken into account - an income increase of almost 3,000 euros per year.
To ensure that children receive better support at an earlier age, we support the expansion of daycare places.
Energy supply sustainably secured
In energy policy, a fundamental shift has been made toward greater efficiency and climate protection.
The nuclear phase-out was agreed, an ecological tax reform was pushed through, and renewable energies were promoted more strongly.
Their share has increased fivefold since 1998.
200,000 new jobs have been created as a result.
Germany has become a role model.
The newly introduced emissions trading system reduces emissions in accordance with the Kyoto Agreement.
Culture is food
We have actively shaped cultural policy.
For example, we pushed through a citizen-friendly foundation law, a comprehensive memorial concept, a reorganization and improvement of film funding, and a national law on book price fixing.
We have given special support to lighthouses in the field of cultural assets, especially in eastern Germany.
The newly created Federal Cultural Foundation also supports the new path of the two-way street in foreign cultural policy.
We have actively shaped cultural policy
and established the Office of the Commissioner for Culture and the Media under the Federal Chancellor for this purpose.
Open society
Germany finally has a modern immigration law that complies with the required humanity.
and the need for qualified specialists.
Immigration to Germany is falling.
The state no longer interferes in people's private lives
and stops discrimination against minorities.
Today, non-marital children and same-sex partnerships have largely the same rights and obligations as married children or couples.
Health care reform works
The health care reform has strengthened personal responsibility,
secured and improved care for all,
and preserved the principle of solidarity.
Surpluses of 4 billion euros in 2004 alone have made possible falling contribution rates and thus falling non-wage labor costs.
The next big step will be the introduction of a fair citizen insurance.
Old-age provision
The pension reforms introduced a state-subsidized funded pension plan for the first time, the so-called Riester pension.
A new sustainability factor now ensures fair contributions from all generations.
The outmoded incentives to retire as early as possible have been dismantled.
These reforms keep pension contributions stable.
Peace and freedom
We are committed to peace
and freedom.
This is our conviction and our historic commitment.
The government of Chancellor Gerhard Schröder has placed the prevention of wars and conflicts at the center of its foreign and development policies.
But it has also helped to secure or restore peace in many regions of the world with soldiers from the Bundeswehr.
Germany did not participate in the war in Iraq - for good reasons.
With a Chancellor Angela Merkel and CDU/CSU, German troops would now be in Baghdad - with all the consequences.
The 7 years show: With its social democracy, Germany is on the cutting edge and on the winning track.
Chancellor Gerhard Schröder is leading the country safely into a bright future.
The direction
The direction of social democratic policy is clear.
And it is for these policies that we are fighting.
Because it is good for the people and for the country.
Preserve what we need for the future
Germany is in a battle for its future.
We will win this battle if we remember our strengths and are prepared to do something new.
The following applies: Anything new can only be successful and endure if it is based on the tried and tested.
We are renewing our country, but we do not want another country.
Social justice makes strong
Germany has become strong through the strength of its people.
This strength came from the certainty that prosperity achieved together would also be distributed fairly.
That there is equality of opportunity and justice between generations.
Social justice must remain.
We do not want to live without them.
Only a social market economy creates growth and jobs
Germany must continue to shape its economic order as a social market economy in the future.
The social market economy stands for the proven interaction of a strong economy, strong employees and a functioning welfare state.
We want a successful economy and are doing a lot to make it competitive.
This is how it should stay, in industry and crafts, in production and services.
And that also applies to science and research.
Economic prosperity and social justice are not mutually exclusive.
Social market economy is competitive - also internationally.
Market economies need rules of the game and guard rails to ensure that they are also social.
Its core must be the social partnership of companies and employees.
Both sides must be able to bundle their interests and fight for them in free negotiations.
We want strong, assertive trade unions to do this.
Corporate co-determination ensures that employees are involved in important decisions concerning their company.
It involves the workforce in the company's structural decisions and contributes to social peace.
Co-determination and employee rights in general are key factors for participation and innovation.
We want to maintain co-determination and collective bargaining autonomy anchored in law.
Solidarity makes safe
We are facing changes in which great opportunities lie.
But there are also risks that not everyone can bear for themselves.
Anyone who has to fear for their livelihood, for poverty in old age or poor care in the event of illness, lives in uncertainty.
But human beings need security in order to live in dignity.
We know: It is always man who gives protection and help to man.
There is nothing better.
Solidarity grows from this certainty.
Also the organized solidarity of the large social security systems:
The community stands up for the weaker - on a mutual basis.
In times of change, we need more solidarity, not less.
We want the freedom of the many
We want to take our destiny into our own hands together.
We must be ready for this, but also capable of it.
Only those who can freely develop their personality and exploit their talents will be able to determine their own lives and participate in political, social and cultural life.
For us, freedom is always the freedom of the many, not the egoism of individuals.
It is freedom made possible by social justice that results in solidarity.
We preserve the welfare state
Ensuring social balance is and remains a key task of the welfare state.
We want a state that puts the common good above individual interests and can enforce it.
A state that intervenes only when necessary, that demands and promotes, and that observes the principle of subsidiarity.
An activating state.
A state that helps people lead independent lives.
A strong and solidary state that is there for people when they need help.
Because without such a state there is a self-determined life only for the few particularly strong.
Yet we know: People are different in their performance and their willingness to perform.
But the pressure to adapt must not be placed primarily on the weakest.
Those who are strong must also contribute more to serve the country.
We want the primacy of politics
We do not accept that "money rules the world".
Not even in the age of global capitalism.
We claim the primacy of politics
and hold fast to the goal of giving the social dimension of economic activity greater weight at the international level as well.
An economically strong and socially just Europe is indispensable for this.
The idea of the European social model - which is primarily based on the welfare state - is sustainable and exportable.
The social market economy, which has brought our country economic strength and social stability, is a model for global economic activity.
Only openness to the world creates peace and new markets
Germany is a strong peace power and must remain so.
We want to avoid conflicts through understanding, civil crisis prevention and the offer of integration.
We secure and create peace within the framework of international law, including by military means where necessary and humanity demands it.
We say no if we are not convinced of the legitimacy and sense of warlike action.
Active peace policy is the lesson of German history.
Germany's reputation and influence in the world have grown considerably in recent years.
We want to continue our self-confident foreign policy.
In doing so, we do not allow ourselves to be driven into false dichotomies.
Decisive advocacy for peace,
Democracy
and human rights does not stand in the way of establishing new economic relations.
Only countries to which we give economic prospects will open up to democracy and human rights.
Each new country of the European Union must complete internal democratization before accession.
Living democracy and open society
We want a living democracy and an active civil society.
We demand and encourage personal responsibility and voluntary commitment.
The self-organization and representation of employees' interests in free trade unions is part of a democratic civil society.
Civic engagement is indispensable for cohesion in our society.
We rely on the diversity of involvement in associations, charities, churches, self-help groups, voluntary services, networks and other organizations in honorary positions and support it in the long term.
The churches have an important task for their members and for value orientation and coexistence in society as a whole.
We want strong and financially strong municipalities; that is where quality of life is decided, that is the basis of democracy.
It must be clear who bears responsibility in the state.
Tactical blockades and paralysis between the Bundestag and the Bundesrat must come to an end.
We will make a new attempt to reform the federal system.
Federalism is good, but it needs clarity in responsibility and clarity in cooperation between the federal and state governments.
This, too, is a condition for social progress, that democracy organizes itself in line with the times.
We need more direct democracy and thus the referendum.
New progress is possible
We need a solidarity-based community effort for more innovation so that our country does not fall short of its potential.
With an outstanding infrastructure, a high-performance economy, innovative science and a first-class workforce, Germany has all the prerequisites for a good future.
In the knowledge society, industry, services and science are closely interlinked.
Work is gaining in importance again.
As a party of technical progress, we focus on education, research and science.
We started down this path of innovation with the change of government
and greatly increased funding for education and research after they had been cut under Kohl.
Over the past two decades, information technologies have been the engine of economic growth.
We want to use them in conjunction with nanotechnology and optotechnology as well as biotechnology and genetic engineering to expand our global pioneering role in ecological modernization.
The efficient and economical use of energy and raw materials as well as solar technologies are needed worldwide in view of scarce and expensive raw materials.
They establish a long wave of growth
and innovation, because important future markets are located here.
That is why we want an alliance for labor and the environment.
Co-determination and participation, lifelong learning, predictability and a sense of responsibility, flexibility and the ability to work in a team are important strengths of the social market economy.
These strengths are crucial for an innovative and high-performing economy that can hold its own in the face of globalization.
The dead end(s)
Our policy of social democracy is in tough political competition with two variants of the political aberration - social coldness and populist illusion.
The Misguided Belief in Unleashed Markets
CDU/CSU and FDP want a "fundamentally different" policy.
This different policy would make Germany a different country in which, after 60 years of a social market economy, social standards and workers' rights are no longer a condition but a burden for successful economic activity.
The CDU/CSU and FDP do not want to shape the global economy politically, but to submit to it.
They want to abandon proven rules without creating new ones.
They believe that if only the forces of the market prevail unhindered, growth, work and prosperity will come of their own accord.
Their equation is wrong:
More injustice plus more insecurity does not lead to more prosperity for all.
The desolidarization of state and society
The CDU/CSU and FDP want to replace the solidarity principle in health care with a capitation fee that is the same for everyone.
Even man's highest good, his health, is to be surrendered to the laws of the market.
Under the label of simplification, the tax system is to be changed to the advantage of the few and to the disadvantage of the many.
Consumers are to pay more taxes, while top earners are to pay even less.
The CDU and CSU want to reverse the cultural renewal of our country.
They have blocked a sensible immigration bill and are dithering on expanding better child care.
The destruction of sustainability
CDU and CSU want ecological regression.
They want to undo the successes of the energy transition, are considering unlimited use of nuclear energy and are even announcing the construction of new nuclear power plants.
Exclusion in foreign policy - and allegiance in foreign policy
The CDU and CSU want a different foreign policy.
They want to give up Germany's independent, peaceful and self-confident role again.
They want to block entry into the EU for countries for which the prospect of membership serves as an important impetus for their own democratization and modernization - and which have contractually binding commitments for accession or for open-ended negotiations.
The demagogues
The PDS and WASG represent a variant of this misguided approach. They give themselves the guise of just politics, but close their eyes to the changes in our world.
Yesterday's recipes do not fit into a world of globalization, the knowledge society and changing demographics.
Their proposals are unrealistic and, in the aggregate, unaffordable.
Their populism means a policy of irresponsibility.
With their proposals, the PDS and WASG are driving the welfare state into a financial crisis
and throwing sand in the eyes of people who are so desperately waiting for work with supposedly simple solutions, thus encouraging a further loss of confidence in democracy.
Their polemical attacks against the European constitutional treaty even take in the collusion with nationalist right-wing forces.
They prove the inability to participate in democratic progress in Europe.
Those who refuse to reform the welfare state end up putting it at risk.
They are engaged in a deliberate deception of citizens.
The human image of this vain populism is treacherous.
The latter does not want to activate, but wants the passive recipient of state benefits.
He does not want help for self-help, but a culture of dependency.
That is the opposite of emancipation.
This is not left-wing politics, and this is not the way to make a policy capable of winning a majority against market radicalism and desolidarization.
Populist illusions are as dangerous as social coldness is inhumane - both are immoral at their core.
Neither path is moving our country forward.
They make you unfree.
They lead to dead ends.
Germany 2010 - how we want to live in Germany - goals and ways -
We Social Democrats have begun the renewal of Germany against much resistance.
We face the reality and the challenges of our time.
With Chancellor Gerhard Schröder, we pushed through a major reform program and thus put our country on the road to a good future.
We want to continue along this path and develop it further.
We have confidence in Germany.
In its strength and in its public spirit.
Above all, in its people, who are capable and ready to lend a hand when needed.
We have clear targets for where we want to be in Germany in 2010.
This will succeed if everyone - where they stand - does their job and contributes their skills.
The guiding principle here is social democracy.
1. we want Germany to be able to pool its strengths and thus ensure lasting prosperity for all
The balance sheet of Chancellor Gerhard Schröder's time in government to date shows: Germany is strong and competitive as a business location.
The policies of this coalition have made a decisive contribution to this.
The tax and contribution burden has decreased.
The momentum of non-wage labor costs was broken.
The export increase significantly.
The reconstruction of the East is making progress.
And investments in education
and research help strengthen the future viability of our country.
We are continuing this policy, together with all those responsible in business, trade unions and academia.
Germany's particular strength lies in the creation of high-quality jobs.
Innovations are necessary prerequisites for this.
This benefits our strong traditional industries, including the skilled trades.
Well-qualified, reliable people have made Germany strong - entrepreneurs, employees, women and men. ■
We rely on good education
and qualifications, from kindergarten to continuing education.
■ We rely on an excellent and open research infrastructure, outstanding training and favorable conditions for the development of new markets.
We are making a one-stop innovation policy.
■ The economy of the future is based on knowledge, innovation and creativity - in industry and services alike.
Government and industry will jointly increase research and development spending as a percentage of gross domestic product to 3.0% by 2010.
Of this, the state bears one-third and business two-thirds.
■ We want to get more young people excited about research and science and make our universities and research institutions places that interest the world's best minds.
■ The Excellence Initiative for top universities is a springboard to world-class status for our universities.
With an additional1.9 billion euros, Germany's universities can strengthen their profile and finally demonstrate their international performance.
This is an enormous opportunity for the German higher education system and the future viability of our country.
■ Only where the breadth in research already meets high standards can the top develop.
We want to support this with a new innovation program for universities that promotes autonomy models, professional management and the development of reliable career paths, as well as consistently implementing the principle of gender mainstreaming.
In the face of international competition, we must leverage technological strengths for future markets - in the areas of communications and mobility, energy, health, the environment and sustainability, security, construction and housing.
■ Chancellor Gerhard Schröder and his government will continue the "Partners for Innovation" initiative launched at the beginning of 2004 and jointly develop further lighthouse projects to strengthen Germany as a location for innovation.
When it comes to cutting-edge technologies, our country needs the courage to embrace opportunities instead of hesitating in the face of risks.
We need a new way of thinking:
more research without shackles, but not without limits.
That's why we need a new culture of innovation.
We are confident that a balanced mix of supply and demand policies will unleash additional investment in the economy and in private households, creating confidence and thus a basis for higher growth and more jobs in Germany.
These measures are linked to the expectation that companies will invest and create more employment.
The corporate income tax rate for corporations is reduced from 25% to 19%.
As a result, Germany will offer better tax conditions in the future.
The reduction in the corporate income tax rate will be fully financed from the area of economic activity (revenue-neutral).
The credit factor of trade tax on income tax is raised from 1.8 to 2.0.
In fact, we exempt crafts and small businesses from trade tax.
These two points were already in the legislative process, but failed due to CDU/CSU.
Innovative SMEs will in future receive loans from the Mittelstandsbank that are 2 percentage points below the market interest rate.
In the future, all businesses - corporations and partnerships - are to be taxed uniformly through a corporate tax that is neutral in terms of legal form and financing.
The company inheritance tax will be designed in such a way that small and medium-sized companies will continue to exist during the transition to the next generation.
20% of all private maintenance and modernization expenses up to an amount of 3,000 euros, i.e. a maximum of 600 euros, are deductible from the income tax payable - initially for a limited period of 2 years.
This strengthens crafts and medium-sized businesses and creates jobs.
We are boosting domestic demand.
We want to strengthen the regional economy and its jobs via crafts and services as a response to the globalization of the economy.
An additional 2 billion euros will be made available over the next four years to expand the road and rail network.
For us, policy for business means above all policy for small and medium-sized enterprises.
We are working hard to ensure that the one-stop-shop principle is also implemented in Germany, so that start-ups have only one point of contact for official approvals and funding on their way to self-employment.
The skilled trades and SMEs in particular must be freed from bureaucratic burdens.
2. we want to create more jobs and have less unemployment in germany
Creating work is more urgent than ever.
And more ambitious.
We are not abandoning the long-term goal of full employment; we want to get closer to it:
Work secures livelihood.
Work is self-realization.
Work creates prosperity.
Work is participation in society.
We are the world's leading exporter, but we will only remain so if we remain a high-performance country.
That is why we are promoting research and development of high-performance products even more strongly.
Innovations are the decisive job engine.
The creation of new jobs is primarily the task of companies in the country.
We make sure they are competitive in terms of taxes and duties.
Our legislation has reduced non-wage labor costs (pension and health insurance).
The companies have a duty.
Household-related services are becoming increasingly important.
We support this and are examining how this trend can be given additional impetus.
Energy-efficient building refurbishment continues to receive high subsidies.
We are starting a program of energy renovation of public buildings, thereby also reducing CO2 emissions.
We appeal to the states and municipalities to participate.
We are creating the legal framework to enable private investors to participate more strongly than before in the financing of public infrastructure (PPP).
Municipal investment must rise again.
The positive development of trade tax revenues offers an opportunity to do so, if the municipalities are allowed to use at least part of it for investments instead of debt reduction.
Only if the federal, state and local governments agree to focus their investments on growth and jobs can public investment have a noticeably positive impact on the labor market.
We are combating illegal employment on a massive scale.
Law and order in the labor market must be enforced.
The honest should not be the stupid ones.
Agreeing on the necessary flexibility in working hours is a matter for the collective bargaining parties.
A general extension of working hours with the aim of a de facto reduction in wages would be the wrong way to go.
Our major labor market reform has succeeded in opening up new pathways out of unemployment and into employment.
The fundamental transformation of the Federal Labor Office (BA) into a modern service provider on the labor market will be completed by the end of 2005.
The BA will then provide the best possible service to job seekers.
Job seekers and vacancies will be brought together much more quickly in the future.
Ich-AGs and mini-jobs are experiencing a boom.
We want to design and steer them as a gateway to living wage employment.
By merging unemployment and social assistance (Hartz IV), we have introduced basic benefits for all long-term unemployed who are capable of working.
Statistically, this has increased the number of unemployed by several hundred thousand.
But we've gotten over a million employable welfare recipients off welfare this way.
They are now finally receiving the same comprehensive range of support and job placement services as all other job seekers.
You are now covered by health and long-term care insurance and have the opportunity to build up old-age security with 5 euros per month.
In the future, a mediator will only have to deal intensively with 75 young unemployed people, instead of 400 as before.
We are reforming for this.
The SPD does not want to municipalize long-term unemployment and its financing.
We give the job centers more authority and freedom to place and qualify job seekers even better in line with the regional labor market situation.
We want to ensure that no young person has to start their working life unemployed.
That is why we have made sure that employment agents spend extra time and effort on young people.
Our goal remains: No young person under the age of 25 should be out of work, training or further employment for more than 3 months.
The training pact agreed with the business community will also help us achieve this goal.
Last year already saw a turnaround in the training market with an increase of 22,500 training contracts.
This year, too, our goal is to ensure that all young people who are able and willing to undergo training receive an offer of training.
■ Older employees also need special support.
We want to stop the trend of older people being pushed out of the workforce.
With lifelong learning, with wage cost support from the Federal Employment Agency and with the promotion of up to 50 regional employment pacts for older people.
We are making up to 250 million euros available for this purpose.
Because the labor market for older people in large parts of Germany continues to be so difficult, we have decided to postpone the reduction in the period for which unemployment benefit I is paid by two years, originally scheduled for February 1, 2006, until February 1, 2008, and to push ahead with the above-mentioned support measure.
We want the existing work to be done by those who are in Germany legally.
Those who do not find the desired job despite all the help and support must also be prepared to accept another job.
We must not accept the fact that Germany is heavily dependent on workers - often seasonally - from abroad when unemployment is high in certain professions.
The prospect of social advancement and career advancement must be preserved at all times and for all age groups and both genders.
Promoting and demanding always means offering people a fair chance to gain access to qualified jobs.
Continuing education and training will remain a central means of our active labor market and employment policy.
The CDU/CSU and FDP want to abolish this support.
Against the interests of the employees.
Having training and work is an important prerequisite for disabled people to be able to participate in society in a self-determined way.
■ That is why we will continue to give high priority to securing and creating training and jobs for disabled and severely disabled people.
3. we want to promote integration and drive forward the rebuilding of the East
A primary goal is to move eastern Germany further along the path of equalizing living conditions.
The Solidarity Pact II creates a long-term and reliable basis for achieving equal living conditions in the east and west.
Clearly, there is still a long way to go before inner unity is practically achieved.
The development of a self-sustaining economy with stable growth, especially in the manufacturing sector, still requires major efforts.
The commitments made under the Solidarity Pact II will be met in full.
Financial aid is used efficiently and flexibly according to the tasks at hand.
An SPD-led federal government will inform the new states and the public about the use of the funds in annual progress reports.
Eastern Germany still needs clear priority rules for investment to strengthen its growth forces.
We will therefore extend the proven procedural accelerations in planning law until the Solidarity Pact II expires and introduce them throughout Germany.
The triad of investment, innovation and infrastructure will remain at the heart of the reconstruction of the eastern states in the future.
The investment allowance will be continued beyond 2006 or transferred to the joint task of regional economic structure.
The numerous (eastern) German regions participating in the federal "Innovation Regions" competition are to become genuine test regions for the deregulation of federal law, which will not only be allowed to develop proposals for reducing bureaucracy, but also to test them exclusively for their suitability.
With the Urban Redevelopment East program, Chancellor Gerhard Schröder's government has given the right answer to the challenge of demographic change.
The importance of the task will continue to grow in the future.
We will therefore ensure that urban redevelopment in the east can continue beyond 2009.
The reintegration of older people and the long-term unemployed into the primary labor market is important.
We will ensure that job placement services, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, are linked with assistance for in-company personnel development.
We will develop pilot projects on demographic change.
The aim is to ensure that sparsely populated regions in the east and west continue to have good schools in the future.
and a functioning social infrastructure.
We will abolish the difference in the amount of unemployment benefit II in the east and west (alignment of east and west to 345 euros).
The aim of our land policy is to enable the eastern German states to acquire the BVVG (Bundes-VermögensVerwaltungs-Gesellschafts) land held by the federal government.
In this way, we are strengthening the competence of the federal states for structural policy decisions in rural areas
and consolidating the business stability of agricultural enterprises.
4. we want no one under the age of 25 to be out of work, training or further employment for longer than 3 months
We want no young person or youth to have to start their working life unemployed.
We will do everything we can to ensure that unemployed young people find the training or work that matches their aptitude, inclination and performance.
Our goal remains: No young person under the age of 25 should be out of work, training or further employment for more than 3 months.
One of the most important prerequisites for professional life is vocational training.
More than half of each cohort decides to enter the workforce in this way.
We will continue the successful training pact with the leading associations of German industry.
The dual education system has a future if it keeps pace with the development of new markets and professions.
With the renewal of the Vocational Training Act and the modernization of around 180 occupations, we have taken a major step toward the further development of vocational training.
We want to step up efforts to broaden the range of career choices for women, especially in the IT sector and in technical professions, and to attract young women with university entrance qualifications to scientific and technical courses of study.
Young people who drop out of school or training should be given a second chance.
With a new "Second Chance" program, we want to ensure that young people can catch up on their school-leaving qualifications or resume their training.
There are also to be new opportunities for young adults without vocational training to obtain additional qualifications.
In the medium term, we want to make continuing education the 4th pillar of education.
We want continuing education with a system.
The universities are also to be involved to a greater extent than in the past.
We therefore want to increase participation in continuing education by creating funding opportunities for those with educational disadvantages, strengthening the transparency of continuing education opportunities and structures, and increasing permeability between training programs.
The examination of the quality assurance of further education offers can be put on a permanent basis, for example, by the Stiftung Warentest.
As the main beneficiaries of in-company training, companies bear the main responsibility for in-company training investments.
We ensure that the instrument of company learning time accounts is increasingly used by the social partners.
That is why we want to promote their further development and improve the framework conditions for this.
This is also a challenge for the collective bargaining parties.
5. we want wages that are a living wage
In recent years, employees in Germany have made considerable sacrifices and contributed to strengthening the German economy.
In order not to jeopardize jobs and to safeguard the competitiveness of their employers, unions and workforces have accepted increases in working hours, agreed to flexible working time models and settled for very moderate wage and salary increases.
This was necessary and it was worth it.
But in general, the following must apply:
■ Employees have a right to a fair share in the economic success of companies and industries.
Good work must be fairly rewarded.
Every person must have the opportunity to participate in a socially secure and livelihood-securing gainful employment.
By extending the Employee Posting Act to all sectors, we are supporting the collective bargaining parties in both preventing wage and social dumping by posted cheap labor.
The collective bargaining parties are called upon to agree on uniform minimum wages in all sectors.
To the extent that this is not done or cannot be done, we will take measures for a statutory minimum wage.
We will take consistent action against social and wage dumping.
To this end, the SPD-led German government has set up a task force to combat abuse of the freedom to provide services and freedom of establishment.
Their task is to enforce the retention of the right in the labor market and fair competition.
The EU's Services Directive is being fundamentally revised under pressure from Germany and France.
We will only agree to a services directive at the European level if it is socially balanced and does not allow violations of order in the labor market.
The country of origin principle as proposed in the EU Services Directive is not acceptable.
The SPD will create effective statutory insolvency protection for working time accounts.
6. we guarantee employee rights
The social market economy is inextricably linked with opportunities for employees to participate.
We will guarantee the preservation of important employee rights.
■ Protection against dismissal, fair fixed-term employment rules, the right to elect company representatives and modern occupational health and safety are among the indispensable employee rights.
We stand up for these rights.
Only a social democratic federal government guarantees these rights.
Our country needs self-confident workers whose drive must be the will to get things done and not the fear of being hired and fired.
The far-reaching abolition of protection against dismissal wanted by the CDU/CSU and FDP will not happen with us.
The autonomy of collective bargaining guaranteed in the Basic Law has proven its worth as a cornerstone of the social market economy.
Collective bargaining agreements allow for flexible solutions if required, which are to be geared in particular to safeguarding employment.
It is the task of the collective bargaining parties to jointly develop this flexibility further.
We reject statutory intervention in the autonomy of collective bargaining guaranteed by the Basic Law.
Fair flexibility cannot be prescribed by law.
The principle of participation does not stop at the factory gates.
That is why co-determination in Germany is not an option for us.
Particularly in difficult times, co-determination supports reform processes.
Co-determination is a locational advantage for Germany.
The successful model of co-determination must keep pace with global and European challenges.
Together with the social partners, we want to make co-determination fit for the future.
7. we want sustainable mobility, efficient infrastructure and vibrant cities
Mobility is the essential prerequisite for economic growth and employment.
We create them through a high-performance infrastructure.
Economic and demographic change also poses new challenges for urban development.
Our goal is an economically efficient, socially appropriate and ecologically compatible mobility offer.
We secure individual mobility requirements as participation in social life through an integrated transport policy with a combination of different modes of transport.
Mobility is good and creates jobs.
Logistics is an essential component of an economy based on the division of labor.
More than2.7 million jobs have been created in this industry to date.
The signals continue to point to growth.
We want to bundle and coordinate flows of goods intelligently so that Germany remains competitive in the future.
■ The people in our country expect an excellent transport infrastructure.
We will provide them.
Without securing and expanding the transport infrastructure, it will not be possible to cope with the forecast growth in traffic within the next decade.
■ Mobility is important to meet the demands of people in modern society.
This is especially true for the business community, which demands a transport infrastructure of the highest standard.
Networking the road, rail and waterway modes of transport is the right step to ensure economic efficiency.
and ecological efficiency gains.
We will continue along this path.
■ Economic growth will continue to generate traffic growth in the future.
Added to this is Germany's location at the center of European goods and freight traffic.
The use of intermodal transport chains is at the core of a sustainable transport system.
In particular, technical progress in the field of information and communications technology opens up a realistic opportunity for competitive and cooperative interaction and the linking of different modes of transport.
We want to promote this development.
Planning law must be effectively streamlined so that growth impulses can be implemented more quickly.
With the introduction of the truck toll, Germany has for the first time created the possibility of placing infrastructure financing in the transport sector on a broader basis.
The change to user financing in the area of federal trunk roads offers us the opportunity to develop a comprehensive new financing concept.
The primary objective of transport policy must be to protect all road users.
We want to continue our sustainable and effective road safety work, providing particular support for at-risk groups such as young novice drivers and the elderly.
Against the backdrop of increasingly scarce and expensive petroleum-based fuels, the switch to renewable fuels is a task of future precaution.
Against this background, we want to develop and implement a sustainable fuel strategy together with the automotive and petroleum industries.
This is how we secure permanently affordable fuel for the future of mobility.
With the Socially Integrative City, Urban Redevelopment East, Urban Redevelopment West and Urban Development programs, we are helping cities with the necessary structural change.
We want to make cities more family-friendly
and support the coexistence of younger and older people.
Urban development programs are developed with the people who live there.
They promote democratic culture, strengthen civil society and the credibility of political action.
8. we want a modern energy policy for our country and globally
We are meeting the growing demand for energy and the challenges of climate change with a clear innovation strategy that focuses on a broad energy mix and the efficient and climate-friendly use of energy resources.
With this strategy, we aim to reduce Germany's dependence on oil and gradually lower energy costs.
For us, job security and responsible environmental policy are not mutually exclusive.
We are focusing on the markets of tomorrow: sustainable materials management, renewable energies, energy conservation and efficiency revolution in energy and raw materials, and consistent reduction of environmental and health risks.
The Renewable Energies Act we created will trigger around 20 billion euros in new investment by 2010 and also make us the industrial world market leader for solar and wind power technology.
This is "work and environment".
We will continue to rely on highly efficient and climate-compatible coal-fired power plants in the future and will ensure that this energy source is also compatible with our climate targets.
Our goal is an emission-free power plant in which CO2 can be effectively captured and stored.
We will therefore continue to promote research and development in this area, which has already begun.
We will continue to give employees in the coal industry clear prospects for the future by supporting socially responsible structural change in the mining sector
and strengthening the innovative capabilities of the regions.
The agreed hard coal financing remains in place.
We will continue to promote innovative technologies such as renewable energies.
The goal is to achieve competitiveness of such innovative technologies as quickly as possible.
We will accelerate the transformation of our electricity supply networks associated with the integration of renewables.
We ensure that electricity and gas networks can be used on fair terms and conditions and use incentive regulation to ensure that our networks are both reliable and cost-effective to operate.
To further increase energy efficiency and reduce CO2 emissions, we will continue to develop and expand the successful promotion of building renovation.
With the energy pass we have introduced, we are making the energy consumption of buildings transparent for tenants and buyers of houses and apartments.
In the expansion of renewable energies, we will continue to promote the growing importance of energy generation from biomass.
In this way, we combine the development of sustainable energy sources with new opportunities for more economic growth and the creation of new jobs.
We are aware of the responsibility and the opportunity to implement first-class German know-how in the field of energy worldwide - in the sense of global environmental policy
and for the benefit of German companies and employees.
We are sticking to the nuclear phase-out.
In implementing the agreed nuclear phase-out, the safety of reactor operation during the remaining operating life will be the focus of our attention.
We are committed to national responsibility for the final disposal of radioactive waste.
9. we want competitive agriculture
Agriculture creates jobs and food and is part of active environmental policy.
It must comply with the requirements of animal, nature and environmental protection and produce healthy food at reasonable prices.
We also take into account and support the interests of our farmers in decision-making at the European level.
Neither conventional agriculture nor organic farming may be disadvantaged.
Agriculture is characteristic for large parts of the rural area.
We encourage them in this task.
The SPD wants to advance rural development policy.
It is about growth and employment in rural problem regions and the strengthening of rural areas as living, working, natural and recreational spaces.
We want continuity and planning security for German agriculture.
Fair competitive conditions on national and international agricultural markets and the reduction of subsidies within the framework of the EU and WTO are just as important to us as the reliability of investments in the future.
This includes income alternatives such as in the area of bioenergy and renewable raw materials.
We continue to advocate for an effective Consumer Information Act.
For us, the basis of an active consumer policy is independent and strong consumer advice and laws that give consumers access to important information and guarantee them a role as equal partners.
10. we want a healthy environment
Ecological modernization is an important foundation of economic and technological renewal for an economically powerful and socially just Germany.
Already today, more than one million people find employment through environmental protection.
We need an efficiency revolution in the use of energy and raw materials.
These potentials are our most important sources of qualitative growth, they reduce our dependence on energy imports - they are at the core of our "work and environment" concept.
We want ecological design for production and products.
Products should be safe for health, durable, reusable, recyclable and harmless to dispose of.
To this end, we want to set targets for resource conservation and product stewardship.
The number of chronic diseases is increasing.
The causes also include environmental pollution.
Through precautionary environmental protection, we promote well-being so that people become less and less ill.
Modern healthcare management also includes environmental protection.
Protection and use of nature are not opposites.
With the Federal Nature Conservation Act, we are providing impetus for a new approach to nature.
We want to reduce land consumption to 30 hectares per day by 2020.
And we want to create a "National Natural Heritage" to connect areas worthy of protection and safeguard biodiversity.
We want to create an environmental code to reduce bureaucracy.
Our current environmental law is fragmented and confusing.
We will declutter and de-bureaucratize it.
Ambitious innovation targets must be promoted by appropriate incentive systems so that environmental protection is integrated step by step into all policy areas.
11. we want equal educational opportunities for all
Education is the best jump start we can give our children.
Education is the key to social participation.
We want to give everyone access to a good education, regardless of their social background.
For us, this is an imperative of justice.
And it is in line with economic rationality.
We will only survive in international competition if we develop and exploit the wealth of our talents.
Germany's future will be determined by the knowledge and skills of our children and their willingness to perform.
Our country needs to focus more on early childhood education than it has in the past.
At kindergarten age can significantly help to develop skills and talents and encourage creativity and a spirit of discovery.
And we want a school system that is more strongly focused on permeability, integration and individual support.
The Daycare Expansion Act we have introduced will create around 230,000 additional places in kindergartens, crèches and daycare by 2010.
For the children, this means better care and early support.
For mothers and fathers, this means real choice between different care options and a better work-life balance.
We are committed to taking the educational mission of kindergartens seriously.
We will realign and further develop the training of kindergarten teachers.
That's why we advocate for common educational standards and goals in daycare centers.
Career and participation opportunities can only be acquired by those who master the German language.
That is why we call for the targeted promotion of language acquisition among preschool children.
Mandatory tests could help to identify language deficits before children start school and remedy them through targeted support.
With the all-day school program, we are providing the federal states with around4 billion euros by2008 to set up 10,000 additional all-day schools.
Above all, it is up to the countries to continue along this sensible path.
We stand for open access to higher education, regardless of the social or financial conditions of young people.
We are committed to ensuring that more young people from less educated backgrounds are given the opportunity to study.
This is why the first degree course remains free of tuition fees.
Access to higher education must continue to be open everywhere to particularly qualified graduates of vocational training without a high school diploma.
BAföG remains and is not converted into a full loan.
12. we want women and men to be equal in society and at work
Women's and gender equality policy is a cross-cutting task.
We will therefore ensure that the gender mainstreaming principle for achieving gender equality is consistently applied in all political areas.
We therefore also advocate a strong institutional anchoring at all political levels through women's ministries, women's committees and equality officers in governments, parliaments, administrations, etc. as assertive control and implementation bodies.
In addition, we want to support company gender equality policies and informal women's networks.
By expanding such networks and mentoring offers, by further developing offers to broaden the range of career choices for women, and not least by improving the compatibility of family and career, we want to ensure greater equality in our society.
Our goal is to increase the female employment rate to over 60 percent in line with European targets and also to raise the below-average rate of self-employed women to the European average.
Furthermore, we will continue to pursue the goal of implementing the principle of "equal pay for equal work and work of equal value" in line with a European commitment.
We want women to have equal career opportunities and equal access to leadership positions in business, academia and research.
If this is not implemented on a voluntary basis, we will create binding regulations.
In-company continuing education for women must be covered by collective agreements and expanded.
The further training of unemployed women or men - including those who do not receive unemployment benefits as their partner - is to be promoted equally.
The principle of gender equality must also be observed when designing unemployment benefit II.
To this end, the Equal Opportunity Officers of the Federal Employment Agency and the municipal women's representatives must be involved in the decision-making processes at the employment agencies (Argen).
The individual support instruments must benefit women, especially the long-term unemployed and those not receiving benefits, at least in proportion to their share of unemployment.
For non-beneficiaries, we want to ensure health insurance and long-term care insurance coverage.
All labor market and unemployment data must be gender-disaggregated so that gender impacts in each case can be identified and evaluated.
We will ensure that the federally funded Gender Competence Center is strengthened as an application-oriented research institution at Humboldt University in Berlingest.
We also strongly support the establishment of a European Gender Institute.
We will continue the action plan to combat violence against women and take effective measures against human trafficking and forced prostitution.
An SPD-led federal government will for the first time present a "Report on Equality between Women and Men" and, in a subsequent government declaration, highlight progress made, reveal the remaining deficits and outline the resulting consequences.
We want a Germany without discrimination.
The Anti-Discrimination Act helps to achieve this goal.
To this end, an Equal Opportunity Office will be established, which will be staffed and equipped in such a way that it can fulfill its tasks.
13. we want Germany to become more family-friendly
We want young people to be able to fulfill their wishes for children.
Children are the future, having children brings joy.
Mothers and fathers want to live together as partners and share family and professional responsibilities.
Our society needs strong families with more children for its cohesion and for more growth and prosperity.
Good childcare, time for children and family, efficient cash benefits for family policy, support for the child wishes of the majority of young people - that is our family policy.
We are expanding the quantity and quality of day care, as we have begun to do with day care for the under-3s.
The expansion towards legal entitlement from the age of2. is a priority and is to be achieved by 2010.
Together with the states and municipalities, we want to gradually implement the freedom from fees for daycare centers.
We will transform the current child-raising allowance into a parental allowance paid for one year with an income-replacement function.
In this way, we ensure that families can maintain their standard of living, even if they interrupt their working lives.
The equality of women is thus promoted.
Fathers thus have better opportunities to take parental leave.
Through better childcare options for under-3s and parental benefits, we avoid child and family poverty, especially among single parents, and ensure an uninterrupted employment biography for all parents.
We maintain the 3-year parental leave with job guarantee and part-time entitlement.
A child's origin must no longer determine his or her educational opportunities.
We therefore advocate the establishment of parent-child centers - to help parents with their child-rearing responsibilities and to support children at an early age.
All children must attend school with sufficient German language skills.
The goal remains to bundle benefits for families in a family fund.
We want to help families avoid poverty risks, especially low-income earners and single parents.
The child supplement is to be further developed.
The successful Alliance for the Family, with the local alliances that are emerging throughout the country, is exemplary in the way it cooperates, its objectives and its measures.
Women- and family-friendly working conditions, the expansion of near-company childcare, a good return to work after parental leave and corresponding company agreements are on the Allianz agenda.
Continuation is in everyone's interest.
14. we want to be a country of culture
Culture strengthens creativity and the sustainability of society, it mobilizes imagination and independent thinking.
It is always international, cross-border and dialogical.
Art and artists are spiritual sources of strength for a society.
They need freedom, but also protection and encouragement.
We want to anchor culture as a state objective in the Basic Law.
Cultural education is to be promoted in all types of schools.
Cultural assets are bearers of identity and values, but also an important economic factor.
By promoting the preservation of historical monuments, we are not only safeguarding our country's architectural heritage, but also creating and securing jobs, especially in eastern Germany.
With the Film Promotion Act, Chancellor Gerhard Schröder's government has significantly improved production conditions for German films.
We want to provide additional support for German film with new venture capital.
With the expansion of the European Film Market planned for 2006, the Berlinale will become one of the most important hubs of the international film trade.
Media in a pluralistic system and the competent use of them are an indispensable part of a free and democratic society.
Preserving the diversity of its content and perspectives in all distribution channels forms a basis for this:
the future viability of public broadcasting is important to us.
A new balance of public and private commitment has made it possible to maintain and further develop the diversity of cultural life in Germany.
We will continue to promote this type of civic engagement so that cultural initiatives can develop.
All cultural policy is also about remembering.
For us, one thing is clear: There can be no end to this.
We will further strengthen our commitment to remembrance policy and secure the memorials to Nazi crimes in the long term.
Coming to terms with the SED dictatorship is of great interest not only to those Germans who lived in the GDR after 1945, but also to the nation as a whole.
The federal and state governments should work together in this spirit.
Cultural and media diversity is a valuable asset that must be defended at the European and international level.
It is a matter of living up to Germany's obligation as a cultural nation rooted in Europe everywhere in the future.
15. we want to integrate all those who live legally and permanently in Germany
Germany has been an immigration country for decades.
We have finally taken this into account.
We want to consistently continue the path of controlling, limiting and integrating immigration that we have begun.
We are against the existence of parallel societies.
The goal is the naturalization of people who have legally made Germany their center of life.
Without a sound knowledge of the German language, successful participation in classes is not possible.
Starting with language support in early childhood as part of childcare and extending to vocational preparation measures at the end of schooling, such as those currently being implemented by some foundations in Germany, we will lay firm foundations for the education of children and young people of foreign origin and for their entry into working life.
We want to give children and young people of foreign origin adequate prospects for the future in Germany and enable them to make the transition to working life.
We advocate that more Islamic religious instruction be offered in German by teachers trained or recognized in Germany under the supervision of the school authorities.
In the integration process of women of foreign origin, the focus is on their equal participation in political, economic and cultural life, on teaching them the German language for entry into education and work.
That is why we will continue to strengthen our successfully initiated measures for the integration of foreign women and advance their social and professional integration.
Their integration into working life will be another mainstay of our integration policy.
Equal rights for women will be included as an important thematic focus in the measures for interreligious dialogue.
We do not tolerate forced marriage.
To raise awareness of this fact among affected groups, we will explicitly include forced marriage as a criminal offense in the Criminal Code.
16. fight against right-wing extremism
Right-wing extremism is a challenge to German democracy - disgusting, but not to be underestimated.
The SPD will not slacken its efforts to prevent and combat right-wing extremism.
The focus is on strengthening democratic and civil society forces.
The SPD will not abandon projects and initiatives that work against right-wing extremism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism, but will continue to support them.
The German government is providing19 million euros for this purpose in 2005.
We will continue to take consistent action against right-wing extremist criminals and violent criminals.
Repressive measures cannot and will not replace the political confrontation with right-wing extremism, but they do underscore that a defensible democracy resolutely opposes the abuse of freedom by the enemies of freedom.
There is no place in Germany for violence, right-wing extremist ideas, intolerance and disregard for minorities!
Right-wing extremism in Germany thrives on glorification of National Socialism and denial of its atrocities.
We need to educate young people about these connections.
This requires strengthening political education in all schools, further education institutions and universities.
The dismantling of political education by the CDU in the states must be stopped.
17. we want people to feel safe in germany
Security and protection against crime and arbitrariness is a fundamental civil right for us.
We want security for everyone - not just for those who can afford a private security service.
■ Combat crime (such as brutality, right-wing extremist violence, graffiti, drug and alcohol abuse) through legal measures in the areas of prevention, law enforcement and justice.
■ Prevention is indispensable, especially in the area of juvenile crime.
We rely on a consistent anti-violence policy in the media and schools, the fight against youth unemployment and a juvenile criminal law that interrupts criminal careers at an early stage.
■ We will continue to advocate effective action to combat violence against women, ensure consistent punishment for perpetrators, and establish a nationwide emergency hotline for women affected by violence.
■ We want to strengthen the federal government's steering and coordination competence for dealing with major disasters and combating terrorism.
■ We want to expand the technical equipment of the security authorities by introducing the world's largest digital radio system.
■ We will develop effective combating instruments in the area of new crime (e.g., in the area of the Internet, e-commerce, money laundering, credit card fraud). ■
We want to drive forward the fight against crime throughout Europe
and, in particular, improve the exchange of data between the police and the judiciary in Europe.
■ Internal security does not end at our borders.
We do not forget the terrorist crimes of September 11, 2001 - they are also a reminder to resolutely counter such dangers.
Together with our friends, we will continue to respond quickly and effectively to these dimensions of international terrorism with appropriate legislation, preventively where possible and repressively where necessary.
18. country of sport
Germany is an attractive sports country and an attractive sports location.
The world is our guest during the 2006 World Cup.
We will continue to continuously improve the framework conditions for those who volunteer in sports clubs and associations.
Sport thrives on volunteerism.
That is why the lump-sum allowance for exercise leaders, which was increased by us, is an important component of volunteer work.
We will do our utmost to support the reorganization of German top-level sport(DSB/NOK) without encroaching on the autonomy of sport.
We are for a clean and fair sport with equal opportunities for all athletes.
We continue to push the fight against doping and will think about a legal regulation.
We advocate for the equal status of disabled and non-disabled sports.
That is why we particularly support the promotion of competitive sports for the disabled.
19. we want recognition and security in old age
A society that is getting older is also a society with new opportunities.
The fact that people are living longer today is a great social advance and corresponds to a deep human longing.
The prerequisites were a humanized world of work, the development of modern medicine, and prosperity.
Our goal is for all people to find recognition, be an active part of our society and live in material security, even at an advanced age.
Germany must make use of the wealth of experience of older people, both in professional life and in civic engagement.
The older generation is an asset of voluntary work and of family and social networks, and thus an indispensable social capital of our society.
Urban development and housing must be increasingly geared to the needs of older people.
The development of age-appropriate products and services is an important future market.
Statutory pension insurance is and remains the most important pillar of old-age insurance.
If the economy grows and incomes and employment rise, pensioners will also share in this in the future.
We reject the proposals from the CDU/CSU to cut the pensions paid.
We want to further strengthen company and private pension schemes in order to achieve better provision in old age.
In addition to the pay-as-you-go pension, we therefore continue to promote the establishment of additional funded pension provision.
We want to ensure that employees do not have to retire from the workforce at the age of 55 or at a similar age, but can continue to participate in the work process for longer.
Our goal is to bring the de facto retirement age closer to the statutory retirement age of 65.
We want to combine the financing of social and private long-term care insurance.
Long-term care insurance is being expanded into a long-term care citizens' insurance scheme.
All citizens should contribute appropriately and fairly to the financing of long-term care insurance.
No one is privileged, no one is excluded.
We want to adjust the benefit rates, which have remained unchanged since the introduction of long-term care insurance, in line with price trends and improve benefits in outpatient care and, in particular, for dementia patients.
Care in families, professional care and voluntary commitment should complement each other effectively.
20 We want an efficient, solidarity-based and affordable healthcare system.
Our healthcare system is good, also in international comparison.
Everyone receives necessary medical services on the cutting edge of medical advances.
Healthcare is also our largest industry, providing meaningful employment for over 4 million people.
It should stay that way.
Efficient social security systems financed on the basis of solidarity are the backbone of our welfare state.
Those who abandon the basic idea of solidarity endanger prosperity and social peace.
Solidarity means: Whoever needs help, gets it.
But solidarity also means showing consideration for those who finance and thus guarantee the aid.
With the healthcare reform, we have made statutory health insurance fit for the future.
The task now is to secure long-term funding for our healthcare system.
Medical progress and the changing age structure of society require not less but more solidarity, from which no one above a certain income threshold should be allowed to opt out.
We will continue to develop health insurance into a citizens' insurance system in which statutory and private health insurance exist side by side.
The following applies: Everyone must be insured.
High earners, civil servants, the self-employed and politicians will also be included in the solidarity-based health insurance scheme.
Each fund must insure anyone and everyone without regard to risk.
No one is excluded.
Sick and disabled people can also vote.
The current statutory benefits catalog remains in place.
Everyone pays according to their ability to pay.
As before, contributions to the citizens' insurance scheme are based on income - for wages, salaries and pensions.
The contribution assessment ceiling remains in place.
In the future, investment income will also be used for financing.
Allowances protect average savings.
Rents and leases remain non-contributory.
The non-contributory family insurance remains in effect.
In the citizen insurance, family members without income are co-insured to the same extent as before.
The coexistence of public and private health insurers is being transformed into a competition for the best care.
Citizen insurance makes our health care system fairer.
It is a decision to strengthen cohesion in society.
Healthy people care for the sick, young people for the old, single people for families, high earners for those who have less.
By establishing the position of Patient Representative, we have increased the weight of patients in the political decision-making process and strengthened their rights.
We will continue on this path.
21. we want fair taxes
Since 1998, we have ensured greater fairness with our historically unique tax reduction program.
Private households with low to medium incomes and families in particular benefited from this.
The lowest 20% of income is exempt from tax.
The top and bottom income tax rates are historically low.
Further tax rate cuts are therefore neither necessary nor affordable.
The guiding principles for further reform steps in tax policy are revenue neutrality
and equity.
We want to retain the proven income tax system:
The principle of taxation according to economic performance applies.
Neither the CDU/CSU's graduated tariff nor the FDP's flat tax are in line with the principle of a socially just tax system.
We don't want either.
In the future, businesses are to be taxed uniformly through a corporate tax that is neutral in terms of form and financing.
On our initiative, the trade tax, an important main source of municipal revenue, has become a reliable and steady source of funding.
We want to preserve the trade tax as a municipal tax.
We want high individual incomes - from an annual income of 250,000 euros (single people) or 500,000 euros (married people) - to be more heavily involved in financing necessary state tasks - above all for education and research - and to pay a 3% higher income tax for this.
Businesses will not be affected because the business sphere will be separated from the private sphere as a result of the corporate tax reform.
We will restructure the private inheritance tax and the related valuation system in a socially just and constitutional manner.
This is especially true for large inheritances.
We strive for more effective application of tax law through simplification.
Tax subsidies must be further reduced.
We will also continue the fight against tax evasion.
As a result, we will achieve even greater tax fairness.
We support efforts to enable viable forms of simple tax returns.
North Rhine-Westphalia has developed good examples of this.
We adhere to the tax exemption of Sunday, holiday and night work bonuses.
And we want to limit the sometimes ruinous competition between European locations via taxes, which endangers the financial performance of public budgets.
That is why we are striving for harmonization of the tax bases and minimum tax rates for corporate profits at EU level.
22. solid finances
The sustainable consolidation of public budgets remains one of the central tasks of the next legislative period.
We need a state that is capable of acting and has the appropriate financial resources to be able to perform the necessary tasks for citizens and companies.
On the expenditure side, we pursued a consistent consolidation course.
At 46.9%, the government spending ratio has fallen to its lowest level since reunification.
However, we now also have one of the lowest tax rates in the entire European Union because the CDU/CSU and FDP have been blocking the reduction of tax concessions in the Bundesrat for 3 years and refusing to pursue a responsible fiscal policy.
That is why the budget situation at the federal and state levels is now dramatic:
privatisations have to be used on a large scale to finance current expenditures, and more than half of the federal states have unconstitutional budgets:
This is the result of the irresponsible behavior of the CDU/CSU and FDP in the Bundesrat.
The tax ratio must rise again to a reasonable level in view of the necessary investments in the future and the foreseeable demographic development.
The consistent reduction of tax subsidies is therefore indispensable to secure the revenue side of the state.
We must put the brakes on and sustainably reduce the debt and interest burden on public budgets in Germany.
This will not happen quickly and will require constructive cooperation between the federal and state governments:
We will make a new attempt to reduce tax concessions.
In view of the current weak domestic demand, an increase in VAT would point in the wrong direction and jeopardize the emerging economic recovery.
At an average of 21 billion euros/year, the federal government's new borrowing has risen much less in recent years than during the Kohl government, when it was over 35 billion euros/year.
But we are not satisfied with that and are sticking to the course of frugal budgeting.
Fiscal consolidation must be implemented in line with the economic cycle and must not jeopardize growth.
We will continue to refrain from implementing additional rounds of savings if a strong upturn is not yet assured.
This is one of the reasons why we have modernized the Stability and Growth Pact with a view to applying it in a way that is appropriate for the economy and growth.
The goal of the pact remains to achieve a balanced budget as quickly as possible.
This will allow the automatic stabilizers to operate in phases of economic weakness
without directly exceeding the permissible 3% deficit target.
We want to create a fair international financial architecture.
We will therefore push ahead with the fight against tax evasion internationally.
We will ensure transparency and regulation of offshore financial centers.
To prevent undesirable developments, we will therefore advocate uniform minimum standards for hedge funds at European and international level.
Furthermore, we want to improve the transparency of the ownership structures of listed companies.
We will therefore introduce additional reporting thresholds for the acquisition of significant shareholdings.
We want a social and strong Europe that is close to its citizens.
We Social Democrats are in favor of a social and strong Europe that is close to its citizens.
Freedom and justice, solidarity and equality between women and men, this should apply throughout Europe.
Chancellor Gerhard Schröder has made this idea of Europe the clear guiding principle of German policy on the euro.
We strongly support this path.
We want a European Union that is capable of decision-making and at the same time politically manageable,
whose competences are clearly described and thus also limited.
And whose democratic character is strengthened.
The European Constitutional Treaty makes this possible.
The agreement on a common, democratically legitimized basis for future work in Europe, based on human rights, remains topical and a goal for us.
The basis for this is a successful strategy for more growth and employment, which Germany will actively help to implement.
We want to maintain and consolidate the European social model.
It is about the participation of the individual in having and saying in a society and in the jointly earned prosperity.
And it is about the formative role of the welfare state and free access to public goods.
The basis for this is a successful strategy for more growth, employment and social cohesion.
Coordinated economic and employment policy initiatives are needed, especially in the euro zone.
We want a Europe that can be relied upon.
EU enlargement policy has always been peace policy at its core.
Europe will remain a region of peace and stability only if all treaties and commitments on enlargement are respected.
Anyone who unsettles our partners in Europe and calls into question treaties that have been unanimously agreed to by the25 member states represents a peace risk for Europe.
We are firmly opposed to any breach of promise to Bulgaria and Romania, whose accession treaties are already in the process of ratification, and to Turkey, with which the long-running accession negotiations are due to begin on October 3, 2005, once the preconditions have been met.
Europe must continue to develop its capacity to act in matters of peace and security.
For us, the common European strategy "A Secure Europe in a Better World" with its commitment to conflict prevention and to working for a fairer world order as a prerequisite for peace is a binding guideline for all international activities of the European Union.
24 We want a self-confident and peaceful Germany that accepts its global responsibility.
Germany is a highly respected partner in international politics and in the equitable shaping of globalization.
Our advice and help are sought.
Chancellor Gerhard Schröder has increased Germany's prestige and weight in the world.
We pursue a policy of peace,
just world order
and timely conflict prevention.
We see our country as a strong peace power in Europe that assumes responsibility worldwide.
We have learned that security does not come from military strength alone.
We will continue to develop our capabilities for forward-looking peace policy, conflict prevention, crisis management and peacebuilding.
This also includes expanding the Civil Peace Service and further promoting peace and conflict research in Germany.
Our security policy also includes diplomatic mediation, the strengthening of rule-of-law principles, and environmental, social and developmental approaches.
We promote mutual understanding between cultures as well as their coexistence and resolutely oppose the advocates of a "clash of civilizations".
We support the principle of multilateralism.
We fight for the validity of international law and want world organizations capable of action.
That is why we want to make the United Nations stronger as the most important world organization through reforms.
Germany is ready to assume even more responsibility internationally, including in the United Nations Security Council.
Side by side with our partners in NATO and the European Union, we assume military responsibility where it is indispensable to secure peace and protect people.
And we say no where we are not convinced of the use of military means.
This, too, is an expression and consequence of foreign policy self-confidence.
We will continue the successfully initiated transformation process of the Bundeswehr with its consistent focus on the tasks of international crisis management.
The achievements of the German armed forces, whose personnel levels have been reduced while investment in their modernization has increased, have received worldwide recognition.
We stick to the proven principle of a clear separation between the tasks of the armed forces and the police for external and for internal security.
A particular and growing threat to peace and stability arises from the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
We want to further strengthen arms control and non-proliferation instruments.
For us, development cooperation is an indispensable part of our peace and security policy.
The German voice in international development policy has gained significant influence and weight.
For this to continue successfully, we still need an independent Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development.
We are committed to our responsibility in the one world and to the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals.
We will increase our contribution to development cooperation to 0.51% of gross national product from 2006 to2010 and to 0.7% by 2015.
Financing includes: increasing budgetary resources, continuing debt relief for the poorest developing countries, and innovative financing instruments.
In the coming years, we will continue to press ahead with debt relief for the poorest developing countries and work within the World Trade Organization for fair world trade relations, including an end to agricultural export subsidies.
We want to further develop the alliance with non-governmental organizations and churches to positively shape globalization.
We are advancing the global energy partnership for sustainable development in the spirit of the "Renewables Conference" held in Bonn in 2004 with renewable energies.
This also reduces the world's dependence on oil.
The global commitment to human rights is a central component of our policy.
Human rights policy is fundamental peace and stability policy, as it promotes the creation of stability and prosperity and helps to avoid crises and wars.
In this way, it also serves our country's own interests.
The choice
WE ARE SAFE:
Our goal is right - social democracy: work, security, humanity.
And we are on the right track - we are renewing Germany step by step and we are holding the country together.
Social progress is possible.
WE KNOW:
Gerhard Schröder is the right chancellor for this difficult task.
We have confidence in Germany.
