This SPD government program 2013 is part of a series and at the same time great tradition of programs of our party.
With our government programs, we have repeatedly provided proof of our willingness and ability to govern.
Above all, however, we have always demonstrated that - programmatically equipped and united - we want to bring about lasting change in the economic, social and societal conditions for the people in our country.
Especially in the run-up to elections, it is essential for the SPD to be very clear about what needs to be done politically when conditions in the country, around us in Europe and in the world demand it.
Being up to date means first of all that we remember: The power of renewal has a tradition in the SPD that is both a founding idea and a task for the present.
We have changed our country for the better and want to continue to do so.
This year, the federal election coincides with our historic anniversary:
The SPD celebrates its 150th anniversary.
This makes us the oldest democratic party in Germany and the most traditional social democratic party in the world.
Since its foundation in 1863, millions of our members have been fighting for freedom,
Democracy
and justice.
They advocate a society based on solidarity and progress that
protects the individual and empowers him or her for self-determination.
We know: The question of social justice and equal rights is just as relevant today and in the future as it has always been over the past 150 years.
Without the SPD, our country would look different and poorer, there would be no eight-hour day, no workers' rights, no labor protection legislation
and no welfare state in our constitution.
The fight for social justice therefore remains an ongoing task.
The SPD is and remains the great political force for democracy and emancipation in Germany.
The SPD's rejection of the Nazi Enabling Act 80 years ago remains an unparalleled testament to our basic democratic stance and convictions.
For this, Social Democrats have been persecuted, oppressed, interned, humiliated and killed time and again in German history.
Remembering this again and again makes us humble, proud, but also self-confident.
This great social democratic history also includes the founding of the SDP or Ost-SPD in October 1989, with which social democrats made their contribution to the peaceful revolution in Germany.
We live democracy and will continue to do so.
Social democrats have stood for equality between women and men since the 19th century;
this tradition includes the introduction of universal and equal suffrage in 1919,
the enshrinement of equal rights in the Basic Law in 1949
and the assertion of women's right to self-determination in the 1970s.
They have been fighting for years for equal pay for women and men,
more women in leadership positions in government, politics, business, science and society.
For us, however, this commitment is not a question of calculation and election campaigns, but of attitude and fundamental convictions.
Courage and determination are the hallmarks of Social Democratic chancellors.
This includes Willy Brandt's visionary Ostpolitik as well as Helmut Schmidt's global economic crisis management, the Red-Green government's overcoming of the reform backlog, Gerhard Schröder's no to the Iraq war and the successful crisis management in the economic and financial crisis.
In the year of our 150th anniversary, we look to the future with self-confidence and confidence.
We want to and will continue to fight as the strong political force for economic, social and societal progress in Germany and in Europe.
We are aware of the enormous global challenges in the coming decades.
But we are equally aware of the interests, needs, concerns and passions of millions of people in Germany who place hope and trust in a strong social democracy.
These are the people to whom we are committed first and foremost.
We want to make policy for them - with the "view from below" and with passion and perseverance.
Together with traditional, but also with new alliance partners, we want to write a new chapter in the history of our country.
This force of renewal remains at the core of our policy:
we want a better future for all people and for our country, in Europe and in the world.
i. germany better and fairer governanCe: For a new social balance in our country
We want to and will govern better and more fairly.
Today, election promises are viewed more skeptically than ever.
Too often, parties and governments have promised too much before elections and delivered too little after the election.
In a world that is constantly changing, it is also becoming increasingly difficult to proclaim certainties and give guarantees.
In the event of our taking over the government in the 2013 federal election, we therefore do not want to present unrealistic election promises in this government program,
but above all our idea of a new togetherness in our country
and of living together in Europe and in the world.
Germany is a strong country.
We can and we need economic success.
But Germany should also be a country where everyone shares in the success.
Politics must be committed to the common good and not to individual economic interests.
The strongest lobby in Germany must finally be the citizens again.
We promise to make this new togetherness and the common good the guiding principle of our actions once again in all the challenges facing our country.
And where we want to bring about changes that have financial consequences, we also ensure their solid and sustainable financing.
We Social Democrats do not promise everything to everyone, but what we promise, we will keep.
Our idea of a new togetherness.
We want more cohesion in our society: young and old, women and men, Germans and non-Germans, healthy and sick, people with and without disabilities.
We all belong together.
We are all Germany.
And we all belong to Europe, the only continent that combines the individual freedom of each person with the responsibility and solidarity of all people for each other.
The SPD stands for justice beyond generations:
We base our policies on enabling both current and future generations to have an adequate basis for life.
Our understanding of progress in the 21st century therefore includes qualitative growth and improvement of the quality of
life, expansion of life opportunities and individual freedom,
and responsible use of our planet's limited natural resources.
Germany is doing well despite the crisis.
The people in our country have achieved an enormous amount in recent years.
It is thanks to them that Germany is doing comparatively well today.
Living conditions in the eastern German states have also improved.
More than two decades after unification, East and West Germans can be proud of what has been achieved so far.
But there are still painful economic and social inequalities between East and West, which we want to overcome through a policy of solidarity.
The prerequisites for our country's economic success were laid by the SPD-led federal government with Gerhard Schröder:
Instead of relying only on the financial markets and new services of the so-called "new economy" like other European countries, SPD Chancellor Gerhard Schröder also strengthened the manufacturing sector, industry and crafts.
While other countries today face enormous economic and social challenges due to their deindustrialization, Germany grew into a modern and at the same time one of the most successful economies in Europe and the world with this active industrial policy driven by the SPD.
The reform policy of the SPD-led federal government, which began ten years ago, also contributed to this.
This "Agenda 2010" reform policy increased investment in research and innovation,
accelerated the expansion of renewable energies
and took hundreds of thousands of people off the welfare siding and included them in active labor market policies for the first time.
However, we will correct the abuse of temporary work, mini-jobs and low-wage employment that has also arisen in this process.
This is an imperative of justice and is necessary to ensure confidence in labor market policy.
Making people independent of transfers and creating access to good, secure and socially insured work remains the goal of our policy.
Combined with investments in early support for children in daycare centers
and the launch of the first nationwide all-day school program, we initiated the paradigm shift to a preventative welfare state ten years ago with this reform policy.
welfare state,
Social partnership
and active economic policy have proven to be guarantors of stability and success in the financial market crisis.
When the economy slumped in 2008 and 2009, we restarted the growth engine with targeted investment programs in the municipalities and for the automotive industry.
Short-time work prevented mass layoffs and built an employment bridge to the upswing that began in the summer of 2009.
The result is clear: Social democratic policies in the years 1998 to 2009 have made Germany a strong country with great potential.
This gives rise to responsibility.
In Europe,
but also for the weaker members of our society.
It is precisely from the economic strength of our country that it is possible to create the conditions for a better and more solidary society:
For a new togetherness,
more equal opportunities
and a new social balance.
The federal government of CDU/CSU and FDP failed to seize this opportunity.
On the contrary: the risk of becoming poor, of no longer being able to participate in society, has increased over the past four years for many people who are less qualified, have been unemployed for longer or are employed in insecure and low-paid work, for single parents, for people who are limited in their abilities or disabled or who are already growing up in poor families.
Disadvantages in health, in the labor market and in education have not been overcome.
We will put the problems and concerns of citizens back at the center of politics - and not the interests of anonymous financial markets.
That's why we were the first party in Germany to ask the people of Germany what needs to be improved in our country in a broad-based citizens' dialog.
The responses and projects from this citizens' dialog have been incorporated into this government program.
We know from our Citizens' Dialogue that the citizens of our country are primarily concerned with social security issues,
the good work,
the situation of families,
a fair financial system
and social justice.
We want to put the common good at the center of our policies.
A modern society is one in which each and every individual can live freedom.
A society that offers everyone the same opportunities for personal development and a self-determined life.
More than 20 years after the reunification of Germany, this is true for the citizens in the east as well as in the west of our country.
This applies to women as well as men 95 years after the introduction of women's suffrage and 64 years after Article 3 of the Basic Law came into force.
And 150 years after the founding of social democracy in Germany, this applies to people of all classes, professions and regardless of their history of origin.
Only a strong community of solidarity can create the conditions for this.
A society that knows that the opportunities of each and every individual also always depend on the progress of all others.
And of a policy of the common good, not one of selfishness and lobbying and special interests.
In the past 20 years, a lot of space has been given to "markets"; they were supposed to shape the rules of our coexistence.
The principle of competition in the economy was applied to states and regions just as it was to the relationship between people.
Competition was supposedly the only driving force of social development.
Those who could not keep up were marginalized.
Democratic commitment, social, ecological and economic rules were seen as obstacles in this competition and were declared to be useless cost drivers that had to be minimized or, ideally, abolished altogether.
The success story of social rule-making for the market economy has been declared an outmoded obstacle to global competition.
The end is known.
We have known this since the financial and euro crises at the latest: This lack of rules turned the successful social market economy into a money-driven market society.
In it, what counts is what brings in money quickly.
And those who have enough money have a chance.
Economies that could not keep up tried to buy prosperity through debt.
Sustainability, long-term investments, responsibility and provision for the future counted less and less.
Education, health, culture, private and public security and services of general interest were no longer guaranteed for all, but became a market product to be bought and afforded.
Today we notice that this development has divided our society.
Social and cultural.
Not only property and income are increasingly unequally distributed, but also access to education, health, mobility and culture.
Poverty is growing as well as wealth
- the middle class is coming under pressure.
We are experiencing the same thing in Europe.
In contrast, the Social Democratic Party of Germany strives for a society that puts people at the center.
150 years after the founding of social democracy in Germany, its goals have neither been achieved nor survived.
The pursuit of freedom,
justice and solidarity remains an ongoing task that is constantly renewed.
Today, that means restoring a new social balance in our country and in Europe.
We want to re-found the social market economy and create a social Europe.
A New Social Balance in Germany.
Work, effort and diligence are no longer worthwhile for many people in Germany.
School success and educational careers depend more on parental income than anywhere else in Europe.
Despite good training or studies, fewer and fewer find a secure and adequately paid entry into the profession.
Too many families and especially single parents are at risk of poverty.
Good health care and nursing care have not been available for everyone for a long time.
The burdens for financing our community are unfairly distributed:
People with normal incomes bear more and more, capital and property income and very large incomes less and less.
And last but not least: Homes are being lost because cities and municipalities are being bled so dry financially that cultural and social offerings are closing,
neighborhoods and infrastructure are neglected.
Germany's social and cultural divide has grown in recent years.
All that has to change again.
Germany did not become economically strong and successful because inequality grew, but because the idea of the social market economy wanted all people to share in the growing prosperity of our country.
We therefore want to strengthen the social partnership and its institutions.
We want to achieve greater distributive justice in terms of income and wealth.
First of all, fair wages contribute to this,
but also a policy that finances public tasks fairly.
We want to ensure that good training and good work once again result in good pay and secure work.
And that women and men in Germany finally receive the same pay for equal work of equal value,
and that the reconciliation of work, child-rearing and support for nursing care becomes the norm in our country.
We want to achieve equivalent living conditions in the east and west of Germany.
We want our cities and communities to remain socially and culturally vibrant and
for young and old alike to find good, affordable housing.
We want to seize the opportunity of age and meet the challenge through modern and equitable policies.
We want people in Germany to no longer have to fear poverty in old age.
And we will ensure that health and care once again become core tasks of our welfare state and that the privatization of these tasks does not increasingly lead to a two- or three-class society.
We want to govern for more than four years, because it will take time to implement all the measures needed to re-found the social market economy
and more social justice on the way
and ensure their sustainable financing.
That is why we describe projects in this program that we want to implement in the next four years as well as those that can only be achieved in the medium term, and make this clear through the respective formulations.
This is because the individual requirements can only be implemented if sufficient financial resources are available.
In order to increase the state's ability to act, we want to use tax revenue responsibly,
Use additional economic income for debt reduction
and fundamentally improve public sector revenues.
Ensuring the economic success of our country.
We know: Stormy times lie ahead.
The European crisis does not stop at national borders.
The policies of the conservative German government have simultaneously forced all countries in Europe into a pure policy of cuts and austerity without any impetus for growth.
As a result, Europe's economic growth is collapsing.
Instead of falling debt, Europe's national debt is exploding,
as is unemployment in almost all European countries.
As an exporting country whose jobs depend on buying German products, especially in the other countries of Europe, our country is feeling the consequences of this ever-growing European economic crisis.
Falling growth forecasts for the German economy
and a decline in innovative activity, especially by German SMEs in the fields of research and development, are increasingly threatening jobs and thus the prosperity of our country.
The impending shortage of skilled workers
and the consequences of the completely failed energy policy of the CDU/CSU and FDP are also jeopardizing the foundations of economic success in Germany.
We Social Democrats want to accompany the path to sound public finances by providing impetus for growth and jobs.
Above all, combating the dramatic rise in youth unemployment must be the focus of European policy.
That is why we support the European Youth Guarantee project.
However, the financial resources for a return to a growth-oriented economic policy must not be raised through new debt,
but through fair taxation of the financial markets.
It has been the consequences of irresponsible speculation on these financial markets that have led to a dramatic increase in public debt in Europe.
This is one of the reasons why the financial sector must now also help to pay off this debt.
As important and significant as the service sector has become in our country, Germany must also remain a successful and strong location for a diverse industry and manufacturing sector.
Germany is so successful today because the Social Democratic-led federal government under Gerhard Schröder in particular defended and expanded Germany as an industrial location.
As before, our country's prosperity is dependent on our capacity for innovation and industrial production.
That is why we Social Democrats want to renew the infrastructure,
Investment in education, training and qualification
and, above all, secure and strengthen Germany as a production and industrial location through a genuine energy transition.
Our particular focus will be on promoting small and medium-sized enterprises.
The combination of many highly innovative and flexible medium-sized companies with large and successful industrial enterprises and an excellent educational and scientific structure is what makes our state so successful economically.
We want better depreciation conditions,
Tax incentives for investment in research and development
and a good supply of credit will maintain and strengthen this structure in the coming years.
We live in a radically changed world today.
That is why we want to strengthen democracy and regain the confidence that democratic commitment and democratic politics can make our coexistence better and fairer.
That is why we social democrats in particular are called upon to re-establish and realize our historic project of emancipation on new paths that are socially and ecologically oriented.
Today, this is the guiding idea of sustainability, which combines today's actions with the social and ecological renewal of our economy and society.
We are living in a time in which old conflicts are breaking out and new major challenges are emerging: We are facing enormous ecological challenges;
the world that is growing together must not become a world of social exclusion; the
enormous technical and economic possibilities must be used for a "green economy";
we want to use the digitalization of the world for more international understanding and solidarity.
It is a time of great opportunity.
To achieve this, we are once again relying on the great idea of social emancipation.
More democracy,
participation
and shared responsibility can be realized.
This has been the program of German social democracy for 150 years.
And it is also today.
It is also represented by us, for more freedom,
Justice
and prosperity possible
- sustainable and therefore for everyone.
Funding our community.
Between 2009 and 2013, the CDU/CSU and FDP racked up another 100 billion euros in new debt despite the highest tax revenues and lowest interest rates.
The payment obligations for the euro bailout are not even included here.
This policy of increasing new debt, even in times of economic boom, was irresponsible and will not be continued by us.
We stand by the debt brake.
The dual task in Germany - reducing our country's debt
and at the same time especially in education
and infrastructure - cannot be combined with the election promise to cut taxes at the same time.
On the contrary, we will actually have to increase taxes.
Not all taxes for all, but some taxes for a few.
Because there is a new social question in our country: How do we get back to a fair distribution of the burdens for our common good?
Never have few people in Germany been wealthier, and never have they had to make smaller contributions to the common good.
The gap between rich and poor has never been as wide as it is in these times.
Never before have wealthy people had to give so little back to the society that made their wealth possible as they do today.
That has to change.
We need a redistribution of the burdens of public welfare, as well as a
fair redistribution of opportunities in our society:
Performance and effort must once again lead to prosperity rather than origin, relationships and great wealth.
We know: Nobody is happy about tax increases, not even those who can easily cope with them financially.
However, we are also certain that many of the citizens with high incomes or large amounts of capital and assets affected by these tax increases will accept them if they can be sure that the revenue they generate will actually be used solely and exclusively to reduce debt.
and for investments in education and infrastructure.
We will therefore provide evidence of the additional revenue generated by the aforementioned tax increases
and that we use them to reduce new debt.
and for investments in education
and infrastructure.
This is our way to renew Germany.
Economically strong,
socially just
and ecologically responsible.
ii.  BANkING fINANcIAl cAPITALISm - STRENGTHENING THE ECONOMY ANd MIDDLE cOMPANy - PROvIDING GOOD WORk.
ii.1 markets need rules - for sustainable growth
The age of market radicalism has come to an end.
The ideology of conservatives and neoliberals that the markets themselves are responsible for the common good and increasing prosperity has been buried under the rubble of the global financial catastrophe.
Instead of leaving risk and liability in one hand according to the principles of a market economy, market radicalism has privatized profits and imposed losses on the general public.
It has destroyed its own foundations and left trillions in debt worldwide.
Today, they still threaten the world economy and have to be dismantled laboriously and with heavy burdens for many people.
Nothing has a more devastating effect on public morale than the fact that those responsible for the gigantic mountains of debt have hardly had to contribute to their elimination.
Conservative and liberal governments like in Germany prefer to protect banks and financial jugglers rather than the people from their reckless speculations.
We know: Markets - especially financial markets - need rules that safeguard the common good and prevent the world's democracies from being held to ransom by banks and stock exchanges.
A re-founded social market economy can once again become a globally successful example of economic success, social security and ecological sustainability.
However, we will need more than purely national resources to achieve this.
International cooperation,
first and foremost European cooperation, is the mandatory prerequisite for this.
For us, the following applies: no financial market player, no financial product, no market must be unregulated in the future.
Our principle is to give priority to investments in the real economy over speculation and to return the financial sector to its real task: to be a service provider for the real economy.
Europe must become the pioneer of a new market order with which we tame the financial markets.
In addition to comprehensive financial market regulation,
we need greater democratization of Europe:
Europe belongs to its citizens.
This also applies to the euro zone.
We need political mechanisms and institutions,
the social balance,
a sustainable budgetary policy.
and ensure balanced economic growth in the EU.
Our Measures for the Re-Foundation of the Social Market Economy.
We want a change of course in economic policy.
The existing Stability and Growth Act of 1967 must be further developed into a modern Stability and Prosperity Act 2020.
Four dimensions of sustainability determine our understanding of a sustainable and equitable economy:
n Government sustainability: A reduction in the public debt burden is inevitable.
However, it must not be at the expense of public tasks for the future.
n Economic sustainability: For us, prosperity and the success of our economy are not measured by gross national product alone, but also by a high level of employment and a balance of payments that is as balanced as possible.
n Social sustainability: This is reflected above all in the fight against poverty, in the
fair distribution of income, the
valuation and remuneration of work,
and in better educational opportunities.
n Ecological sustainability: It is important to decouple growth and resource consumption in absolute terms, to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions
and to use resources more productively.
This also includes a reform of the German Council of Economic Experts,
an annual prosperity report
and greater harmonization of European labor, economic, financial, tax and investment policies.
We want to re-establish a culture of sustainability in business.
To this end, we call for effective long-term orientation of compensation and bonus systems,
a fixed maximum ratio between basic salary and bonuses, and
a limit on the tax deductibility of executive and other managerial salaries, including bonuses, and severance payments to a maximum of 50 percent of amounts exceeding EUR 500,000.
We also want a new corporate constitution.
The German Stock Corporation Act must stipulate that companies must not only benefit shareholders, but also employees.
and the common good.
In the area of corporate co-determination, a statutory minimum catalog of transactions requiring approval must be defined.
Employee ownership is a key to giving employees a stake in the company's success.
We want to expand it further.
We are committed to promoting the cooperative system.
Cooperatives have proven to be innovative and stable forms of enterprise, especially in times of major structural economic change.
It is not without reason, for example, that the Volksbanken and Raiffeisenbanken cooperative banks came through the financial crisis best compared to institutions with other legal forms.
The new challenges facing society, for example, from demographic change and in housing construction, can be facilitated with the help of cooperatives.
The cooperative model also offers an alternative when it comes to regulating company succession.
We therefore want to further develop cooperative law in order to increase the attractiveness of the cooperative system and facilitate the establishment of new cooperatives, also by making it easier for micro cooperatives.
As a client of the economy, the state must set new standards.
That is why we are committed to ensuring that social and ecological criteria are taken into account when applying public procurement law.
We want the public sector to retain sufficient authority in terms of personnel and content so that there is no compulsion to privatize and outsource to private providers.
We need a more effective competition and antitrust policy with a sense of proportion.
Competition and antitrust law serves to protect the interests of consumers.
We will safeguard the interests of consumers when companies merge.
However, competition and antitrust law is not a value in itself and must be coordinated with other interests, such as health care.
Consumers should be able to act safely and on an equal footing with companies as patients, in banking, stock exchange and insurance transactions, or when ordering and shopping.
Our consumer policy is sustainable economic policy.
It strengthens fair market conditions, responsible entrepreneurial action, sustainable consumption and functioning quality competition.
In this respect, we need more market transparency for consumers.
Access to information must be facilitated.
We want clear statements about the origin, properties and contents of products and services, quickly comparable information, like the traffic light labeling for nutritional values in food.
Companies should disclose the social and environmental conditions in manufacturing.
This allows consumers to make informed choices and rewards responsible corporate behavior.
In turn, it reveals where dumping wages and repressive market practices prevail.
We will expand consumer research to take account of the diversity of consumers and their needs.
Our measures for comprehensive regulation of the financial markets.
We want the financial transaction tax.
In order to finally make financial market players share in the costs of the crisis and in financing the common good, we will introduce a European financial transaction tax -
as a first step within the framework of enhanced European cooperation in the EU.
With the financial transaction tax, we want to help make short-term speculation more expensive
and to generate important revenues for the state, which can be used for future projects,
European growth impetus
and a fair global economy.
Our goal is to ensure that no bank drags entire countries into the maelstrom.
The crisis resistance of banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions must be strengthened through stricter capital requirements.
Banks that are considered to be systemically important are to provide for losses with significantly more equity capital.
The internationally agreed Basel framework for capital adequacy must therefore be implemented and, where necessary, supplemented, e.g. by flexible upper limits for real estate lending.
In doing so, we take into account the special conditions of the cooperative and public banking sector, e.g., savings banks and cooperative banks.
Citizens Project from the Citizens Convention on March 2, 2013: "No socialization of losses and costs when profits are privatized. "
Our goal: The state must no longer be liable for speculation.
Instead of continuing to socialize losses and privatize profits, risks and liability must be brought back together.
Taxpayers must never again be held hostage to banks and speculators.
The larger a bank is, the better its risk management must be and the higher the capital requirements it must meet.
We want a significant restriction on proprietary trading
and a clear separation of investment and commercial banks.
Then the liability for risks lies where the profits from the risks are also generated.
And if high losses are incurred in a risky business area, the damage is also limited to this business area.
We want the substance of the banking business to be more stable,
high-risk speculation to be curbed,
and the potential damage to society to be prevented.
We want a transparent financial sector.
Players in the so-called shadow banking sector, which are primarily the highly speculative hedge funds, must finally be regulated.
Due to the growing risks in the shadow banking sector for the stability of the entire financial system, the same standards and obligations must apply as in the traditional banking sector.
In order to create stable and transparent financial markets, offshore financial centers, which are characterized by low taxes, intransparency and minimal financial market regulation, must be combated.
We want to ban harmful financial products
and strengthen consumer protection.
We want to ban purely speculative financial products that have no economic benefit.
In the future, derivatives must generally be traded on transparent and regulated trading platforms.
Rules are needed that allow supervisors to prohibit the sale of certain complex and risky financial products to private consumers.
Consumer protection organizations also have an important role to play as market watchdogs when they monitor the market in the interests of consumers, detect unfair practices, systematically record tips and pass on any grievances to the supervisory authority.
We want to restrict high-frequency trading to prevent uncontrolled stock market collapses in the future.
More and more, stock market trading is dominated by high-performance computers that execute an uncontrollable amount of transactions in fractions of a second.
We want to decelerate this automated speculation mechanism through minimum holding periods and also use the algorithms to strictly monitor high-frequency traders directly.
We want to put a stop to speculation in food.
The same applies to commodity speculation, which has no connection to the real economy.
ii.2 good work in a modern society
Our goal is law and order in the labor market.
The value of labor must be restored.
Effort and diligence must once again pay off for people.
It must be possible for everyone to enter a secure occupation, to have a living and socially secure job, and for as many as possible to move up the career ladder.
For people, integration into the labor market is a prerequisite for participation, self-determination and recognition.
Forced exclusion from gainful employment therefore means exclusion from opportunities for participation in our society.
Responsible policies in the interest of the people must therefore never resign themselves to widespread unemployment or even long-term unemployment.
Economic, financial and labor market policies must be geared to the goal of full employment in good jobs.
Companies must also live up to their responsibility in terms of employment policy.
Work is and remains the source of social prosperity.
The people who create the wealth of this society deserve recognition and reward.
We are countering the increasing devaluation of work.
We need strong unions
and are committed to collective bargaining autonomy.
We will strengthen the standard employment relationship
and put a stop to the spread of precarious employment.
Citizens' project from the Citizens' Convention on March 2, 2013: "More appreciation through better pay among workers in the social sector (personal services)".
Qualified employees, good products and production processes are essential prerequisites for surviving in international competition.
We can't do that with low-wage strategies.
If we want to be better in global competition, we need good skilled workers and highly qualified workforces.
Social development also requires much greater social recognition and promotion of human services, for example in the areas of education, care for the elderly and nursing.
This also includes overcoming the existing disadvantage in training.
Economic and technical progress must be used for progress in the quality of working conditions.
We want employees to be able to better balance work and life.
The world of work is undergoing fundamental change as a result of digitization.
Digital technologies can create new freedom in employees' everyday working lives, for example with regard to location- and time-flexible work.
Whether employees can actually realize these for their own benefit and new forms of (self-)exploitation do not emerge depends on many factors, not least the legal framework.
We therefore want to adapt labor law and occupational health and safety to the new challenges so that flexibility is made possible and, at the same time, protection is created for new forms of work.
Our education system must enable everyone to take advantage of the opportunities for advancement offered by digitization.
The changes in the age structure of the population pose particular challenges for age- and age-appropriate work in the future.
We need the creativity of older workers, who represent valuable potential with a combination of their experience and current knowledge.
Demographic change will not solve the labor market problems by itself.
Without significantly increased investment in the training and qualification of people, there is a risk of a shortage of skilled workers combined with high unemployment among low-skilled people.
We want to overcome precarious work,
introduce a nationwide statutory minimum
wage and make fair wages possible by strengthening the collective bargaining system.
Equal pay must be paid for equal work of equal value.
The labor market in Germany is deeply divided.
The low-wage sector has grown significantly, and precarious forms of employment, especially temporary employment without a fixed term and marginal employment, have increased.
The ostensibly positive labor market trend cannot hide the fact that the long-term unemployed and older people continue to have significantly fewer opportunities on the labor market.
The labor market divide is also particularly pronounced between men and women.
While most men work full-time, more than half of employed women work part-time - often women's actual working hours are lower or men's are higher than desired.
As the female labor force participation rate rises, the volume of working hours and thus full-time employment among women declines.
At the same time, 67 percent of those employed in the low-wage sector are women.
The wage gap between women and men is 22 percent, and career advancement is still considered a male issue, while balancing work and family life is considered a female issue.
In many cases, this structure of women's employment does not provide a living wage, and it leads straight to poverty in old age.
Employees have suffered real wage losses over the years.
For many years, a wage-cutting race has taken place in our country.
This is the result of the mistaken belief that competitiveness increases when people's working conditions deteriorate.
Around a quarter of employees work in the low-wage sector.
We do not want work at any price, but good working conditions and work that is fairly remunerated.
After years of wage restraint, employees are entitled to a fair share of economic success.
Significant wage increases and the strengthening of domestic demand are in the overall economic interest.
The number of employees in temporary work and with bogus work contracts, in fixed-term and marginal employment relationships is increasing at the expense of permanent and socially secure standard employment relationships.
We want to reverse this trend.
Socially secure and good work must once again be the norm.
Citizen project from the Citizens' Convention on March 2, 2013: "Introduction of a legally regulated minimum wage. "
We want to introduce a statutory, nationwide minimum wage of at least 8.50 euros - uniformly in East and West, adjusted annually on the basis of a proposal by a minimum wage commission set up by the BMAS.
We will combine the minimum wage with clear rules for monitoring and sanctions in the event of circumvention.
We will extend the scope of the Employee Posting Act to all sectors and thus strengthen the possibility of extending a collectively agreed minimum wage to all employees in a sector.
But we also need to strengthen the tried-and-tested collective bargaining system and collective bargaining coverage again.
Both are indispensable prerequisites for restoring the principle that performance must be rewarded to the reality of the German labor market.
The fair participation of employees in economic success is economically necessary to strengthen domestic demand
and an indispensable contribution to more distributive justice in our country.
We want to facilitate the possibility of declaring collective agreements generally binding.
We want to replace the requirement that at least 50 percent of employees work for employers covered by collective bargaining agreements with a public interest test.
The aim here is to avoid unfair competitive conditions, where it is not the quality of performance and products that counts, but competition for the worst working conditions.
We advocate the principle of collective bargaining unity.
The faster equalization of living and working conditions in East and West Germany on the basis of good work is our goal.
A uniform minimum wage of at least 8.50 euros across the board in the east and west will bring us closer to this goal.
We support the trade unions in more quickly eliminating the wage differences between the collective bargaining areas in the east and west, which are still serious in some cases.
To achieve this, it is essential to strengthen collective bargaining agreements, because in eastern Germany only 49 percent of employees work in companies that are bound by a sectoral or company collective agreement.
As public employers, the federal, state and local governments have a special responsibility to protect all employees under collective bargaining agreements and to set an example for good working conditions.
We will therefore make tariff compliance and social criteria (equal pay and the advancement of women) binding criteria in the awarding of public contracts.
It must be ensured that no job seeker is relegated to a job below the local wage.
The minimum wage of 8.50 euros must be guaranteed in any case.
Women continue to be disadvantaged in the labor market at the beginning of the 21st century, despite having the best education.
They are structurally paid less, even if it is the same job as for men.
With an Equal Pay Act, we will put an end to the structural wage discrimination against women.
Temporary work has increasingly been used in recent years to circumvent collective agreements and for wage dumping.
We will enforce the principle of equal pay for equal work and the same working conditions for temporary workers and permanent staff by law.
The use of temporary workers as strike breakers is to be prohibited.
We will prohibit the increasingly widespread intra-group hiring out by companies' temporary employment agencies.
The principle that temporary workers are deployed at changing companies but are employed for an unlimited period by the temporary employment agencies is to apply again.
Therefore, the fixed-term nature of a temporary employment relationship and the linking of the fixed-term to a work assignment (synchronization) shall be impermissible.
Temporary workers are to be counted when determining the number of employees for the thresholds under works council constitution law.
The SPD has succeeded in ensuring that there is now a collectively agreed minimum wage for the temporary employment sector.
More companies have since used questionable work contract constructions to circumvent this first regulation of temporary work.
We want to clarify what is a genuine and what is a sham work contract,
and tighten the sanctions for abuse.
Mock self-employments should also be more clearly defined.
For many young people, starting a career is precarious:
Many are not taken on, others are only offered an internship or a temporary contract.
All of this creates uncertainty.
Understandably, many young people are therefore reluctant to start a family and build their own existence.
Also and especially for young people, the regulation of temporary employment,
the abolition of fixed-term contracts without a fixed term
and the introduction of a minimum wage are important.
We will also effectively combat the abuse of internships by introducing minimum standards.
Internships and work trials are learning and training relationships.
Where regular work is performed, it must also be paid regularly.
The minimum standards for internships include a contract, minimum remuneration, a qualified certificate and, in the case of internships that are not part of vocational training, a time limit of no more than three months.
We want to abolish the possibility of unlimited fixed-term employment contracts and
review the catalog of possible reasons for fixed-term contracts.
We will stop the abuse of marginal employment for wage dumping and displacement of regular employment.
We want to ensure that the circumvention of labor law is also ruled out in the future for mini-jobs
and that their social security is improved.
Basic entitlements such as vacation, continued payment of wages in the event of illness or protection against dismissal are often not granted in practice.
We will regulate by law that in the case of commercial mini-jobs, the basic labor law and collective bargaining entitlements are laid down in a written employment contract
and the possibility of monitoring compliance with them is improved.
We want to improve smooth transitions into regular employment and remove barriers that stand in the way.
Even marginal employment must be paid according to the collective wage agreement.
The statutory minimum wage of at least 8.50 euros that we are striving for must be complied with in any case.
We will take further steps toward independent social security coverage for all employment relationships in the branches of social insurance.
Employees need better protection in the workplace against surveillance and the uncontrolled storage of sensitive personal data.
A separate Employee Data Protection Act is necessary for better protection of the personal rights of employees in the workplace.
Trade union confidants and so-called whistleblowers need reliable protection against discrimination in the workplace.
Pressure and condensed work processes are increasingly leading to psychological stress in the workplace.
We will therefore adapt the widely developed occupational health and safety legislation to the new challenges.
We want the implementation of risk assessments in companies to be monitored more closely, especially with regard to mental stress.
With an anti-stress ordinance, we want to create greater binding force in occupational health and safety law and offer legal certainty to those acting and affected in companies.
We want more democracy in the workplace.
Co-determined companies are also more successful economically.
Co-determination is an essential element of our concept of economic democracy and has proven its worth.
Economic democracy through co-determination fulfills the demand of the Basic Law: "Property obligates".
We want to strengthen co-determination - also at European level -
and effectively prevent a flight from co-determination.
We want key decisions on production sites not to be taken without co-determination.
To this end, we will create a statutory minimum catalog of transactions requiring the approval of a company's supervisory board.
We want to lower the threshold for parity co-determination to 1,000 employees.
German co-determination law must also be extended to companies with a foreign legal form and their registered office in Germany.
Works councils need more co-determination rights to push back precarious employment.
This applies in particular to the scope and duration of temporary work, fixed-term employment and contracts for work in the company for which the assignment is made.
We want to extend the early consultation and negotiation rights of works councils in the use of external employment and improve the right to withhold consent.
We also want co-determination rights for the organization of in-house training
or expand health protection in the workplace.
The SPD stands for an efficient and citizen-oriented public service.
Public safety and public services are the basis for a good and safe life for citizens.
To safeguard its performance, we want to further develop the public service.
The civil service is to be further democratized
and modernized.
With this in mind, we want to strengthen the co-determination and participation rights of the staff councils at the federal and state levels.
Insofar as the churches and their institutions in Caritas and Diakonie are employers, the limits of their right to self-regulation and self-administration as employers must be determined by the fundamental rights of their employees and not vice versa.
Equal employee rights for church employees are compatible with the church's right to self-government.
The right to strike is a fundamental right of all employees and must also apply in the church sector.
collective agreements and to be free to choose the means of enforcing them are thus compatible with the so-called right to self-regulation and self-administration.
We want an active labor market policy that is oriented toward modern employment biographies.
It aims to prevent unemployment,
improve job placement
, and break up entrenched long-term unemployment.
We will continue to pay close attention to the situation of older unemployed and long-term unemployed.
Full employment is our goal.
The labor market does not regulate itself.
Labor market policy must help to prevent unemployment from the outset.
A high level of funding for active labor promotion is essential to break up entrenched long-term unemployment.
Promoting work instead of financing unemployment remains a key objective.
We want to strengthen unemployment insurance again
and maintain a high level of funding for active employment promotion so that every long-term unemployed person can be offered a suitable and reasonable job.
The priority is employment in the primary labor market.
However, a not inconsiderable proportion of the long-term unemployed with multiple placement obstacles currently have little chance of being placed in the primary labor market.
We must not leave them behind.
This also applies to the long-term unemployed who have not been entitled to activation benefits under SGB II because of the imputation of partner income.
Therefore, in the medium term, we will create a publicly funded employment sector with offers of employment subject to social insurance contributions, which will also be financed by transferring passive benefits to active benefits.
We want adequate socio-educational support and qualification measures to be part of this offer.
The protective function of unemployment insurance no longer exists for many unemployed people.
Many people no longer achieve eligibility for unemployment benefits due to unsteady and short-term employment, even though they pay contributions.
We want to improve this again by changing the eligibility rules.
We will extend the framework period during which an entitlement to unemployment benefits can be acquired from two to three years.
We advocate for support ratios in JobCenters that make real support possible, not just file management.
We want to develop unemployment insurance into employment insurance and use the labor market dividend for this purpose.
We will use funds freed up by falling unemployment to build up employment insurance.
After all, unemployment should not only be ended quickly, but avoided from the outset if possible.
Qualification and further training over the entire course of working life are central to maintaining individual employability.
Employment insurance is also designed to help workers achieve their career goals.
We are placing employment insurance on three pillars: the existing social-law entitlement to qualification through the Federal Employment Agency's labor market subsidy in the event of unemployment,
a strengthened labor-law entitlement vis-à-vis employers to secure and maintain
qualifications, and a new individual legal entitlement to further training and qualification, which employees themselves decide on.
Only by tapping the potential of all people living in Germany can we counteract a shortage of skilled workers and make our economy fit for the future.
This requires a close alliance between business and politics.
With smart policies, the growing need for skilled workers can become new opportunities for advancement for many workers.
This requires a dual strategy: On the one hand, we want to give everyone the opportunity to work in the most qualified way possible.
On the other hand, we want to open up new access points for all those who are involuntarily excluded from work.
That is why it is also necessary that no young person is left without a connection after leaving school.
The prerequisite for this is systematic and realistic career orientation and preparation already within the last three years of school attendance.
Good vocational training and continuous qualification and further training of employees are the basis for economic success and securing the skilled labor base in the future.
Every young person has a right to education.
Around 1.5 million young adults between the ages of 25 and 35 without a school-leaving certificate or vocational qualification need special support.
For them, we want to set up an immediate "2nd chance at vocational training" program that responds to the special circumstances of young people with precisely tailored instruments and leads them to complete their training.
We want financial support to be provided for students to catch up on their school-leaving qualifications.
Overall, we also want the qualification and further training of all employees to be promoted with binding entitlements.
We want the many people with foreign vocational and university degrees to no longer have to work below their qualification level or be considered unskilled.
The recognition law for foreign degrees passed in 2012 was in no way able to fulfill the expectation of a trend reversal in the restrictive recognition practice.
Therefore, it is necessary to accelerate the recognition procedures, to
ensure personal counseling of affected persons
and to keep accruing fees or costs for adaptation measures at a socially acceptable level.
This is an essential prerequisite for social integration in our country.
Not only do the people concerned benefit from a more consistent recognition of their educational qualifications, but this is also of great importance for our economy in times of a shortage of skilled workers.
ii.3 together for more social market economy in europe
Europe has not yet overcome the crisis.
The financial market and banking crisis has been followed by the debt crisis of the Southern European countries, also due to the immense rescue measures.
The economy is down in some European countries.
Unemployment is rising, especially among young people, in some cases to threatening levels.
The social divide continues to grow, and trust in democracy is declining.
If we stay on the current course, we are heading for a crisis of democracy in Europe that seriously threatens the political, economic and social achievements of European societies and the European unification process.
In Europe, therefore, we need a new foundation for the social market economy with clear rules for the markets.
The policies of the federal government of CDU/CSU and FDP have not created more stability in Europe, but growing instability.
As important as sound finances are, saving alone will not get you there.
Stability and prosperity require growth
and social justice.
That is the essence of the social market economy.
We do not want a Europe that is the plaything of the markets, but one that acts in the interests of the people.
Only united and in the firm union of the European Union does Europe have a chance in the global competition of ideas and values, of politics and economics.
For this reason, we want to further deepen the political union of Europe.
For this, we need a clear set of rules for banks and financial markets.
In the EU, we need a powerful joint banking supervision for the large, cross-border institutions.
At present, only the European Central Bank (ECB) can do this.
In this context, a strict separation of monetary policy and supervisory functions must be ensured.
In the long term, we aim to spin off the supervisory unit from the ECB into an independent European supervisory authority.
Supervision of small and medium-sized banks is to remain at national level and be transferred to the ECB only in crisis situations.
Supervision must take into account the differences between banks' business models.
Complexity and risk orientation must also be reflected in concrete terms in the intensity of supervision and audits.
We also advocate European resolution rules for banks;
in the event of a crisis, bonuses must be clawed back, dividends withheld, and owners must share in losses through debt waivers or debt conversion.
We call for the establishment of a European resolution authority
and a European restructuring fund for large banks.
This banking fund is to be financed by a bank levy, the amount of which will be based on the banks' systemic relevance, risk profile and leverage ratio.
At the very least, it must skim off the interest rate advantages that systemically important banks currently enjoy from imputed government guarantees.
We will make sure that the referees are not also players.
In addition to tightening the existing rules for credit rating agencies,
we call for the establishment of a European Credit Rating Agency.
We advocate closer coordination of member states' tax policies.
Binding minimum tax standards for corporate profits and capital income are not only an imperative for fiscal stability, but also indispensable to enable fair competition in the single market.
In the fight against tax evasion and unfair tax competition at the European level, we want to extend the scope of the EU Savings Directive to all capital income and all natural and legal persons and
make the automatic exchange of information in Europe the standard, also in relation to third countries such as Switzerland.
Better rules on the financial markets are not yet enough to get the European economy out of its predicament.
To do this, we must tackle persistent and excessive economic imbalances.
A monetary union also needs a common economic policy with balanced current accounts in the longer term.
All EU member states must do their part to ensure that economic imbalances within the euro zone are reduced.
We need coordinated and joint measures for sustainable growth in the member states and in Europe,
Employment
and competitiveness.
Europe's economies need a new impetus for sustainable growth.
Growth and economic dynamism are necessary to combat the sometimes dramatically high youth unemployment in Europe.
The shared commitment to sound finances must therefore be complemented by a common understanding and concrete shared targets for a European growth strategy that brings together economic innovation with social justice and environmental renewal.
In doing so, we also want to get Europe's industrial renewal off the ground.
We are striving for a European Investment and Recovery Fund,
the financing and implementation of Europe-wide programs to promote sustainable and viable growth,
to strengthen domestic demand
and the promotion of fairly remunerated employment.
To finance these measures, we advocate fair taxation of wealth in Europe.
We need project bonds, the
redeployment of existing structural funds,
the upgrading of the European Investment Bank
and funds from the financial transaction tax.
The funds are to be used for investments in education,
Research and development,
the expansion of trans-European infrastructure networks
and an immediate program to combat the high level of youth unemployment in many EU countries.
To achieve this, there must be a structural change in the EU budget with a focus on growth,
employment,
innovation and training
and the modernization of administrations.
With a European debt redemption fund, we want to ensure the ability of all members to act in the monetary union.
With a binding debt reduction and reform plan, he is holding the states to account so that the European Central Bank is not further forced to intervene on the bond markets.
Solidarity is important to ensure the stability of our currency.
However, it must not be a one-way street, but must be linked to efforts by the crisis states to achieve sustainable budgets.
ii.4 Ensuring the economic success of our country
Germany is economically strong and competitive on the world markets.
In the financial and economic crisis of recent years, our economic and social system has proven to be successful, flexible and robust.
A strong industrial base, an efficient SME sector with a successful skilled trades sector and responsible collective bargaining partners are the success factors of the social market economy.
Entrepreneurial freedom,
social responsibility
and participation are inseparable.
Prosperity and a high quality of life for all remain the central goals of social democratic economic and industrial policy.
We want sustainable progress that combines economic dynamism, social justice and environmental responsibility.
For us, it is about successful economic development,
secure jobs,
fair participation and a high quality of life.
Our goals:
n Germany is an industrialized country and will continue to need a strong industry as the basis of a knowledge-intensive and competitive economy.
We stand for an integrated industrial policy as a cross-cutting policy to create industry-friendly framework conditions.
n Services already account for 70 percent of value added and will continue to grow in the future.
Our goal is an integrated service policy that is based on the dovetailing of economic and structural policy.
and research and innovation policy promotes high-quality services.
n Germany's potential lies in highly qualified specialists.
Sustainable economic growth needs qualified women and men
who earn their share of the success of their companies with good wages and contribute to a strong domestic economy.
n An efficient infrastructure is a prerequisite for the continued success of our business location.
As a basis for new growth, Germany needs to modernize its energy, transport and communications infrastructure with appropriate investment.
The mobility of the future must be affordable, environmentally friendly and secure Germany as a business location.
n Creativity is the raw material of the 21st century with immense growth and employment potential.
Together with creatives, we will create the framework conditions to develop this potential and at the same time provide better social security.
An integrated industrial policy is the basis for securing a successful economy.
In Germany, we need the entire value chain - from industrial basic material production to highly specialized high-tech SMEs; it is an important prerequisite for innovations.
To survive in international competition, Germany must invest even more in modern products and sustainable processes.
That is why we want to intensify efforts for research and innovation and increase research investment above the three percent of GDP mark.
For Germany, the focus is on the development of "high-end products" and the transformation of production.
We want to support particularly desirable investments, e.g. in the area of energy and resource efficiency, through improved depreciation options (special depreciation, declining balance depreciation).
or with an investment allowance.
In addition to project funding, we want to establish a new form of tax-based research funding that will benefit small and medium-sized enterprises.
We want a renewal of the traditional industries
and promote the development of new lead markets.
Where German industry has its strengths, it is important to maintain its lead over international competitors.
Where potential exists, the industry must be renewed and made competitive.
These include the lead markets of mobility, health, energy and infrastructure.
We need the further development of IT infrastructure for Germany as a business location.
After all, digitization and networking play a significant role in today's corporate structures and production processes.
The software industry has great potential in this country, and not just in terms of jobs and new business models.
At the same time, as a cross-sectional technology, it also provides important impetus for other sectors of the economy.
Germany's economic strength can only be secured and expanded if industrial policy is supplemented by a modern and integrated services policy.
Services and production are not opposites, but are increasingly interdependent, e.g. in the area of industry-related services.
The predominantly medium-sized, service-intensive tourism industry is an example of a service industry that we want to strengthen by improving framework conditions.
Good work is our guiding principle in the area of all services.
The universal postal service, which provides for the nationwide supply of postal services at affordable prices, must continue to be provided in the same quality in the future.
On the one hand, competition in postal services must not continue to be primarily based on dumping wages;
on the other hand, the legal framework for Deutsche Post must be designed in such a way that the guarantee of universal service and the economic success of the company are equally secured.
The creative industry is becoming increasingly important to the success of our economy.
We want to promote and expand the creative industries even more.
Our measures for a creative pact: The concept of innovation in the funding programs for economic and infrastructure development must be adapted and opened up for the creative industries, and the
existing federal start-up programs with regard to equity share requirements, recognition of intangible assets, consulting and qualification must be adapted to the needs of the creative industries, taking into account not only the start-up phase but also the growth phases of the companies.
Small and medium-sized enterprises and the skilled trades are at the heart of our economy.
They guarantee economic stability and sustainability.
As small and medium-sized enterprises, they are flexible, innovative and have strong ties to their region.
In eastern Germany in particular, they play a key role in shaping regional economic structures.
We want to improve the framework conditions for the development of small and medium-sized businesses, self-employment and start-ups.
Germany's economic prosperity is based to a considerable extent on the efforts of its self-employed.
At around ten percent, the self-employment rate in Germany is still below average by international standards.
Especially with the leap into the information and knowledge age, Germany must position itself more strongly as a self-employed society.
It is primarily in small and medium-sized enterprises and also in the liberal professions that the training and jobs of tomorrow are being created.
That's why we want to pay special attention to promoting this area in our economic policy
and get more young people interested in self-employment as early as school and vocational training.
We want to preserve and strengthen the professional self-administration of the liberal professions through the professional chambers.
The craft.
Craft enterprises and trade provide the main service of vocational training.
We want to maintain this strength and support it where necessary.
At the same time, they also face fierce competition for skilled workers, have limited financial leeway and are comparatively more affected by bureaucracy.
In the case of SME financing, we want to prevent obstacles from arising in the first place, especially for newly established companies.
We want a wealth tax that takes into account the special situation of German SMEs, partnerships and family businesses and secures their future-proof equity capital formation and does not burden their scope for investment.
Furthermore, we will advocate for a SME-friendly design of Basel III.
An adequate assessment of systemic risks in the context of lending could also contribute to this.
At the same time, we will facilitate the diversification of financing sources by enabling support programs for lease financing and factoring
and by facilitating access to capital market refinancing for larger SMEs.
In this context, the establishment of a rating agency for SMEs can make a significant contribution to curbing the high transaction costs associated with the preparation of corporate ratings.
At the same time, we will ensure in the area of start-ups that funding opportunities are not limited exclusively to technological innovations.
Socially-innovative start-ups should also have greater access to funding and advice as social entrepreneurs, thus supporting SME contributions to solving social problems, just as charities do.
In order to improve the framework conditions for SMEs, we are focusing on reducing bureaucracy.
National and European legislation should be better geared to SMEs
and, where possible, administrative channels should be shortened.
Together with business and trade unions, the states and local authorities, we will launch a political initiative to secure the demand for skilled workers in Germany.
We want to improve educational mobility and opportunities for advancement.
A proven career path is already available in the form of advanced vocational training (master craftswoman/ master craftsman, technician, business administrator).
We want to further expand this "upper level" of the dual system.
It also offers an alternative to a college degree.
Other avenues of advancement for skilled workers include universities and their degree programs.
To improve permeability, we want to open up universities even more to those with vocational qualifications and facilitate access, e.g. through recognition and competence assessment procedures.
Vocational profiles in the service sector also need to be given a contemporary design and reorganized in accordance with the Vocational Training Act.
Gender-specific classifications must be overcome.
To this end, we will work with the social partners to develop new qualifications, professions and training fields.
This is the only way to tap the employment potential in the service sector.
Our goal is to increase labor force participation.
To this end, we will expand the opportunities for older people, people returning to work, migrants and the long-term unemployed to work by continuing the integration subsidy for older people,
expanding care structures for children and people in need of care and
the range of language courses on offer, and reversing the cuts in qualification costs for jobseekers.
We also want to make it easier to catch up on qualifications.
In the last two decades, there were often not enough in-company training places available for young people.
Promote investment in the real economy.
German economic policy is not geared enough to the future.
In the areas of education, infrastructure and investment in future markets - the foundations for future economic growth - Germany is increasingly falling behind.
With a net investment ratio of just three percent in 2011, Germany is far behind in the OECD comparison.
On average, public investment in recent years does not even cover replacement needs.
At the same time, the opportunities for mobilizing private capital for investment in the real economy are enormous and far from exhausted.
There is more wealth in Germany than ever before.
Financial assets alone recently reached a new record high of EUR 8.5 trillion.
Germany saves more than most other countries.
State assets, on the other hand, have already been declining for years.
Between 1992 and 2012, it declined by over 800 billion euros.
In the same period, the total net assets of private households more than doubled from just under EUR 4.6 trillion to around EUR 10 trillion.
We need more public
as well as private investment.
We want to create incentives for this.
And we will examine a new incentive system in the capital markets that promotes long-term real investment and focuses on the entire life cycle of an investment.
It is also about the active involvement of citizens in shaping the community
and their material participation in technological progress.
Investment opportunities for citizens to participate in future markets and infrastructures with moderate potential returns (e.g., in the area of energy transition) can strengthen acceptance and identification and should be expanded.
Completing the Unity of Germany.
The eastern German states have undergone an enormous development process in the last two decades.
East and West Germans can be proud together of what they have achieved.
Despite all efforts, however, there are still significant differences in economic development and wage levels.
The eastern German states have already been facing many challenges for years: coping with the effects of demographic change, the
supply of doctors in rural areas
or the threat of old-age poverty.
These problems have now reached the whole of Germany.
To overcome them, we will have to set out together.
However, it is already possible to learn from the experience gained in eastern Germany.
However, much remains to be done.
A growing disparity in regional development trajectories
and unabated large differences in wages and incomes are hampering the catching-up process.
The expansion of the infrastructure is well advanced.
A number of East German companies have risen to become world market leaders in their industries, and internationally sought-after products are produced with the "Made in East Germany" seal of quality.
Nevertheless, all economic indicators show that the economic catch-up process has stalled.
In addition, 20 percent of all East Germans work for wages of less than 8.50 euros/hour.
Depending on the sector, gross wages are 15 to 45 percent below the level in the West.
This is another reason why we need a uniform minimum wage in the east and west, which will particularly benefit eastern German workers and give a new boost to income development overall.
More than 20 years after German unification, the abolition of the divided pension law is also one of the crucial justice issues for completing the internal unity of our country.
In our pension concept, the phased plan for achieving this goal is an important point.
This makes us the first party to implement a self-contained concept.
We will not avoid the pressing issues in the eastern German states, but will set out clear goals of our own on the common path and pursue them with clarity and determination.
A living democracy is always an important goal for us.
In the eastern German states in particular, we must continue to fight for as many people as possible to help shape democracy and our community.
With regard to the eastern German states, the Solidarity Pact II, which was launched together with the states under Chancellor Gerhard Schröder, forms the most important financing basis for the further "reconstruction of the east".
It must not be touched.
In addition, we will examine follow-up arrangements, e.g., in the context of the readjustment of the Länder fiscal equalization system.
One conceivable option would be an all-German "solidarity pact for structurally weak regions" (Solidarity Pact III) starting in 2020, which would take into account the special circumstances of structurally weak regions in eastern and western Germany.
Promote investment. Enabling participation.
We want investments to be particularly favored where they affect the central areas of public life in infrastructures and future markets.
and are aimed at meeting societal and social needs.
This requires incentives and support mechanisms in favor of a change of course toward the real economy.
We want to promote civic forms of participation, as they strengthen public acceptance of infrastructure facilities.
Municipal sponsorship continues to represent a fundamental participation of local people.
That is why we support infrastructures in the hands of cities, municipalities and counties and
will continue to improve the framework conditions for the municipalization of corresponding facilities.
We also want to examine and develop models that allow citizens to participate directly in financing socially desirable investments.
Regional "citizens' funds" are to enable the acquisition of shares in infrastructures.
Existing participations such as "citizens' wind farms" and energy cooperatives should be substantially expanded and also applied to grid-based infrastructures - for example, in the area of electricity and broadband networks.
Grids in the hands of citizens strengthen public acceptance of infrastructure facilities.
Municipal bonds can also generate investment funds for municipal projects.
They can make an important financial contribution.
The subscribers of such bonds also recognize the specific purpose of certain projects.
One area of application could be the expansion of broadband networks for faster Internet connections.
It is necessary that the municipalities themselves decide on such projects
and that the budgetary and decision-making sovereignty of the democratically elected bodies in cities, municipalities and districts is preserved.
In addition, we want to strengthen cooperative forms of organization in all areas and therefore the legal requirements for facilitated start-ups,
Better funding conditions from the Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW)
and the promotion of cooperative shares, particularly in building and housing cooperatives.
We want to create an uncomplicated "micro cooperative" for small cooperative forms of enterprise, such as the establishment of daycare centers by parent initiatives.
A new social consensus for progress and infrastructure.
An efficient infrastructure is the backbone of a strong economy.
We want to achieve a new social consensus for progress and infrastructure by involving citizens earlier and more intensively in the planning and implementation of infrastructure projects
and accelerating planning procedures.
For us, citizen participation is not an antithesis, but a component of modern economic and infrastructure policy.
We rely on the sense of responsibility and expertise of citizens and want to involve them earlier and more strongly in the planning processes.
More participation is not limited to more transparency and co-decision-making, but also extends to material participation.
Investment opportunities for citizens to participate in future markets and infrastructures with moderate potential returns (e.g. in the area of energy transition) can strengthen acceptance and identification.
They should be expanded and funding should be explored.
Our country needs a fresh start in transport policy with clear priorities.
Good mobility policy ensures economic competitiveness, maintains and creates jobs, and contributes to prosperity and quality of life.
The process of Europe growing together and globalization has only become possible through mobility.
However, increasing mobility, the growth of freight and transit traffic, and ever longer travel distances with ever faster means of transport are also leading to ever greater burdens on people and the environment.
Future mobility must therefore also be economically viable,
socially just and
be ecologically sensible.
It is oriented toward long-term goals and long-lasting effects.
Securing mobility in the long term is therefore a key task for the future.
That is why we will transform federal transport infrastructure planning into cross-modal network planning in line with European transport needs, focusing on the reliable functioning of the transport network as a whole.
To achieve this, we need a resilient funding basis:
Our transport systems are chronically underfunded today - it is becoming increasingly difficult to maintain the substance.
We want to make sufficient funds reliably available for federal transportation routes.
Also for bridge structures in road and rail transport.
We want to get more traffic onto the railways and inland waterways and drastically reduce the number of traffic jams on Germany's roads.
We will therefore set up a National Transport Infrastructure Program, into which 80 percent of new construction and expansion funds will flow.
In this way, we will eliminate the bottlenecks on highly congested traffic axes as quickly as possible.
Punctuality and reliability must once again become the hallmarks of the railroad.
That's why we want a "Deutschland-Takt" of connections that function nationwide and are coordinated with each other.
We also aim to significantly increase capacity for rail freight by 2030.
To this end, we will improve rail links to our seaports and inland ports.
This relieves the environment
and road traffic.
To ensure that stations and tracks are restored to good condition as quickly as possible, we will use our influence to ensure that the infrastructure is strengthened
and that sufficient funds flow into the rail network and station refurbishments.
We reject the dismantling and privatization, even partial privatization, of Deutsche Bahn.
We want to improve protection against rail and other traffic noise.
We will ensure that noise remediation funding for rail is doubled to 200 million euros annually.
We support the abolition of the rail bonus
and will introduce an effective noise-based train path pricing system.
We also want to improve noise protection at airports and on roads.
We need an air traffic concept coordinated between the federal and state governments.
To keep mobility affordable, we want to improve the energy efficiency of transport and significantly reduce its CO emissions.
To this end, we will drive forward the technical enhancement of the efficiency of existing drive systems,
the development and market launch of new drives and fuels
and promote an ecologically and economically efficient organization of transport and logistics.
We want our traffic routes to be safer.
That is why we give high priority to road safety and work in this area - both professional and voluntary.
We want municipal and rural roads to be in good condition and without potholes,
and for public transport to run smoothly.
Of particular importance is full participation also of people who are limited in their mobility.
We want everyone to be able to move around without barriers.
In return, if the states receive investment funds for municipal transport infrastructure, they should undertake to use the funds for the purpose of municipal and regional transport infrastructure.
We are committed to the further expansion of bike lanes.
Germany needs fast Internet - for everyone, everywhere.
That's why we want nationwide coverage with fast Internet connections as quickly as possible.
In addition, we will drive forward the further expansion of the high-speed data network.
ii.5 secure and affordable energy - making the energy transition a success
After the nuclear phase-out, the world is looking to Germany.
If the energy turnaround succeeds, it can become a growth model for emerging economies such as China and India and
thus help climate protection achieve a breakthrough worldwide.
Because one thing is clear: The energy turnaround means the fundamental restructuring of the energy supply and a quantum leap for the modernization of our national economy.
The energy transition combines energy saving, energy efficiency and renewable energies.
This applies to all areas of application: electricity, heat and mobility.
The ultimate goal is to avoid unnecessary energy consumption as well,
so that energy remains affordable for all income groups by decreasing consumption.
However, the opportunities and prospects of the energy transition are at risk.
The cornerstones of our energy supply - security of supply, affordability and environmental compatibility - are beginning to falter.
Yet these form the foundation for the economic and social model in our country.
They are the prerequisite for Germany's broad industrial base - from basic materials production to high-tech service providers - whose great importance for stable economic development, prosperity
and jobs was once again impressively demonstrated in the recent financial and economic crisis.
They are important for the people in our country.
Interest and demand for future energies and energy efficiency are growing worldwide.
A successful energy transition is also a great opportunity for Germany as an industrial location.
With the know-how of their engineers and specialists, companies can benefit as equipment suppliers.
A transformation project of this kind requires an appropriate political framework and course-setting.
With its "management", the federal government of CDU/CSU and FDP is well on the way to driving the energy transition against the wall.
With its zigzag course, it has become an incalculable risk to economic strength and jobs.
East Germany's strength in renewable energies must be exploited;
the necessary restructuring of the energy system can and will become "the" location issue for the future.
To this end, the expansion of offshore wind energy off the Baltic Sea coast is also indispensable.
Only offshore wind farms can produce large amounts of electricity on a renewable basis.
But we also (still) rely on conventional energy producers, such as coal and gas-fired power plants, as a bridging technology for as long as we need them.
The Federal Government's blatant inability to steer and coordinate has meant that there is no coordinated energy policy in Germany between the Federal Government, the Länder, local authorities and the other players in the energy transition.
Added to this is the constant tinkering with the support regime for renewable energies, which has permanently shaken the confidence of market participants in the energy policy framework.
The result is investment risks, planning uncertainty and rising electricity prices.
The lack of coordination with its European partners has also cost Germany a reputation as a reliable energy policy partner.
One of Germany's greatest industrial policy opportunities - the development of a competitive and sustainable energy infrastructure - is thus being carelessly squandered.
In this situation, a change in policy is required that does justice to the broad social responsibility for realizing the energy turnaround and thus making it a success.
Planning and investment security,
a stable power supply,
a high level of security of supply
and affordability must become the hallmarks of the ecological transformation of German energy policy.
Our goals:
The energy transition is the technological and economic challenge that will catapult Germany into the 21st century.
Our goals are clear: We want n better political coordination in the management of the energy transition;
n ensure the affordability of the energy transition and avoid further burdens for the manufacturing industry
and private households, for example by reducing the electricity tax;
n maintain the international competitiveness of the economy, especially the energy-intensive industry;
n the expansion of renewable energies
and drive forward the implementation of measures for greater energy efficiency by: aiming for 40 to 45 percent of electricity to come from renewable energies and 25 percent from combined heat and power generation, particularly through the expansion of district heating by 2020, and generating 75 percent of electricity from renewable sources by 2030;
n cover 20 percent of heating requirements with renewable energies;
n promote energy-efficient refurbishment of buildings that is affordable for tenants;
n significantly increase energy productivity and double it by 2020 compared to 1990 levels;
n the strengthening of decentralized structures with an essential design mandate for the municipalities and their companies.
Establish a management for the energy transition.
The energy turnaround will only succeed if the German government assumes a central coordinating role and effective management.
The coexistence of seventeen energy concepts at the federal and state levels is damaging the energy transition.
Only a coordinated approach to the expansion of renewable energies and the expansion of the grid will ensure security of supply, create investment security, and promote the system integration of renewable energies.
What is needed, therefore, are new governance structures that bundle competencies in energy policy and institutionalize regular coordination and cooperation between the federal government, the states and neighboring European countries.
We want to bundle competencies, especially in the areas of renewable energies, grid expansion and storage, in an energy ministry.
In addition, the federal government must play its role at the European level in closer coordination than before with its European partners.
The federal government must also ensure that the energy concepts of the federal states are coordinated with the energy policy of the federal government.
A "German Energy Council" is to be set up in the newly created Ministry of Energy to institutionalize the coordination processes between the federal, state and local governments, with the involvement of business, science, trade unions and civil society, and to ensure continuous cooperation and coordination.
Due to the technological characteristics of renewable energies and the liberalization of energy markets, the energy turnaround is combined with a significant decentralization of energy supply structures.
In this context, municipalities with their diverse functions - as planning authorities for the siting of EEG plants, as owners of around 176,000 buildings, as the largest public purchasers of environmentally friendly goods and investments, and as suppliers of electricity and heat through municipal energy companies - are particularly important players for the successful implementation of the decentralized energy transition.
We create legal certainty for municipalities when taking over distribution grids.
For many years, cities, municipalities and districts have been providing high-quality energy advice for private households in close cooperation with municipal energy suppliers, the municipal credit industry and municipal housing companies, but also together with charitable associations, consumer advice centers and energy advice agencies.
We will expand energy consulting for private households, homeowners and businesses, further promote successful cooperations and significantly broaden them with new incentives.
We want to set up a Bundestag committee on energy to implement the energy turnaround.
An "energy transition master plan" must be drawn up and updated annually.
The master plan is being drawn up following extensive consultation with the stakeholders in the energy transition and is intended to bring together all the key aspects of renewable energy generation and use, grid expansion and storage technology, the provision of conventional generation capacity, and energy efficiency potential.
Setting the course for a new electricity market regime.
The Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG) passed by the red-green coalition in 2000 has led to an internationally unprecedented expansion of renewable energies - today they already account for over 25 percent of electricity consumption.
However, over-subsidization in some areas has also led to a drastic increase in the EEG surcharge and thus to a rise in electricity prices.
Conversely, the lower electricity prices on the procurement side, which are attributable to the high level of electricity generation from renewables, have not been passed on to electricity consumers by the utilities, or at least not to any great extent.
In addition, the expansion of the power grids is not keeping pace with the expansion of renewable energies.
Another side effect of the success of renewables is the consequences for conventional power plants.
Due to the expansion of renewable energies, the operating hours of conventional power plants are decreasing and thus their economic viability.
Therefore, no new power plants will be built and existing plants will be shut down.
This poses risks to security of supply.
Because as long as renewable energies are not able to supply electricity in line with demand, highly efficient controllable power plants must continue to be available.
We want to promote the expansion of renewable energies in a socially and environmentally compatible manner
and fundamentally redesign the system of electricity pricing under the premises of security of supply and affordability.
This, along with increasing energy efficiency and saving energy, is crucial to the success of the energy transition.
We want a fundamental reform of the EEG that ensures long-term and predictable expansion, consistently limits costs,
and keeps an eye on electricity prices.
Therefore, the EEG must be aligned in such a way that misdirection is ruled out in the future.
Feed-in priority for renewable energies is still necessary.
Technical progress and innovations in the field of renewable energies will lead to a reduction in manufacturing costs in the medium to long term.
This makes it possible to gradually reduce the feed-in tariff.
With their steadily growing share of electricity generation, renewables must take on more responsibility for stable supply.
We want to link renewable energies with each other (e.g. wind with water and/or biomass), renewable energies and fossil energy generation as well as renewable energies and consumption management in such a way that electricity is available in line with demand.
Renewables must and can also provide system services, such as reactive power and storage.
Incentives for increased full load hours per plant can contribute to cost relief in the system view.
In a future electricity market, secured capacities must be available to complete electricity generation from renewables at any time.
We want to solve the regional problems pragmatically in the short term and gain experience first before creating comprehensive capacity markets for financing power plants.
In the future, power plants must be able to operate flexibly in order to complement each other.
European power plant capacities must be taken into account.
Drive forward modernization and expansion of network infrastructure.
The expansion of the grids is not keeping pace with the expansion of renewable energies.
So far, the expansion of renewables has been uncontrolled and without regard to the availability and performance of the grid infrastructure.
The result is regional grid bottlenecks and interconnections of generation plants, which are economically inefficient and increase the risk of supply shortages.
It is necessary to synchronize the expansion of renewables with the expansion of the grid infrastructure.
A high level of grid stability and security of supply can only be ensured in the long term if the grid integration of renewable energies succeeds in an efficient and system-optimized manner.
Expansion and modernization is required at all network levels, both in the transmission and distribution networks.
Regional distribution grids must be upgraded to "intelligent" line systems because more and more consumers are becoming generators and feeding their electricity into the grid irregularly.
The supraregional transmission grids must be upgraded or expanded with innovative technology as needed, such as high-voltage direct current transmission, to connect the generation centers in the north with the load centers in the south of Germany.
We aim to merge the transmission networks into one Deutsche Netz company.
The public sector participates in Netz-AG (and its earnings) by investing in the connection of offshore parks and other important large-scale projects, thus performing a steering function.
Incentive regulation must better reflect innovations and investments in the distribution networks than has been the case to date.
Grid operations must be able to respond more intelligently to increasing feed-in at lower voltage levels to ensure system stability.
Incentive regulation must be designed in such a way that it promotes the development of smart grids, electricity storage and complementary capacities.
Making energy demand more flexible ("demand-side management") also contributes to grid stability and cost reduction.
In addition to the remuneration of disconnectable loads of large consumers, the potential of small and medium-sized enterprises as well as private consumers must also be used for this purpose.
For acceptance and enforceability of energy infrastructure projects, early consultation and participation of the affected population in cooperation with the municipalities is indispensable.
Direct participation by the population is also helpful, e.g. in the form of "citizen wind farms", energy cooperatives, grid participation, etc.
We will establish a clearinghouse for nature conservation and the energy transition.
As a contact point for municipalities, citizens' initiatives, planning authorities, the energy industry and environmental associations, it is intended to reconcile the interests of the energy transition and nature conservation.
We need more cross-border interconnectors with our neighboring countries to create an efficient European power grid.
Storage technologies must be promoted as a complement to grid expansion.
New storage technologies are to be developed at full speed and tested on an industrial scale so that they will be available in the medium and long term.
European storage options, such as water storage in Scandinavia and the Alps, should also be promoted.
The current Atomic Energy Act gives operators of nuclear power plants the choice, after they have been decommissioned, between applying for approval of a "safe enclosure" and for decommissioning of a nuclear power plant.
"Safe containment" is an unacceptable procedure for the public in dealing with decommissioned nuclear power plants.
We want to delete this option in the Atomic Energy Act.
We will not only adhere to the nuclear phase-out resolutions in Germany,
but will also campaign internationally for greater safety at nuclear power plants or for their shutdown.
Also, the export of nuclear technology, for example for the construction of new reactors abroad, must not be supported.
We are redesigning the search for a national nuclear waste repository with broad societal participation based on transparent scientific criteria in order to achieve a societal and political consensus.
There is still a lack of abundant and basic information to assess the impacts and risks of fracking technology.
We advocate for a ban on the use of fracking until all risks to health and the environment have been assessed and ruled out.
This moratorium is to last until fracking methods are available without the use of toxic chemicals that lead to harmful alteration of groundwater and drinking water.
Make energy efficiency a priority.
Consistently increasing energy efficiency is the right response to rising energy prices.
It is also the most cost-effective measure for effective climate protection.
Innovative technologies are available not only in the transport and housing sectors, but also in so-called cross-sectional technologies (e.g. lighting, cooling, pumps, motors, compressed air) that drastically reduce electricity requirements.
In the case of energy taxes, tax concessions may only be granted to industry in the future if it can be demonstrated, within the framework of appropriate energy management, that energy consumption has actually been reduced to the extent that is economically feasible.
The significant expansion of decentralized, efficient and climate-friendly combined heat and power (CHP) generation is one of the key contributions to achieving energy and climate protection targets.
We want to create incentives for the expansion of CHP by companies and private individuals
and provide the necessary infrastructure measures for local and district heating.
Building renovation still offers great potential for energy savings.
We want to significantly increase the KfW program for energy-efficient building refurbishment again.
Local craft businesses from the SME sector are the main beneficiaries of the construction contracts.
The funds are to be made available for specific purposes with little administrative effort.
In order to achieve the highest possible efficiency gain, the CO2 building renovation program should base its funding on the actual energy saved and not on the efficiency standard achieved.
So far, the focus has been on improving the energy efficiency of individual buildings.
In the future, the focus will have to be more on increasing the energy efficiency of housing associations, urban neighborhoods and residential areas.
In doing so, we will ensure that tenants are not forced out of their refurbished apartments.
The moribund European emissions trading system must be reactivated.
It must once again become the central market-based instrument to stimulate investment in energy efficiency.
European consumption standards for cars, household appliances, lighting, which have so far lagged far behind the technical possibilities, should be based on the advanced state of technical development without specifying particular technologies (top-runner approach).
The energy transition must be designed in a socially responsible way.
The energy transition does not come for free.
This makes it all the more important to implement them efficiently
and share the burden fairly.
Germany already has some of the highest electricity prices in Europe.
Just under half of the electricity price is taxes, levies and surcharges.
The aim must be to reduce the burden on both the ordinary electricity customer
as well as for the industry producing in Germany.
Price reduction potentials on the generation and consumption side must be exploited.
Citizens Project from the Citizens Convention on March 2, 2013: "Like mines, energy companies should be liable for consequential damages by setting aside reserves. "
We ensure that the costs of nuclear waste and the demolition of nuclear power plants are borne by the polluters in any case.
The cleanup of unsuitable nuclear repositories such as Asse II is to be co-financed by a higher nuclear fuel tax.
The share of taxes and levies in the total electricity price has increased significantly in recent years and should be reduced.
The electricity tax must be reduced noticeably.
We want to introduce basic services that are largely exempt from tax.
This can be financed by increased revenues from the value-added tax on the EEG levy.
To ensure that all income groups can afford energy-efficient appliances and systems, we will offer energy advice as well as support programs with microloans and grants for private households.
and small companies.
In the case of benefit recipients, it must be ensured that subsidies are not offset against basic benefits.
iii. EducAtion, EquAlitAtion And coLiving in A moDeRn socIety
Social democratic policies want to enable all people to lead a self-determined life.
All people should have equal opportunities and prospects, regardless of origin, gender, ideology or existing disability.
Freedom, by this we mean not only a freedom from something, but also a freedom to something: the freedom to develop, to participate and to decide for oneself.
It's about taking your life into your own hands, being able to make something out of your life.
The fact that freedom is not an empty promise but a reality that applies to everyone is our claim to a modern and just society.
Education is the key to a self-determined and free life.
That is why, for us social democrats, education is a fundamental right, for
all people, regardless of their purse, origin, skin color, religion or gender.
An efficient and socially just education system is crucial for the individual life chances of our children
and at the same time a central prerequisite for economic success
and social cohesion in our country.
Our educational policy is characterized by solidarity, mutual support and the strengthening of individual abilities.
The progress and success of a society are also measured by how people live and work together.
Only an equal society is a modern society.
And only an equal economy is a future-proof economy.
Equality and self-determination make it possible to break out of entrenched roles and share the challenges of everyday life, work and family as partners without one of the partners losing out.
For this, we need clear rules for business and a policy of cooperation.
Gender equality policy in Germany needs new impetus and a modern mission statement.
We want to focus on the entire life course of women and men and offer a tailored framework that gives everyone the same choices and opportunities for participation at every stage of life.
We want a consistent gender equality policy across all policy areas.
"Gender mainstreaming should once again be the guiding principle in government action.
iii.1 equal opportunities and advancement through education
International comparisons show the high dependence of educational success on social background.
Financial barriers in particular reinforce social disadvantages and keep people away from education.
Our goal is tuition-free education from daycare to college.
Where we bear responsibility, there are no tuition fees
and daycare fees are gradually being abolished wherever possible.
And we support people in school, vocational training and university if they need help.
Only the goals and desires, the zeal and potential of the people should decide on educational paths.
Our goal is to create an efficient and socially just education system in which individual promotion is lived.
We want to enable advancement through education
and realize equal opportunities in the education system.
We want everyone to have equal opportunities to develop their potential from the start
Early childhood education is crucial to equal starting opportunities.
That is why we must both expand the supply of daycare centers to meet demand and increase the quality of the educational content.
The legal entitlement to a daycare place must be fully implemented so that children's educational opportunities are no longer determined by where they live or the amount of daycare fees they pay.
In order to achieve equal opportunities, there must be freedom from fees.
We must therefore provide adequate funding for those who provide daycare places, especially the municipalities.
This is another reason why we will abolish the anti-educational childcare allowance.
We will invest the up to 2 billion euros that this would cost annually in the medium term entirely in expanding daycare centers and daycare services.
Kitas are early childhood educational institutions with a wide range of services for children and their families.
This includes individual support for all children, including targeted language support to improve the integration of children who are disadvantaged due to their social situation or their parents' low German language skills.
The increased requirements must also be reflected in good, inclusive and practice-oriented training for specialist staff.
We will support this from the federal side by launching a skilled worker offensive for educators.
In the school sector, we want more and better all-day programs
and longer joint learning to achieve more equal opportunities.
All-day school is a successful model that provides more time for learning.
Here there are opportunities for targeted support for each and every individual and for dealing with heterogeneous learning groups.
Together with the states, we want to gradually offer all-day places to everyone who wants them - regardless of where and in what type of school.
However, as part of a second all-day school program, we also want to improve the quality of the offerings and promote the necessary teaching and specialist staff.
Only with them can we really leverage the great potential of all-day schools and fill them with life.
We are convinced that good and effective school social work can make an important contribution to creating good all-day schools and inclusive education, and to improving transitions in the education system.
We therefore remain committed to working with the states to expand school social work.
We will therefore first ensure that the federal funds we pushed through in the 2011 education and participation package will continue to be available in the future so that the school social workers deployed can continue their successful work.
From daycare to adult education, inclusion is a fundamental principle for us and an integral part in all educational institutions.
Sports and exercise play an important role in this.
Our goal is to create equal educational opportunities and a right to participation for all children and young people.
We want to prepare the creation of an inclusive education system carefully and accompany it with intensive dialog with all stakeholders.
Better, individual support for students with an immigrant background is also a key prerequisite for equal educational opportunities.
The foundations must already be laid in the daycare center,
but schools must also make a contribution to compensate for existing deficits, especially in language support, and to create the conditions for a successful educational career together with parents.
We see natural bilingualism or multilingualism as an important potential that can be realized through targeted language support.
School quality is an important concern for us, because here, too, our fundamental conviction is that performance and social justice in the education system are two sides of the same coin.
Good education is inconceivable without professional, dedicated teachers.
We want to strengthen the status of teacher training at universities.
We also want to expand teacher training opportunities for those already in the workforce to help them prepare for new responsibilities.
It is a reasonable expectation of our school system that moves from one state to another do not create unnecessary problems.
The path already taken toward greater comparability and mobility through the introduction of national educational standards is the right one and must be consistently pursued further.
Citizens' Project from the Citizens' Convention on March 2, 2013: "Federal Government to Get Legislative Authority for Education by Amending the Basic Law".
The major challenges we face in education and science require new forms of cooperation between the federal, state and local governments.?
With the ban on cooperation in education, politics has taken a wrong turn.
We want to replace it with cooperative educational federalism by lifting the ban on cooperation in education in the Basic Law, and we advocate a new Basic Law Article 104c that would allow permanent federal financial aid for education and science.
The SPD will ensure that the national educational standards already agreed between the states are also implemented in a binding manner.
This will significantly improve the comparability of school-leaving qualifications.
National standards are to be developed in additional subjects, particularly for the upper secondary school level.
This is how we make the Abitur comparable nationwide.
The further expansion of the public education infrastructure and the mastering of the major challenges in education and science require massive investments
, but these are worthwhile not least from an economic perspective:
Investments in education can better meet future demand for skilled workers.
At the same time, social follow-up costs resulting from insufficient or omitted investments in education can be avoided.
We want to massively increase state spending on education.
Starting in 2014, we want to gradually invest an additional 20 billion euros a year in education.
Of this, the federal government is to provide 10 billion euros.
The states are to be strengthened in their own financial capacity to act in such a way that they can invest an additional 10 billion euros in education.
We are sticking to our goal of raising public spending on education in Germany to at least the average level of the OECD countries.
With 20 billion euros more per year, we are a big step closer to the goal of seven percent of gross domestic product for education, thus creating the basis for a new educational awakening in Germany.
Strengthen dual training as the mainstay of skilled labor training and avert a shortage of skilled workers.
Good vocational training and the continuous qualification and further training of employees are the basis for economic success and securing the skilled workforce of the future.
Many young people still have problems entering the workforce.
Every year, more than 80,000 young people still fail to obtain a training place and almost 270,000 young people are stuck in measures without achieving qualifying training.
And it is unacceptable that young people are disadvantaged in their search for training or a job simply because of their name or origin.
We want to give young people a smooth start to their lives.
Sector-specific training funds supported by trade unions and employers' associations can increase the supply of in-company training places.
With the vocational training guarantee, we will give every young person a clear and fully-fledged qualification perspective, focusing first and foremost on strengthening in-company training places.
By bundling and intensifying the numerous counseling services and working together with the vocational schools, we will make it easier for them to enter vocational training and promote the transition to dual vocational training.
In doing so, we also want to ensure that girls and boys start their careers equally well advised.
Particularly against the backdrop of the shortage of skilled workers in the field of mathematical, scientific and technical professions as well as social, educational and health professions, we want a pre-training counseling guarantee for young people that ensures binding information on all career and earning opportunities for girls and boys.
Although there are around 350 apprenticeship occupations, almost 80 percent of young people only settle on around 40 career options.
For the Social Democrats, the dual system of vocational training is an efficient and supporting pillar of skilled labor training in Germany, on a par with academic training paths.
We want to continue to build on this strength of dual training.
However, a good apprenticeship does not only include a training position.
The quality of training must also be right.
We want to improve the quality of school education
and improve the conditions in the companies providing training and will therefore launch a quality offensive for in-company training together with the collective bargaining partners.
For us, this also includes a minimum training allowance.
We will strengthen the three- and three-and-a-half-year training programs again.
We will strengthen vocational upgrading training by improving funding and providing better support for graduates on their way to entrepreneurial responsibility.
We want to improve the transitions from early childhood education to elementary schools, from primary to secondary education, and from general education to vocational training.
Transitions between different types of schools should also be made easier.
We welcome school board diversity where it is consistent with these goals.
We are committed to strengthening spaces of non-formal education, as this is where equally important outcomes in educational processes are achieved.
Good universities are engines for the successful and sustainable development of our society.
As educational institutions and as central places of science, universities are engines of successful and sustainable development in our society.
Providing a good course of study for all students - this must play a prominent role at universities as well as in higher education policy in the coming years.
Academic education must meet the requirement of introducing students to independent and responsible work oriented to the principles of science.
The topic of good teaching and initiatives to improve the quality of teaching and studying belong at the center of our efforts in higher education policy, because good teaching is one, if not the essential quality feature of a good university.
For better teaching at universities, we will expand the "Good Teaching" pact.
More and more students with different educational biographies, social and cultural backgrounds and lifestyles are coming to universities - the universities must respond to this by offering targeted programs,
but also through better permeability between universities of applied sciences and universities.
We want to continue opening up universities to those with vocational qualifications by supporting universities in the creation and expansion of courses of study that do not require a high school diploma.
The increased student numbers are a success.
By expanding the Higher Education Pact, we want to address the increasing demand for studies and help universities to significantly expand their range of courses.
We advocate for the recognition of the bachelor's degree as the first professional qualification.
For us, a successfully completed bachelor's degree is a general master's admission qualification.
Together with the federal states, we want to strengthen the basic funding of universities on the basis of new constitutional possibilities in order to improve the quality of teaching in particular through reliable financial structures.
A good social infrastructure at universities is part of a good study program.
We want to expand the supply of affordable student housing, counseling options and dining halls to meet demand.
In future, the problems of students with children must also be better taken into account.
and childcare services at universities should be expanded.
Tuition-free studies
and a strong BAföG are important prerequisites for ensuring that financial reasons do not prevent anyone from studying.
We want to further develop the BaföG in line with demand.
We want to revitalize the student BAföG.
We want to phase out the Deutschlandstipendium introduced by the black-yellow government and use the funds freed up to improve BAföG.
Research and development for progress.
Strengthening science and research is of paramount importance for the future viability of our country.
Innovations from science and research contribute significantly to the modernization of our society and economy.
By funding research with public funds, we ensure that research and development take place in a socially responsible manner.
Research and development are crucial to mastering the great challenges of our time.
The energy transition and resource-efficient management, health and demography, social cohesion and digital security - we need new approaches from all scientific disciplines.
Good universities are inconceivable without research.
They make a central contribution to science and research in Germany.
By aligning research funding accordingly, we want to ensure that research at universities is funded in a way that reflects its central role in the science system.
The key lies in better basic funding for universities, for which the federal and state governments share responsibility.
The non-university research institutions are doing excellent work.
In order to enable them to plan reliably over a longer period of time, the federal and state governments have committed themselves in the Pact for Research and Innovation to increasing funding for the major research organizations every year.
We want to continue this reliable support in the future.
Science in Germany has gained significantly in international visibility as a result of the Excellence Initiative.
Strategic developments have been set in motion at many universities, interdisciplinary clusters have been established, and the expansion of graduate schools has gained momentum.
It is important that this positive development continues in the future.
The principle of "good work" must also apply in science and research.
We want more permanent employment opportunities for jobs in science and research
and reliable career prospects, also and especially beyond the tenured professorship, in order to improve the compatibility of family and career.
However, it is also clear that fixed-term and temporary contracts cannot be avoided in the case of qualification positions.
We will create minimum standards for fixed-term contracts in the Academic Fixed-Term Contracts Act
and provide the parties to collective bargaining with more room for maneuver.
In order to offer reliable career prospects to the numerous young scientists who have entered the German science system, especially as part of the Excellence Initiative, we need additional positions in all personnel categories: Professorships, junior professorships and mid-level academic staff.
Women are still significantly underrepresented in science and research.
We want to sustainably increase the proportion of women in the science system through target quotas oriented to the cascade model.
We want to achieve a share of at least 40 percent in scientific management bodies.
Transparency and participation in the definition of research goals and their funding are rightly demanded by civil society.
We are therefore setting up a science forum at the Federal Ministry of Education and Research in which civil society is ensured significant participation, especially in dealing with key issues of the future (e.g. climate change, energy transition, food security, urbanization, poverty reduction), in publicly funded projects.
The Science Forum also maintains its own Science Fund, through which participatory and transdisciplinary projects with a particular overall societal orientation can receive additional support.
No one should be left behind.
No one must be left behind.
Our education sector must always open up new opportunities and be permeable.
This has not yet been achieved in Germany.
On the contrary: 7.5 million people in Germany today do not have the necessary reading and writing skills.
Some 2.2 million young adults under 35 do not have a vocational qualification and remain mostly in low-paid unskilled jobs.
We want to open up new perspectives for these groups through targeted measures.
With a Literacy Decade, we want to expand direct basic education services.
We want to offer young adults without a high school diploma the opportunity to catch up on their education and gain a full qualification.
We want a legal right to continuing education for all, guaranteeing citizens good guidance and secure periods of time off.
With this in mind, we want to develop unemployment insurance into employment insurance.
We want to support the collective bargaining partners in concluding collective training agreements and securing them with training funds.
We want to help those professionals who are taking charge of their career advancement through education by taking courses or studying, regardless of their age or previous level of education.
We want to further develop the upgrading scholarship for those with vocational qualifications into a funding entitlement for studying without a high school diploma.
We want to ensure that the many people with foreign vocational and university qualifications no longer have to work below their qualification level or be considered unskilled.
The Recognition Act for Foreign Degrees passed in 2012 was in no way able to fulfill expectations of a turnaround in the restrictive recognition practice.
It is therefore necessary to speed up the recognition procedures,
to ensure that those affected receive personal advice
and any fees or costs incurred for adjustment measures at a socially acceptable level.
This is an essential prerequisite for social integration in our country.
Not only do the people concerned themselves benefit from a more consistent recognition of their educational qualifications,
it is also of great importance for our economy in times of a shortage of skilled workers.
iii.2 realizing equal rights and equality
We live in a diverse society where people lead very different lives.
We strive for a society in which every person can develop freely without violating the dignity and freedom of others.
We oppose any form of discrimination.
All forms of sexism and all forms of misogynistic behavior
and violence against women.
Politics must provide the tools for different life models.
Our mission statement is an open and socially just society in which everyone can be different without fear.
The comprehensive and equal opportunity to participate is a basic prerequisite for
people to see themselves as part of society and to become involved in it.
We want a society whose social cohesion is strengthened by mutual appreciation and recognition in dealing with each other in every situation.
We want a society that opposes all forms of discrimination
and promotes a culture of dissent when human rights and dignity are consciously or unconsciously violated,
and a state that effectively protects these dignities and rights.
We fight all forms of discrimination, whether on the basis of origin, gender, sexual identity, religion and belief, disability or age.
That is why we want to add sexual identity to the equality rights in Article 3 of the Basic Law.
We take decisive action against homophobia and contribute to the acceptance of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex people.
We will further develop the General Equal Treatment Act (AGG)
and ensure better funding for the Federal Anti-Discrimination Agency.
We respect and value religious freedom and religious
and ideological diversity in Germany.
Germany's great strength is its diverse society.
Integration takes place from the middle of society.
Being free in their decisions and realizing their own life plan - this is also what same-sex couples want.
Equalization of registered civil partnerships by means of court rulings alone is not a political option for us.
We want to open up marriage to same-sex civil partnerships and thus also put them on an equal footing in adoption law and tax law.
Not everyone feels they belong to the gender that was determined at birth.
And not everyone is born clearly female or male.
Aware of this reality, we advocate for respect for human dignity, gender self-determination, and the right to bodily integrity of trans and intersex people.
The roles of women and men have changed, as have the ideas of partnership and family.
People live in different models alone or with each other.
They are married or unmarried, they are single or divorced, single parents or in patchwork families.
They live in one or with two or three generations under one roof.
This requires a coherent policy that no longer merely makes disconnected repairs, but is oriented toward the course of life.
This also applies to income tax law.
Marital splitting favors single-earner marriages and the tax class combination III/V leads to an unreasonably high monthly burden on the lower income.
This prevents women from working and keeps them stubbornly in the role of additional earners.
Moreover, it is socially unfair:
the splitting advantage is greatest for top earners, on the one hand, and for couples with the greatest difference in income between partners, on the other.
We want to renew the tax system in such a way that taking up gainful employment is also worthwhile for married women
and that the diversity of family forms is taken into account.
We want to reduce the tax burden on single parents more than before.
We reject family splitting because it only favors top incomes.
In marriages and registered partnerships, partners stand up for each other.
For this reason, we want to introduce a partnership tariff for spouses instead of spousal splitting for future marriages after a cut-off date, in which both partners are taxed individually, but mutual maintenance obligations are taken into account.
We do not want to change anything for spouses who have based their life planning on the previous tax system.
Instead of the tax class combination III/V, we want to make the so-called factor method the norm.
Both incomes are taxed at the same average rate.
We want women and men to be on an equal footing in working life:
in terms of starting working life, wages, work-life balance, career advancement and participation in economic decisions.
More and more women are working.
Many of them are therefore still a long way from being financially self-supporting.
Women continue to be disadvantaged despite having the best education.
This gender discrimination in the labor market must end.
The fact that women earn considerably less than men is due to structural reasons, but by no means to any fault of their own.
Women must be paid the same as men for equal work of equal value.
With an Equal Pay Act, we will oblige companies to uncover and end wage discrimination against women.
Such a law will only be effective if companies are sanctioned for inaction.
A legal framework is also needed to tear down the glass ceiling for women.
We will therefore make a 40 percent gender quota mandatory for supervisory boards and management boards of listed and co-determined companies, partly because a more balanced management structure can improve corporate culture at all levels.
The public sector must lead by example when it comes to the participation of women in management positions.
We will work over the Federal Board Appointment Act and the Federal Equal Opportunity Act.
The public sector must lead by example.
We will start doing this in anticipation of statutory regulations when filling supervisory bodies and management positions in companies in which the federal government holds a majority stake.
We want to introduce binding regulations for the promotion of women in all company hierarchies in which they are underrepresented for the private sector, analogous to the Federal Equal Opportunity Act.
We want to create the space for people to better dispose of their time.
We want to give them more support in reconciling work, family and commitment.
The duration and location of working hours influence people's participation in social life and in cultural, social and voluntary activities.
We take a critical view of the general trend toward longer working hours again.
We support the unions in their efforts to give employees more time autonomy and reduce the burdens of excessive working hours.
There is a need both for family-friendly working hours in the workplace and
for better infrastructure and reliable legal entitlements in the education and care of children and those in need of care.
Fathers also want to become more involved in the family and invest more time.
They need our support in this.
Family working time is intended to allow parents to reduce their working hours on a temporary basis in partnership (e.g. 30-hour week) without this being at the expense of their professional development.
We will add a right to return to the old working hours to the Part-Time and Fixed-Term Employment Act for parents and family carers.
We will enforce the existing ban on discrimination in the Part-Time and Fixed-Term Employment Act.
Work must be compatible with life and family.
The aim is to better meet the needs of employees across different phases of their working lives.
Jobs at different hierarchical levels must be able to be performed flexibly with different weekly hours.
The possibilities of job sharing are to be expanded.
Working hours should follow the course of life.
To this end, we will concretize and strengthen the legal entitlement to reduced working hours.
We want to support companies in this revolution of the working model:
They need incentive systems for the introduction of lifetime work accounts and working time accounts that allow for short-term interruptions in work, e.g. for nursing and care, or longer interruptions for further training.
We also advocate greater co-determination for employees when working hours are reduced for operational reasons.
We need a new work culture.
It must be about results of work instead of compulsory attendance and overtime.
The possibilities of mobile and Internet-based forms of work can help create more time sovereignty for employees.
But: free time must be free time.
We support the collective bargaining partners in enabling flexibility in the interests of employees.
We want family-friendly and healthy working conditions instead of permanent workloads.
iii.3 Families come first
For the SPD, family is everywhere where people permanently take responsibility for each other.
This includes couples - whether with or without children and a marriage certificate - as well as single parents, patchwork or rainbow families, grandparents and people caring for their parents in need of care.
The family includes young and old.
For us, it's about generations living together in solidarity.
A modern family policy must provide good framework conditions to support families in realizing their different life plans in the best possible way and in living a modern partnership.
To achieve this, we need above all a family-friendly working environment,
good all-day education and childcare options,
and good material security for all children.
Our modern family policy is guided by this triad of infrastructure, time and money.
Citizen project from the Citizens' Convention on March 2, 2013: "Funding program of all-day day care centers and schools by the federal government".
We want to gradually establish a nationwide, needs-based supply of all-day childcare facilities throughout Germany
and all-day schools.
The legal entitlement to a place in a daycare center must be fully realized so that children's educational opportunities are no longer determined by the chance of where they live.
To achieve Chan-cen equality, there must be freedom from fees.
That is why we must provide adequate funding for those who provide daycare places, especially the municipalities.
This is another reason why we will abolish the anti-educational childcare allowance.
We will invest the up to 2 billion euros that this would cost annually in the medium term entirely in expanding daycare centers and daycare services.
The SPD has already enforced a legal right to a daycare place from the age of one.
We will develop this into a legal entitlement to all-day education and care.
A step-by-step plan is intended to provide a comprehensive range of all-day daycare centers.
and all-day schools.
We want good early childhood education.
Daycare centers are early childhood educational institutions with a wide range of services for children and their families.
Family centers provide important parent education and counseling services.
We want to continue to promote them.
We also want to further develop the quality of the facilities.
The increased demands on educators must also be reflected in good training.
We will support this from the federal level by launching a skilled worker offensive for educators.
Child day care must also be consistently integrated into the overall concept of high-quality early childhood education and care in order to offer parents an alternative to crèches or daycare centers when needed and to
realize the legal entitlement for children under the age of three in rural areas as well.
So far, however, their expansion has fallen well short of the targets set.
We will therefore work with the states to create better conditions for high-quality day care for children.
This includes, among other things, a more active steering role of the youth welfare offices in child day care,
stronger networking of child day care and child day care facilities as
well as better and supra-regionally comparable regulated qualification, further training and payment of day care staff.
We want all children to grow up in material security.
In addition to a good infrastructure, however, families also need good material security.
We want to ensure greater equity and targeting in family support.
Today, a top earner gets more relief for his children than a normal earner, this is unfair.
At the same time, the current system fails to effectively address material child poverty.
That is why we will turn the family benefit system upside down.
With our "socially graduated child benefit" we will introduce an income-dependent child benefit for low and lower middle incomes, into which we will integrate the existing child supplement.
In the future, it will provide above-average support to families with lower incomes rather than to those with the highest incomes.
For example, working families with two children and an income of less than 3,000 euros per month are to receive child benefits increased by up to 140 euros per child per month in the future.
All other families will receive child benefits of 184 euros per month per child, as before.
The previous tax advantage for families with high incomes that went beyond this is no longer applicable.
For third and further children, the increased child benefit rates remain in effect.
To finance the socially graduated child benefit, we will also subject family benefits to a review.
The New Child Benefit is an important supplement to the nationwide statutory minimum wage of 8.50 euros.
Minimum wage and New Child Benefit together ensure that parents who work full-time do not slip into indigence.
The comprehensive expansion of all-day programs in daycare centers and schools,
coupled with the New Child Benefit, is our social democratic basic provision for children.
It combines good educational opportunities for all children
with fair material security for families.
All children have a right to participate.
This right must be safeguarded.
The education package for needy children, which was introduced in 2011, does not meet this requirement in a satisfactory manner.
We will reform it.
In order to strengthen the children of single parents, we will expand the advance payment of maintenance
and provide better support for single parents in enforcing maintenance claims.
We want to create more time for family by providing better support for parents in balancing work, family and commitment.
We need more time for family.
In addition to a better infrastructure,
a family-friendly working environment is necessary.
Family working time should allow parents to reduce their working hours as partners for a limited period of time (e.g. 30-hour week) without this being at the expense of their professional development.
We want to ensure that part-time does not become a dead end.
Those who have gone part-time for family reasons should have a legal right to return to full-time work.
We will further develop the successful parental allowance in such a way that partnership is strengthened.
Today, mothers and fathers can only work part-time and receive parental benefits simultaneously for seven months.
We will change that: In the future, they too should be able to receive parental allowance for 14 months.
We will also allow single parents with joint custody to receive a maximum of 14 months of parental allowance if no parental allowance is claimed by the other parent.
We want to make the basic parental allowance for SGB II recipients free of charge again.
Due to demographic change, more and more people are in need of care.
Most of them are cared for by families.
The great challenge for the relatives of those in need of care has long since reached the families.
The double or triple burden on those affected often leads to breakdowns that neither the individual nor society can cope with.
It is important that women and men remain in the work process despite caring for relatives and do not have to leave permanently.
That is why it is urgently necessary for us to provide better support for relatives of those in need of care in reconciling work, care and care work.
We will link the ten-day time-out for relatives who need time at short notice to organize a new care situation with a wage replacement benefit similar to children's sick pay, building on the current statutory regulation.
For longer-lasting care situations, we want to develop a flexible care period with wage replacement benefits.
Employees who have reduced their working hours to care for dependents must be able to return to their old working hours.
Both measures are to be financed from long-term care insurance.
iii.  4 youth policy
Increased educational requirements, globalization of the economy and labor markets, pressure to perform and time pressure - the demands on young people have grown.
Due to these increased demands, public and social responsibility is needed more than ever to ensure that all young people grow up well.
We want to enable young people to discover their talents and develop their personalities.
We want to remove visible and invisible barriers that exist due to social, cultural, ethnic or health differences - as well as barriers based on gender or sexual identity.
We want to enable all young people to grow up well and advance through equal opportunities and genuine participation.
Customized frameworks must be designed to meet the diverse needs and circumstances of young people.
This can only be achieved with a coherent and cohesive youth policy that makes offers for different life situations tailored to the needs of young people.
It is necessary to understand and shape youth policy as a central policy field, as a policy for the future.
Good youth policy therefore leaves time and space for development.
Youth policy must be committed to the development of personality.
That is why we want to support all young people to go their own way and develop themselves through a self-determined life.
For this, young people need local, temporal, participatory and economic freedom.
Particularly in the transitions from school to vocational training or university and then to work, young people have to overcome obstacles and difficulties time and again.
We want a policy that forgives mistakes and grants second, third and every other chance a young person needs to find their way.
Good youth policy is "integrated social life course policy", which provides the optimal support in the respective life situation.
In order for young people to develop their personality, in order for them to use their freedom, they must be free from existential worries.
They need reliable social security.
That is why we focus on good work,
living wages,
social security - for the parents and for the young people themselves.
For older adolescents and young adults, the risk of poverty is particularly high if the transition to a living wage and socially secure employment is difficult or unsuccessful.
That's why we want to make it possible for all young people to complete their schooling and vocational training.
A fair start to working life and good work must follow.
In the process, we must not lose any young person.
BAföG must ensure that participation in education does not fail for lack of money.
Good youth policy provides good infrastructure.
To grow up well, young people need reliable structures and good services.
This includes educational offers
and leisure activities,
Mobility, access to the Internet and much more.
It is the task of local, state and federal governments to provide such services on a nationwide basis, in line with demand and in good quality as part of the provision of public services.
The municipalities have a special role to play here.
They need solid financial resources in order to be able to maintain and create new framework conditions for growing up well.
In this way, they make an important contribution to a strong democracy.
Because where social infrastructure breaks down, anti-democratic structures are strengthened.
For us, it is clear that youth work centers are just as much a part of basic services as daycare centers and schools.
Youth work must be strengthened and equipped to meet needs.
The child and youth plans of the federal and state governments are the central funding instruments for this.
This also includes sufficient support for the central infrastructure of youth associations.
We want to develop an overall strategy for young people to grow up well, involving all relevant policy areas and federal levels.
This overall strategy encompasses the four dimensions developed by the Federal Board of Youth Trustees in 2009 in its "Repositioning of Youth Policy."
These are protection and support policies,
Empowerment policy,
Participation policy
and generational policy.
A good youth policy must remain flexible.
This is because the conditions under which young people grow up are in flux, and the youth phase is constantly changing.
What constitutes good youth policy must therefore be constantly renegotiated.
We want to seek and conduct this dialog and provide appropriate structures for this purpose.
It is important to recognize young people as equal partners.
We want to lower the voting age to 16.
The structures of youth association work are a central instrument.
Youth associations are broadly and heterogeneously composed and democratically legitimized representatives of young people's interests.
We want to support and strengthen the structures of clubs, youth associations, youth initiatives and youth centers.
They can make important contributions in the context of developing an independent youth policy.
The voluntary commitment of young people in particular is important for the development of our civil society.
We see considerable need for improvement in the newly introduced Federal Volunteer Service.
We are committed to the consistent expansion of the tried-and-tested youth volunteer services.
We want to create transparency and legal certainty for youth volunteer services through a Voluntary Service Status Act
and achieve more recognition for volunteer service providers.
We also want to make targeted improvements to the framework conditions for young people's involvement.
For this reason, we will put socio-political involvement in clubs and associations on an equal footing with involvement in higher education policy when assessing the periods of support under BAföG.
We will also examine how we can give trainees more time autonomy for sociopolitical engagement.
Good youth policy aims at the full implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and thus the realization of the rights of children and young people.
We want to check every political measure, every law, to see if they are compatible with the internationally agreed children's rights.
We also want to anchor children's rights in the Basic Law.
Children and young people should grow up free from all forms of violence, including sexualized violence.
In order to take decisive action against sexualized violence and prevent it as early as possible to protect children and young people, we are increasingly promoting prevention concepts and measures.
We want to enable those affected to receive improved assistance.
We want to expand the criminal prosecution of child abuse by extending the criminal suspension and statute of limitations periods.
In addition, we see the independent reappraisal of past abuse as a challenge for society as a whole, which we will support.
iii.5 equal participation: For a modern integration policy
Germany is an open country.
We are committed to equal social coexistence in diversity.
Ultimately, rethinking integration policy also means overcoming the concept of integration and replacing it with the self-evident sociopolitical claim to participation.
All departments of the federal government must commit to this principle.
Together with the federal states, we therefore want to further develop the foreigners authorities into welcome authorities, into contact and guidance centers for integration and naturalization.
We need both a welcoming culture and a participation structure.
This is the only way to create freedom, equal opportunities, education and work for all.
But we also know that successful cooperation depends above all on social factors.
Differences in origin, religion or culture must not be suppressed,
but should not be declared a fundamental problem.
We stand up for all people in our country; we
resolutely oppose discrimination and prejudice.
An open society offers all religions the freedom to develop their faith within the framework of fundamental rights.
We see diversity as a resource for the future of our open society.
Legal equality and equal opportunities are the foundations of such a society.
Our goal is to ensure that cultural, ideological and religious diversity is taken into account as a matter of course within our basic constitutional and social order in politics and administration, business, art and culture.
But whether integration and coexistence succeed is decided in the community, in the districts, in the neighborhoods.
That is why local authorities must not be left alone to deal with the challenges of immigration and integration.
Neighborhoods that provide special welcome and integration services require targeted support.
The massive cuts to the "Socially Integrative City" program by the CDU/CSU and FDP have devastating consequences for local integration.
This concerns in particular the complete elimination of social-integrative measures, such as language acquisition or care for young people.
At the municipal level, we want to reinforce local alliances for participation and social cohesion with the involvement of migrant organizations.
We want to enable those who have immigrated to Germany to participate more.
Germany is a country of immigration and thrives on its diversity, the commitment and ideas of people from very different backgrounds.
Now we need to take the next step and become a naturalization country.
This includes modernizing citizenship and electoral law.
Therefore, we want to accept dual citizenship of citizens.
What we need is a citizenship law that reflects our increasingly diverse society,
opens up fair opportunities for participation and belonging for all,
and underscores Germany's self-image as a country open to the world.
In particular, we want Germany's children to be and remain German citizens.
Girls and boys born here should receive and retain German citizenship.
We will abolish the option obligation, which forces young people to choose a nationality when they reach the age of majority, and accept dual citizenship for citizens overall.
The option obligation is a mistake in integration policy and a bureaucratic monstrosity that imposes enormous administrative costs on the municipalities.
We want to enable foreign students who obtain a university degree or a comparable qualification (e.g. master craftsman's examination) in Germany to work in Germany without restrictions.
Cohesion in the cities is endangered if people who come from non-EU countries remain excluded from the right to vote in municipal elections, as has been the case up to now.
We will strive to achieve a constitutional amendment majority in the Bundestag so that every woman and man can claim the right to vote in local elections after five years of legal residence.
We will review integration support for potential improvements and the quality of integration courses,
including the working conditions of teachers.
We will facilitate family reunification.
The civil service gains its democratic legitimacy from the fact that it reflects the diversity of the population within its structures.
That is why we want to further open up the public sector to people with an immigrant background and significantly increase their share of the total workforce.
With further model tests, we will examine whether anonymized applications are also suitable for achieving this goal.
We also want to strengthen the intercultural competence of our employees.
For a humane refugee policy.
The SPD stands for a humane refugee policy.
The causes of flight - persecution, war and civil war, discrimination and poverty in the countries of origin - must be combated in order to open up prospects for people in their home countries.
We want to offer protection in Germany and the European Union to people who nevertheless have to flee.
Protection is particularly needed for girls and women who have been victims of human trafficking or violence.
In accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, we will quickly ensure that all children are finally treated as children in German refugee law.
We want to abolish the so-called residence obligation for asylum seekers and tolerated persons and, in order to distribute costs fairly among the states and the municipalities, limit it to a residence requirement that
must also be enforced.
In view of the very low number of cases, the so-called airport procedure is of little significance today.
Therefore, we want to suspend the procedure, which is associated with considerable restrictions.
We also want to enable asylum seekers and tolerated persons to take part in integration courses in the future, subject to the availability of course places.
We will reform benefits for asylum seekers in line with the requirements of the Federal Constitutional Court
and facilitate access to the labor market.
In order to give tolerated people living in Germany for a long time a perspective, we want to create a more far-reaching right to stay regulation:
We will amend the Residence Act so that young people and adolescents who have so far been obliged to leave the country after successfully completing their schooling, as well as other persons who have been obliged to leave the country, will be granted a right to stay irrespective of the cut-off date in cases of sustainable integration.
We will advance a refugee policy in the EU that complies with human rights,
including solidarity-based compensation.
Together with the UNHCR, we will expand and consolidate a nationwide resettlement program for contingent refugees.
EU member states are currently facing poverty migration from Southeastern Europe.
Asylum seekers from Serbia or Macedonia, but also EU citizens from Romania and Bulgaria, leave their countries of origin to escape the precarious conditions in which they live.
Only a few of those coming from outside the EU have a chance of being recognized as refugees.
Poverty-induced internal EU migration poses enormous challenges, especially for municipalities.
The affected communities need federal support quickly.
The SPD will provide an emergency federal program for cities particularly affected by poverty immigration.
The program is intended to address immigrants and their children as well as the local population in order to enable the joint development of urban districts and neighborhoods, to
ensure peaceful coexistence and to
finance the cities' educational and integration services.
However, a rapid improvement in living conditions in the countries of origin is also crucial here.
EU Member States must ensure the protection of their minorities in law and in fact.
iii.6 cultural, media and network policy
Art and culture enrich us, are diverse, critical, lively and stimulating.
In their intrinsic value, they are essential for an open and democratic society.
Their promotion is not a subsidy, but an investment in the future.
And this investment must first and foremost go to the artists themselves - to secure their livelihoods.
For social democrats, the focus is on artists.
The SPD is the party of work - including artistic and creative work.
The working and living conditions of artists are changing, especially due to digitalization.
We want to shape the framework conditions in such a way that cultural and creative professionals can make a living from their work.
This requires, first, a reform of copyright law that recognizes the right of authors to their intellectual property in the digital world as well and balances the interests of authors, users and exploiters.
Secondly, this requires better social security for creative professionals.
We launched the social insurance for artists a good thirty years ago.
Today, KSK is a success story and is growing in attractiveness.
We must therefore strengthen it so that it can continue to provide solidarity-based funding for the protection of the artistically and creatively self-employed in the future.
At the same time, people who work in the creative industries must have a place in the traditional social systems.
We want to provide better protection for solo self-employed workers, temporary workers and other forms of precarious employment, for example by extending the qualifying period for unemployment insurance to three years,
by including solo self-employed workers in statutory pension insurance,
and by enforcing minimum social standards and fees in publicly funded projects and institutions.
For social democrats, participation is a crucial principle in cultural policy as well.
Art and culture should be accessible to all.
We want to use public cultural funding to enable a broad range of cultural offerings at socially acceptable prices.
At the same time, publicly funded cultural institutions must reach as many people as possible with their offerings.
In Germany, a country of immigration, this also means embracing the diversity of lifestyles, cultures and world views.
And finally, we need cultural education to enable participation in the first place and to awaken a desire for culture.
We don't just call for "culture for all", we create conditions for it.
We want to promote art for its own sake and not only when it serves economic, social or political purposes.
Artistic freedom and the state's responsibility for cultural policy are compatible.
Our goal is to strengthen places of social encounter and conversation both independently of the art market and culture industry and in cooperation with them.
We want to maintain and strengthen the existing cultural infrastructure.
n In view of increasingly scarce public funds, structural changes in public funding for culture are unavoidable.
We will ensure that the federal, state and local governments coordinate their funding activities more closely than in the past and set joint priorities in the sense of a conceptual cultural policy (including greater commitment to the independent scene and cultural education).
The prerequisite is the lifting of the ban on cooperation in favor of a jointly structured concept of cultural promotion.
n The protection and preservation of historical monuments are among the most important cultural policy tasks of the federal, state and local governments.
In order to preserve the cultural heritage,
but also with a view to the jobs associated with it, we are advocating a continuation of the special program for the protection of historical monuments.
The SPD advocates that the federal government participate in the Bauhaus anniversary in 2019.
n The commemoration of the two German dictatorships must not lead to a relativization of the Nazi reign of terror, nor must the injustice of the SED dictatorship be trivialized.
The SPD is committed to coming to terms with the injustices of the SED and wants to develop them further.
We will appoint a commission of experts to evaluate the work of the Stasi Records Authority to date and make proposals for its future.
We want to strengthen the "European Network Remembrance and Solidarity".
It is intended to form the nucleus for an evolving European historiography, in the spirit of European reconciliation and democracy.
We want to intensify exchanges and joint projects with European neighbors.
n We want to continue the successful model of the German Federal Film Fund (DFFF) and strengthen it financially in order to keep Germany internationally competitive as a film location
and to strengthen the economy and employment in the German film industry.
For us, the goal of funding is to ensure a broad diversity of filmmaking in Germany.
This also includes independent children's film.
n Conveying the positive image of a cosmopolitan Germany to the world, fostering friendships and making friends are important tasks of cultural relations and education policy.
It is characterized by an inward and outward open exchange for freedom, emancipation and development of poorer countries, for crisis prevention and crisis management.
The SPD is in favor of also developing a common European foreign cultural policy that has an external and internal impact and thus - together with the European cultural promotion policy - conveys a common idea of Europe that promotes cultural diversity in Europe and can strengthen cohesion in Europe - beyond economic interests.
For us, network policy is social and future policy and an instrument for shaping the digital world.
It belongs in the middle of the political debate.
First and foremost, we care about access to the Internet as a democratic civil right.
To achieve this, we need to strengthen civil rights through effective data protection and the protection of personal rights.
We want digital opportunities for shaping daily life, for participation and also for social services to be used in such a way
that citizens can continue to have sovereign control over their personal data in the future.
On the Internet and social networks, we are in favor of a legal regulatory framework that protects consumers,
guarantees diversity of opinion
and ensures fair competition.
We are committed to this at national level and in Europe.
We want to ensure nationwide broadband coverage, including in rural areas, by means of a universal service obligation.
In addition, we need the dynamic expansion of high-speed networks.
In doing so, we are relying on additional private investment, for which we will create the appropriate framework conditions.
We will enshrine net neutrality in law.
We want to ensure that access to WLAN is made possible in public spaces.
The SPD will lobby for a change in WLAN operator liability to create more legal certainty for providers.
We also want more transparency of state knowledge through open data projects,
social security in the digital world of work
and the use of emancipatory freedom through digital work, also for a better work-life balance
, and finally, the use of the opportunities of the digital society for a revitalization of democracy.
However, the changes in our society brought about by the Internet must not lead us to relativize the protection of individual rights.
Even in the digital world, authors must be able to derive an economic return from the use of their works.
We are therefore committed to modernizing copyright law in a way that empowers creators, authors and their partners and brings the law in line with new digital usage practices.
The connection between the author and the work is unbreakable and may not be called into question.
Intellectual property is the raw material of the cultural and creative industries.
The unbreakable link between author and work must not be relativized.
The protection of intellectual property is therefore essential for the SPD.
Nevertheless, copyright law needs to be modernized in order to strengthen creators and authors in the digital economy and to clarify the framework conditions of new digital usage practices in a copyright-binding manner.
Our goal is to ensure a fair and equitable balance of the interests of creators, exploiters and users that guarantees the cultural and economic framework conditions of the cultural and creative industries.
n We want to promote business models that enable the legal use of protected content in a legally secure manner.
To this end, we must also make it legally possible to test new business models, e.g., through simplified licensing.
n We reject the ancillary copyright decided on by the coalition government.
We will launch a new law after the government comes to power.
With the involvement of all stakeholders, we want to develop a proposal that strengthens the ability of press publishers to enforce their existing copyrights, while fully protecting the interests of authors (especially journalists in this case),
safeguarding the principle of freedom of information,
and ensuring that information can be found.
n We want to strengthen the position of the author.
To this end, the negotiation and conflict resolution mechanisms provided for in copyright law must be made more efficient and, if necessary, supplemented by effective monitoring and sanctioning instruments.
n In particular, we want to consistently prevent commercial copyright infringements.
This does not require blanket content filtering of the data stream, Internet blocking, or the threat of individual blocking of Internet access.
We reject such far-reaching encroachments on fundamental rights.
Instead, we will take action against the illegal platforms where 90 percent of all infringements take place.
We will prevent these offerings from continuing to invoke general liability privileges in the future.
We will stop their funding by sanctioning their cooperation with advertisers and payment service providers.
Overall, it is important to give the user real orientation with regard to freedoms and limits, which we believe is important for social interaction on the Net.
Media literacy on the Internet is intended to maximize the opportunities for users and providers and to
train participation and educational opportunities, but also critical faculties and responsibility.
Responsible, solidarity-based and sustainable action does not necessarily develop by itself.
n We want an education- and science-friendly copyright law.
Scientific authors must be able to make their contributions available on the university's pages, for example, in addition to the publisher's publication.
We also advocate for a review of educational and academic barriers to allow permanent intranet use in schools and universities.
In order to preserve cultural heritage in the future, the digitization of orphaned and out-of-print works must be made possible.
It is foreseeable that in the medium and long term we will have to find and apply international and European solutions.
This is a complex and long-term challenge, but one that we must rise to in order to shape it with our federal values.
Ultimately, the vision of a fair and social space can only become reality if a significant part of society agrees on uniform rules and thus forms a social consensus.
The SPD is the party of work - including creative work.
We introduced social insurance for artists a good thirty years ago.
We stand by this special system of statutory social insurance because artists and publicists continue to be particularly in need of protection.
The solidarity-based financing of the artists' social insurance by artists and companies is non-negotiable for the SPD.
The SPD also sees the need for better protection of precarious self-employment, which particularly affects many people working in the cultural industry.
Independent and diverse media are a cornerstone of a vibrant democracy and thus an indispensable part of our everyday lives.
They provide information, communication, ensure political participation and access to knowledge.
The media world is undergoing fundamental change, triggered by digitization and economic change.
In order to counter this change, we want to take measures to further develop the media regulations of the digital society in close coordination with the federal states that are primarily responsible for this,
the constitutionally guaranteed existence and further development of the public service media offering
and to preserve the diversity of our media landscape.
Public service broadcasting is the guarantor of high-quality content in competition with other providers - both online and offline.
However, public service media themselves have to justify their special position again and again:
through the special quality of their programming as
well as through the quality of their employment and working conditions.
At the same time, we are committed to further developing the framework conditions for private television and radio stations.
After all, the responsibility for quality offerings lies not only with public broadcasters, but also with private providers.
A free press and independent journalism are part of the indispensable core of a democracy.
However, economic upheavals, such as declining circulation and advertising, are increasingly threatening the financing possibilities of journalistic editorial products and thus indirectly also press freedom,
Media diversity
and general working conditions of journalists.
We must shape the framework conditions in such a way that the production and distribution of journalistic-editorial products can continue to be profitable in the future.
We also want to help develop new models for financing journalistic services.
The freedom of the press, which is enshrined in the Basic Law, must be guaranteed.
Media literacy - not just for children and young people, but for all generations - enables people to find their way in a world permeated by media.
Digital independence" must be enabled and promoted, enabling everyone to use all the possibilities of the "digital society" as independently as possible and to protect themselves well against the associated risks.
This requires equipping students with a mobile computer
and creating a digital learning environment and digital classroom.
This only makes sense if appropriate teacher training and educational concepts are available.
This also requires the digitization of textbooks and teaching and learning content and making them accessible online.
iV. FoR a righT steeRing poliCy
We want a just and modern society.
For this, we need a state that is capable of acting and fulfilling its tasks for a community based on solidarity.
People must be able to rely on services of general interest, security, social security, education, infrastructure and culture being available to all.
Stable public finances form the basis for the state to fulfill these tasks.
They are also a prerequisite for sustainable and qualitative growth in order to create and secure prosperity for all.
The new foundation of the social market economy is built on a fair tax system.
Our policymakers have a duty of sound financing.
There must be no shifting of the burden to future generations.
The debt brake enshrined in the Basic Law must be adhered to.
Our financial policy creates the basis for sustainable growth
and justice.
There are clear priorities that follow the economic policy goals and financial room for maneuver outlined in our tax and finance concept:
First and foremost are debt reduction
and investment in education.
This is followed by strengthening the social and cultural capacity of our cities and communities.
It is important to strengthen domestic demand through fairer wage and income development
and investments in research and development,
Infrastructure
and energy transition.
The impetuous privatization policy of recent years has often proved to be an expensive mistake.
We oppose privatization especially where it impedes access to public goods and challenges the state's monopoly on the use of force.
Privatization must not be carried out against the will of the citizens.
The SPD stands for an efficient and citizen-oriented civil service with a modern civil service.
With the debt brake, the consolidation of public budgets is becoming more of a focus than before.
The federal and state governments must do their part.
In doing so, we rely on federalism in practice and the principle of standing up for one another.
Maintaining uniform living conditions throughout Germany remains a central political concern.
Securing stable regional collective agreements and limiting the drifting apart of incomes, including in the public sector, are an expression of federal solidarity.
In view of the debt ban for the states from 2020, joint bonds issued by the federal government and the states are sensible in the future.
Against this background, we will create the conditions for joint borrowing ("piggybacking") to be possible for the federal and state governments.
For us, tax policy is social policy.
However, the tax system follows a social model that in many cases no longer adequately reflects the current reality of life.
It no longer meets the emerging challenges of the future.
In marriages and registered partnerships, partners are committed to each other.
That is why we want to introduce a partnership rate for spouses for future marriages from a cut-off date instead of spousal splitting, in which both partners are taxed individually, but mutual maintenance obligations are taken into account.
We do not want to change anything for spouses who have based their life planning on the previous tax system.
Instead of the tax class combination III/V, we want to make the so-called factor method the norm.
Both incomes are taxed at the same average rate.
With this restructuring, we are adapting tax law in a very central area of income taxation to the realities of today's society and achieving greater tax fairness.
In addition, we want to treat single parents more fairly in terms of taxation.
We see tax policy as an important means of enabling and promoting solidarity in our country and counteracting social division.
It must be fair
and at the same time economically reasonable.
And it must correspond to the lifestyles in a modern society.
The aim of our tax policy is to combine the promotion of economic dynamism
with social justice.
Equity is the central anchor of our tax policy, because it is a basic condition for the social stability of society.
Tax policy based on stable public finances is socially just and economically sensible when strong shoulders bear more than weak ones.
Germany is out of balance here.
The gap in the distribution of income and wealth is widening:
Wages at the upper end have risen over the past ten years.
The bottom 40 percent of full-time workers have suffered real wage losses after accounting for inflation.
The assets of private households are growing and amount to almost 10 trillion euros.
The top ten percent of households in particular benefited from the increases.
Whereas in 1970 they owned 44 percent of total net assets, today they own more than 60 percent.
Citizens' project from the Citizens' Convention on March 2, 2013: "Increase the volume of revenue. E.g. wealth tax, increase top tax, social contributions for all income brackets. "
Our tax policy is not an end in itself, but serves to ensure fair burden sharing and balance in society.
In the future, we want to make greater use of high-income earners and the wealthy to finance our community.
To this end, we want to increase the top tax rate from 42 or 45 percent to 49 percent for taxable incomes of 100,000 euros or more, or 200,000 euros for married couples.
In an international comparison, wealth taxation in Germany is far below average.
We will raise the wealth tax to an appropriate level to enable the states to make the necessary increase in investment in education.
We want a wealth tax that takes into account the special situation of German SMEs, partnerships and family businesses and secures their future-proof equity capital formation and does not burden their scope for investment.
In the case of wealth tax, high allowances for individuals ensure that the normal single-family home will not be affected by wealth tax.
We also focus on tax fairness when it comes to the taxation of inheritances.
We no longer want to tolerate the abusive exploitation of tax structuring opportunities for the benefit of a small number of rich heirs.
We will therefore revoke the preferential treatment introduced by the black-yellow coalition
and in future link preferential treatment in inheritance taxation much more closely to the permanent preservation of jobs and thus also make it more SME-friendly.
For family businesses in particular, it is of outstanding importance that the transfer from one generation to the next is not made even more difficult by taxation,
and of course it is also in the interest of the community if businesses are continued and employees are kept on permanently.
Labor must not be taxed more heavily than income from capital assets.
That is why, as a first step, we want to increase the final withholding tax from 25 percent to 32 percent while retaining the option.
If we find that the revenue from this flat tax is less than the expected revenue from taxation at the personal income tax rate, we intend to abolish the flat tax within three years and return investment income to synthetic taxation.
We want a financial transaction tax with the broadest possible tax base and low tax rates.
For us, this means that all transactions in shares, bonds, derivatives and foreign exchange must be subject to taxation.
In doing so, we will structure the financial transaction tax in such a way that it is not deductible as a business expense, neither from income tax nor from corporate income and trade tax.
Finally, we will limit the tax deductibility of executive and other managerial salaries, including bonuses and severance payments, to a maximum of 50 percent of amounts exceeding EUR 500,000.
We will revoke special tax privileges for individual interest groups, such as hoteliers and rich heirs, which the CDU/CSU and FDP have created in recent years.
We want to eliminate tax subsidies - especially those with ecologically harmful effects - in accordance with our tax and financing concept.
These include, among other things, the elimination of the tax benefit for agricultural diesel,
the limitation of the deductibility of fuel costs for large company cars
and, as part of a European solution, the elimination of the benefit for aviation fuel.
In addition, it is of central importance for the SPD to finally end the subsidization of low wages.
This is not only an imperative of social justice and economic sense; the introduction of a minimum wage of 8.50 euros would also lead to additional tax revenues, reduced spending on ALG II and "second-round effects" of over 7 billion euros.
Citizen Project from the Citizens' Covenant on March 2, 2013: "New burden sharing as municipalities are disproportionately burdened. "
Our country needs strong cities, communities and counties.
They are the immediate living space of the people in our country and their financial resources determine equal opportunities and social participation.
Society based on solidarity has its place above all in the municipalities.
It is they who are responsible for the provision of public services and who shape people's everyday lives.
Local authorities decide whether all children receive early childhood support,
whether people from different cultures live together or side by side,
whether young people spend their free time in a meaningful way,
whether older people remain integrated,
whether people feel safe in public spaces.
The financial framework conditions for sustainable municipal action have deteriorated in recent years, so that the performance and integration capacity as well as the investment capacity of municipalities is at stake.
Many municipalities are now stretched to the limit.
Living conditions in the cities continue to diverge.
We want to strengthen cities and communities again.
That is why we want to ensure that the municipalities have the financial resources they need to perform their tasks.
We are therefore striving for an investment and debt relief pact for Germany's municipalities.
In this way, we want to make a lasting contribution to stabilizing municipal finances and to the investment capacity of cities, municipalities and districts.
The municipalities benefit proportionately from the rollback of the black-yellow patronage laws, the reduction of subsidies and the introduction of a fairer tax system.
Another part of the pact is the further development of the trade tax.
Furthermore, it remains important to provide relief from rising social spending.
A first important step was taken under pressure from the SPD-led states with the assumption by the federal government of the costs of basic benefits for old age and reduced earning capacity.
We will examine the assumption of further social benefits by the federal government.
In the future, too, municipalities will be entitled to adequate funding for standard increases and new benefit entitlements.
Connexity is mandatory in relation to the states, but must also apply to federal decisions on the merits.
In the next legislative period of the German Bundestag, the state fiscal equalization scheme, which is limited until 2019, will have to be renegotiated.
We stand for a federal state based on solidarity.
Under the leadership of Gerhard Schröder, the SPD pushed through the Solidarity Pact II in 2001, which gave the eastern German states the chance to develop on their own.
The lawsuits filed by the CDU and the CSU against the Länder fiscal equalization system make it clear that this solidarity is in jeopardy.
Only the SPD as an all-German party stands for a balance of interests between economically weak and strong regions.
The reconciliation of interests must no longer be oriented toward East or West, but must take into account the structural problems of all municipalities and regions.
In the course of the reorganization of the federal fiscal equalization system, we will find a solution for the old debts of the states and municipalities, among other things by setting up a national debt redemption fund.
Tax fraud is not a trivial offense, but a criminal act that undermines confidence in the rule of law and endangers the cohesion of our society.
We will not accept that billions of euros of taxpayers' money are lost to the community because some financial institutions do not cooperate sufficiently with the tax authorities, tolerate tax fraud or even endorse it as part of their business models by offering corresponding banking products.
We therefore want to oblige all financial institutions operating in Germany not to offer banking products and services that enable their customers to evade taxes and to cooperate with the tax authorities.
If a financial institution domiciled in Germany or a branch of a foreign institution demonstrably aids and abets tax fraud or refuses to cooperate with the tax authorities, it should be possible to hold it more accountable in future cases:
We want an increasing penalty regime that starts with fines and can lead to the possibilities of dismissal of management and professional bans, to the restriction of the banking license and, as ultima ratio, to the revocation of the banking license.
We want to further optimize cooperation between federal and state administrations in order to be able to act more quickly and in a more coordinated manner when investigating cases of cross-border tax crime of considerable or fundamental importance.
This is also intended to ensure uniform handling of information offered by private third parties about suspected tax evaders.
In addition, we want to strengthen the powers of the existing focal prosecutor's offices in matters of tax fraud.
We strive for uniform tax enforcement and, in order
to create uniform standards for tax collection and tax auditing, we want to establish nationwide standards together with the federal states.
We will adjust the statute of limitations for tax fraud.
In the future, violations of tax law should no longer automatically become time-barred after ten years, but should at least cover the term of suspicious financial constructs.
Our reform of the statute of limitations is intended to be based on the practice in the United States:
There, the statute of limitations does not begin to run until a correct tax return is filed.
We want to dry up tax havens at least across Europe.
Intergovernmental information exchange must become more effective.
To this end, we want to extend the scope of the EU Savings Directive to all capital income and all natural and legal persons and
make the automatic exchange of information the standard in Europe, also in relation to third countries such as Switzerland.
We want to work hard to combat VAT fraud at both national and European level.
In a common European market, the fight against tax fraud can only succeed on a European level.
We will advocate closer and coordinated cooperation between the member states of the European Union in the European bodies and support the initiatives of the European Commission, also vis-à-vis third countries.
We will consistently make the fight against tax dumping and tax fraud a condition for financial assistance under the euro rescue packages.
We want financial crime to be uncovered and tax honesty to be enforced, especially in countries with high national debt that are in need of aid.
Governments that rely on the solidarity of others must no longer make tax evasion a national "business model."
At European level, we are committed to introducing the financial transaction tax as quickly as possible.
It is an effective instrument for making those responsible for the financial and economic crisis share in the costs of cleaning up the situation.
It is just and economically necessary.
Within the European Union, we want to ensure in the future that uniform minimum tax rates and minimum assessment levels for income and corporate taxes are developed between member states.
V. socIal securIty anD prOvIsIon
Freedom and self-determination have prerequisites:
social security
and the chance to participate in social life.
For this, we need a social system based on solidarity and a good social infrastructure that supports local citizens.
And we see that people in our country are living longer.
Our goal is that they have the security of being able to grow old in good health and with dignity, without material hardship.
This is only possible with social systems that insure all citizens and offer them protection and support in every situation in life.
And we want to support citizens in special circumstances with better coordinated social services.
To this end, we want to improve cooperation between social service providers.
Services must follow people's needs, not institutions.
For us, this means that all citizens should have good health and long-term care insurance through citizens' insurance, regardless of their living situation or employment status.
We want to develop unemployment insurance into employment insurance for all.
This helps people maintain their employability and stay employed.
By expanding the group of insured persons in the statutory pension insurance system, we are taking a step toward an employment insurance system in which everyone is insured on equal terms for old age and in the event of reduced earning capacity.
We will design the basic benefits in SGB II and SGB XII in such a way that they meet the requirements of the Federal Constitutional Court.
This means: a transparent and appropriate procedure, close to reality and comprehensible.
This applies in particular to an independent determination of the needs of children.
We will continue the reporting on poverty and wealth in such a way that it can serve as a basis for concepts and measures to effectively combat poverty and for a socially just distribution policy.
V.1 health and care
Social democratic health policy is oriented toward patients, not toward interest groups in the health care system.
We want to reliably secure and finance good medical care for all citizens.
Our goal is to create more and equal health opportunities for all citizens.
A healthy living environment, work that does not make people ill, and equally good access to medicine and care increase the quality of life and
contribute overall to prosperity and good economic development.
They promote social interaction.
That is why we consider the maintenance and improvement of health to be a task of public service.
Citizens Project from the Citizens Convention on March 2, 2013: "Inclusion of All Persons in Health Insurance. "
Equal access to medical care close to home and
equal participation in medical progress are particularly important to us.
Because social division in health care threatens the future of our society as a whole.
That is why financing through contributions must become more reliable - and more equitable.
Citizens' insurance is intended to provide all citizens, regardless of their income, living situation or employment status, with good health and long-term care insurance.
And we want to enable the best care
and fair competition among health insurers.
The prerequisite for this is a level playing field for all health insurance funds.
Citizen insurance for health and long-term care.
Citizen insurance will be introduced as comprehensive health and long-term care insurance for all citizens.
To this end, we will create a uniform and solidarity-based competitive framework for all insurers participating in the citizens' health and long-term care insurance system.
With citizens' insurance, we are maintaining a structured, public and self-administered health insurance system as the main pillar of statutory health insurance.
We want to strengthen it.
Citizens' insurance will be introduced on a mandatory basis for all new and existing statutory insurees.
People who are currently privately insured can choose to switch for a limited period of one year.
We want to strengthen solidarity between high and low incomes in the citizens' insurance system.
And employers should once again make the same contribution as employees; actual parity must be restored.
We will achieve greater sustainability by introducing steadily increasing tax financing.
We will abolish the additional contribution
and return contribution rate autonomy to the health insurance funds.
Our goal is to create equal access to health care for all and to eliminate privileges in the health care system, i.e., to end two-tier health care.
With citizens' insurance, we will introduce a uniform insurance system with a uniform fee schedule for both statutory and private health insurance.
The total fee volume is not reduced in the process, but distributed more fairly.
The remuneration of outpatient services in the office-based and inpatient sectors will be harmonized.
We will create a uniform, solidarity-based competitive framework for all insurers participating in the citizens' health and long-term care insurance system.
We achieve this by rewarding not "cherry picking," selecting the "good risks," but offering the best quality.
Prevention and health promotion.
Growing up healthy, having a healthy living and working environment, and growing old as healthy as possible must no longer depend on one's social situation.
That is why we will make prevention and health promotion focal points of our policy.
Comprehensive prevention is more than preventive medicine - it encompasses all areas of society.
Prevention and health literacy building must become more important in the design of the living environment, the workplace, and in education and training.
Sports and active clubs are very helpful in this regard.
The health literacy of individuals and organizations must be strengthened.
Likewise, prevention must be given a higher priority in the education and training of medical and health care professionals.
We want to implement an effective prevention strategy with a comprehensive prevention and health promotion law in the next legislative period.
In particular, prevention in living environments such as daycare centers, schools and the workplace must be expanded in order to compensate for socially unequal health opportunities.
This includes increasing spending on prevention
and steering joint measures by the states, municipalities, and all social insurance agencies at the state level.
We finally need true parity between medical rehabilitation and acute medical care.
Barriers to access must be reduced, and
rehab caps and rehab budget caps must be removed.
To prevent the need for long-term care, we need an offensive in geriatric rehabilitation.
Therefore, the costs for these services must be reimbursed by the long-term care insurance funds.
Tobacco consumption is still the greatest preventable health risk in Germany.
As part of a precautionary health policy, we want to step up our efforts to prevent tobacco
and protect everyone from the dangers of secondhand smoke.
Ensuring good coverage throughout the country.
The coexistence of medical underuse, misuse, but also overuse is a serious problem.
The situation in rural and structurally weak regions as well as in social hotspots will continue to worsen in the coming years unless countermeasures are taken.
We want to further develop care structures in such a way that care deficiencies and the associated social injustice and barriers to access are overcome.
Likewise, care as a whole must be geared to the aging of society.
We want to give all citizens access to good medical care, regardless of where they live, their social situation or their insured status.
The success of our healthcare policy depends on whether improvements in medical care are felt by everyone in their everyday lives.
We want to provide special support for needs-based care in structurally weak regions that are at risk of underuse.
To this end, we will introduce nationwide GP-centered care.
and strengthen networking between service providers in the various healthcare professions.
Primary care is the backbone of strong, resident-centered care.
At the same time, we will relaunch and stabilize integrated care with independent earmarked funding.
In this way, we want to ensure quality-assured cooperation between general practitioners, specialists, non-medical health care professions, the outpatient and inpatient sectors, as well as between the nursing, rehabilitation and medical sectors.
This gives all patients good access to specialized medical services as well.
We will link integrated care with innovative mobility and telemedicine concepts.
In order to ensure that care is provided regionally, we want to create cross-sectoral demand planning in the future that is consistently oriented toward the needs of patients.
Cities and towns have an increasingly important role to play in shaping local health care.
Because every situation on site requires the appropriate, integrated supply solutions.
Many municipalities have already gained experience.
We will promote this development with a Healthy City or Healthy Region program.
In Germany, the number of mental illnesses is on the rise.
Mental illnesses need to be treated well and quickly, just like any other illness.
In line with the idea of "outpatient before inpatient", we want to expand the proportion of day-care and outpatient assistance in both acute treatment and rehabilitation.
Outpatient and inpatient assistance must be more closely linked.
Patients should receive help from a single source.
We want to strengthen psychiatric outpatient clinics, models of integrated care and community psychiatric associations.
Quality assurance and consumer protection.
We want to increase the quality of medical care by improving integrated care.
We want to expand patients' rights
and strengthen consumer protection.
Our aim is to protect the rights of patients by
and to strengthen consumer protection in the healthcare system as a whole.
A modern healthcare system is characterized above all by the fact that it provides good care for the chronically ill, the multimorbid or for people who have special needs.
We will therefore reorganize care structures and design care processes in such a way that they meet this goal.
Healthcare is a highly innovative field.
The possibilities of modern medicine are growing.
Pharmacological and medical technology innovations offer considerable potential for improving the health and quality of life of patients and
for the economic prosperity of our country.
In terms of social responsibility, however, the insured community can only bear what is necessary, appropriate and economical for health care.
Out of ethical responsibility, only that which benefits people can be applied in a social health care system.
We therefore want to strengthen the concept of benefit in the provision of drug therapies, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and medical devices to patients.
Time and again, medical device scandals demonstrate the need to expand independent review, control and health services research.
We will also effectively protect patients from abuse with unnecessary "IGeL" services.
For effective consumer protection in the healthcare system, we want real medical progress instead of sham innovations.
We will support people, especially in cases of treatment errors, with a patients' rights law.
We will also effectively combat corruption in the healthcare sector.
Quality in care increases decisively through better organization.
There is great potential for innovation, especially in the supply structures.
Our goal is to ensure that seriously ill patients reach the specialists who can offer them the best treatment even faster.
And that only those facilities apply innovations and highly specialized therapies that have the relevant experience.
Therefore, we will ensure the principle that money follows the need for services, not institutions.
We will make integrated care the norm for multimorbid and chronically ill people.
We want a reliable supply organization.
We see case and care management as key to sustainable health care.
We want to improve the quality of general practitioner and specialist care through better training and standards.
Transparency about the quality of treatment offers, independent advice and the promotion of self-help are important for insured persons and patients in order to be able to make their own decisions.
We want to strengthen independent information and counseling options, such as the Independent Patient Counseling Service (UPD), and self-help in the health care system and create reliable funding for them.
Therefore, we will enter into a dialogue with the social stakeholders involved with the aim of establishing an Independent German Patient Organization.
Fair and reliable hospital financing.
The SPD is committed to high-quality inpatient care.
Above all, this includes good working conditions and satisfied employees.
We will reform hospital financing in such a way that nationwide care and diversity of providers are secured and quality is better rewarded.
In a fair financing system, personnel costs must be adequately taken into account so that hospitals do not resort to unjustified volume expansions.
That is why we will advocate for minimum staffing standards in hospitals.
Patients must be able to rely on their treatment being medically justified alone.
We will introduce a binding right to a second opinion prior to certain treatments and thus enable all those affected to have access to the best specialists.
We will continue to develop the quality reports of hospitals.
Health insurers should be able to enter into selective contracts with hospitals to improve the quality of care.
Quality and patient safety should play a stronger role in hospital planning and financing.
Ten years after the introduction of flat rates per case, we will eliminate under- and over-recoveries so that hospitals do not limit themselves to financially attractive services.
This serves to ensure fair competition and needs-based care.
Good and humane care.
We want to prevent the need for care, improve care and ensure it for the future.
To achieve this, society as a whole must be prepared for aging.
We want to enable self-determination and participation into old age:
To achieve this, the conditions must be improved so that people can continue to live in their own homes even if they need care.
To achieve this, we want to expand and better network the various local services, tailor
the benefits of long-term care insurance more precisely
and provide better support for family members.
Good care must be affordable for all
and care work must be well paid.
Reforming long-term care is more than just reforming long-term care insurance.
We will swiftly introduce comprehensive care reform.
For us, genuine care reform begins first and foremost with a realignment of the guiding principle of care: the aim is to
continue to enable participation in social life.
Preventing the need for long-term care is a priority
- we will strengthen the entitlement to prevention and rehabilitation before and during long-term care in the benefits and the interaction of the social insurance institutions.
People want to grow old in dignity and, if possible, in their familiar surroundings.
That is why we want to improve care
and ensure it for future generations.
Whether a structural two-tier care system or dignified aging regardless of social situation develops in Germany in the future depends on whether we continue to develop care as a whole - not just long-term care insurance - in a socially just manner.
We need to make the living environment age- and age-appropriate
and build the necessary support infrastructure.
The focus is on people's self-determination and co-determination.
Realigning the care system requires changes in all care-related areas.
For us, good care is more than just the benefits provided by long-term care insurance.
To enable more people to live at home for longer, we need a better local social and construction infrastructure that provides assistance in everyday life and enables social participation.
We want to promote local assistance networks that offer a new mix of supportive everyday assistance:
household-related services,
meeting opportunities
or assistance in emergencies.
To this end, we want to create framework conditions to build support networks consisting of relatives, professional services and local civic engagement.
The municipalities in particular are to play a stronger role in designing an integrated care and supply landscape geared to local needs, in which the providers and service suppliers of care can cooperate better.
And we need to more closely integrate medical and nursing care to improve geriatric care.
To this end, we want to further strengthen nursing research and network it with participation and care research.
Investing in better geriatric education for physicians is a prerequisite.
We want to provide more solidarity-based coverage for care risks and make it fairer to the different situations in life - especially in the case of dementia.
That is why a new definition of the need for care must be a core element of care reform.
We will differentiate the services so that they are more appropriate for those affected, as opposed to minute care.
We want to improve the compatibility of care and work.
We want to further professionalize care
and offer more services to support family caregivers.
Equally important is the promotion of civic engagement.
We want to help family members who are providing care:
With flexible caregiver leave, which comes with a legal right to return to work and wage replacement benefits, we want to help family members manage the care situation.
This also includes the expansion of care consulting services
as well as better care
services and affordable services in the home that further promote the compatibility of care and work.
Our goal is to build needs-based comprehensive care for elderly households.
Skilled worker offensive in the health and care sector.
We want good work in health and care.
Good training,
development prospects,
good pay, the
compatibility of family and career and
better working conditions are the prerequisites for increasing the attractiveness of healthcare and nursing professions.
We want to introduce joint training for the elderly and the sick with the occupational profile of "nursing".
Demographic developments are leading to an even greater need for skilled workers in nursing professions.
In order to meet this need as quickly as possible, the training offered by state-run vocational schools must be strengthened. Nursing training must be free of charge for graduates and a training allowance must be introduced.
The incomes of caregivers in no way reflect their performance and high social importance.
If you want to have enough skilled nursing staff in the future, you have to pay them better.
Social work needs to be upgraded.
We therefore support the efforts for a sector collective agreement for social work, which we want to declare generally binding.
This can effectively counter wage dumping and honor the work of employees in the social and care sectors.
The SPD is committed to high-quality inpatient care.
Above all, this includes good working conditions and satisfied employees.
That is why we will advocate for minimum staffing standards in hospitals and care facilities.
Better staffing and higher quality of care can lead to adjustments in hospital and long-term care financing.
V.2 good work, good pension
Those who talk about poverty in old age must not remain silent about working poverty, because without combating working poverty, poverty in old age cannot be effectively countered.
The pension system cannot permanently correct the social injustices created during working life at the end.
We will therefore be measured above all by the concrete measures we take to combat working poverty and precarious employment.
We need better transitions.
In an increasingly differentiated world of work, it has become more difficult to create equal forms of retirement for all groups of employees.
Not every pension access fits everyone, but there must be a pension access that fits everyone.
Above all, for those occupational groups and employees who are already unable to work until the age of 65 due to workload or disability, we want to enable the transition to retirement age without a major loss of income.
To this end, we are proposing differentiated offers for the transition from working life to retirement:
n access to retirement from the age of 63 without deductions after 45 years of insurance,
n an attractive partial pension from the age of 60 or comparable flexible transition models in which collective agreements can be concluded on the basis of statutory regulations,
n access to reduced earning capacity pensions without deductions
and an extension of the reckoning period,
n easier options for additional contributions to pension insurance.
We do not want the increase in the retirement age to have the same effect as a reduction in pensions.
It is only possible when at least half of the employees aged 60 to 64 are employed and subject to social insurance contributions and can acquire further pension entitlements.
With this in mind, we will apply the review clause in the law.
We want to strengthen old-age provision.
Statutory pension insurance remains the first pillar of old-age security and the basis for protection against poverty in old age.
At the same time, it reflects the personal performance of insured persons in their working lives.
It must take account of changes in society and the world of work.
We will maintain the current level of statutory pension benefits until the end of the decade.
In 2020, we will have to reassess how to link pensions to earned income via the effects of the reforms on the labor market in terms of employment, income and productivity.
The proposed changes to the statutory pension insurance system must also be included in this review.
This will enable realistic definitions for the necessary balance between a maximum tolerable contribution rate and a pension level that ensures a standard of living.
In many sectors, company pensions in particular have provided additional security in old age.
We want to strengthen occupational pension schemes and make them more widespread as a supplement to statutory pension insurance.
In our view, company pension schemes covered by collective agreements are the best form of private and at the same time collective pension provision.
We want to strengthen it and, by making it easier for it to be generally binding, also enforce it in regions and industries where it is currently little used due to low collective bargaining coverage.
The expansion of company pension schemes must not be borne solely by employees.
In the case of the Riester pension, we will ensure a significant improvement in cost transparency and efficiency.
We want to introduce a solidarity pension:
Anyone who has been a member of the statutory pension scheme for many years and has paid contributions must receive a pension well above the basic income support level.
In parallel to a statutory minimum wage, we will therefore introduce a "solidarity pension".
It ensures that for those insured for many years (30 years of contributions / 40 years of insurance) the pension is not less than 850 euros.
Those who do not reach this solidarity pension of at least 850 euros due to the higher valuation of periods of unemployment and employment in the low-wage sector within the statutory pension insurance system will receive this amount within a second pillar of basic security, for which a means test is carried out.
The solidarity pension also includes a better reflection of family-related employment histories in the old-age pension system.
We want to extend, to an appropriate extent, periods of consideration to parents whose children were born before 1992, and thus specifically improve pension entitlements for parents who were unable to work full-time due to a lack of childcare infrastructure.
We finance the costs of the solidarity pension from tax revenues.
We will ensure the financing of the deduction-free pension after 45 years of insurance, the improved pension for reduced earning capacity and the stabilization of the pension level by increasing pension insurance contributions and building up a higher sustainability reserve.
The inclusion of the self-employed without mandatory pension provision in the statutory pension insurance system reduces their risk of poverty in old age.
This is the first step toward our goal of expanding the statutory pension insurance system into an employment insurance system.
More than 20 years after reunification, differences in pension law in Germany are no longer accepted.
We will therefore initiate the path to a uniform pension system for East and West by 2020.
A prerequisite for the equalization of pensions is progress in the equalization of wages.
A statutory minimum wage that is the same in the east and west,
better collective bargaining coverage
and higher wage levels will be particularly effective in the eastern German states and will further close the current gap in wages and thus pension entitlements.
We want to achieve full alignment of the pension value of the east with that of the west in stages by 2020.
Thus, current pensioners in East Germany also participate in the adjustment.
As a first step, we will calculate all insurance periods assessed on a flat-rate basis (child-raising periods, insurance periods for family caregivers, periods of military and civilian service, and periods of employment in sheltered workshops) uniformly using the current pension value West.
The adjustment of pension values abolishes the revaluation factor for wages in eastern Germany.
For people who experienced unresolvable injustices in pension law during the transition of the GDR's old-age pension scheme to federal German law, the problems must be conclusively clarified and eliminated in a Pension Transition Completion Act.
A tax-financed fund is to be established for hardship cases.
V.3 living together - people with and without disabilities
The coexistence of people with and without disabilities and impairments is our goal.
We need places and opportunities to meet, work together, learn together and much more - so-called "inclusive social spaces".
Social cohesion means: not distinguishing and separating, but integration, person-orientation, dismantling barriers and targeted assistance.
The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is groundbreaking in this respect.
The development of an action plan in the sense of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities takes place inclusively and together with people with disabilities and their organizations according to the motto "Nothing about us without us!".
Inclusive social spaces are created where people with and without impairments have the opportunity to shape their spatial and social environment together in a sustainable way with a view to living together on equal terms.
Inclusion is therefore not a state of affairs, but a process involving society as a whole, in which everyone can help to ensure that the equal participation of all people gradually becomes the guiding principle in thinking and acting, in planning and shaping our inclusive community.
Self-determined participation only succeeds if barriers are avoided and removed and equal access to buildings and facilities, to means of transport, to goods and services and all communication channels is possible.
Any progress in reducing barriers means more self-determination, more freedom of choice, less need for assistance.
This benefits everyone, especially in an aging society.
Parts of an inclusive social space in all areas of life are above all inclusive care and educational institutions, schools, universities, adult education institutions and sports clubs, which make a great contribution to inclusion and integration,
and last but not least the self-determined choice of place and form of living.
It also includes an inclusive labor market that allows all people to work according to their ability and performance.
The employment situation of people with disabilities must be significantly improved,
and the rights of representatives for the severely disabled must be strengthened.
We will hold the collective bargaining partners, job centers and employment agencies more accountable
and continue on the path of improving permeability between workshops for people with disabilities and the general labor market.
All people should have fair prospects in the general labor market.
Inclusive social space emerges at all levels through political and social initiatives.
To this end, we need joint coordination and new legal and organizational conditions for cooperation between the federal government and the existing providers of disability assistance in municipalities, institutions and facilities.
We have already initiated a paradigm shift from welfare to participation under the government of Chancellor Gerhard Schröder.
We want to continue along this path to full inclusion and equal and self-determined participation.
However, this means that assistance for people with disabilities must no longer remain in the subordinate welfare system of social security, which has so far been borne solely by the municipalities.
The goal of the reform is a flexible and custom-fit support system: for participation, equality and self-determination of disabled people.
We want the services for participation to follow the people and not the other way around.
We want to continue the standardization of the law for people with disabilities that began with SGB IX.
Inclusion is an unrestricted goal of all social security codes and assistance institutions - regardless of the type and extent of a disability and the level of support needed.
We want to create a uniform needs assessment system for all security systems and service providers.
This is intended to identify people's individual impairments and determine actual needs for assistance.
Problematic interfaces between social service providers must be eliminated in favor of uniform procedures.
The entitlement to assistance for inclusion is no longer structured as a welfare entitlement, but as an entitlement to compensation for disadvantages.
Financial benefits must be independent of income and assets.
The personal budget is a suitable form of benefit for self-determined participation.
We will therefore create a Federal Benefits Act, including the financial relations between the federal government and the federal states, which will serve to implement the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and replace integration assistance in its current form.
In this way, we must also achieve an urgently needed partial relief of the municipalities from the costs of integration assistance.
Concrete assistance for inclusion and participation remains a task to be fulfilled close to home in the community.
Assistance planning and the realization of the right of choice and desire of those entitled to assistance are part of the inclusive social space.
Beneficiaries and service providers must work together on an individual and needs-based participation plan.
The service centers provided for in SGB IX are the coordinating advisory centers for this purpose.
Vi. good reSponSiBility
Vi.1 social city and cohesion of the regions
Local authorities are at the center of our policy.
After all, it is in the cities and communities that the way people grow up and live is decided.
They determine whether children will find good kindergartens and schools.
Whether integration and the coexistence of people from different backgrounds succeed.
They determine whether people can live in safety and participate in social life.
And that's why we want there to be social participation and opportunities for advancement in all neighborhoods.
We will restore reliable funding for urban development, which was cut by the federal government of the CDU/CSU and FDP.
We will continue the cooperation between the federal levels in urban development funding and
further develop the programs in dialog with the states and municipalities.
This involves examining where the federal government's funding share can be increased to mitigate co-financing problems.
We want to simplify implementation and bundling with other funding programs.
We are tackling the major challenges: social cohesion,
Integration,
demographic change,
Age-appropriate conversion
and climate protection.
Home is on the doorstep.
Our society remains in a state of flux - economically, technically and socially.
With this insight grows a need for rootedness, for orientation, for commitment and for a fixed place.
People have a growing need for familiarity and social security.
The place of longing is "home," which we understand as the extension of "one's own four walls" to the neighborhood or community in which one wants to grow up and grow old, for example.
This is where demographic change becomes tangible as an everyday reality.
The social division into rich and poor is also reflected in tendencies toward ghettoization.
Marginalized poor neighborhoods on the one hand and luxury ghettos on the other.
The "doorman" becomes the protector of the privileged.
The sociopolitical failure of the "private before state" ideology is also revealed in housing and urban development.
Social cohesion requires community initiative and partnership among the relevant social actors.
Thus, more than ever, urban development is becoming district and neighborhood development.
In order for the municipalities to regain their ability to act, the federal and state governments must strengthen municipal financial power.
Only municipalities with sufficient financial resources are in a position to resist the privatization of central public tasks and to assume their responsibility for public services.
Only municipalities with sufficient financial resources have the power to shape the future.
In the short term, we are striving for an investment pact between the federal and state governments that will benefit in particular financially weak municipalities with budgetary emergencies or with budget protection concepts and high cash advances.
We will use a "self-contribution fund" to ensure that cities and municipalities in budgetary straits can also take advantage of federal funding.
They must not remain excluded from funding because they lack their own resources.
Because that's where the need is greatest.
But we also want to enable full funding for projects that address the challenges of growing metropolitan areas, for example.
Citizens Project from the Citizens Convention on March 2, 2013: "Water supply should remain in state hands. "
We support an active role for local authorities as part of their responsibility for services of general interest - be it through their own companies or more active management, for example in the area of water supply,
but also in local public transport.
We will work to ensure that the federal and EU legal framework gives local authorities this leeway.
In contrast to the Merkel government, an SPD-led German government will lobby in Brussels and with other EU partners to ensure that water supply in particular is excluded from the Concessions Directive.
This ensures the high German supply level.
Vi.2 The city as a motor of economic and social development
Many citizens want to live in the city because they hope for and find life perspectives and quality of life here.
Cities mean the future for many people.
The big cities in particular are growing.
The large number of very different jobs, the universities, research institutions, schools, sports facilities and leisure activities, cultural institutions and off-culture, large and small companies, start-ups, services that depend on the urban environment, local supply and short distances, connection with the world through airports, train stations and ports make cities engines of growth and progress.
Cities have a labor market that is broad enough that in the course of a working life it is possible to change employers without changing residence.
And increasingly important, cities have a labor market and education and childcare options that enable modern working couples and single parents to realize their own career aspirations.
Cities make it possible to leave familiar lifestyles behind and try out new ones.
Urban areas in particular can always open up opportunities for those who have previously been socially disadvantaged.
Cities are "melting pots" of integration
and can create a sense of community in a special way.
In addition to the strong economic centers, however, there are also a large number of municipalities whose population figures are declining and which are particularly affected by the aging of the population.
Here, infrastructure needs are changing in a particular way, with demand for schools and kindergartens, for example, decreasing and demand for facilities and services suitable for the elderly increasing at the same time.
In order to meet the challenges and seize the opportunities, we must focus on people and their needs.
That's why we need to think and act more in terms of neighborhoods.
Because this is where the real people-to-people encounters take place.
Cities are more than stone and concrete.
You are home.
They give support and hope.
Our cities determine how people grow up and grow old,
whether people from different backgrounds come together,
whether they live safe and healthy lives, and whether they have good opportunities.
Social urban development is the basis and prerequisite for innovation,
progress
and social justice.
Social society begins in the immediate living environment, the neighborhood.
There, it is important to ensure sufficient good and affordable housing and
to enable cohesion, social balance, participation, responsibility and solidarity.
This also strengthens democratic awareness and action
- and makes values tangible.
This is how inter- and intracultural integration succeeds.
The "Action Program for a Solidarity-Based City and Affordable Housing" is intended to provide important impetus for this.
Vi.3 action program for a solidary city and affordable housing
The home and the living environment are an important prerequisite for a fulfilled and self-determined life.
That is why we must be alarmed when housing becomes scarce in more and more cities and unaffordable for lower and middle income groups.
If families, students, and pensioners can no longer find affordable housing in the inner cities and are forced out of their homes, then there is a threat of social division in the cities.
Citizens/innen project from the Citizens' Convention on March 2, 2013: "Social housing must be expanded, also for age-appropriate housing. "
A Social Democratic-led federal government will initiate an "Action Program for a Solidarity-Based City and Affordable Housing" in the next legislative period - in an alliance with the states, municipalities, tenants and social welfare associations, the construction and housing industry and the trade unions.
Our goal is future-oriented and at the same time affordable housing
in intact and lively neighborhoods.
With the "Action Program for a Solidarity-Based City and Affordable Housing" we will
n improve the coexistence of people of different ages, origins and social backgrounds by enabling structural, economic, ecological and social improvements in urban neighborhoods, cities and regions through democratic processes
and better conditions for integration
as well as strengthening responsibility, tolerance and mutual respect.
n slowing down the rental price spiral and limiting the increase in rents for existing tenancy agreements to a greater extent.
Under current law, landlords have largely free rein to agree on rents when re-renting apartments.
The result is often significant rent increases.
For this reason, an upper limit for rent increases on re-letting of a maximum of ten percent above the local comparative rent is to be introduced.
First-time rentals of newly built apartments are generally exempt.
n Ensure efficient, affordable for tenants and urbanistically compatible new approaches to energy refurbishment.
The costs of refurbishment must not be imposed unilaterally on tenants.
We will immediately reverse the restriction of tenants' rights.
n Promote new construction, since without a significant increase in new housing, all measures to curb rents will come to nothing.
Our goal is to create housing that is both future- and age-appropriate and affordable.
n Strengthen municipal and cooperative housing companies as guarantors of rent security and socially balanced neighborhoods.
We want to further develop the cooperative idea, which stands for self-help, self-responsibility and solidarity.
n Stabilize compensation payments to the federal states for social housing promotion until 2019.
The federal states should use the funds earmarked for new housing construction and modernization.
n set a good example in land allocation and support good concepts for affordable housing and a vibrant city.
Even building land owned by municipalities and the federal states must not always go to the highest bidder.
n Re-introduce the heating cost subsidy in the housing allowance
and strengthen the housing allowance as a targeted instrument of social security.
n Re-regulate brokerage fees.
In the future, the principle that applies everywhere else in the market economy must apply: He who orders, pays.
It cannot be that apartment owners and brokers make a deal at the expense of third parties, namely the tenants looking for housing.
Vi.4 rural areas
We want to increase the quality of life and attractiveness of rural areas.
Rural areas are home to their inhabitants.
We adhere to the goal of equal living conditions in all parts of Germany, regardless of the size of the community, whether in East or West.
After all, a good supply and mobility infrastructure, and thus also access to social infrastructure,
are essential conditions for all regions to have social and economic development opportunities.
Rural areas take on a variety of functions.
They are a place to live and work, as well as a destination for recreation seekers and vacationers.
The natural and cultural landscapes shape our image of home.
We will therefore support the preservation of cultural landscapes with their villages and small towns through a rural development policy.
We see cooperation at the regional level and between the city and surrounding areas as a key to sustainable development, especially in rural and shrinking areas.
At regional level, it is possible to develop concepts to safeguard services of general interest.
and for sustainable economic development.
We will create incentives for stronger inter-municipal cooperation and region building by making regional integrated development concepts a funding requirement in federal economic and structural funding and rewarding them with better funding conditions.
Our goal is to create regional budgets - for a bundled and targeted use of funding within the framework of regionally adapted integrated development strategies.
When it comes to the sale of federal land, we advocate strengthening the states.
Fast Internet access is of enormous importance for the competitiveness and innovative strength of the regions.
With increasing digital networking, high-quality services can thus be offered away from the boom regions and new, qualified jobs can be created.
To open up this opportunity for rural and structurally weak regions, we are ensuring nationwide access to high-performance Internet connections.
Food and agriculture have great economic, environmental and social importance, especially in the area of climate protection.
It has a significant impact on the use of natural resources.
We want sustainable, rural agriculture that contributes to the preservation and development of livable rural areas and our cultural landscape.
Regional marketing strategies and local value creation are strengthened by us in the process.
A multifunctionally oriented agriculture forms the basis for a livable and efficient cultural landscape.
The many services that farmers and other land users provide for nature conservation and species protection can only be compensated to a limited extent via the commodity markets in the future.
Therefore, farmers and other land users must be incentivized to provide the desired public goods.
The existing system of EU agricultural subsidies must be consistently restructured so that it serves these goals just as consistently as all policy areas that have an impact on them: Agricultural and nutritional research, education, nature and animal protection legislation or catering in public canteens.
It is right to focus funding more broadly on rural areas and to tie it more closely to services provided to society.
New development impulses for our rural areas are important.
Funding needs to be more effective in promoting a broader range of rural economic stimulus: regional finishing, crafts, tourism, health care, and services.
Regional marketing strategies are strengthened by us in the process.
The subsidies must help to mitigate the still excessive environmental damage caused by parts of agriculture, water and air pollution, species loss and soil degradation.
In the medium term, we advocate that the so-called "first pillar" of flat-rate agricultural subsidies be reduced to a small base amount and shifted to the "second pillar" to strengthen and revitalize rural areas.
We see agricultural policy as a policy for rural areas that goes beyond the traditional area of production.
We want to dovetail structural policy more closely with agricultural subsidies so that small and medium-sized enterprises can better exploit their innovation potential.
Rural support programs need to be more targeted than in the past:
for the promotion of microenterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises,
and basic community services, and for
the preservation of cultural and natural heritage.
We want to increase value creation in rural areas.
To this end, we want to further expand the potential of the German agricultural and food industry.
We want to create more reliable and socially accepted framework conditions for the necessary investments in people and further training for companies.
We demand fair wages for good work.
A statutory minimum wage must be enforced in all sectors of the food industry.
In this context, we see a particular need for support for employment-intensive forms of agriculture.
We do not accept conditions like those in some slaughterhouses, which practice modern slavery by contract.
Animal welfare is an indispensable component of responsible food, agriculture, consumer and environmental policy.
We are proud that under our government's responsibility we have succeeded in anchoring animal protection in the Basic Law and
will also apply this principle to individual legislation, e.g. in the prevention of torture breeding.
With a right of action for associations, we will give animal protection organizations the legal means to take more effective action against animal protection violations.
Farm animal husbandry must be more closely aligned with the needs of the animals.
To this end, research into modern agriculture must be strengthened,
appropriate husbandry systems specified
and the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry can be drastically reduced.
We will reduce intensive livestock farming by means of suitable legal measures
and, in particular, give local authorities more options for controlling it under building law.
There is a need for labeling of food from species-appropriate husbandry: transparent, simple and consumer-friendly.
Another goal is systematic quality control for animal health in agriculture.
We want to regulate the trade in and keeping of animals, in particular wild and exotic animals, in a uniform manner throughout Germany.
The import of wild-caught fish should be generally prohibited
and commercial animal exchanges will be closed.
We want to reduce the number of animal experiments and promote the use of 3R methods (avoid, reduce, improve) in research.
We want to promote alternative research methods that do not involve animals or involve fewer animals or less painful procedures.
Support for farms must be consistently geared toward climate-friendly land management.
This includes sustainable biomass production to counteract the problematic changes in the agricultural structure.
The increasing cultivation of biomass, especially maize, competes with the species and nature conservation objectives of the national biodiversity strategy and leads to increased nitrogen inputs into water bodies and, as a rule, to a deterioration in soil quality.
As part of an integrated biomass strategy, we want to defuse the competing uses.
More efficient knowledge transfer can improve the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas.
We particularly want to promote cooperation between economic players along value chains, between urban and rural areas, and between regions.
The decline of grassland throughout Europe must also be slowed down
such as the use of fertilizers and pesticides.
We need a more diverse crop rotation to push back monocultures.
Vii. enviRonmental and pRoDuCtionAl pRotection
Vii.1 quality of life and innovation through good environmental policy
For us, environmental protection is always also a future-oriented investment in preventive health care and quality of life.
Air pollution control (including protection against particulate matter), noise abatement, healthy soils, clean waters, healthy food and intact ecosystems are prerequisites for quality of life to which all people are entitled.
Environmental protection is thus not a luxury issue, but a question of social justice.
Financially weak households in simple residential areas, in particular, often suffer from noise and pollution effects, for example.
Environmental protection therefore also serves the social balance.
The goals of our environmental policy are therefore in particular the reduction of (traffic) noise
and the reduction of pollutants in the air and soil.
We will implement a cross-ministerial noise abatement action program with the aim of halving the number of people in Germany affected by noise by 2020.
The rapidly increasing consumption of natural resources worldwide will lead to problems in the near future that will burden future generations in particular.
We want justice between the generations.
By reducing material intensity, minimizing waste and using closed-loop systems, we want to achieve a decoupling of prosperity and quantitative growth.
One basis for this is the findings of the Enquete Commission on "Growth, Prosperity, Quality of Life".
Our goal is sustainable development.
An important contribution to this is an ecological industrial policy with innovative products and services.
At the same time, the reduced use of resources in terms of material and energy costs strengthens the competitiveness of the German economy.
In the area of waste management, we see the municipalities as central players that fulfill tasks of general interest.
Environmental and nature conservation associations have an important role as advocates for nature.
We will provide the conditions for them to play their role in moderating and shaping the transformation to an ecological industrial society.
We will combat climate change and reduce our CO2 emissions by at least 95 percent by 2050 compared with the base year 1990.
In the EU, we are advocating a reactivation of emissions trading
and an unconditional commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30 percent by 2020.
To achieve the climate protection targets, we will develop a binding national climate protection law with intermediate steps (40 percent reduction by 2020, 60 percent by 2030 and at least 80 percent by 2040).
This law will include targets for all climate-relevant sectors, such as industry, transport, and agriculture and forestry.
The Climate Protection Act also sets out fixed intermediate steps on the way to halving final energy consumption by 2050.
Germany still has a particularly high rate of land consumption, and valuable land area is being lost.
This threatens biodiversity, causes flooding and contributes to climate change.
To achieve the National Sustainability Strategy's reduction target of 30ha of additional land use per day, considerably more needs to be done.
In the long term, sealing and unsealing must be balanced.
Smart regional planning policies can balance positive economic development in rural areas with additional housing construction.
In order to preserve forests and woodlands for present and future generations, we are committed to near-natural forest management that combines forest utilization and forest protection.
We also want to enshrine this in law in the form of "good professional practice"
and replace the German government's one-sided utilization-oriented forest strategy.
We will work to ensure that ten percent of publicly owned forest land and five percent of all forest land is left to natural development.
Forests owned by the federal government are to be managed according to the principles of near-natural silviculture and gradually Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified.
We believe it would make sense to revise the Federal Hunting Act and align it more closely with forest ecology requirements and animal welfare.
Biodiversity is the basis of our actions and economic activity, and we see its conservation and sustainable use as a direct service to our citizens.
Only by consistently implementing the national biodiversity strategy will we also be able to ensure that the dramatic extinction of species and the permanent loss of biodiversity can be reduced in the short term and halted in the long term.
The federal biodiversity program is particularly important for this, so we will remove administrative barriers.
We want to expand the National Natural Heritage by at least 30,000 ha, also to achieve the 2 percent wilderness target of the National Biodiversity Strategy, and ensure adequate funding for its conservation.
We will press ahead with the renaturation of rivers to give them more space, also for flood protection reasons, with the aim of cooperating more closely with the states in implementing the nationwide biotope network.
This also requires networking of German nature reserves, including those in coastal areas.
However, we will not only campaign for the preservation of our environment in Germany, but also worldwide,
and internationally for marine protection on the high seas
and against the threat of overfishing outside state territories.
How important the prudent use of nature is for our future must be communicated in a way that everyone can understand.
The knowledge required for this must be firmly anchored in education and training.
Environmental education can create awareness of sustainability in all areas: Energy efficiency, food consumption, organic farming.
Vii.2 Protect and empower consumers
Bank rip-offs, skyrocketing energy costs, Internet trading and page-long general terms and conditions that no one understands: In recent years, everyday life has become more complex for consumers and, for many, an insurmountable challenge.
There is more at stake for the individual today than in the past.
For example, if you take out the wrong private pension plan, you will hardly be able to correct this decision and will have a significantly worse standard of living later on.
For us, consumer policy is an essential component of a just and solidarity-based social policy.
The market must serve the people, not the other way around.
This is all the more true when people are increasingly dependent on services that are no longer provided by the state but are offered on the free market for existential issues - such as provision for old age, health and care.
Simple, clear and comprehensible regulations should ensure that not only experts get their due, but that "common sense" is sufficient.
That's why our consumer policy puts people first.
Consumers should play an active role in shaping markets, regardless of their background, level of education and financial means
and act responsibly with regard to working conditions and environmental standards.
Social and ecological aspects of production and corporate behavior must not be used merely as non-binding advertising in sustainability reports, but must be taken seriously.
We advocate an expansion and specification of companies' reporting obligations so that social and ecological manufacturing conditions are clearly and bindingly disclosed in the future.
The digital world is rapidly changing technologies and markets.
These must be designed in such a way that consumers can safely take advantage of the resulting opportunities.
They need to be safe from unfair business practices, from misuse of their data.
They also need to be protected from dangerous products and from bad decisions that could threaten their very existence, for example in retirement planning or when buying real estate.
Abuse of warning letters must be effectively curbed by limiting the amount in dispute for copyright infringements on the Internet in the private sector.
They must be taken seriously with their needs and interests.
To this end, consumers' market power vis-à-vis suppliers must be strengthened.
We also want to take account of this objective by setting up an independent council of experts on consumer issues.
To eliminate existing conflicts of interest, we will change the responsibility for consumer policy in the federal ministries.
We want more market transparency:
Access to information must be made easier
and providers must be obliged to present information in a clear and easily understandable way.
We want to strengthen people's rights, knowledge and opportunities so that they can influence the market.
They should be able to compare products quickly and easily and make a conscious purchasing decision.
However, consumer information cannot replace effective market control, which, among other things, keeps unsafe products off the market in the first place, and cannot replace law enforcement.
We want clear statements about the origin, properties and contents of products,
easily understandable and quickly comparable information such as traffic light labeling for nutritional values in food,
and meaningful and clear information in financial and insurance products.
We want to expand independent fee-based consulting as a genuine alternative to commission-based brokerage.
To this end, all providers will be required to offer net rates.
Policyholders are entitled to have their contracts honored.
Claims from life insurance policies may therefore not be reduced according to the cash situation of the insurance companies.
Consulting, research and strong "market watchdogs".
We want to further expand advice and information at the federal and state levels.
Particular importance is attached to Stiftung Warentest, the DIN Consumer Council and the consumer centers.
Consumers should be given more rights to good information.
To this end, we will improve the Consumer Information Act, which was weakly drafted by the CDU/CSU:
The scope of application must be extended to all products and services,
the authorities' duty to provide information is clearly regulated
and even a limited right to information from the companies.
We will expand consumer research and use its findings to develop tools and measures that take into account the diversity of consumers and their needs.
Consumer education is also important.
We advocate for appropriate offerings from educational institutions - from kindergarten to schools and extracurricular institutions to adult education.
Even children and young people have to learn how to deal with money, advertising and other provider strategies.
As tomorrow's consumers, children are a particular focus of business and advertising.
They need special protection: safe toys, an uncontaminated environment, healthy food and advertising-free spaces.
We will ban advertising and sponsorship by food companies in kindergartens and schools.
We will cap ATM fees at a maximum of two euros,
require banks to provide secure online banking at no extra cost,
ensure reasonable overdraft interest rates by law at a maximum of eight percent above the prime rate,
and facilitate access to a low-cost garnishment protection account.
And we want everyone to have a right to a checking account at the bank of his/her choice.
Not least because of the regionally strained situation on the real estate market, the sale of low-quality and/or also defective properties poses an existential threat to an increasing number of those affected.
Here, not least, clear limits must be placed on intermediaries and financial institutions.
We want to create structures that rebalance the relationship between consumers and providers and guarantee a high level of protection for banking and insurance customers - regardless of where products are purchased.
This requires a uniform and reliable supervisory system for all subsectors of the insurance and financial market.
To this end, we will strengthen state institutions and, for example, entrust the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority, the Federal Network Agency and the Federal Agency for Agriculture and Food with new tasks in consumer policy.
In addition, we are looking into establishing a government "consumer ombudsperson" along the lines of Denmark to oversee the enforcement of laws and regulations.
We want to strengthen consumer protection by establishing "market watchdogs" in all important fields - finance, health, food, energy and the digital world.
"Market watchdogs" are - state-commissioned - civil society consumer protection organizations such as the consumer advice centers.
The "market watchdogs" are to monitor the market, detect unfair practices, systematically record information and pass on any irregularities to the supervisory authority.
The results of official food monitoring must in principle also be published below limit value exceedances.
In addition, we want to inform consumers about monitoring results by means of an easy-to-understand form such as the hygiene traffic light in restaurants and all food establishments on site.
With a whistleblower protection law, we want to ensure that employees can pass on information about illegal activities in their companies to the authorities without being threatened with dismissal or other disadvantages.
The establishment of focal prosecutor's offices in Germany and Europe to combat organized crime in the food and nutrition industry is overdue.
To effectively enforce consumer rights, we want to collect unjust gains.
Like 80 percent of the German population, we reject the cultivation of genetically modified plants, because green genetic engineering must not be forced on people.
To give them a real choice, we are calling for mandatory EU labeling of products from animals fed with genetically modified crops.
We maintain zero tolerance for unapproved genetically modified ingredients in food - as
we do for seed purity.
This is in line with the precautionary principle and is also a prerequisite for ensuring that food can continue to be produced in the future that meets the needs of consumers: without genetic engineering.
Viii. live democRatie
Viii.1 Democracy as a social principle
For social democracy, democracy is more than elections and votes.
Prerequisites for a democratic and open society are democratic culture and publicity as well as transparency and participation.
This includes access for all to high-quality information.
Access to all information is a democratic civil right.
In securing, updating and extending these preconditions, we see social democracy as the driver of a comprehensive democratization of society.
We want to strengthen our democracy so that citizens' trust in politics and state institutions grows again, so that more people go to the polls again and so that political decisions gain more legitimacy.
We want to lower the voting age to 16.
To this end, we are relying on greater openness and transparency of political decisions and political decision-makers:
We will reform the legal provisions so that all members of the Bundestag must disclose income from their sideline activities in full, down to the euro and cent.
There should be a maximum limit for party donations of 100,000 euros per donor per year.
We also support the call for sponsorship to be listed in the parties' accountability reports.
To make decision-making processes traceable, we want to establish a mandatory lobby register on a statutory basis at the German Bundestag.
Germany is the only parliamentary democracy that has not yet ratified the UN Convention against Corruption, as the CDU/CSU and FDP are blocking the criminalization of bribery of members of parliament.
We will reintroduce a corresponding bill in the Bundestag immediately after the election.
The use of external consultants in federal ministries must also be traceable.
We therefore want to introduce a "legislative footprint" showing the significant contribution made by external consultants in the preparation of a bill.
An annual report is to provide transparency on the scope and nature of the activities of external employees in the federal administration.
In order to avoid any doubts about the integrity and independence of departing members of the federal government who wish to resume professional activities within a grace period, we need a code of conduct that provides for approval of the activity by an ethics committee or the Federal Chancellor.
The Code of Conduct for Members of the European Commission is ideally suited as a model here.
We want more rights for people to participate in political decision-making.
To this end, we will introduce popular initiatives, referendums and plebiscites at the federal level as well.
We will lobby the other parliamentary groups for the necessary majority for an amendment to the Basic Law.
We want more people to participate in political decision-making
and are committed to ensuring that people who are under comprehensive care are not automatically deprived of the right to vote.
Digital and technological innovation opens up additional opportunities for participation (e.g., through Internet platforms, liquid democracy and social media).
We want to take up these opportunities, develop them further and put them to good use.
The administration should see transparency as an opportunity for more diversity and innovation.
At the same time, more transparency also enables control.
Some see the increased desire of people to actively participate in political decision-making and implementation processes as a threat to the state's ability to act.
As social democrats, we welcome this need and the willingness to participate actively that goes with it.
What is lacking in many cases, however, are suitable participation instruments to give socially weaker people or minorities a fair chance to participate.
We therefore want to supplement our classic representative democracy with new and more far-reaching forms of democratic participation at all political levels.
One possibility is to use new digital technologies, for example in the form of online petitions and surveys or idea competitions ("crowdsourcing"), if they play an enabling role.
For us as the SPD, however, it is also a matter of course to take those people with us who are not yet familiar with these new possibilities.
In order to achieve more participation in political processes, politics and administration must become more transparent.
Transparency does not mean transparent politicians, but consistent openness in all data, contracts and procedures in which there is a public interest.
We are therefore also advocating at the federal level that the Freedom of Information Act be expanded to include a transparency law, following the example of Hamburg.
The aim is to make as many publicly relevant databases, statistics, documents and other publicly financed works as possible freely accessible on the Internet.
In addition, we want to open up the ministries to more citizen participation in draft legislation and other important projects.
Viii.2 Strengthening civic engagement and volunteering
The quality of social interaction does not depend solely on economic data.
It must be lived, which is why volunteerism requires our full recognition and support.
A society of longer life opens up new opportunities - also for more solidarity between the generations.
Friendships, networks, services to people, and volunteerism are gaining importance.
In addition to traditional volunteer services, these include, for example, educational, family and social sponsorships as well as recreational assistance for people with disabilities.
We also want to encourage "generational alliances" between young and old.
Help from person to person, which is simply more than just a purchased service.
We rely on the diversity of involvement in associations, charities, environmental organizations, churches, religious and ideological communities, self-help groups, migrant organizations, foundations, voluntary services, networks and other organizations with honorary posts.
In the churches, religious and ideological communities, many work for solidarity.
They are important partners for us on the way to a better society and in the discourse of ethical issues.
We honor the commitment of charities.
In them, numerous citizens are involved in direct help and social interaction.
We want to initiate and support local volunteer agencies, engagement centers or exchanges, senior citizens' offices and self-help contact points.
We want the federal government to be able to directly support municipalities in promoting engagement.
We therefore advocate the deletion of the corresponding ban on cooperation in the Basic Law.
We will continue to support the multi-generation houses, which are so important for the interaction between the generations, by providing better funding for the municipalities.
In projects and ventures with cultural and social purposes, we want to enable cooperatively organized forms of operation.
To this end, the laws are to be adapted.
Sport is the largest civic movement in Germany.
Sport conveys values such as tolerance and fairness.
Sport brings people together.
Sport is part of a healthy lifestyle and supports integration and education.
We promote amateur and competitive sports and consider both to be suitable instruments for advancing inclusion for equal participation of people with and without disabilities.
We are committed to making sports funding transparent and comprehensible for everyone and are
creating a clear basis for this by anchoring sports in the Basic Law.
Volunteering needs the right conditions: Education times, working times, transition times, commitment and free time must be brought into a new balance.
and the conditions for lifelong learning are created.
This is an important pillar of our initiative for more time sovereignty.
In this context, there are special factors for civic engagement such as expense reimbursement, insurance coverage, volunteer management, training opportunities.
Commitment must offer opportunities for participation and co-design and give committed people scope for action and creativity.
We therefore want to create good framework conditions and reliable funding structures for hospice and visiting services, for those involved in Alzheimer's societies, for care companions, for senior citizens' organizations and for senior citizens' cooperatives.
Volunteer work is also indispensable for successful integration: in the neighborhood, in sports clubs, in social institutions, in welfare associations or in migrant organizations.
Viii.3 For freedom in security
We do not play security and freedom off against each other, but see a comprehensive and social understanding of security as the foundation for democratic freedom and openness.
In democracy, freedom and security belong together.
Only people who do not live in constant fear of violence, crime and terror are free.
Security and civil rights must not be opposites.
We want a security policy with a sense of proportion.
The police do indispensable work for our common good.
Peaceful coexistence requires professional and permanently well-trained police officers who are present on the ground and who, where appropriate, are involved in security partnerships.
The work of the police must be recognized and appropriately designed.
We reject the privatization of security tasks.
Crime policy with a sense of proportion also means tackling the causes of crime and violence.
With targeted education and youth work, with
training and job prospects, we want in particular to prevent young people from becoming perpetrators.
If they nevertheless commit a crime, juveniles must immediately learn the connection between their crime and the sentence imposed:
This goal can be achieved by conducting and concluding preliminary proceedings effectively and efficiently, i.e. in closer cooperation and networking of all authorities involved, and by
opening and concluding main proceedings promptly after indictment.
Educational measures and punishments shall be enforced promptly after the judgment has become final.
We want an offensive against economic and tax crime: we will not allow the big players to be let off the hook.
To do this, we need more tax investigators and, in some places, new sanctions.
We want better opportunities for asset forfeiture,
as well as the introduction of corporate criminal law.
In addition, we will establish a nationwide corruption register
and introduce statutory protection for whistleblowers.
Corruption and bribery must be severely punished.
So-called cybercrime, i.e. crime on and from the Internet, is increasing at an alarming rate.
The IT dependency of companies, the state and citizens is increasing - and with it the potential for damage.
We want our investigative agencies to remain on par with high-tech criminals.
The security architecture in place for the digital world must be constantly reviewed in terms of its effectiveness and efficiency, but also its proportionality, and, if necessary, adapted to the requirements of a growing field of crime.
Companies must also do their part against cyberattacks.
We want them to report attacks so that the police and public prosecutor's office can carry out investigations quickly and thus minimize damage to companies, customers and ultimately the economy.
But each and every individual can also make a contribution to their own safety online.
To this end, we want to give priority to effectively educating and training users to take effective ownership of the new networks.
To this end, the teaching of media skills must be promoted at an early stage and throughout life.
In all of this, we stand by it: Confidential communication must remain confidential.
Exceptions can only be made to prosecute the most serious crimes, and even then only under the strictest conditions and in accordance with the principles of the rule of law.
We will limit the handling of connection data to the prosecution of the most serious crimes, differentiate the types of data and storage periods with regard to their intensity of intrusion
, and draft regulations that are clear, simple, and future-proof.
The storage of movement profiles will not happen with us.
We also advocate effective data protection in the EU.
The goals are a high level of protection
and effective legal protection
, as well as strong and independent data protection officers.
Data protection must also meet the conditions of the digital world.
We want to continue our proven cooperation with experts from the network community and civil rights organizations.
Combating violence against women.
We are determined to fight violence against women and will develop an Action Plan III to combat violence against women.
Together with the federal states, we will develop a concept that will put women's shelter funding on a new, secure footing through institutional funding
and ensure better funding for counseling facilities.
We will legally guarantee protection and assistance for women and their children affected by violence.
We will improve the interlocking of the Protection Against Violence Act and the right of access.
The Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence must be transposed into German law.
We will take strong action against trafficking in women, "honor killings" and forced marriages and
improve legal regulations on the right of residence and on the protection of witnesses and victims.
Genital mutilation is a serious crime against girls and women.
As such, we want to explicitly criminalize it in the Criminal Code in the future and also examine the possibility of a separate criminal offense for this purpose.
In addition, we will add genital mutilation to the list of foreign offenses in the Criminal Code.
Combating right-wing extremism.
The ten murders of citizens of Turkish or Greek origin and of a policewoman committed by the right-wing extremist terrorist group "NSU" as well as the bomb attacks were a cowardly attack on righteous fellow citizens and at the same time an attack on our democracy.
The work of the federal and state committees of inquiry has revealed a multitude of mistakes and omissions at all levels (police, domestic intelligence and justice), which contributed to the fact that the terror cell could not be stopped at an early stage.
We urgently need to restore confidence in our security authorities.
We want to achieve this by unreservedly clarifying the events,
by institutional reforms
and by comprehensively combating every form of right-wing extremism at an early stage.
We will therefore work to ensure that the conclusions and proposals developed with great commitment by the NSU investigation committee of the Bundestag are effectively implemented in the next legislative period.
We want constitutional protection that protects our constitution.
With institutional reforms, we will better position the Office for the Protection of the Constitution to protect our democracy and, among other things, introduce a transparent Office for the Protection of the Constitution Act that contains clear rules for dealing with undercover agents.
We will improve cooperation between the federal and state governments in the areas of constitutional protection, police forces and public prosecutors' offices -
and, where necessary, create new competencies without encroaching on existing state competencies.
And we will sensitize our security authorities even more strongly and constantly to the dangers threatening our democracy from the right.
We are also fighting organized right-wing extremism.
That is why we want to ban the NPD.
It is aggressively racist, anti-Semitic and xenophobic and abuses the party privilege of our constitution.
We no longer want to allow their violent misanthropy to be financed by taxes.
However, it is also clear that no NPD ban, no security authority is as effective in the fight against right-wing extremism as a vigilant and active civil society.
That is why we need to strengthen civil society above all.
With an integrated concept against right-wing extremism, racism and anti-Semitism, we want to combine the forces of civil society, investigative authorities and politics in local, state and federal government.
With a democracy offensive, we want to strengthen the backbone of our society through education, training, anti-discrimination measures, information and training.
For us, the fight against right-wing extremism, racism and anti-Semitism is an ongoing task for society as a whole - for the federal government, the states, local authorities, civil society and business.
We will also secure the necessary follow-up funding in the fight against right-wing extremism, racism and anti-Semitism
and develop and implement a new funding concept together with civil society as part of a coordinated action plan.
The aim is to put an end to the short-sightedness of aid and instead to provide unbureaucratic, long-term and adequate support for projects, initiatives and structures on a separate legal basis.
We will put an end to the current bureaucracy, the perverse suspicions and the bureaucratic red tape of the federal government of the CDU/CSU and the FDP.
The grotesque "extremism clause" is abolished.
At the federal level, we want to establish an independent monitoring office that bundles civil society education and prevention projects and actively accompanies the fight against right-wing extremism, racism and anti-Semitism as well as victim support.
Strengthen civil protection and disaster relief.
Climate change and the growing dependence of our modern industrial and communications society on critical infrastructures such as power supply or the Internet also pose new challenges for civil protection and disaster relief.
In Germany, we have a globally recognized aid system that is supported by the great commitment of volunteers and full-time staff in the fire departments, the THW and private aid organizations.
We want to make our contribution to ensuring that this assistance system is well equipped to meet the challenges of the future
and that the broad voluntary commitment is maintained and supported as a basis.
iX. FoR a BesseRes euRoPa
The European idea fascinates people all over the world - but the form and state in which the EU currently finds itself puts many off.
This is not a contradiction.
After all, in the course of ever new reforms over the past decades, in which repairs and adjustments have been made in ever new places, the institutions of the EU have become so confusing that no one understands them anymore.
It is up to us to give the EU the form so that the fascination of the European idea becomes visible again:
namely, the idea of creating with Europe, after centuries of war, a place where peace and social justice prevail,
which exports stability to the world
and which is organized as a transnational democracy, where the regional, national or European level regulates in each case what it can do best.
Such a European project is unique in history and that is why the EU was rightly awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2012.
The SPD as the European Party in Germany is proud of this award, which belongs to the European peoples and people.
Just at a time when it is obvious how necessary European unification is for Europe to maintain its prosperity and stability in competition with emerging world regions, the federal government of CDU/CSU and FDP seems to have no enthusiasm or inspiration for our Europe.
It has failed in the past years in which Europe has had to deal with various crises:
It has taken all measures to combat the crisis too late and only half-heartedly, thereby unnecessarily increasing the costs of fighting the crisis.
Despite the great solidarity that citizens have been willing to show in recent years, the German government initially reacted to the crisis in a cold-hearted manner, acting as if the problems of our neighbors and friends were none of our business.
A crisis that has triggered devastating social upheavals in some EU member states and is creating a "lost generation" among young people in southern Europe.
On several occasions, members of the federal government of the CDU/CSU and FDP have even publicly contemplated the end of our common currency, thus irresponsibly fueling speculation against the euro and counteracting the austerity efforts of some crisis states.
In this way, the German government has contributed to Europe being on the brink of the abyss at times, and it has thus harmed the interests of our country.
We know that if Europe fails, the European social model, which is based on solidarity and a fair balance of interests, will also fail.
Europe must be and become even more the place that opposes neoliberalism and market radicalism with its model of social and sustainable democracy and market economy.
The cold competitive Europe must finally be countered by an EU that acts in a socially responsible manner.
Only in the common European association of states will we succeed in asserting our interests globally in the 21st century and thereby maintain our prosperity.
This applies to economic, monetary and trade issues as well as to environmental and consumer protection, conflict prevention and disarmament, and migration policy.
However, transnational democracy will only work if we transfer the separation of powers model that we know from the national states to the European level:
Therefore, the European Commission must be developed into a government that is elected and controlled by the European Parliament and can be dismissed if necessary.
National interests are then represented in a second chamber, in which the governments of the member states sit in a joint council.
This Council passes laws on an equal footing with the European Parliament.
The government, the European Parliament and the Council of Member States each have the right to launch their own legislative initiatives.
The European Court of Justice continues to be the supreme European judiciary, and it also ensures that the fundamental rights of citizens are not violated by the EU.
Thus, in the future, institutions will be more clearly accountable for their decisions visibly than before.
Such a reform helps to make decisions more transparent and comprehensible, and it is thus a contribution to strengthening European democracy.
The SPD is not resigned to the fact that voter turnout has continued to fall since the first elections to the European Parliament in 1979.
Appeals will not help to stop this trend, but it must be clearer in the future what political content and which people are up for election.
We therefore welcome the fact that the European parties are each putting forward a joint top candidate for the 2014 European elections, who will stand as a candidate for the respective party family in all EU countries.
These top candidates are vying for the post of EU Commission President.
The SPD is committed to supporting in the future only a Commission President who has previously put his political program up for election as a top candidate in the European elections and who receives a majority in the European Parliament.
A Commission President elected in this way, with a high level of parliamentary legitimacy as a result of a preceding election campaign, makes the EU as a whole more democratic.
At the same time, political groups that voted for or against this president will then face each other in the European Parliament.
This is another way in which a piece of parliamentary tradition that is taken for granted in the member states is also brought to the EU level.
We also want to strengthen the European Parliament's ability to function by campaigning in Germany as well as in the EU for blocking clauses in the European elections.
The principle of separation of powers and full parliamentarization of the EU must apply in all areas where the EU has competence.
In the course of such a reform, it must be examined whether the distribution of competencies between the national and European levels has proven itself or whether corrections are necessary.
This process may also involve transfers back to the member states if European competence has not proved useful.
The SPD stands behind the principle of subsidiarity.
A deepening EU, which after monetary union must finally also follow economic union, also needs a common economic government after the euro, the single market and a common central bank (ECB).
For it has not proved worthwhile for seventeen or more governments in a common currency area to try to enforce their different economic ideas against each other; instead, this common currency area must speak with one voice.
Now that strict and effective requirements for national budgetary discipline have been established through the fiscal compact and other European control mechanisms, the issue of joint liability must no longer remain taboo.
The German taxpayer is already liable for hundreds of billions as a result of the euro bailouts and the ECB's policies.
The SPD has supported this policy because it is in Germany's interest that we defend our currency and that the currency area does not break apart.
A European debt redemption fund for all members of the monetary union could be an instrument to avert speculation against countries in the monetary union.
The SPD welcomes the fact that social democratic pressure in Europe has succeeded in preparing the financial transaction tax in eleven EU member states.
In government, we will encourage the other euro and EU countries to also introduce this tax, through which speculators contribute a fair share of public financing.
More coordination in Europe also requires more democratic control and participation.
We want to establish a parliamentary-controlled economic government.
Measures taken within this integrated economic policy framework must be taken by a parliamentary-controlled economic government.
In the context of the euro zone, we will ensure that the measures taken within the framework of the common economic and budgetary policy are democratically legitimized.
We do not want "business as usual" - Europe must not continue to become a Europe of governments.
It must become a Europe of the citizens.
To this end, the European Parliament and national parliaments must be further strengthened.
The European social market economy needs a strong European social union.
The social union must have its foundation in a social set of values with strong fundamental social rights, as already laid down in the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights.
These basic social rights must not be subordinated to market freedoms in the European single market, but must take precedence over them.
With a social progress clause, this principle must be enshrined in European primary law.
In Europe, the following must apply: equal pay and working conditions for equal work in the same place.
No room must be given to wage and social dumping.
To this end, the scope for co-determination in European companies must also be extended,
the rights of European works councils strengthened
and the social dialogue between trade unions and employers expanded at European level.
Employees from different EU countries must not be played off against each other, but must have the chance to represent their interests together.
We want to establish the Social Stability Pact.
To prevent social dumping, goals and targets for social and education spending must be set - measured against the GDP of the respective countries.
The same applies to minimum living wages in all EU member states, measured against the respective national average income.
But we do not want European standards to replace national standards.
We want national standards to be protected.
We need minimum social standards against harmful competition for the lowest social rights and standards.
We must further develop the monetary union into an economic and social union.
Our aim is not to standardize the tried and tested national social systems in Europe.
But we need common standards to protect our social systems and develop them in a way that benefits people.
Public services must not be called into question by the EU.
It cannot be that the interpretation of market freedoms threatens national specifics in public services.
Clear stop signs for the EU must apply here, and these must be enshrined in the Union's primary law.
Our goal is to strengthen public services.
We ensure that all citizens have access to their services.
This is often provided by municipal companies and facilities in very good quality.
We therefore advocate fair competition rules for public companies in national and European law.
We want to ensure - also at the European level - that municipalities can decide for themselves how they perform their public tasks.
Water supply, sewage and waste disposal, local public transport, airports and air traffic control, important health and social services and public broadcasting serve the common good.
We will oppose plans that involve forcing privatization.
We want to improve the position of the many service providers by providing good working conditions and safeguarding their rights, regardless of the legal and organizational form.
We want to change Europe to make it better.
A strong and just Europe in the interests of the people must focus above all on the major tasks of the future:
taming the financial markets,
sustainable growth through modern, innovative industry and investment in the future,
a peacemaking policy toward its neighbors and in the world.
In these areas, Europe must cooperate even more closely through effective Community institutions and, above all, a strong European Parliament.
But we also take seriously the concerns of many people about a European Union that interferes in too many areas.
Where tasks can be better solved nationally, regionally or locally, the principle of subsidiarity must apply.
Subsidiarity means that policy is made where it is best placed.
In order to launch the reform measures needed for this new Europe, all the leeway in the existing treaties must first be exhausted.
Any further steps toward treaty reform must be worked out by a convention in which parliaments and governments work on an equal footing and civil society has effective opportunities to participate.
The next European election campaign, in its new form, can already be the beginning of a comprehensive debate on the direction of the EU.
A newly elected European Parliament and a new Commission can then set the course for concrete reforms.
The European Union is in danger of losing further trust if it does not succeed in making its policies more democratic and socially just.
To open the door for such political change, it is essential to break the majority of conservatives and liberals in the EU institutions and correct their unilateral policies of austerity and liberalization.
Both the Bundestag elections this year and the European elections in 2014 are therefore important milestones in setting Europe on a different, better political course.
The EU needs to regain trust, and it depends on the governments of the member countries to help it do so.
The SPD-led federal government will do this by initiating a reform process that will make the EU more democratic, transparent, equitable and efficient.
X. our idea of globalization: justice for all instead of wealth for the few
Our world is in upheaval.
It is an upheaval whose outcome is open.
Many things still seem contradictory.
Opportunities and risks are close together.
We want to seize the opportunities presented by this change and do everything we can to ensure that this upheaval is a departure towards more peace,
Democracy
and justice.
We are seeing people in many countries rebelling against dictatorship and oppression, taking to the streets for freedom and democracy, staking their lives.
But it remains uncertain whether viable democratic structures will emerge in these states.
We are seeing more and more people networking globally, getting involved in a socially just and ecologically responsible economic and financial order, and thus creating a critical world public.
But it is precisely the voices of people in the world's poorest countries, who suffer particularly from the consequences of climate change and unfair global trade, that are not being heard sufficiently.
We are seeing how understanding and cooperation across old state borders are succeeding better in many places.
But we also see the dangers of new conflicts along ethnic or religious dividing lines, through lack of resources, failing statehood, poverty and lack of prospects.
We see that inequality is increasing in all societies.
With China, India and Brazil, new powers are emerging whose economic rise is driving the global economy.
But it remains to be seen whether and in what structures a socially and ecologically responsible globalization will succeed together with these states.
In the global 21st century, humanity will only be able to solve the existential challenges of our time together:
limiting climate change,
subjecting the unleashed financial markets to sensible rules again,
counteracting the growing inequality in societies.
Secure peace and human rights as global public goods,
stop the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction,
finally overcome hunger and poverty.
These are all challenges that cannot be overcome against each other, but only with each other.
At the same time, they are challenges to a new order of the world that has yet to emerge.
We want to help build a cooperative world order that makes joint problem-solving and shaping the future possible within the framework of a world domestic policy.
Together with civil society groups, social movements, trade unions, churches and their development organizations, we want to shape this future,
for European and global peace,
Justice
and sustainability.
The democratic foundations of a new world domestic policy must not be limited to state cooperation.
They must include civil society participation.
Our foreign and security policy - committed to peace, focused on cooperation.
The SPD has always seen itself as a peace party.
As the originator of the policy of détente during the East-West conflict, it has a long tradition of confidence-building policies, reconciliation of interests, transparency of state action, and treaty-based disarmament and arms control.
We want to renew and further develop this forward-looking peace and détente policy in keeping with the times.
In foreign policy, we are aware of Germany's responsibility not to act alone, but together with its European partners, in the transatlantic alliance and with civil society actors.
There is an urgent need for renewed clear orientation and prioritization in the area of peacebuilding and conflict transformation.
We strongly advocate that civilian crisis prevention and conflict resolution should once again be given priority in German and European foreign policy.
This also includes an overarching, coordinated and comprehensive strategy to make structures and decision-making processes more effective.
We want to further develop the concept of "Civilian Crisis Prevention, Conflict Resolution and Peacebuilding" developed under social democratic leadership.
The Civil Peace Service has proven its worth as a civil society element of crisis prevention and is to be strengthened again.
We want Germany to be a reliable partner in international politics again.
We want a smart foreign policy, coordinated with our partners, with a sense of proportion for the good of Germany and Europe.
Germany's responsibility within the EU has grown with the economic and financial crisis in the eurozone.
The federal government of CDU/CSU and FDP, however, has weakened international confidence in Germany's European policy.
In the last four years, Germany has also withdrawn from many international crises and conflicts, from the Middle East to Iran to Afghanistan, as a shaping force.
We want to restore trust
and live up to our responsibility at the international level.
The EU's foreign and security policy urgently needs to gain substance and contour.
Europe has common interests and we will only be able to represent them if we act together as the EU.
We therefore need new political impetus for a sustainable, even more communitarized, common foreign and security policy for the EU.
Our goal is the further development of the European Union into an effective peace power.
Independent European peace policy relies above all on political means and diplomacy, on trade, equitable development and civil crisis prevention.
In development policy in particular, Europe must pursue an integrated common approach even more clearly than before.
A key challenge for the common European foreign and security policy in the future will also be to network the specific foreign and security policy experiences, competencies and partnerships of the individual EU states and to incorporate them into the EU's common foreign policy in such a way as to generate concrete added value.
Only together can Europe effectively assert its values and interests in a changing world.
German foreign policy must therefore be much more strongly integrated into a common European foreign policy.
Europe must also continue to keep its doors open to new members.
The EU's enlargement policy has proven to be a forward-looking peace policy.
Europe must be true to its word vis-à-vis the countries that are already conducting accession negotiations with the EU and those that have been given the prospect of accession.
We advocate that the EU continue negotiations with Turkey with the clear goal of Turkey's EU accession and give them new momentum.
Turkey's accession to the EU is in the mutual political and economic interest and can build important cultural bridges.
We also remain committed to the accession perspective of the Western Balkan states.
As important as an EU enlargement policy aimed at peace and prosperity remains, it is also clear that accession to the EU is only possible if the applicant countries fully meet the necessary criteria.
At the same time, the ability of an enlarged European Union to act must be ensured by further reform steps of the EU.
Social democratic foreign policy is peace policy.
Peace and security are best achieved by promoting democracy and human rights, as well as fair production and trade conditions.
In our forward-looking peace policy, we rely on the close integration of political, economic, developmental and humanitarian means.
Civil crisis prevention and conflict resolution are always a clear priority for us.
Military means can only be considered as a last resort:
with a clear mandate from the United Nations, a resolution by the German Bundestag and embedded in an overall political concept.
We want to roll back the influence of private mercenary armies and security services and subject them to strict national and international rules.
Disarmament, non-proliferation and arms control are key survival issues for us tomorrow.
Our goal remains a world without nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction.
We support regional approaches to zones free of weapons of mass destruction.
We want the remaining tactical nuclear weapons to be withdrawn from Germany as part of a pan-European disarmament treaty.
At the same time, we want to give new impetus to conventional disarmament and arms control.
We want to return to the restrictive export guidelines of the Red-Green government era.
We reject arms exports to crisis regions and to countries where human rights are massively disregarded and violated.
We firmly reject an expansion of arms exports for economic reasons and as a substitute for a formative foreign policy.
This also means creating a parliamentary body in the German Bundestag that controls the federal government in central arms export decisions and that can provide timely transparency to parliament and the public.
Any possible transfer of arms exported from Germany to third parties must be effectively controlled and violations of end-use clauses must be strictly sanctioned.
We called for an exit strategy for Afghanistan at an early stage.
It is now certain that the combat mission will end in 2014.
We want to actively accompany the process of transition from ISAF to a new mission in Afghanistan with a focus on training.
Afghanistan and the international community can rely on us to stand by our commitments - especially with regard to civilian aid.
We will press the United States for a new start in the Middle East peace process.
The central goal of our policy in the Middle East is and remains a two-state solution:
With an Israel that lives in peace, security and within borders recognized by its neighbors - and a viable Palestinian state in which the people have a future worth living.
Germany was once held in high esteem by all parties to the conflict.
That is where we want to return and make our contribution to the realization of a two-state solution.
The conflict in Syria poses a serious risk of dragging the entire region into a spiral of politically and religiously motivated violence.
We want Germany to no longer stand on the sidelines in resolving this conflict, but to make greater use of its diplomatic options than before to prevent further escalation.
At the same time, efforts to help Syrian refugees must be stepped up.
We want to support the Arab states in transition in their efforts to
use the freedom they have gained to develop
new economic prospects
and constitutional and democratic structures.
The spread of militant Islamism in the states of the Sahel is a serious threat to Germany and Europe.
This threat cannot be countered in the long term by military means alone.
We need a strategy for the political and economic stabilization of the entire region to get to the root of the problem.
In order to promote Germany's and Europe's identity as a peace power for human rights and international law, we want to strengthen the human rights protection of the United Nations, the EU and the Council of Europe.
Human rights should guide our actions in all policy areas.
The rights of women and children and of human rights defenders are particularly important to us.
The Bundeswehr is a parliamentary army integrated into European and transatlantic security structures.
Parliament has proven that it uses its constitutive right of decision responsibly.
We reject any weakening of the parliamentary proviso.
We want the reform of the Bundeswehr that has begun to lead to further Europeanization of the armed forces within the framework of joint European defense planning.
This also includes reviving European cooperation in security and defense policy.
Here we want to set new impulses.
If we better unite our armed forces at the European level, this will also create scope for further disarmament steps.
In the long term, we want to build a common European army
whose deployment must be legitimized by parliament.
The anchoring of the Bundeswehr in our democratic and pluralistic society must be maintained and strengthened.
We advocate that the questions about the relationship between the Bundeswehr and society raised by the conversion to a volunteer army be answered in a broad social discourse.
This restructuring can only succeed if all Bundeswehr employees are taken along on this difficult journey.
We are therefore committed to a comprehensive concept for recruiting young talent
and an attractiveness program that makes it easier to combine family and career.
We reject a hasty decision to procure combat drones.
We demand that all security policy, international law and ethical questions be answered comprehensively beforehand.
Germany's reputation in the world has suffered under the federal government of CDU/CSU and FDP.
We want to strengthen this reputation again and thus also expand the scope of German foreign policy.
We therefore want to build on the successful promotion of foreign cultural policy from our time in government and continue to support the work abroad of the Goethe Institutes, the German schools abroad and the political foundations.
The German UN site in Bonn is being expanded as a place of international cooperation.
In this context, the role of the federal city of Bonn as Germany's second federal political center is being strengthened on the basis of the Berlin/Bonn Act, and a permanent contractual arrangement is being prepared in dialog with the region and the state governments in North Rhine-Westphalia and Rhineland-Palatinate.
We want to see a revitalization and strengthening of transatlantic relations.
The USA is Germany's and Europe's most important strategic partner.
The increased focus of U.S. foreign and security policy on the Pacific does not mean a devaluation of the transatlantic relationship.
It presents Europe with new challenges, but also opens up new opportunities for cooperation.
These must be used.
We want to revitalize, develop and deepen relations with the United States.
We seek close coordination and joint initiatives in the Middle East and the Arab world.
We want to use our relations in the Asian region to develop joint transatlantic strategies for the Asian continent and the Pacific region.
We offer to act as a mediator of a necessary continued U.S.-Russian dialogue.
The efforts for a transatlantic free trade agreement have our explicit support.
The most progressive rules in terms of economic, social and ecological standards are to be applied,
regulation of the financial markets and their transparency.
In addition, we want to establish or further develop strategic partnerships with other emerging countries such as Brazil, India, South Africa and China.
Existing strategic partnerships, such as with Russia, must be breathed new life into.
Alongside Asia, with its political and economic dynamism, the African continent will become increasingly important in our immediate European neighborhood.
This also applies to the emerging powers in Latin America.
Our policy toward Russia combines economic cooperation with political and social dialogue in a comprehensive modernization partnership.
We seek progress towards visa liberalization in our mutual interest.
Germany and Europe must resolutely expand their political influence in Asia and the Pacific region as the central political and economic arena of the future.
We want to put the European Union's Asia policy on a broader footing than before and revitalize approaches that have been neglected in recent years, such as the EU Central Asia Strategy.
However, partnership with these emerging countries and regions must not be limited to economic cooperation.
We want Germany and Europe to contribute their own values to this cooperation
and democratic,
social and
do not leave out human rights issues.
Our goal is a cooperative, just world order.
We want the globalization of markets to be followed by political globalization.
We see multilateral organizations as a bridge to a just global order.
As the most important world organization, the United Nations remains primarily responsible for peace and security.
We therefore advocate a necessary political reform and strengthening of the UN, which includes a reform and strengthening of the Security Council.
The OSCE, NATO and the EU, as regional organizations with different focuses, have a common responsibility for peace in and for Europe.
We want Germany to play an active and constructive role in these organizations again.
In the WTO and within the framework of the G20, Germany should make a strong case for a fair and sustainable economic model.
Fair competition needs regulation.
Open markets need common rules.
We stand for strengthening the United Nations system.
We want to put the United Nations, with its universal membership and legitimacy, at the center of political globalization.
We support the reform of the United Nations into a powerful and efficient organization.
We want to work towards strengthening crisis and conflict prevention in the spirit of social democratic peace policy.
and the protection of human rights.
The principle of the responsibility to protect must focus primarily on civilian action.
Involving the International Labor Organization (ILO) has proven important, especially in the current economic crisis.
Their voice must be heard in shaping a social and sustainable financial and economic order.
We reject unjust and inhumane production methods that clearly violate the elementary core labor standards of the International Labor Organization (ILO), such as the "prohibition of child and forced labor, prohibition of discrimination and freedom of association," the right to collective bargaining and free trade unions, and international environmental standards.
We will therefore work to enforce minimum social standards worldwide,
to create decent employment opportunities with sufficient income,
and to strengthen social security and dialogue between the social partners.
EU trade agreements must be linked to compliance with and monitoring of ILO core labor standards.
Free trade must not become a gateway for wage and social dumping.
International policy urgently needs to address the challenges of resource security and climate protection.
With this in mind, we advocate an ecologically and economically responsible energy and climate foreign policy.
Instead of always waiting for "the slowest ship in the convoy" as in previous climate policies, we want to create alliances of those who lead the way - and gain the advantages of the pioneers in the process.
Protect human rights comprehensively and enforce them internationally.
Human rights form the binding basis of our society - both in Germany and in Europe.
They are indivisible and apply universally - which is why we are committed to protecting and promoting human rights domestically and within the European Union, but also globally.
This is the only way to make our policies internally and externally peaceable, socially just and thus sustainable.
In this context, our policy advocates the further development and implementation of human rights standards as well as effective instruments for the protection of human rights.
Particularly important are better protection of human rights defenders,
but also the worldwide outlawing of the death penalty and torture,
as well as more effective prosecution of human rights violations, including in an international context.
All over the world, human rights of women are still violated in many ways, albeit in different ways:
Systematic discrimination,
domestic violence,
the terrible violations of women through genital mutilation, forced marriage, human trafficking or falsely so-called "crimes in the name of honor" are therefore something we will fight with particular vigor.
Children, people with disabilities, but also sick and old people have a right to a life in dignity and self-determination, which is often enough not respected.
This requires our greater attention and political intervention.
The protection of minorities is also one of the important areas of human rights work.
That is why we actively advocate for the human rights of religious and ethnic minorities, who often enough become victims of political conflicts and social and economic tensions in the world's crisis areas.
In Europe, too, discriminated minorities must be given their rights through effective intervention by those responsible in the member states and at the EU level.
We actively support the indispensable work of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
and advocate more solidarity with refugees in the European Union.
and for a fairer distribution of the burden of their integration.
For us, development policy is global peace and structural policy.
The guiding principle of our development policy remains a global structural policy that shapes the international framework in a development-friendly and sustainable way and sees the major tasks of the future as a common challenge.
Freedom,
Justice
and solidarity are also our core values.
The goals of our development policy are to overcome poverty and hunger in the world,
to protect global public goods
and to realize human rights.
We stand by our international commitments.
With our help, we support the own efforts of people living in poverty.
For it to work, it needs responsible governments, active citizens, and frameworks that promote social justice, sustainable development, and peace.
We stand by an independent BMZ as the Federal Ministry for Global Cooperation and Sustainable Development with responsibility for global tasks for the future.
Only such a ministry can credibly and efficiently meet the challenges.
In the future, we want to focus cooperation more on the poorest developing countries and fragile states and regions,
but without abandoning cooperation with countries that are already more advanced.
What is needed to overcome poverty is broad-based, sustainable growth.
This requires overcoming inequalities in societies
and creating good work oriented to the ILO's Decent Work Agenda,
investing in agricultural development,
helping to establish and expand social security systems in the sense of basic protection in line with the UN and ILO's Social Protection Floor concept,
and promoting equality between men and women.
Necessary conditions for this are access to good education,
health care and nutrition.
We want to fight hunger and achieve food security.
That is why we are using all possible means to prevent speculation on food prices.
In our partner countries, we work toward the realization of human rights
and the promotion of democratic participation and the rule of law.
We want to contribute to the realization of economic, social and cultural human rights and political human rights.
Women are central actors in development processes.
The prerequisite for this is to strengthen their personal, social, economic and political rights of self-determination.
Their access to family planning must be guaranteed.
Violence against women in any form must be combated.
We intend to pursue the Millennium Development Goals with determination and do our part to ensure that they are achieved by 2015.
This is particularly true in the fight against maternal and child mortality as well as HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.
We want to participate in the further development of the Millennium Development Goals into "Sustainable Development Goals", which are to become part of the new framework for global development policy from 2015 to 2030.
Civil society is a key partner in all of this.
We recognize their important contribution to justice, the protection of natural resources, political participation and democratic development - especially in fragile states.
We will increase our support for their important education and advocacy work.
We want to expand the "weltwärts" volunteer program as a valuable contribution to development education work.
Private investment makes a significant contribution to economic development and overcoming poverty.
We want to support the development and expansion of the private sector in partner countries, insofar as it follows the principles of sustainable social and ecological development.
Globally active companies also have a responsibility to respect human rights.
We advocate for expanded transparency requirements for transnational corporations, especially in the extractive sector, through country- and project-specific reporting requirements.
We are sticking to our target of spending 0.7 percent of GDP on development cooperation.
The federal government of CDU/CSU and FDP has neglected this goal to such an extent that agreed timetables for achieving it can no longer be met.
Nevertheless, in order to achieve the goal in principle, we want to provide an additional 1 billion euros annually for development cooperation and make greater use of new and innovative financing instruments in Germany and across Europe, in particular also using funds from the financial transaction tax.
We support developing countries in setting up efficient tax systems so that they can increasingly mobilize their own resources for their tasks.
Development policy must incorporate the strategies of partner countries.
Budget support contributes significantly to greater ownership by partner countries.
Emerging economies have gained in importance and influence and must increasingly assume co-responsibility in poverty reduction and peace policy initiatives, especially in regional conflicts.
Multilateral cooperation must be strengthened.
To achieve this, German development policy must be embedded in an overall European concept and work consistently toward coordinated cooperation based on the division of labor.
The separation of technical and financial development cooperation, which exists only in Germany and leads to duplicate structures, must be overcome.
Developing and emerging countries should have greater weight in international financial and economic institutions.
Overall, the voices of developing and emerging countries need to be strengthened in global governance.
At the same time, we continue to advocate a United Nations Global Council for Economic, Social and Environmental Policy.
It is intended to harmonize economic interests, social needs and ecological necessities.
Sustainable development policy must be closely linked to global environmental policy.
The poorer countries need special support to counteract climate change and to achieve a faster expansion of renewable energies and more energy efficiency.
We also need to advance the protection of the rainforest and other ecosystems.
We will implement the German financial pledges for the protection of forests and biodiversity.
We know: Comprehensive peace requires social justice and fair development.
Without one, the other cannot succeed.
This conviction is and remains at the core of our forward-looking social democratic peace policy.
Xi. germany better DirecTed!
Our election program follows a simple principle: We want to govern for the benefit of all citizens in Germany.
We want to make a difference in our country.
We want to re-found the social market economy
and create a new social balance together.
We want to put an end to four years of political gridlock and coalition chaos.
We want to make a different, a better and fairer policy for the citizens of Germany.
Angela Merkel's government has promised a lot and broken just as many promises.
We know very well what we want.
We do not turn like flags in the wind.
We stay the course.
In stormy times, politics must be able to act.
Politics must live up to its responsibility.
It must have a clear compass.
Our election program is that compass.
It stands on solid ground - our fundamental values of freedom,
Justice
and solidarity.
Our program is the guide for our actions.
Our program is a call to action.
Our program is intended to be of concrete benefit to all citizens in their various life situations.
Our program is the mandate that politics finally delivers concrete results again.
Our election program is the plan for better politics in Germany and Europe.
A policy that reconciles social and economic, sustainability and competitiveness, citizen and state, Europe and Germany, globalization and communities, values and reality.
Our program is the basis for deciding the direction of our society without losing sight of moderation and center.
Our election program is the alternative to Angela Merkel's "lack of alternatives".
Germany needs clear majorities for this: Only with the Red-Green coalition will we succeed in renewing our country!
Only a red-green government stands for a change of direction in Germany!
The SPD is the party at the center of society and for togetherness in Germany.
We have been making policy for a better society for 150 years.
That's what we're building on.
That's why sPD.
That's why Peer steinbrück.
