Germany.
Everything is inside.
Bundestag election program 2021
Ready because you are.
This document is the Green election program for the 2021 federal election.
The final version with table of contents and keyword index will be published at the end of July as an accessible PDF at gruene.de/wahlprogramm.
Editor*in:
ALLIANCE 90/THE GREENS Square in front of the New Gate 1
10115 Berlin
Phone: 030 28442-0
Fax: 030 28442-210
E-mail: info@gruene.de
Internet: gruene.de
V.i.S.d.P.:
ALLIANCE 90/THE GREENS Annkathrin Schäfer
Square in front of the New Gate 1
10115 Berlin
Donation account:
IBAN: DE 73 4306 0967 8035 8159 00
BIC/Swift: GENODEM1GLS GLS Bank
An invitation
Dear voters, it is through elections that a society decides who it wants to be.
That applies all the more to this federal election on September 26.
With it, an era ends and a new one can begin.
But the future is not something that just happens to us.
You, dear voters, can decide with your vote which direction it will take.
We, BÜNDNIS 90/DIE GRÜNEN, are presenting our substantive offer to you with this program.
We are doing this at a time of global emergency.
The pandemic has hit us all to the core.
It has shown in a good way the commonality, innovation and resilience we can reach people to.
But it has also ruthlessly exposed the vulnerabilities of our society, and in an already vulnerable world.
The global crises of this time - first and foremost the climate crisis as a true crisis of humanity - have an impact on all our lives and endanger freedom, security and prosperity.
But we have a choice: we can decide whether the crises grow over our heads or whether we outgrow them.
The experience of the pandemic shows that we can overcome crises by working together.
Through the solidarity with which our society has given the strongest protection to the most vulnerable.
Through thoughtfulness, which so many people display.
Through science and progress.
Every day people outgrow themselves in the pandemic - in the hospital, in the nursing home, in the supermarket, in the laboratory, children, parents and teachers in distance learning, young people alone at home, self-employed people showing the greatest adaptability.
Now is the time for politics to rise above itself.
We can learn from mistakes.
We have seen how fragile the status quo is, how fragile a purely profit-driven economy is,
but also the importance of fundamental rights
and the strength of our society.
We have learned how limited national answers to global questions are,
I have seen how much uncertainty arises when you only drive on sight,
and how necessary a policy with vision and for peace is.
The better we provide, the more resilient we become, the better we protect, the freer we can live.
As a society, we already hold the key to so much.
We know how to lead an industrial society safely into the age of climate neutrality.
How to accelerate the coal phase-out and ensure security of supply,
how much more electricity can be generated from wind and sun
and nature conservation is strengthened.
We know how to develop a social-ecological market economy that combines sustainable jobs, social protection and fair competition in Germany and Europe,
how to set clear rules for globalization and how to tax multinational corporations appropriately.
We know how we can invest in a strong healthcare system.
and a modern infrastructure,
We know how we can invest in a strong healthcare system.
and a modern infrastructure,
in good schools and public spaces,
can invest in a well-functioning state that is close to its citizens.
It is possible to reduce inequality, to
create equal living conditions in the village, in the small town and in the metropolis,
and to put children at the center.
We can achieve full gender equality
and shape a diverse immigrant society.
We are in a position and firmly determined to democratically strengthen Europe as a community of values and to make it fairer and more capable of acting in global system competition.
This can be mastered with international solidarity and if we shape our way of living and doing business in such a way that we do not exacerbate crises elsewhere in the world.
But words alone are not enough, we must also do it.
Now is the time for making.
Reactive politics has tried to prevent the worst over the last years.
But it's about enabling the best.
Becoming a climate-neutral society in a short time is an epoch-making task with inspiring power.
We want to create an upswing that goes beyond the purely economic.
An upswing that encompasses all of social life in its strength and diversity: Education and culture, work and digitization, science and innovation.
This program is a start for that.
It proposes concrete and ambitious projects for political action in a federal government over the next four years.
The tasks are great, and so are the resistances.
But recent years have shown that many people in society are far ahead of politics.
So let's work together to bring political work up to date.
If you, dear voters, give us the mandate for this and we are allowed to implement these projects with you step by step, together we will create the foundations for a decade of boldly moving forward, of doing, of succeeding.
Power is only borrowed in a democracy.
This loan commits to clean politics - to politics that puts the good of citizens* above personal interest, that is accountable, and that sets limits on itself.
We will act in this spirit.
We will bring many a good tradition to bear in a new way, establish many a new thing, replace many a familiar thing, but we will create security in the transition.
After an era of political short-termism, we have the staying power, the clear compass and the assertiveness to lead our country - at the heart of Europe, facing the world - into a better future.
Yes, to lead.
For the first time in the history of the Federal Republic of Germany, we, the Alliance 90/The Greens, are fighting for political leadership in this country, both in terms of content and personnel.
We stand on a firm foundation of values and are deeply rooted in society.
We have a clear goal in mind for this decade: climate-friendly prosperity.
We have grown and strengthened through governing in local, state and federal government.
With experience and competence, with heart and vision, with confidence and passion, open and capable of learning, this is how we enter this decade.
That is our offer and that is how we are canvassing for majorities for the next four years.
We invite you to walk this path with us.
Chapter 1: Protecting livelihoods
The climate crisis is the existential question of our time.
Therefore, climate protection is not a task for the future, but climate protection is now.
If we act consistently at the beginning of this decade and usher in the socio-ecological transformation, we can still prevent the climate catastrophe and contribute to a climate-just world.
In this context, climate neutrality is a great opportunity for a higher quality of life,
more social justice
and climate-friendly prosperity.
They must be seized.
We have already felt the climate crisis in recent years with heatwaves, forest dieback, floods and droughts.
It has dramatic consequences at home and around the world: for people's health, for example - and it is primarily those with the lowest incomes, and especially those in the global South, who pay the price for the fact that the ecological footprint of the richest is the largest.
Or for the farmers, who are increasingly being deprived of their livelihood.
And for cohesion in our society.
All of these consequences will multiply if we do not change course now.
The more resolutely we act, the more freedoms and alternatives we secure for current and future generations.
We will therefore consistently pursue the path to climate neutrality.
This requires skill, courage and making.
In a future government, we will place the Paris Climate Agreement at the center and align the actions of all ministries accordingly.
We are directing all our efforts to putting measures in place that will put us on the 1.5 degree path.
Climate justice is a matter of policy canon.
We see it as our task to create better rules, not the better person.
Such clear political regulatory frameworks also relieve us as people in our everyday lives and create freedom.
Of course, climate neutrality means change, but this change creates a foothold in the future.
Because it keeps us from crossing tipping points
and enables us to live a climate-appropriate life, a better life.
We are therefore bringing together electricity, heat, transport and industry, putting an end to energy waste and thus ensuring that these areas dovetail efficiently.
Instead of coal, oil and fossil gas, the energy system will be based on solar and wind energy.
Instead of sticking to fossil combustion engines, we are creating a new mobility by train, bike, on foot or with emission-free cars.
Instead of oil and natural gas, the power of renewables will warm us in the future.
The future will thus be quieter, cleaner, healthier, cheaper and more socially just.
Fewer cars in the city means more space for us humans.
Quieter streets and cleaner air serve especially those who cannot afford the villa on the quiet outskirts of the city.
More offers of climate and environmentally friendly means of transport, for example call buses or car sharing, make commuting easier and promote a good life in the countryside.
This major change is creating new areas of business,
new industries,
new jobs.
Other areas will transform, some will disappear.
For many people, this is also a great challenge, even an imposition.
The socio-ecological transformation will only succeed if we do everything we can together to reduce losses and build bridges.
So those who need new opportunities or training must get them.
And it is our job to ensure that the costs and burdens of this change are fairly distributed.
Climate-friendly prosperity means thinking ecology and social issues together and managing the transition well: for people in the city and in the countryside.
For the craftswoman as well as for the steelworker.
The loss of intact nature and environment is as dramatic as the climate crisis and one of the greatest threats to a good and healthy life.
If we want to protect our livelihoods, if we also want to stem the second major ecological crisis, species extinction, then we need more than a course correction, we need a new course.
We make planetary boundaries the guiding principle of our policies
and thus also contribute to greater environmental justice.
Accordingly, we are changing the way we do business, because there cannot be infinite growth on a finite planet.
We set priorities.
From now on, what protects people and animals, climate and nature will be rewarded and promoted.
And what is destructive must pay the cost and be overcome as quickly as possible.
By making the protection of oceans and waters, climate and soils, animals and plants part of our economic and legal system, we can succeed in ensuring the stability of ecosystems and our livelihoods.
And thus also our foundations for a good and peaceful coexistence.
We create climate-friendly prosperity
More quality of life through climate neutrality
The path to carbon neutrality offers huge opportunities for a better quality of life: cities with less congestion and exhaust fumes, with space to bike and walk safely, to play and to live.
Villages that are finally connected to public transport.
Forests where even our children can still discover the beauty of nature.
Healthy food produced with respect for animal rights and the environment.
Climate protection is so much more than pure technology; it is the prerequisite for a healthy life on a healthy earth.
The energy revolution: renewable heating, living, managing
Climate neutrality means getting out of fossil fuels.
Not only the electricity, but also the gasoline in our cars, the kerosene in the airplane tank, the heavy oil in the ship, the oil for heating and the gas in the industrial plant must be converted to renewable energies.
This is nothing less than an energy revolution.
First and foremost, this requires a massive expansion offensive for renewables that is implemented as quickly as possible.
The future of our industrial location and our security of supply depend on it.
The expansion path is limited by the strength and capacity of industry and craftsmen*, but must not be limited by the political framework.
That is why we are continuously removing existing obstacles to expansion - in an environmentally compatible manner and for the benefit of our citizens.
Our goal is to add at least 5 to 6 gigawatts (GW) of onshore wind capacity per year from now on, 7 to 8 GW from the mid-2020s and 35 GW of offshore wind capacity by 2035.
In the solar energy sector, we will increase the expansion from an initial 10 to 12 GW to 18 to 20 GW per year from the mid-2020s.
With a comprehensive tax and levy reform, we want to ensure that sector coupling progresses
and that electricity is available at reliable and competitive prices.
We are changing the energy market design so that renewable electricity is no longer held back.
We put sun and wind at the center and enable industry, commerce and trade to make a particularly large contribution to the integration of renewables via more flexible consumption.
We make peak generation available for storage and the production of heat or green hydrogen according to the principle of "use instead of switch off".
We abolish duplicate loads and other brake blocks.
We secure critical infrastructures with emergency power-capable solar systems.
We are equipping distribution grids and consumers with intelligent technology so that they can react flexibly when a lot of renewable electricity is being produced.
Energy efficiency - less is more
Even in a world of renewables, energy is a valuable commodity that we must use sparingly and efficiently.
This is all the more true as long as we are still burning coal, oil and fossil gas.
Our goal is buildings that are well insulated, fuel-efficient cars even if they are electric, efficient commercial and industrial processes, and the transfer and use of waste heat.
We are setting clear regulatory requirements for this.
Electricity price reductions for companies competing internationally are to be linked to the implementation of energy efficiency measures.
After all, the less energy needed, the faster we achieve 100 percent renewables, meet climate targets, and save on energy infrastructure costs.
Climate protection pays off.
A regulatory framework for a social-ecological market economy
We need to align our economy with climate neutrality and planetary boundaries, and establish a circular economy.
We want to bring together the economic awakening after the Corona crisis and ecological modernization.
This requires a socio-ecological re-foundation of our market economy.
We want to give the German and European economy planning security with ambitious targets in the form of limit values, CO2 reduction targets and product standards
and provide impetus for new investments.
Fair prices ensure that climate-friendly action pays off.
We want to provide more support for research and innovations for climate-friendly management.
We consistently gear public procurement to the most resource-efficient and socially responsible products and services.
This is how we make our economy a leader in cutting-edge technologies
and protect our natural resources.
Green digitization
Whether it's connected vehicles, efficient industry, pinpoint distribution of renewable energy or intelligent irrigation in fields: With digital and data-driven innovations, we can better reduce energy and resource consumption
and become a leader in future technologies.
To this end, we promote and prioritize digital applications and solutions that contribute to resource conservation or are more sustainable than analog ones.
Rebound effects must generally be avoided and sufficiency supported.
We promote alternatives to critical raw materials such as rare earths
and their extraction in compliance with human rights.
Tendering and procurement criteria must be adapted in such a way that socially and ecologically sustainable technologies are used as a matter of priority.
In federal IT procurements, factors such as vendor dependency, follow-up procurement, technical openness, security, data protection, repairability, sustainability and social criteria must be mandatory factors in evaluations, and certifications such as the Blue Angel for IT products must become standard.
We want to convert all federal computing and data centers to be sustainable, run on renewable energy and use certified environmentally friendly hardware.
At the same time, incentives must be created to reduce data center power consumption, including conversion to water cooling systems, and to promote CO2-neutral data centers.
New jobs with good conditions
An ambitious climate protection policy and the climate-neutral restructuring of the economy are the best chance to preserve existing jobs in Germany and other countries and to create new ones.
Socio-ecological modernization strengthens the competitiveness of local companies
and can lead to a renaissance of industrial jobs.
On the road to climate neutrality, hundreds of thousands of new jobs will be created in the coming years - green jobs.
They are emerging in the skilled trades and the construction industry, in new industrial sectors and the circular economy, in battery cell production and the hydrogen industry, and in new service fields.
We want the new jobs to be subject to a collective agreement or at least equivalent conditions wherever possible.
We will also pay attention to this when promoting new economic fields.
Secure in change with a qualification short-time allowance
We see it as our obligation to support companies and their employees on the path toward a climate-neutral economic system.
Particularly where job profiles change fundamentally or jobs are lost.
In the ecological transformation, a much better range of further training and qualification is needed.
To this end, we want to introduce a right to continuing education and
create social security for employees in qualification phases with a continuing education allowance.
With a new qualification allowance for short-time workers, we enable companies to keep their employees in the company during phases of transformation and to provide them with sustainable qualifications.
We closely link qualification short-time work to the social partnership.
In addition, we want to strengthen co-determination at company level in decisions on the ecological transformation.
Together, companies, trade unions and works councils know best how to shape the transformation.
Transformation fund for the regions
Ecological modernization is a major challenge, especially for many industrialized regions.
In order to support regions and in particular the small and medium-sized enterprises located there, we want to set up regional transformation funds.
The funding is aimed at companies that are unable to cope with the ecological structural change on their own, but are firmly anchored in the region with their location and want to stay there.
Regional actors from science, politics, business and trade unions are to be involved and develop joint visions of where the region should stand socially and economically in the future.
At the same time, we want to promote new formats such as reallabs and experimental spaces in which civil society, science, business and local authorities work and research together on solutions to local challenges.
Establish an emergency climate protection program
The central foundations of our policy are the Paris climate agreement and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's report on the 1.5-degree limit, which makes it clear that every tenth of a degree counts in preventing relevant tipping points in the climate system from being exceeded.
It is therefore necessary to move to the 1.5 degree path.
For this to happen, immediate and substantial action in the coming years is critical.
However, the expansion of renewable energies is currently at a standstill, the coal phase-out is coming too late, and little progress is being made in the transport and building sectors.
In accordance with the climate decision of the Federal Constitutional Court, which also refers to the German Council of Environmental Experts, we must orient our climate policy to the budget approach.
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change puts the global CO2 budget from 2018 for the 1.5-degree target at 420 gigatons of CO2 with a 67 percent probability of achieving the target.
The Council of Experts has derived from this a remaining national carbon budget of 6.6 gigatons of CO2 from 2020.
If emissions continue at today's levels, Germany's CO2 budget would be used up in less than nine years, and a linear reduction around 2035.
A longer timeframe to greenhouse gas neutrality requires disproportionate reductions in the coming years.
That is why we will launch an immediate climate protection program that triggers effective measures in all sectors, removes existing obstacles to expansion, implements obvious savings opportunities and also strengthens climate and development partnerships in line with the global budget approach.
We will tighten up the still inadequate climate protection law in line with generations and budgets, spell it out on an annual and sectoral basis, strengthen the role of the Council of Experts on Climate Issues, and raise Germany's 2030 climate target to at least minus 70 percent.
Our goal is to achieve 100 percent renewable energy by 2035.
In this way, Germany can become climate-neutral in 20 years.
Rewarding climate-friendly business practices
Effective and socially just climate protection must also be economically worthwhile.
Currently, the cost of the damage caused by emitting a ton of CO2 is priced very low.
According to current calculations by the Federal Environment Agency, the emission of one ton of CO2 causes damages of around 195 euros.
Our goal is an economy in which the most sustainable products are also the most affordable.
We want to change that through a smart mix of CO2 prices, incentives and subsidies, as well as regulatory law and the dismantling of environmentally harmful subsidies.
If the climate targets were to be achieved solely by putting a price on CO2, this would inevitably lead to considerable social imbalances.
Some might buy out, others might not participate.
We therefore see CO2 pricing as one instrument among many - and we will use it effectively and in a socially just manner.
The EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) needs to be reformed in light of the EU's new 2030 climate target to finally fully deliver on its incentive effect.
With a significant reduction in emissions certificates and the deletion of surplus certificates from the market, we will achieve a CO2 price in the electricity, industry and European aviation sectors that will ensure that renewable energies are used instead of coal and kerosene, that industry gains planning security and has an incentive to invest in decarbonization and technology leadership.
Under pressure from the climate movement and from us Greens, a CO2 price has also been introduced in Germany for the transport and heating sectors, but its steering effect must be further improved in a socially just manner.
We want to bring forward the increase in the CO2 price to 60 euros to 2023.
According to this, the CO2 price is to rise in such a way that, in concert with the subsidy measures and regulatory requirements, it secures the achievement of the new 2030 climate target.
We return the revenue from the national CO2 price to the people as energy money per capita.
Introduce energy money
To ensure that climate protection is socially just, we want to return the revenue from the national CO2 price directly to citizens.
In addition to reducing the EEG surcharge, we are striving for an energy fee that every citizen receives.
Through the energy money, we transparently return all additional revenue to the people and relieve them directly by giving them a per capita refund.
In this way, climate-friendly behavior is rewarded
and a social balance takes place in the system.
The bottom line is that low-income earners and families will be relieved and, above all, people with high incomes will be burdened.
Recipients of transfer payments such as unemployment benefit II or social assistance also benefit, as the energy allowance is not to be offset against basic benefits.
To help low-income commuters adapt, for example, we are setting up a climate bonus fund that will provide generous assistance, for example in switching to bus and rail or an emission-free vehicle.
CO2 brake for all laws
We want to systematically incorporate climate protection into our legal system.
We want to anchor the requirements of the Paris Climate Agreement and the nuclear phase-out in the Basic Law
and strengthen ecology as a further fundamental principle of state action.
We give the state more opportunities to reward resource-conserving behavior through intelligent tax legislation
and to put a price on the generation of CO2.
We are introducing a climate impact assessment for approval processes.
With a CO2 brake, we make climate protection a cross-cutting task by checking laws for their climate impact, ensuring compatibility with national climate protection targets and the CO2 budget, and guaranteeing the possible use of climate-friendly alternatives.
We create security of supply with renewables
Faster out of coal
According to the Grand Coalition, coal-fired power plants in Germany will continue to harm the climate and our health until 2038.
This is not compatible with the Paris climate targets and the 1.5 degree path.
We are committed to completing the coal phase-out by 2030.
With this in mind, we will make use of all opportunities - also at EU level.
In order not to give billions of taxpayers' money to the coal companies again, we will price in the massive climate damage caused by coal-fired power generation.
The best way to achieve this is through EU emissions trading - with a steering CO2 price.
If this is not achieved quickly enough at the European level, we will rely on a national CO2 minimum price in the ETS for industry and electricity of 60 euros per ton of CO2.
In the interests of security of supply, an accelerated coal phase-out requires a massive expansion of renewable energies and an orientation of the energy market design towards solar and wind.
At the same time, we want to tighten the limits for the emission of pollutants, especially mercury, from large combustion plants to protect health.
No one should have to leave their home for an open pit mine anymore.
The state of North Rhine-Westphalia must finally give the people threatened by expropriation and displacement as a result of the Garzweiler opencast lignite mine planning and legal security for the preservation and future of their villages.
We want to support this in the federal government with the right framework conditions.
We will fundamentally revise mining law and strengthen the rights of those affected, environmental protection and nature conservation.
Natural wood has many uses as a raw material and is too valuable to be burned in large power plants.
Making solar roofs the standard
We want an energy transition in which everyone can participate - tenants and homeowners alike.
Our roofs, facades and balconies can become power plants - every surface with a solar system helps protect the climate.
The company's own electricity and heat energy is generated and used decentrally and on site.
Our goal is 1.5 million new solar roofs over the next four years.
That is why we will promote solar roofs and make them the standard.
Starting with new buildings, public and commercial buildings, and roof renovations, we want to extend this new standard to existing buildings in the long term.
Leasing, rental and contracting models can provide support here.
We will develop solutions for buildings that are particularly worthy of preservation.
We will significantly simplify the tenant electricity rules and promote tenant electricity projects.
We want to remove bureaucratic hurdles to the use of electricity from one's own roof
and strengthen self-consumption and direct marketing.
Photovoltaics in the countryside
We want to bring photovoltaics not only to the roofs but also to the surface by improving the political and legal framework and facilitating construction.
Expansion should preferably take place on sealed surfaces, such as over parking lots, next to highways and railways, and on conversion or post-mining areas, rather than on valuable farmland.
We want to avoid new land competition and focus on the multiple benefits for energy production, biodiversity and agriculture.
Agri-photovoltaic systems, i.e. electricity production and agricultural or horticultural use on one area, can make an important contribution to climate protection and ecology.
When done right, open space plants can become habitats.
Farms are to receive money for ecological services and thus generate additional income.
It is also important to be able to enter into direct long-term electricity supply contracts.
Citizens must be involved in the planning process at an early stage, and the
municipalities must benefit from the proceeds.
Securing Germany as a business location with wind energy expansion
We also need to make faster progress with wind power, for example by strengthening expansion outside of tenders.
In the case of wind expansion, the conflict with nature conservation and species protection must be minimized, residents must be protected, and the approval process must be accelerated, also by reducing bureaucratic hurdles and creating clear framework conditions.
As a first step, we want to define renewable energy as mandatory for security of supply and use 2 percent of the land area nationwide for this purpose.
All federal states must make their appropriate contributions to this end.
We reject plans to prevent this.
Excessive, blanket minimum distances to settlements do not contribute to increasing acceptance.
With early local citizen participation, clear priority or suitability areas for wind as well as exclusion areas and targeted species protection programs, we ensure a resident-friendly and nature-compatible site selection and at
the same time strengthen the protection of birds and bats.
We will speed up planning and permitting through simplified procedures, more staff and uniform assessment standards.
We want to make repowering easier, so that old wind turbines at the same location can be quickly replaced by more powerful ones.
We will allow plants that are more than 20 years old to continue operating.
We want to support the construction of wind turbines in the immediate vicinity of industry and commerce in order to produce electricity where it is needed and where noise protection for residents can be more easily guaranteed.
We are further expanding our offshore parks and linking them in the European Energy Union with the solar parks of the Mediterranean countries, with the hydropower of Scandinavia and the Alps.
The more networked, the stronger.
A continent is a good size for the energy transition.
Involving citizens in the energy transition
We want as many people as possible to benefit from the energy transition.
That is why we will give special support to citizens' projects for wind farms and solar parks and make full use of all the possibilities guaranteed by European law for citizens' energy communities.
We are making it mandatory for municipalities to participate in the revenues from renewable energy plants, so that rural areas in particular benefit from the profits.
In addition, we want to promote tenant electricity, reduce bureaucracy and develop it so that tenants benefit more from the expansion of renewables.
Making our energy infrastructure climate neutral
Climate neutrality in less than 30 years means that one fossil infrastructure cannot simply be replaced by another fossil infrastructure.
We are therefore initiating the phase-out of fossil fuels:
The planning of our infrastructure for electricity, heat and hydrogen needs an update and must focus on climate neutrality.
New gas-fired power plants or infrastructures that we need to phase out coal should therefore only be built if they are currently absolutely necessary and are already being planned and built to be hydrogen-ready.
We will create the legal basis for new operating permits to be issued for a limited period of time
and to include the switch from natural gas to renewable energy sources.
After all, natural gas is also a climate-damaging fuel, and its use must continue to decline.
We want to reduce the extremely climate-damaging emissions caused by natural gas production and transport as quickly as possible.
New port terminals for landing liquefied natural gas are no longer to be approved.
New natural gas pipelines like Nord Stream 2, which are not geared towards green hydrogen, cement dependencies on climate-damaging resources for decades to come, counteract the energy transition, and should be stopped.
A green hydrogen strategy
Hydrogen from renewable energies, so-called green hydrogen, is central to security of supply in a climate-neutral world.
This is because hydrogen is easy to store and, when produced with electricity from renewable sources, is also climate-friendly.
Germany is far ahead in hydrogen production technologies.
We want to further expand this leading role
and create the appropriate infrastructure for this.
We will create the capacity for hydrogen production in Germany with market incentives and a comprehensive support program.
Even if green hydrogen should be produced in our country as a priority, we will have to import hydrogen to meet demand.
We must now establish the infrastructure for hydrogen imports.
For imports, we will initiate and expand fair cooperation with wind- and sun-rich countries and support exporting countries in the energy transition.
For these partnerships to be successful, it is essential to involve the local population, protect human rights, align with the Sustainable Development Goals and introduce binding standards.
For hydrogen to contribute to climate neutrality, it must be produced from renewable energies.
This also applies to hydrogen imports.
Our goal is to ensure that renewable energies are used efficiently and economically and that electrolysers are used in a way that serves the system.
Hydrogen or synthetic fuels must not be part of a delaying tactic, but should actively contribute to climate neutrality.
Direct use of electricity via batteries or heat pumps is usually much more efficient.
It is therefore important to use hydrogen and synthetic fuels precisely where they are really needed: for example, in industry, shipping or air traffic.
Create a market for green electricity
The introduction of the Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG) more than 20 years ago was the starting signal for the energy turnaround in Germany; in the meantime, sun and wind have become the most favorable energy sources.
But now, with a renewable share of almost 50 percent in the electricity sector, we need a market design that sets the right framework conditions for a climate-neutral energy system: it ensures the rapid and cost-effective expansion of renewables, the economic operation of storage facilities, flexible producers and consumers as well as sufficient grid expansion.
To this end, we are driving forward a fundamental reform of energy law.
We support sector coupling by strengthening the system-serving use of renewable electricity and taking regional differences into account.
The first wind and large solar plants already no longer require EEG payments, and the trend toward long-term supply contracts between green power producers and consumers supports this development.
In the future, end customers should also be able to buy electricity more directly from green electricity producers.
In this way, we are developing the EEG from an instrument for promoting the expansion of renewables to one for safeguarding it.
The EEG levy will thus be phased out automatically in the long term.
Accelerate network expansion
To make the energy transition a success, we also need to expand the networks more quickly.
They ensure that energy gets from where it is generated to where it is needed as quickly as possible.
A smart mix of local generation, storage and flexible consumers reduces costs and increases security of supply.
The prerequisite for further grid expansion is that it is carried out in a way that serves the system and that all possibilities are exhausted to make optimum use of the existing grids and to supplement them with intelligent systems and storage facilities.
Early citizen participation is essential.
It increases the quality of planning and demonstrably helps to ensure that potential causes of action are jointly eliminated at the outset instead of being resolved in court at the end.
It is also clear that renewables have priority in the grid.
Since electricity transmission networks are natural monopolies and critical infrastructure, we want to strengthen public influence on them.
To this end, we want to increase the state's stake in the four transmission system operators in Germany if possible and transfer it to a federally owned grid company.
We are also pushing ahead with a reform of grid charges that strengthens transparency,
distributes the costs of the energy transition fairly,
and eliminates a disadvantage for rural regions - especially in the north and east - when it comes to financing necessary grid expansion costs.
Climate renovation offensive for buildings
It is high time that all new buildings and structures, including building materials, are planned to be climate-neutral throughout their entire life cycle, and that comprehensive energy-efficient renovations are carried out accordingly.
The linchpin is the definition of high construction and refurbishment standards: for new buildings KfW 40, which roughly corresponds to the passive house standard, and for existing buildings after refurbishment KfW 55 - with exceptions for listed buildings.
We will continue to develop the KfW funding programs, also with regard to the use of sustainable building materials.
In order to reconcile building culture and energy-efficient refurbishment, we want to create clear regulations that are appropriate to both goals.
The renovation rate must be doubled very quickly and further increased.
The use of serial refurbishment can be a way forward here.
The public sector must set an example with its buildings.
The following must apply to existing buildings: A renovation roadmap must be submitted each time there is a change of ownership.
Funding programs can provide support in implementing the renovation roadmap.
When heating systems in existing buildings are due to be replaced or comprehensively renovated, but also in new buildings, only renewable heat sources should be used wherever possible.
To this end, we are launching an investment program for two million high-efficiency heat pumps by 2025.
We also want to decarbonize district and local heating and are gearing subsidies to climate-neutral solutions.
For energy efficiency, it is crucial to move away from single firing to linked systems in which heat is injected and stored from various renewable sources such as waste heat, geothermal or solar thermal.
In the process, we will also involve industry and commerce in the heating systems.
We will promote such connected climate-neutral energy systems, especially in urban areas.
Making the heat transition fair
The heating transition must be accompanied by effective tenant protection
and targeted support.
With the so-called one-third model, we want to distribute the costs of climate-friendly modernizations fairly between landlords, the state and tenants, so that they become affordable for everyone and reasonably economical for landlords.
We want to strictly limit the modernization levy so that costs cannot simply be passed on to tenants.
With a housing subsidy, the climate housing subsidy, we also enable recipients of housing subsidies to live in climate-friendly apartments.
In the case of CO2 pricing in the heating sector, we achieve a steering effect if those who make the climate investments pay for it: the homeowners.
After all, it is they who can make a difference to the condition of the buildings and the heat supply, while at the same time benefiting from the increase in value resulting from the modernization.
Regional heat and energy and integrated neighborhood planning should be mandatory for municipalities.
In this context, we support the conversion to a climate-neutral heat supply through the Fair Heat action program with tax concessions, free advice and targeted support programs.
Complete the nuclear phase-out - lead the search for a final repository to success
Nuclear power is not suitable for combating the climate crisis.
We will complete the nuclear phase-out in Germany.
But although nuclear power is a high-risk technology, uranium is still enriched in our country, and fuel rods are produced and exported.
Our goal is to close the nuclear factories in Gronau and Lingen as quickly as possible.
The operation of the Garching research reactor with highly enriched uranium should be terminated.
Part of the legacy of nuclear energy use is the search for a final repository.
We are committed to the agreed path of site search with the highest safety standards with the greatest possible transparency
and participation of the population.
The decommissioning of the existing nuclear power plants must be carried out immediately and without delay at the highest safety level.
Here, too, we must not burden future generations with these legacy burdens.
The prerequisite for this is interim and final storage of low-, medium- and, above all, high-level radioactive waste at the highest safety standards.
An overall concept is a prerequisite for this.
Above all, security against terrorist attacks must be guaranteed, since the interim storage facilities will be needed for a long time to come.
We will ensure that storage and transportation are strictly monitored.
In the EU, too, we want to push ahead with the phase-out.
We advocate reform of Euratom, against further privileging or new subsidies for nuclear power, and for binding safety standards for all nuclear facilities in Europe.
In this way, old and unsafe reactors on Germany's borders can be quickly taken off the grid.
We want to exhaust the possibilities for objections to the construction of new nuclear plants or the extension of their operating lives in Europe, and we want to withdraw from the joint liability of states for nuclear accidents.
We provide sustainable mobility
Giving the mobility turnaround a foundation
The path to climate neutrality requires us to fundamentally rethink our mobility in the 21st century.
Therein lies a great opportunity: cities and villages with a better quality of life,
mobility without climate destruction,
without traffic jams and traffic fatalities,
more freedom, participation and prosperity are possible.
With a federal mobility law, we want to create a new basis for transportation policy and legislation.
Instead of a means of transport, the car, we focus on people and their diverse needs, especially those of the most vulnerable in our society, i.e. children, young people, senior citizens and people with disabilities.
Mobility policy is consistently aligned with people's mobility needs, safety, climate protection, traffic avoidance, land use justice, noise abatement and air quality, social participation and gender equality.
Instead of unilaterally favoring one mode of transport over the other, as has been the case for decades, we will ensure a fair balance - with a strong railroad, modern public transport, and the best conditions for cyclists and pedestrians.
The mobility revolution not only needs a better legal basis, but also an acceleration in implementation.
To this end, we want to launch a comprehensive training and research offensive.
Investments for strong railroads
An efficient, reliable railroad is the backbone of a sustainable transportation transition.
We want to further develop and implement the Deutschlandtakt to provide people with more, more resilient and better coordinated rail services in cities and rural areas that are attractive and affordable for all.
To achieve this, we want to connect all major German cities regularly to long-distance services, increase the frequency of regional services and bring train services back to the countryside.
We want to reactivate disused rail lines as quickly as possible.
We want to supplement these services with fast sprinter trains and night trains that provide affordable connections between all major European cities.
We want to close gaps and bottlenecks in both the domestic and cross-border rail networks and in rail hubs.
We are rapidly driving forward the expansion and new construction, electrification and digitization of the network.
We want to free the federally owned infrastructure from the pressure of having to make a profit and from chronic underfunding, and create appropriate structures for this purpose.
We want to invest an additional 100 billion euros, spread over the years up to 2035, in the rail network and stations and, in cooperation with the federal states, increase regionalization funding once again for a specific purpose so that per capita investment is brought into line with the European level.
In order to reliably finance the investments in the long term, we are creating an infrastructure fund that will also be fed by revenue from the truck toll.
We want to significantly reduce track access charges in order to strengthen incentives for modal shift to rail.
We want to upgrade train stations to modern, barrier-free mobility stations.
This will significantly improve the combination of rail with bicycle and bus transport, and the possibilities for taking bicycles on trains will also be expanded.
We are also stepping up noise abatement on busy existing lines, and
we want to achieve barrier-free rail travel in ten years' time.
We ensure that rail travel is affordable for all.
We want to provide special support for young people in training or studying climate-friendly and affordable mobility.
In future, we also want all volunteers to be able to
how soldiers can travel free of charge on Deutsche Bahn.
We want to make the Deutsche Bahn Group more transparent and efficient and focus it on its core business, the railroads in Germany and neighboring European countries.
We are focusing on strong shifts from road and air traffic to rail.
With us, the rail industry will become an even stronger job engine with secure jobs.
Expand public transport
Buses and trains are there for everyone, providing low-cost mobility and reducing car traffic.
We want to double public transport passenger numbers by 2030.
To achieve this, local public transport must become more attractive, more innovative and completely barrier-free.
We also want to better link public transport - from the long-distance network to Bike & Ride - and strengthen regional cooperation.
Together with the federal states, we will launch a future and expansion offensive, create nationwide connections through a mobility guarantee, increase investments in vehicles and the public transport network, and expand financing instruments such as the Municipal Transport Financing Act and regionalization funds for these goals.
We want to promote the use of zero-emission buses by increasing quotas and providing attractive subsidies for municipalities, and, where possible, give priority to supporting the expansion and reactivation of streetcars.
Mobility must not depend on your wallet: We want to support the federal states, local authorities and public transport associations in making attractive price offers, including ticketless public transport, and in developing new sources of funding such as pay-as-you-go financing.
Germany becomes a cycling country and strengthens pedestrians
The bicycle has huge potential for the mobility revolution.
The bicycle industry is already booming and creating jobs.
To exploit this potential, we want to make Germany a cycling country.
Cycling must be safe and attractive - everywhere.
Bike paths in cities, commuting routes or connections from village to village as well as tourist bike paths should be characterized by high quality and high safety standards, such as separated bike infrastructure, and good signage and mapping.
Our vision is a seamless bicycle network throughout Germany with connections in the border regions.
We will implement the recommendations of the National Cycling Plan, which are directed at the federal government, as quickly as possible; municipalities, states and companies will receive comprehensive support in implementing their part of the tasks.
The number of trips made by bicycle and on foot is to be doubled by 2030.
To achieve these goals, we want to significantly increase per capita investment together with the states and local authorities.
We are strengthening federal funding and advisory services for the expansion and modernization of cycling infrastructure, creating a powerful cycling competence center, and subsidizing the purchase of job and cargo bikes as well as S-pedelecs.
We are reforming road traffic law so that cyclists are better protected and have an equal place on the road.
On federal traffic routes, well-developed cycle paths based on the Dutch model should become the norm in existing buildings and in construction projects.
With a national pedestrian mobility strategy, we are creating accessibility, traffic safety and more quality of life for pedestrians.
Introduce mobile pass
Autonomous driving, connected mobility services, using instead of owning - digital progress will fundamentally change our everyday lives in the coming years.
We want to make the German mobility industry a pioneer for new mobility solutions
and use digitization in a sustainable, inclusive and balanced way for the transformation of transport.
Real-time information and a uniform ticketing system must become standard in public transport.
To make it easy to get from A to B anywhere, we want to use the Mobilpass to simplify and link the services of 120 transport and tariff associations in Germany and integrate sharing and ridepooling services in such a way that social and environmental dumping are ruled out.
When networking, the open data principle and open interfaces must be observed.
We want to make the switch to bicycles, buses and trains attractive for everyone and also promote it financially.
The Mobilpass is also intended to promote social fares and ticketless use.
All mobility concepts must be barrier-free and enable participation even without the user's own digital devices.
For autonomous driving, we are improving the legal framework with a focus on public transport.
We want to strengthen passenger rights through automated compensation procedures.
More safety through the mobility turnaround
All people should be able to move about in their daily lives without fear and reach their destinations unharmed.
Especially children, elderly people or people with disabilities need special attention in traffic planning.
To get more people to bike or walk more often, up-to-date traffic rules, safe transportation infrastructure design, and land reallocation are critical.
Our goal is Vision Zero, i.e. no more deaths and serious injuries on the roads.
In order to achieve greater safety on the roads, we want to reverse the rule-exception relationship in built-up areas.
A speed limit of 30 km/h is then the rule, deviations such as 50 km/h are indicated on site.
For the highways, we want a safety speed of 130 km/h.
If special reasons make it necessary, such as in or around cities or metropolitan areas, then a maximum of 120 km/h applies.
In order to prevent the many accidents involving cyclists and pedestrians in city centers, we want to promote binding technical solutions such as turn-off assistance systems for trucks, fully automatic assistance systems and warning systems.
We are committed to reducing unnecessary and wanton noise, such as that emitted by excessively loud motorcycles and passenger cars.
Making car traffic climate-neutral
Automotive transport must finally make a strong contribution to climate protection in the next ten years.
So far, emissions have continued to rise there, it now needs to reverse the trend.
To achieve climate neutrality, car traffic must decrease and at the same time become emission-free.
We will ensure that, thanks to better trains, buses, cycle paths and footpaths and accompanying measures, more than half of all journeys are made using the environmental network by 2030.
But the car will continue to be important for many.
In the interests of everyone's quality of life, cars must be more digital, quieter, smaller and lighter, as well as climate-neutral and more recyclable.
We are also concerned with using digitization, autonomous driving and the strengthening of new mobility services to use cars more efficiently and in this way promote more mobility with less traffic.
From 2030, therefore, only zero-emission cars may be newly registered; paving the way for this are European CO2 fleet limits and an increasing national quota based on the 1.5-degree path.
By 2030, however, existing internal combustion vehicles will already have to be replaced by e-cars to a relevant extent, and their share is therefore expected to rise to at least 15 million vehicles by 2030.
In this way, we ensure clean air,
meet our climate and environmental targets,
and the automotive industry can reliably plan its development work and investments.
This secures sustainable jobs and new business models.
We want to convert the purchase subsidy for zero-emission cars into a bonus-malus system and open it up to light electric vehicles.
Climate-friendly cars will become cheaper, climate-damaging ones more expensive.
We also want to promote the conversion of existing combustion engines to zero-emission cars.
We also use regulation, mandatory consumer information and incentives to make cars lighter and more efficient overall.
We are gradually ending diesel subsidies and redesigning company car taxation in a socially and ecologically responsible way.
We are accelerating the nationwide expansion of a uniform charging infrastructure, especially in rural areas, including fast-charging stations.
Charging must be fast, ecological, affordable and convenient throughout Germany and Europe.
Modern transport infrastructure
For decades, transportation policy has unilaterally promoted road construction and car traffic.
It thus breaks all climate and sustainability targets and yet causes congestion every day.
That has no future - modern mobility for this century demands new priorities.
Germany needs infrastructure development that adheres to the 1.5-degree path
and enables sustainable and safe mobility for all people.
We focus on the expansion of sidewalks, bike paths and railroads, an equal distribution of land, the repurposing of existing infrastructure, and intelligent barrier-free networking of environmentally friendly modes of transportation.
We will also support the avoidance of traffic and resulting burdens, including better conditions for home offices and the return of local supply to places and neighborhoods.
Along transportation routes, we want to provide for additional trees and their preservation as part of a green infrastructure.
The current Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan does not meet these requirements at all.
Despite the climate and species crisis, and even though Germany has one of the densest road networks in the world, the Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan still contains hundreds more road construction projects that cut up our landscapes and nature and endanger climate protection.
Germany has no shortage of roads, and certainly no shortage of highways.
We therefore want to replace the Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan as quickly as possible with a new Federal Network Plan that systematically aligns transport infrastructure planning with the requirements of the mobility turnaround and significantly reduces the new construction and expansion of highways and trunk roads planned up to 2030.
This requires a fundamental change in the current standardized assessment procedures, calculation bases and criteria, taking into account the actual climate and environmental costs, a thorough examination of alternatives that also includes other modes of transport, an improvement in the hitherto inadequate participation of citizens and associations, and a move away from the so-called road financing cycle.
In doing so, we protect our residential areas, forest and water, moors and biodiversity, and thus our own livelihoods.
In view of the climate crisis, the following must not apply: Just because it was always planned this way, it must be done now.
We will also use the upcoming review of the current Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan to subject all sections not under construction, as well as new road construction and road expansion projects that are particularly harmful to the environment, to a climate, environmental and needs assessment, thereby significantly reducing them.
No irreversible facts may be created on these projects until the review is completed.
This is all the more true because the rampant construction of new roads ties up funds that we need much more urgently elsewhere.
We will therefore largely reallocate funds for new road construction and expansion - in favor of rehabilitating dilapidated infrastructure and expanding rail and bike path infrastructure.
This includes a thorough assessment of the financial risks of road construction and the new highway company.
Road vehicles and trains are to become quieter, through more active noise protection, including in existing buildings.
Where we cannot mitigate noise directly at source, we provide better noise protection.
Mobile in the countryside through a mobility guarantee
The mobility transition is most challenging in rural areas, where many people rely on cars.
At the same time, this one-sided car-centeredness particularly restricts the autonomy of children, young people and people without cars.
We want to ensure that mobility is also possible in rural areas without a car and without barriers.
Together with the federal states, we want to introduce a mobility guarantee with legally defined standards for accessibility and development, develop expanded public mobility offerings in rural areas, support local initiatives and expand bike paths.
Particularly in structurally weak regions, there is a need for regular, reliable and barrier-free connections to public transport, for example through express bus lines, and to mobility services such as ridepooling and on-demand transport.
Nevertheless, the car is indispensable for many people in rural areas, where it is hard to imagine life without it, especially for many families.
That's why we are focusing in particular on the opportunities offered by the drive revolution.
The e-car is a viable solution for the future, especially when combined with solar panels on the roof, a power storage unit in the basement and a wall-mounted charging station in the garage.
At the same time, we want to make carsharing available nationwide and promote the establishment of carsharing stations, even at initially less profitable locations.
Mobility turnaround in the city
Nowhere is the mobility turnaround more eagerly awaited than in the inner cities: Accidents, traffic jams, exhaust fumes, noise, too little space for children to play and for meeting spaces - the car-centric city is not only harmful to the climate, but also not a nice place to live.
We want to make our cities more livable and provide them with targeted support for the mobility revolution.
We will make it easier for them to use the street space in a variety of ways,
create attractive cycle and footpaths,
promote traffic-calmed or car-free city centers and districts
and to create more green spaces, including through unsealing.
Temporary redesigns such as pop-up bikelanes should be facilitated to test best practice solutions.
We want to give planning sovereignty back to cities and municipalities so that they can allocate public space fairly, for example through stringent parking space management, in which cars can no longer be parked everywhere but only in explicitly designated areas, or through better options for specifying bicycle parking spaces and reallocating car parking spaces to bicycle parking spaces.
We want to put an end to illegal parking on bike paths and sidewalks and blocked street intersections, also by imposing appropriate fines.
In addition, we are strengthening the options for financing, promoting and actively shaping the mobility revolution, including through successful European models such as a congestion charge or a local transport levy.
We will promote the expansion of car-sharing services, especially station-based services, as these reduce the number of cars in cities.
Making air traffic fit for the future
Flying brings our world closer together,
but it is one of the most climate-damaging forms of transportation.
After the pandemic, we do not want a return to unlimited growth in air traffic, but rather to align it with the goal of climate neutrality.
We want to reduce short-haul flights step by step from now on and make them superfluous by 2030 by massively expanding rail services - especially direct and night train connections - and ensuring fair competitive conditions between modes of transport that reflect ecological costs.
The number of medium- and long-haul flights must be reduced, for example by eliminating public and private business travel through the use of video conferencing.
We want to make flying sustainable, future-proof and independent of fossil fuels in the long term.
This is ensured by strict European emissions trading, the promotion of modern aircraft technologies, and an increase in blending quotas with a clear upward path that gradually replaces fossil kerosene with electricity-based fuels from renewables.
By 2030, the rate should be at least 10 percent instead of 2 percent, and it should grow significantly in the following decade.
We support the construction of production facilities for this purpose.
Environmentally harmful subsidies must be dismantled and ongoing financial support for airports must be ended.
We also advocate the introduction of a European kerosene tax.
Until this is implemented in the EU, we will introduce a kerosene tax for domestic German flights at national level.
Wage dumping by low-cost flights must be stopped.
We reject any further expansion of the airport infrastructure.
New developments in air traffic, such as drones, must be measured against whether they can contribute to a sustainable mobility transition.
To reduce aircraft noise, we need fewer aircraft, an obligation to provide active noise abatement for quieter aircraft, a genuine ban on night flights, equal status for military and civil airports, and an amendment of the legal basis with stricter limits.
For health protection, we also want to set limits for ultra-fine particulate matter.
Sustainable freight transport
Every day, millions of tons of goods are transported through Germany, today mostly in the form of endless caravans of trucks on our roads.
In a climate-neutral Germany, freight transport must also be sustainable, emission-free and less noisy.
To reduce truck traffic, we want to shift freight traffic from road to rail.
To this end, we will upgrade the combination of road, rail and water and reconnect industry and commerce to the rail network - also in the countryside.
We promote investments in modern freight transport technology, intermodal freight centers and transhipment terminals for combined freight transport.
We also focus on regional economic cycles
and the opportunities offered by digitalization and networking in the organization of logistics.
We want to regulate the rampant truck traffic by means of a CO2-based toll in such a way that the costs incurred are borne by those who cause them.
Together with ambitious CO2 fleet limits and quotas, the promotion of climate-friendly drive systems and the rapid development of the corresponding infrastructures, trucks will also become locally emission-free in the foreseeable future.
Better enforcement of hours-of-service regulations is needed to improve trucking safety.
The working conditions of truck drivers also need to be significantly improved.
To this end, we will increase the staff of the Federal Office for Goods Transport and give it more powers.
In urban logistics, we want to promote the use of cargo bikes and cargo streetcars, as well as new distribution concepts such as city hubs and last-mile freight transport by concession.
Making shipping climate and environmentally compatible
For a foreign trade-oriented country like Germany, an internationally competitive maritime economy is of crucial importance.
We advocate the development of a joint seaport concept by the federal and state governments that focuses on cooperation between the locations instead of competition.
We want to make shipping climate-neutral through binding emission reduction targets and inclusion in EU emissions trading.
We are setting the political framework conditions to ensure that shipping moves away from heavy fuel oil and its toxic exhaust gases as quickly as possible and that shore-side power systems, low-emission terminals, alternative ship propulsion systems and climate-neutral fuels are used instead.
as well as fair working conditions for all those involved in shipping.
To achieve this, we are pushing for higher standards worldwide.
Modernized inland waterway vessels will have to make an important contribution to climate-neutral freight transport in the future.
We see ourselves as responsible for the good ecological condition of all waterways.
Ailing waterways must be rehabilitated in an environmentally compatible manner, and there should be a moratorium on river deepening and a fundamental review as part of the new drafting of the Federal Network Plan in line with the new UN Decade for the Restoration of Ecosystems.
We protect nature and the environment for a good life
Stop species extinction
Biodiversity ensures life on earth.
Ecological guard rails must therefore define our actions - as a "barometer of life".
To overcome the biodiversity crisis and end mass species extinction, we need, above all, a different way of using land.
As with climate protection, every day counts for nature conservation.
That's why we will launch an emergency program for species protection to significantly reduce pesticide use and ban the use of particularly harmful environmental toxins such as glyphosate.
We want to stop the sale of federally owned areas of natural value and the drainage of moorland sites
and make military conversion areas available for nature conservation.
We want to create nature conservation corridors to improve the interconnectedness of protected areas.
Together with the Länder, we will improve the conservation impact of Natura 2000 sites, enlarge national parks and other protected areas where possible or create new ones, and strengthen the national natural heritage.
To ensure that nature conservation is finally adequately funded, we will break new ground: 10 percent of the money from the Energy and Climate Fund is to be used for climate protection through nature conservation measures.
We will expand the Wilderness Fund to restore at least 2 percent of the state's land to true wilderness, where plants and animals can live undisturbed.
We want to ensure that the effects on the climate, nature and the environment are comprehensively examined and taken into account before any infrastructure projects are planned.
A diverse cultural landscape is also of great importance for the protection of our nature.
That is why we want to better protect and create valuable landscape elements such as species-rich flower meadows, scattered orchards, vineyard terraces, avenues, individual trees and flower strips along roads and on municipal land.
We will finally drastically reduce the consumption of land in nature and agriculture - in a first step to less than 30 hectares per day well before 2030.
To this end, we will work with the states and municipalities to implement instruments that effectively limit construction on current farmland and natural soil.
Save our forest
Our forest is severely threatened by the climate crisis - by heat waves, drought and storms.
We are already experiencing forest dieback, which is causing far greater damage than was caused by acid rain in the 1980s.
Near-natural, species-rich and climate-stable forest ecosystems are more resilient than monocultures.
They keep the water cycle in balance and soils fertile, store carbon, purify the air, are the habitat of numerous endangered animals, plants and fungi, produce raw materials and serve recreation and health care.
We promote the development of healthy forests that sequester more carbon than is extracted or released from them.
We want to establish legal minimum standards to ensure that forest management is close to nature, to
align conversion and reforestation with ecological management requirements,
and to support forest owners with qualified funding and advice.
This also serves to add economic value.
In harmony with nature conservation and forest owner associations, we advocate hunting methods that protect forests, nature and animals.
The management of all publicly owned land is to be linked to ecological criteria - in the forest according to FSC or Naturland standards, in agriculture certified according to organic farming.
As a first step, we want to leave at least 5 percent of our forests to nature.
This is how we create the virgin forests of tomorrow.
More years of drought increase the risk of wildfires.
Together with local and state governments, we want to develop a nationwide prevention and control strategy.
Protect terrestrial and marine biodiversity
Species decline and the destruction of natural habitats are also continuing globally.
We will advocate for an ambitious United Nations agreement on biodiversity conservation and implement it in Germany.
According to the European Union's biodiversity strategy, at least 30 percent of the land area and 30 percent of the oceans are to be effectively protected.
We want to anchor the UN Sustainable Development Goals as new guiding principles everywhere and ensure coherent policies.
In the marine sector, we are pursuing a joint international marine strategy.
We will work to strengthen the protection of the oceans through binding agreements, close enforcement deficits and regulatory gaps, and thus bring them into focus so that previously legal pollution, such as tank washing on the high seas, is also prohibited and overexploitation prevented.
We support programs to stop global deforestation
and to protect or reintroduce species that are particularly threatened.
Land users whose livelihoods are threatened by conservation measures must receive compensation.
We want to support targeted species conservation programs of zoos and scientific institutes and
at the same time improve the keeping of the animals there.
Together with the federal states, we want to better protect and develop habitats for which we in Germany bear international responsibility, such as the Wadden Sea and ancient beech forests.
When intervening in nature, irresponsible risks, such as the manipulation or extinction of entire populations or species through genetic engineering methods, so-called gene drives, must be excluded.
A comprehensive biomass strategy is needed to ensure that the production and import of biomass for energy production or animal feed does not lead to the destruction of biodiversity.
Protect and renaturalize rivers and moors
The renaturation of rivers, floodplains and forests and the rewetting of peatlands - all this not only protects rare habitats and biodiversity, but also the climate.
That is why we will launch a renaturation offensive.
Near-natural streams and the last free-flowing rivers such as the Elbe must be preserved; we reject any expansion of the Oder, and this also applies to the Tideelbe.
Measures that degrade the ecological condition of our streams are not allowed.
We will enforce this requirement under European law.
Rivers with wide floodplains and inundation areas are also the best protection against flooding and keep water in the landscape.
We will therefore realign the tasks of the federal waterways administrations according to ecological criteria.
We want to strengthen specific programs for wild streams, near-natural rivers, lakes, floodplains and wetlands such as the Blue Ribbon and,
together with the federal states, finally implement the EU Water Framework Directive consistently.
Peatland protection is climate protection.
That's why we want an end to peat use and to rewet our peatlands as quickly and comprehensively as possible.
To this end, we are working with the federal states to set up a large-scale peatland renaturation program.
In order to save the still intact peatlands from peat cutting, overfertilization and drainage, we will place them under strict protection.
For used peat soils, we want to enable economic perspectives for sustainable wet agriculture
and strengthen extensive pasture farming and paludiculture.
Clean water is life
Water is our most important foodstuff.
Fertilizers, pesticides, detergent residues and drug residues do not belong in our water.
To protect our groundwater, lakes, rivers and oceans, we therefore want to establish clear legal requirements, for example to limit livestock farming and the use of pesticides and fertilizers, and to improve wastewater treatment plants.
A polluter-pays fund and a reform of the wastewater levy should thus lead to a fair distribution of the costs of wastewater and drinking water treatment.
We want to strengthen the product responsibility of manufacturers.
For example, we are reducing the buildup of drug resistance and other hazards of drug residues in water through improved permitting and disposal regulations for pharmaceuticals.
Particularly hazardous and poorly degradable pollutants must no longer be allowed to enter the water cycle.
We are finally implementing EU water legislation consistently and
significantly reducing the discharge of hormone-modifying substances and microplastics into water.
The priority of drinking water supply over commercial use must be ensured,
We want to promote the reuse of wastewater and the storage of rainwater
and create incentives to save water.
We also make the precautionary principle our guiding principle in water protection, which is why we want to exclude fracking and future projects for the extraction of oil and natural gas in mining law.
Protect the oceans, stop the flood of plastic waste
The oceans are in a catastrophic state - and this threatens to worsen with further acidification, eutrophication, overfishing, pollution and plastic waste.
In order to stem the tide of plastic waste, we want to initiate an internationally binding agreement to stop plastic litter in our oceans and set up an immediate program with ambitious waste prevention targets.
We want to promote technology that enables the salvage of munitions waste in the North Sea and Baltic Sea and environmentally compatible fishing of waste from the sea.
Toxic substances are leaking from oil production facilities in the North Sea due to accidents, oil-containing drilling mud with drilling waste, and also gas flaring.
We advocate an end to the promotion of fossil fuels.
In the German Exclusive Economic Zone, we want to implement an immediate halt to new oil and gas drilling and an end to production by 2025.
At European and international level, we are campaigning for an end to oil and gas production in the entire North Sea and Baltic Sea.
We also want to drive forward the phase-out of gravel and sand mining in protected areas
, while preventing overexploitation in countries of the global south through import standards.
In order to end overfishing, stabilize fish stocks and give fishermen a sustainable perspective, we want to adjust fishing quotas and fisheries agreements, extend closed seasons and achieve the conversion of fisheries to environmentally, climate and species-friendly fishing methods.
This also includes phasing out bottom trawling, which is harmful to the climate and the environment, as quickly as possible and regulating gillnets in a way that respects nature conservation.
We want to direct fisheries subsidies toward ecological marine use.
We will support regional fishing companies in the conversion process as well as in the development of alternatives through environmentally friendly tourism offers.
An important step towards adequately rewarding organic fishing and aquaculture is binding labeling that is transparent for consumers.
Living oceans require the implementation of the EU Marine Strategy Framework Directive, a deep-sea mining moratorium, and the designation of large-scale non-use marine protected areas.
The end of garbage
Plastic waste is increasing, and the proportion of reusable beverages has been falling for years.
Disposable cups are only used for a few minutes before they become trash.
Discarded cell phones and tablets gather dust in drawers even though they could be reused or recycled.
Our goal is Zero Waste.
The aim is to stop creating waste and to stop wasting resources.
This can only succeed if manufacturers and waste producers are held more accountable and the concept of the circular economy is taken into account holistically in the design, manufacture, use and disposal of products.
Unwanted advertising, often even wrapped in plastic foil, does not belong in our mailboxes.
We will untangle the complicated deposit system.
Every bottle should fit into every deposit machine, and we will make the returnable to-go cup the standard by 2025.
We promote reusable transport, online retailing, purchasing and food packaging.
We advocate an EU-wide deposit system.
To ensure that resource treasures from old electrical devices find their way back into the cycle, we are creating a deposit on cell phones, tablets and energy-intensive batteries as a first step.
We are developing the current license fee for plastic recycling into a resource fee.
We want to strengthen the position of the municipalities in the design of waste collection.
The Packaging Act becomes the Recyclables Act, which gives priority to all ecologically beneficial reusable products and promotes waste avoidance and high-quality recycling.
To achieve this, plastic grades and composites must be reduced and made toxin-free.
Biowertstoffe do not belong in incineration, but must be recycled.
Plastic waste should no longer be exported if it is not recycled to a high standard.
Keeping materials in circulation will also become more economically advantageous than throwing them away.
Circular economy becomes the new normal.
Toxin-free products in everyday life
Plastic and pollutant residues can now even be found in the bodies of children and young people.
The World Health Organization sees hormone-disrupting chemicals as a global health threat.
We want to ban toxic chemicals that can trigger diseases such as cancer, diabetes or allergies and unwanted childlessness from all everyday products by improving EU legislation on chemicals and enforcing it quickly and consistently.
The input of microplastics, which can already be found everywhere in our environment today, must be urgently minimized.
Microplastics have no place in cosmetics and care products.
We pay particular attention to toys, child care products and other everyday products such as textiles, furniture or electronics.
Germany should follow France's example and ban proven toxic chemicals such as bisphenol A in cookware and food packaging or perfluorinated and polyfluorinated hydrocarbons in paper and cardboard.
We want to better protect consumers by working with countries to monitor imported goods more closely for toxins, improve product labeling and facilitate product recalls.
Our goal is for people to live healthy lives in a healthy environment.
Clean air to breathe
We all need clean air to breathe.
But exhaust gases from traffic, coal-fired power plants or old oil-fired heating systems make people ill.
Worse still, according to calculations by the European Environment Agency, 70,000 people die prematurely each year in Germany alone as a result of diseases caused by air pollution.
Ecological modernization offers huge opportunities to improve the air.
E-cars, solar and wind energy protect our air.
We want to accelerate this development and implement the World Health Organization's limit recommendations for air pollutants as quickly as possible.
We are also improving air quality there through more greenery in our cities.
To achieve these goals quickly, we will look at all sources of emissions, such as transport, industry and agriculture
, and in this context put the decision on whether and how to regulate fireworks in detail where it belongs - locally.
Climate adaptation and more nature in the city
The climate crisis is increasingly changing the framework conditions of our coexistence.
Today, the earth has already heated up by 1.2 degrees.
The consequences have long been felt in our country, too, with heatwaves, floods and storms,
and often hit hardest those who live in the most difficult circumstances.
While we fight for every tenth of a degree less of global warming, we must at the same time adapt to these changes.
In rural areas, it is particularly important to support agriculture, forestry, tourism and fisheries in adapting to reduce damage from droughts, crop failures and forest dieback.
We want to make our cities better equipped to withstand heat waves and heavy rainfall - with heat action plans and urban redevelopment on both a large and small scale: more urban greenery, soil unsealing, fresh air corridors, greening of buildings, water areas and public drinking fountains.
As sponge cities, they will absorb and store more water in the future and have a cooling effect in summer.
This also increases the quality of life, especially for all those who cannot afford their own balcony or garden: Roof gardens are natural air conditioners for homes and offices, parks and urban forests provide shade and fresh air.
We want to help the city and state to implement all of this on the ground as quickly as possible through improvements in building law and urban development funding.
Our cities are also increasingly important habitats for animals and plants.
That is why we want to expand nature in the city.
We will protect and ecologically enhance the existing greenery, and we want to win gardeners and allotment gardeners as allies.
We will curb light pollution, which harms people, animals and plants and contributes significantly to the disappearance of insects and birds.
We strengthen farmers, animals and nature
Making agriculture fit for the future
We want to reconcile climate, environmental, animal and water protection with agricultural production.
Making agriculture fit for the future - we see this as a task for the coming years.
This is only possible together with nature and with an understanding of nature that is oriented toward cycles and committed to resource conservation.
This means fertile carbon-storing soils, clean water and intact ecosystems,
but also a fair living for farmers
and good and healthy food for all.
We can and will only achieve this together with the citizens and farmers.
We want to support small businesses in particular in the necessary transformation and find pragmatic solutions for them.
Our mission statement is an evolving organic agriculture with its principles of animal justice, freedom from genetic engineering and freedom from synthetic chemical pesticides.
To this end, we want to extensively promote organic farming and create the conditions for more and more farmers and food producers to convert in the future.
The goal is 30 percent organic farming by 2030, and
we will significantly expand agricultural research for the greening of agriculture.
We will strengthen diverse crop rotations and resilient cropping systems such as agroforestry, as well as the use of robust plant varieties and animal breeds.
We will significantly reduce nitrogen surpluses.
Digital applications can also make agriculture more environmentally and climate friendly if they are appropriately aligned, but they must also be open to smaller farms - for example, via sharing concepts - and be affordable.
Monocultures, pesticides and synthetic chemical fertilizers also cause considerable damage to health and the environment in the global South,
while small farmers are driven further into dependency by European dumping exports, patented seeds and land theft.
The right to food must be guaranteed, and
we want to strengthen small-scale farming structures.
To this end, we support a global socio-ecological agricultural turnaround with our agricultural and development policy.
Public money for public performance
The EU's Common Agricultural Policy should become an instrument for a socio-ecological agricultural policy - and not for the industrialization of agriculture, as has been the case to date.
This must be the starting point for a social contract between farmers, consumers and politicians for climate and nature protection.
We want reform so that billions in public funds are used in the future for public services such as climate, environmental and animal protection,
while strengthening regional agriculture.
In order to advance the sustainable transformation of agriculture together with farmers, it is important to make the best possible use of the national scope for the upcoming funding period for these goals.
We want to gradually replace the system of direct payments with a public welfare premium that consistently rewards social performance.
We advocate for innovative agri-environmental support instruments that think climate and nature conservation and agro-ecological goals together.
By 2028, we want to have achieved environmental earmarking for at least half of the funds.
Reduce pesticides
There are many reasons to significantly reduce the use of pesticides in agriculture.
The protection of human health is one of them.
Above all, fewer pesticides are the most important lever to stop the decline in biodiversity.
We want to make the phase-out of pesticide dependency in our agriculture quick and feasible: through a systematic pesticide reduction strategy, an immediate ban on particularly environmentally toxic active substances and the still frequently used pesticide glyphosate.
To reduce the overall use of pesticides, we are introducing a pesticide levy.
In order to effectively protect species and protect our drinking water, we want to prohibit the application of pesticides in nature reserves and drinking water protection areas and introduce comprehensive pesticide monitoring.
We will provide financial support for affected farmers during implementation.
We will also end the export of pesticides that are not approved or banned in Germany or the EU due to environmental and health risks.
We want to improve the approval procedures for pesticides by strengthening transparency and independence.
For ecological crop protection, we will set up a comprehensive, combined research, implementation and advisory program for non-chemical synthetic crop protection in cooperation with the states.
Diverse seeds without patents
Diverse, equitable and sustainable agriculture starts with seeds.
In view of the climate and biodiversity crisis, we want to advance the breeding of robust varieties and research into organic seeds,
as well as strengthen research into alternative approaches that rely on traditional and organic breeding methods.
As with any technology, the handling of both old and new genetic engineering methods must on the one hand guarantee the freedom of research and on
the other hand exclude hazards to humans and the environment during application.
The focus is not on the technology, but on its opportunities, risks and consequences.
We will therefore adhere to a strict approval procedure and the precautionary principle anchored in European law.
To this end, risk assessments on a comprehensive scientific basis and regulation that excludes uncontrollable distribution, as well as binding labeling that protects GMO-free production and consumer freedom of choice, remain necessary.
Accordingly, there is a need to strengthen risk and detection research.
We want to align patent law in such a way that there are no longer any patents on living beings and their genetic makeup.
Fair income and working conditions for farmers
Farmers must be able to live from their work.
We therefore want to take action against dumping prices, the sale of food below producer price and concentration in the food industry, using the possibilities offered by competition and antitrust law and the EU directive against unfair trade practices.
We want to support young farmers and newcomers and take measures against land speculation and the sell-off of rural land.
This includes that in the future the areas of the federally owned Bodenverwertungs- und -verwaltungs GmbH will no longer be privatized, but preferably leased to local farms and start-ups,
with the aim of managing the areas in a climate and nature friendly way.
We will regulate share deals on farms to stop land being sold off to non-agricultural investors.
Fair conditions must also prevail in food production and processing.
Better occupational health and safety for workers in agriculture and the meat industry are just as necessary
as more rights for employees, collectively agreed wages and strong trade unions.
There is too much precarious employment in seasonal work without social security protection.
Here, physically hard work often meets meager wages and poor housing.
We want to end these social injustices.
Strengthen regional production, processing and marketing
The desire to buy more regional and artisan food from bakeries, butchers and farms is growing steadily.
At the same time, the Corona crisis has shown us how important regionally functioning supply chains are.
We want to strengthen regional production, processing and marketing and thus counteract the decline of farms in recent years.
This also includes fair competitive conditions vis-à-vis imported food.
In public institutions, we want to make greater use of regional and organic products, including in-conversion goods - in this way, we create demand and fair prices.
We support regional seals and direct marketing by farms through local shopping apps and regional advertising,
and ensure protection against fraud with a clear definition of regional products.
Public funds and targeted advice on how to deal with requirements and labeling regulations should primarily benefit small and medium-sized farms and artisans.
We support research and consulting on regional marketing and innovative and participatory approaches such as producer groups, solidarity farming or food councils.
Promote good nutrition - save food
Healthy and ecologically valuable food should be easily accessible to all people in Germany, and healthy nutrition should not depend on one's wallet.
We want to curb nutrition-related diseases in a targeted manner.
That is why we will change course and readjust many parameters - eating well and healthily must become easier.
We support daycare centers, schools, hospitals, nursing homes, cafeterias and canteens in offering more healthy regional and organically produced food; wholesome vegetarian and vegan food should also be part of the daily menu.
Good food all too often fails due to insufficient supply and lack of transparency.
To change this, we are taking the food industry to task.
We need binding reduction strategies against too much sugar, salt, fat and additives in convenience foods and economic incentives for healthier products.
For food advertising aimed at children, we want clear rules based on the criteria of the World Health Organization.
Environmentally sound nutrition belongs in the curricula of all relevant training areas.
Food policy must also be aligned with the Paris climate protection targets.
Climate protection also means that we as a society will produce and consume fewer animal products.
We want to make vegetarian and vegan diets more attractive and accessible to everyone.
We want to promote the market launch of plant-based alternatives and meat substitutes and make them more tax-efficient.
For example, plant-based milk alternatives are to be sold at the reduced VAT rate.
We also want to lower the tax on fair trade coffee.
Overall, we want to take up the EU Commission's demand that environmental impact costs should also be taken into account in the food sector by means of an ecological tax reform, so that the price of plant and animal foods is also ecologically and socially fair.
We are taking decisive action against food waste.
We want to introduce binding reduction targets with a Save the Food Act, and oblige food retailers and producers to pass on food that is fit for consumption instead of throwing it away.
Saving food from the trash - so-called containerizing - must be decriminalized.
Clear food labeling
Good, sustainable and healthy food should be easy to recognize.
With comprehensible information about ingredients, origin, production and the ecological footprint, we want to ensure the necessary transparency.
We will introduce mandatory animal husbandry labeling with demanding criteria for meat and other foods made from or containing animal components and work to ensure
that this also becomes mandatory throughout the EU.
This is to take into account the further development of animal welfare standards.
We want to further develop the Nutriscore nutrition label
and apply it to all finished products throughout the EU.
We also want to improve transparency about the origin of food.
Contained allergens should be better labeled.
For uniform labeling of vegetarian and vegan foods, we need an EU-wide legally binding definition of "vegetarian" and "vegan".
Transparency must also apply to food hygiene, so the results of food inspections should be visible to all.
We enable animals to live a better life
Animal husbandry with more space for fewer animals
The system of "always cheaper, always more" has driven agriculture into a vicious circle: Farmers are crushed by dumping prices and have to produce more and more in order to survive, animals are bred more and more for performance and live shorter and shorter lives, ecological and social problems grow.
Industrial factory farming and cheap meat exports all over the world are not compatible with a climate-friendly future.
It needs a way out.
Part of the solution is to keep far fewer animals than before and give these animals a much better life.
Animals need more space, outdoor exercise and occupation - we want to regulate this on a species-specific binding basis and also lobby at EU level for a significant increase in animal welfare standards.
To make animal welfare economically feasible, we want to support farmers: through a conversion subsidy financed by an animal welfare cent on animal products, through fair prices, and through mandatory livestock labeling for animal products.
Animal husbandry is to be tied to the area and to upper limits per barn in such a way as to ensure environmentally and animal-friendly management.
We will make the animal-friendly and fire-safe conversion of barns a standard to which everyone must adhere.
We will promote this in a targeted manner, as well as grazing animal husbandry, which preserves and makes good use of ecologically valuable grassland.
Stables in which animals cannot be kept at least in accordance with EU organic regulations should no longer be built.
Instead of cruel breeding for high performance, we want to promote robust breeds and dual-purpose breeds.
We want to put an end to amputations, operations without anesthesia and painful anesthesia methods as well as cage and tethering.
We will significantly reduce the use of antibiotics in agricultural animal husbandry.
In order to target these drugs and avoid resistance, priority should be given to treating sick individual animals.
Reserve antibiotics should be reserved for human medicine.
To avoid live animal transports, we prefer and will promote regional and mobile slaughtering to slaughtering in a central slaughterhouse.
We want to limit animal transports to four hours and control them better, live animal transports to third countries outside the EU are to be banned altogether.
Protect and respect animals
Animals are sentient beings and need protection, which is why we will improve the legal regulations on animal husbandry.
For all animals that we humans keep, we have a special responsibility.
We want them to live a dignified, good and healthy life free from pain, fear and stress.
To this end, effective sanctions for animal welfare violations must be anchored in animal welfare and criminal law and effective enforcement must be worked towards together with the states and municipalities.
We will introduce a comprehensive right of action for recognized animal protection organizations.
The recognized animal protection organizations and an independent federal animal protection commissioner should be able to exercise rights of access to information and inspection of files and to object to violations of the law.
The Animal Welfare Officer shall also support the competent federal authorities and be involved in legislative projects and animal welfare matters.
We want better rules for breeding, keeping and trading animals.
We will end the keeping of wild animals in circuses.
We strive for the further consistent reduction of animal testing in science
and want to replace it as quickly as possible with a clear phase-out strategy and innovative research methods.
To this end, we are working with all stakeholders on future-oriented animal-free research, promoting investment in animal-free innovations and the further development of improved drug and safety testing, and accelerating the approval of animal-free procedures.
We will finally transpose the EU requirements for animal testing into German law.
Put a leash on wildlife trade
The Covid 19 pandemic has made it clear that environmental, animal, and human health must be thought of together and that this Planetary Health approach must become the principle of our actions.
The overexploitation of nature has no future.
The pandemic is based on a zoonosis, an infectious disease transmitted from animals to humans.
Such diseases are becoming more and more frequent, they are favored by the progressive destruction of nature and the penetration of people into the last natural habitats.
This must be countered all over the world.
Wild animals belong in the wild, the trade with them must be regulated more strictly, existing regulations must be implemented consistently.
Economic alternatives must be built up in the countries of origin.
Wildlife trade on online portals and commercial exchanges, as well as commercial imports of wild-caught animals and imports of hunting trophies, must be banned altogether.
The keeping of animals from wild animal breeding should be linked to a positive list and a certificate of competence, which is measured by the difficulty of keeping the respective animal species.
Industrial animal agriculture can also contribute to pandemics, as has been shown in corona-infected minks.
Animal husbandry must therefore also be aligned with the need to contain possible zoonoses.
We will work to end the keeping of animals in and the trade in fur from fur farms.
Chapter 2: Managing into the future
Climate neutrality is the great opportunity for Germany as an industrial location.
Green technologies from Germany are in demand worldwide.
We Europeans are still the leaders in renewable hydrogen.
For large parts of German industry, the Paris Climate Agreement has become an integral part of planning, and corporate investment strategies are geared toward climate protection.
Most people know that the markets of the future will be climate-neutral.
And they know: Germany can do so much more.
In the companies, the minds and the structures are the innovative power and the will to manage into the future.
We see the agility with which entrepreneurs want to develop new ideas or business models while also living up to their social responsibility.
And we are convinced that free and creative action, the dynamics of fair competition and the strength of social cooperation innovatively solve problems.
Digitalization represents another major upheaval that is significantly shaping our economy and society.
We want to shape digitization
and ensure that necessary innovations are developed and made marketable in Europe.
Germany and Europe should also claim the lead in future technologies.
To this end, we are also using the opportunities offered by Germany's G7 presidency in 2022.
However, the German and European economy is under great pressure: our industrialized country has to assert itself in global competition with authoritarian state capitalism and largely unregulated tech giants.
The pandemic hit many sectors of the economy hard, and some sectors had already slept through the transformation beforehand.
The climate crisis and the finite nature of resources demand a change of course.
At the same time, our understanding of what prosperity is is changing.
But if we are smart about it now, we can recalibrate our economic and financial system.
Then we can ensure that growth only occurs in harmony with planetary boundaries, rather than overexploiting our natural resources.
We are gearing our social systems, labor market and state financing to remain stable even when operating within these limits.
We can establish a social-ecological market economy for the common good in Europe that reconciles prosperity with sustainability and justice and serves the people.
It is the starting point for a new economic dynamic that creates sustainable jobs, in the skilled trades, in start-ups or in the service sector,
that ensures quality of life,
allows us humans to develop freely
and can create climate-friendly prosperity.
This requires a policy that wants, that leads forward, and that steers reliably.
Not because the state can manage better, but because the economy needs clear conditions, reliable political frameworks and incentives.
Only then will companies have planning security
and know that climate-neutral, sustainable business is worthwhile.
And only then can the innovative power of employees and entrepreneurs unfold in individually sensible decisions for sustainable prosperity.
Unregulated markets can destroy a great deal.
But if we shape markets sustainably and socially, they can spark the innovations we need for transformation.
To make this happen, we are consistently setting the course for climate neutrality and a circular economy, and giving the economy new room for maneuver within planetary boundaries.
We create incentives, eliminate environmentally harmful subsidies and set regulatory rules so that production, trade and consumption are sustainable.
We use concepts such as growth, efficiency, competition, and innovation as a means to an end and remeasure climate-friendly prosperity, the very goal of policy.
We are launching a comprehensive investment offensive, both public and private, to tackle the immense investment backlog in our country and protect the climate,
Digitization
and education.
To achieve this, we rely on a precautionary budget policy.
We are resolutely addressing the inequities in the tax system
and using the steering effect of taxes for climate protection and the circular economy.
We make sure that very wealthy and rich people and large corporations face up to their responsibilities more.
Global corporations should not be more powerful than states - the primacy of democratic politics must be asserted.
We want to reduce the enormous gap between rich and poor, because societies in which inequality is low are on the whole more contented societies.
High incomes and assets should therefore contribute more to the financing of our community and low incomes are relieved.
We also want to help reduce persistent severe economic imbalances in Europe and worldwide by increasing public investment in Germany and enforcing good wages.
Economic and financial policy must be made European.
As Europeans, we can set international standards and drive innovation with our strong common single market.
As long as there is distortion of competition, there is also a need to protect the EU internal market and, above all, critical infrastructure.
At the same time, we are committed to a common strategic foreign trade policy that makes fairness an imperative of international competition and free world trade and promotes sustainable economic activity worldwide that complies with human rights.
As Europeans, we invest together in climate protection, research and the prosperity of the future, and a Green New Deal will pave the way.
In a federal government, we will do everything we can to ensure that the European Union becomes the first CO2-free economic area.
In this way, we are laying the foundations for Germany and Europe to remain successful industrial locations with efficient SMEs, high value added, a strong welfare state and good jobs - in traditional and innovative industrial companies, in mechanical engineering, in small and medium-sized enterprises.
With an active economic and industrial policy, we are pointing the way forward and offering good conditions for future-oriented companies.
In this way, we are turning the "Made in Germany" brand into a seal of quality for a sustainable economy in a climate-neutral and social Europe.
We also promote a cooperative and caring approach to business.
This creates many jobs in regional value chains,
oriented towards the common good instead of profit-oriented.
We need a diverse economy that becomes resilient to crises.
We promote entrepreneurship, competition and ideas
A decade of investment in the future
After the Corona pandemic, our country needs a new economic awakening.
The best thing that policymakers can do is to do what they have criminally failed to do over the last ten years: invest in our common future.
Only if the state also plays its part, if public and private investments are jointly geared towards a common goal, will Europe keep pace in the field of modern future technologies
and compete with the USA and China.
We are launching an investment offensive in the next legislative period.
With investments in fast Internet, everywhere.
Cutting-edge research from quantum computing to cutting-edge biotechnology.
In climate-neutral infrastructures, charging stations, an expansion of rail, pedestrian and bicycle traffic, emission-free buses, energy storage technologies, renewable energies and modern urban development.
We want Germany to move from laggard to frontrunner in terms of public investment among industrialized countries and invest an additional 50 billion euros per year in this decade.
These investments should also be subject to gender budgeting.
This is how the socio-ecological transformation succeeds, how we create sustainable prosperity and secure the competitiveness of our country in a European Union that is capable of acting.
New start after the Corona crisis
The Corona pandemic hit many companies hard.
While some had to take on heavy debt, others didn't make it through the crisis and had to go out of business.
Restaurants, restaurants, hotels, the tourism and event industry, the cultural industry, but also many retailers and solo self-employed are particularly hard hit.
A new start after the Corona crisis must therefore specifically help the industries that are particularly affected
- and at the same time send a signal for a change of direction towards climate neutrality.
In this way, we safeguard livelihoods,
preserve jobs
and provide targeted economic stimulus.
To this end, we are extending the tax loss carryback for small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, introducing attractive and time-limited depreciation terms, and helping small and medium-sized enterprises to restructure more easily with simplified restructuring procedures without having to file for insolvency.
If Corona aid must be repaid, companies will need generous terms.
For many self-employed workers, secure contracts from communities that are able to act can support a fresh start after the pandemic.
Among other things, we want to strengthen the arts and culture sector through a coordinated cultural funding policy and a second start-up opportunity.
During the Corona crisis, many public companies were supported by government aid.
Companies were saved from bankruptcy by means of short-time allowances, equity investments and other financial aid.
The following must apply to new aid: Companies that receive state aid may not distribute dividends.
Climate protection technologies made in Germany
Global competition for tomorrow's technologies is in full swing.
In the future, Made in Germany should not only stand for quality, but even more for sustainable and innovative products and processes.
Digitization and climate neutrality must be tackled jointly by the state and companies.
While the state realizes more public investment, we also want to provide incentives for more investment by companies.
To this end, we are expanding the scope for companies in a targeted manner: It should be possible to depreciate investments on a declining-balance basis by at least 25 percent for a limited period of time.
In the future, tax incentives for research should flow more specifically to SMEs and startups, and we want to evaluate and increase their effectiveness.
Public investment grants are intended to provide start-up assistance, especially for new technologies;
climate treaties help to provide lasting planning security for long-term climate protection investments.
Introduce a start-up capital
To secure the prosperity of tomorrow, we need a new wave of entrepreneurs.
With a start-up capital that guarantees a one-off amount of up to 25,000 euros for founders and successors, we want to ensure that no good idea and no new start-up fails due to insufficient equity.
The condition is that the funded start-up is aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals and that a performance audit is carried out by experts.
Founders should have it easy: Instead of having to trudge through an administrative jungle, they should receive information, advice and the opportunity to register at a central point of contact - anywhere in Germany.
In the first two years, they are to be largely exempted from notification and reporting requirements.
Women are still underrepresented in start-ups and successions, and we want to provide them with targeted support in the form of a state venture capital fund just for women.
We have equal representation on awarding and selection committees.
Barriers should also be removed for people with a history of migration; our country is leaving a huge potential untapped here.
In public procurement, we involve startups more closely and simplify award procedures and rules for suitability testing.
We will make employee participation more widely accessible and easier.
More and more start-ups want to strengthen the common good with digital solutions.
To this end, we are integrating social-ecological criteria more strongly into existing start-up financing.
Fair competition for climate-neutral industrial technologies
The energy-intensive industries - steel, cement, chemicals - account for 15 percent of Germany's CO2 emissions.
At the same time, they provide hundreds of thousands of good jobs and are also cornerstones of our prosperity.
We want to make these industries the technology pioneers in the development of climate-neutral processes.
Mechanical engineering can play a key role in the global use of green technologies made in Germany.
In this way, we are combating the climate crisis
and helping to safeguard Germany as an industrial location.
To ensure that investments can flow today into facilities that are also climate-compatible in the long term, we are directly promoting transformation with investment grants and declining-balance depreciation.
We are driving the decarbonization of processes with the removal of hurdles to green self-supply of electricity and an increasing use of green hydrogen.
Climate contracts (carbon contracts for difference), which finance the difference between the current CO2 price and the actual CO2 abatement costs, provide investment security.
And with quotas for the share of CO2-neutral basic materials, we are creating lead markets for CO2-free products.
We want to give special support to pilot plants for low-emission technologies that are not yet ready for the market.
And if possible, the goal should be that new industrial plants are already built or exported to operate without emissions.
In transforming the chemical industry, we are focusing on new innovative products, processes and procedures that, in addition to greenhouse gas neutrality, also promote the circular economy, increase efficiency, avoid emissions and waste in the first place, and make us independent of fossil raw materials such as crude oil or natural gas.
Sustainable automotive industry
The automotive industry is facing huge upheavals.
The competition for the zero-emission and digital car of the future is underway worldwide.
After years of stagnation, the industry in Germany has also finally started to move forward.
What is needed now is determination and cooperation to create sustainable jobs.
and climate-friendly value creation in the automotive industry.
The transformation of the automotive industry into an important player for sustainable mobility is necessary.
Politics has a central role to play here; it must set the framework and shape the transformation process.
One thing is clear: the internal combustion engine has no future.
We want to register only zero-emission cars from 2030.
In addition, we also want to set standards in the automotive industry for a circular economy and climate-neutral production, as well as decarbonization in the steel sector, so that the ecological footprint of vehicles becomes ever smaller.
We support this transformation with research and innovation funding for all technology options and want to promote the rapid development of charging station infrastructure and the market ramp-up of zero-emission vehicles as part of a cost-neutral bonus-malus system.
We want to leverage the potential of new mobility services and autonomous driving for the industrial location and also for climate protection and road safety.
In addition, the opportunities for value creation and jobs offered by the mobility transition must be taken into account: from new jobs in public transport to vehicle production.
It is also important that Germany and Europe quickly catch up in battery cell production.
Especially for next-generation batteries, which are cheaper and more resource-efficient, we want to create our own sustainable battery cell production in Europe, which includes an effective recycling system, as well as research and development for the next generation of batteries.
To this end, we are relying on clear specifications for ecological standards
and a comprehensive research and promotion program.
We want to support the particularly affected autoregions with regional transformation dialogues and funds.
In this way, we maintain the value chain in small and medium-sized enterprises and
secure local jobs.
We want to support the employees of the automotive industry and its suppliers with qualification offers and further training.
Strengthening the European semiconductor industry
A successful and far-sighted industrial policy will only work if pan-European thinking is also applied.
Particularly with a view to necessary sectoral structural support, such as the development of a hydrogen infrastructure, solar module and battery cell production, or the promotion of the semiconductor industry, a European orientation is crucial.
To reduce critical dependencies, we rely on European cooperation with open standards.
EU capacity in semiconductor technology is to be expanded to 20 percent of global production, as proposed by the EU Commission.
This applies above all to those areas in which we already have a strong European position in semiconductor technology for industrial applications or in which particularly dynamic future development can be expected, such as renewable energies.
To achieve this, investments along the semiconductor value chain must be increased.
Renewable energies made in Europe: key industry for climate protection
To become climate-neutral, we need one thing above all: a lot of renewable energy.
In order to be able to build the plants for this, we don't want to be completely dependent on non-European suppliers and thus fall into the next import dependency.
The good news is: There are still manufacturers of important components such as wind turbines and inverters in Europe, and there are also initial investments in production capacities again for the enormously important PV module production.
Numerous innovations in photovoltaics indicate that the potential of this technology is far from exhausted.
The German solar industry is to become a driving force.
We want to support this development with targeted investment aid.
Make circular economy the standard, advance repair and recycling industry
Waste is a design flaw and a waste of important resources and raw materials - which are finite and make us dependent.
On the way to a circular economy, we need a new raw materials policy that reduces the use of primary raw materials, replaces fossil fuels with renewable raw materials and ties global raw materials extraction to high transparency, social and environmental standards.
When it comes to the extraction of domestic raw materials, we want to force the dialog between the players involved.
Whether packaging, buildings, cars or laptops - we create the legal framework and economic incentives to ensure that all products can be used for a long time, reused, shared, repaired and recycled to a high standard.
As a result, by 2050 at the latest, this means no more waste, an end to planned wear and tear
, and more green jobs on the ground in a new European repair and recycling industry that reduces dependence on finite resources and raw material imports.
We are leading the way with binding manufacturer obligations, ambitious recycling quotas, tax and levy regulations, norms and standards, and targeted support programs.
By 2030, we will equip all goods and materials that come onto the market with a digital product passport that provides companies and consumers with all the information they need about design, carbon footprint, reparability and materials that are necessary for a climate-neutral circular economy.
Efficient use of materials and recycling management reduce energy requirements and make a significant contribution to the success of the energy transition.
Bringing research results into practice, reviving start-up culture
Research at our universities and research institutions is conducted to the highest standards.
However, promising research results - especially from basic research - must be put into practice even more often.
The vaccine successes are encouraging: a completely new technology enabled the development and production of several Corona vaccines in record time.
However, structural barriers still prevent spin-offs.
Existing funding programs for transfer to application are not sufficient.
We want to drive forward the expansion of support programs for high-tech start-ups, business incubators and entrepreneurship training.
The silent participation of public institutions is to become the new spin-off standard.
In addition, we want to provide greater support for the development of vaccines, medicines and medical products.
If they are researched and developed with a substantial share of public funding, clear conditions must be attached to the funding in terms of transparency of research costs, fair pricing and globally equitable access.
In addition, we are committed to the medium-term standardization of incorporation and company law within the European Economic Area.
Making governance bodies more diverse
Germany is diverse, but its executive suites are not (yet).
In the process, diverse teams lead companies more successfully.
The diversity of German society therefore also urgently needs to be reflected in management and decision-making bodies and in the business community.
Although women are at least as well qualified as men, they are absent there.
Our goal is and remains: half the power to women.
Voluntary regulations have brought nothing.
That's why we need quotas that really create the critical mass to get to our goal of 50 percent female representation.
In future, at least one third of the board seats of larger and listed companies are to be filled by women.
To facilitate this, we also want to remove obstacles such as the lack of parental leave regulations in stock corporation law.
When making new appointments, the supervisory boards of these companies are to aim for a mandatory share of at least 40 percent women.
Companies owned by the federal government or in which the federal government has a stake, ministries and authorities should set a good example with clear plans for parity-based operating structures.
Career advancement doesn't start at the top.
We are therefore committed to removing barriers to women's advancement in companies and organizations.
In ministries, administrations, public institutions, municipal associations and municipal enterprises, the target is also 50 percent women in management positions.
We want to make business development more gender-equal and promote women with targeted measures where they are underrepresented, for example through a state venture capital fund just for female founders.
Combating the shortage of skilled workers
Demographic change will shrink the number of working-age people by six million over the next 15 years.
At the same time, the professions of the future require entirely new skills.
The shortage of labor and skilled workers will intensify.
We want to counteract this.
To achieve this, we are investing more in vocational and in-service training.
Dual vocational training is to be upgraded through further development and modernization, particularly of the teaching content and equipment.
Funding needs to be adjusted.
The master craftsman's diploma is to become free of charge, just like a course of study.
We are no longer leaving any potential untapped: We are dismantling barriers that often still stand in the way of women, older people, people with disabilities, young people from low-income homes, or people with a history of migration, and we will counteract gender stereotypes.
We facilitate immigration to our country by introducing a talent card and faster recognition of foreign educational and professional qualifications, including reciprocal recognition within the EU.
In general, we want to accelerate the recognition of foreign educational qualifications and make the recognition process more cost-effective.
In order to ensure fair procedures for all in the recognition of academically recognized university degrees that have so far been without state recognition, we want to review possible adjustment needs and improve recognition practices.
Refugees should be given the opportunity to change lanes, which will give them more legal security during their training, studies and work and thus give them career prospects in Germany.
We support companies that give refugees and immigrants a chance at training and employment by providing specific contact persons, qualification, advice and support as needed.
SME policy is innovation policy
German SMEs are diverse, innovative and internationally competitive.
This is where the solutions for the challenges of the future are created; it ensures value creation in the regions and for them.
Our SME policy is based on a triad of reducing bureaucratic burdens,
an innovation-friendly tax policy
and a broad-based research landscape.
With faster planning and approvals and efficient, digital management, we support SMEs in innovation and transformation.
Reporting requirements are to be simplified.
For this purpose, projects should be tested and improved together with users from administration and companies of all sizes.
This requires the consistent application and improvement of so-called SME tests at national and European level as well as the expansion of innovation-oriented public procurement.
In order to relieve and promote the solo self-employed and micro-enterprises, the profit limit for the accounting obligation is raised.
We advocate good conditions for small businesses and the self-employed so that they have fair opportunities in competition.
We want to make subsidy programs and investment grants sustainable and ensure that they benefit SMEs in particular.
In return, they should be much easier to apply for and document.
In addition, tailored consulting services for climate protection and digitization are to be promoted, also over longer periods of time.
We want to consistently strengthen the promotion of regional innovation ecosystems from universities, SMEs and civil society by establishing an independent innovation agency (D.Innova).
Aligned with the global sustainability goals, D.Innova is to promote such innovation networks systematically, proactively and flexibly - from Aachen to Anklam, from Flensburg to Füssen.
We want to strengthen the regional economy with locally operating companies, value chains and products and rely on clearly defined regional labels and promotion concepts.
Affordable rents for small and medium-sized enterprises
Along with real estate speculation, commercial rents in the cities have also risen in many cases to an economically incompatible extent, and there is no end in sight to this development.
Many small merchants and traders are displaced.
We want small and medium-sized enterprises, just like social institutions, to receive permanently improved protection against dismissal and more rights to extend fixed-term leases on reasonable terms.
In addition, we are striving to introduce a commercial rent brake that would allow commercial rents to be capped in cities with a tight commercial property market.
Competition law for the 21st century
Strong competition law is a prerequisite for fair economic relations, prevents monopolies and protects consumers.
In a competitive environment, environmental protection and social standards must not become collateral damage.
That is why we want to adapt the national rules on unfair competition so that a breach of environmental and social standards can be prosecuted as unfair competition.
We also want to ensure that environmental protection aspects are taken into account as a matter of principle in German and European merger control proceedings.
We want to make consumer protection a purpose of the Act against Restraints of Competition and effectively strengthen its regulatory enforcement.
We want to adapt the controversial ministerial approval procedure in the context of merger controls in such a way that opponents of the procedure are once again given their full legal options.
Data protection authorities are to be consulted in the Bundeskartellamt's merger control process and their opinions taken into account in the decision on a merger.
Ensuring the future viability of a strong skilled crafts sector
Craftsmanship is present everywhere in our everyday lives and is indispensable.
It is characterized by a great heterogeneity: from heating installation companies to bakeries, from medium-sized companies with hundreds of employees to micro-enterprises.
It is one of the most important economic factors in Germany.
In a sustainable economy, the skilled trades provide crisis-proof jobs
and make a decisive contribution to the ecological turnaround.
It also offers young people in rural areas a perspective.
For them in particular, the ecological transformation offers huge opportunities - from building renovation to heating system replacement.
We want to improve the framework conditions by reducing bureaucracy, providing support for successors and specifically promoting training in the skilled trades.
The overriding goal is the preservation and future viability of the operations.
In various areas, such as the building sector, there is also a need for a significant increase in the number of people trained and educated.
In order to make skilled trades even more attractive, we are focusing on greater collective bargaining coverage,
industry-specific minimum wages
and greater equivalence between vocational and academic training.
It should be a matter of course for students to be able to transfer from university to the skilled trades and back again,
as should international exchange
and access to scholarships.
Culture creates prosperity
The cultural and creative industries are one of the most underestimated sectors in Germany.
Before Corona, the more than 1.2 million creative and cultural professionals generated sales of nearly 180 billion euros in 2019 alone - more than the chemical industry or financial services providers, for example.
But the cultural and creative industries are under existential threat from the Corona crisis, especially smaller businesses such as independent publishers, private theaters, art house cinemas, small clubs and venues.
Only with targeted protection and improved promotion will we be able to save large parts of our cultural life from disappearing.
We are expanding the concept of innovation in the programs to promote start-ups so that the cultural and creative industries also benefit.
We tailor funding programs specifically to the needs of the cultural and creative industries,
and we are expanding start-up funding from unemployment in line with demand.
Helping the tourism industry get back on its feet sustainably
The travel and tourism industry - a key economic factor and employer of millions - has been hit hard by the Corona crisis.
We want to help it get back on its feet and at the same time make post-Corona tourism more climate-friendly, ecological and socially sustainable.
Ecologically and socially blind mass tourism with climate-damaging cruise ships, endless waste production and huge resource consumption has no future.
On the contrary, the cruise industry must finally make its contribution via new propulsion systems, the use of shore power and better environmental standards.
On the other hand, there are huge opportunities in sustainable tourism.
We want to develop sustainable or soft tourism in a targeted manner, especially in rural regions, for example by expanding tourist bike paths and waterways.
With a shelter system like the one in Denmark, we want to make nature an experience for everyone.
At the same time, national parks, biosphere reserves and nature reserves are to be sustainably protected through regulated tourism.
Rail is to become the number one means of tourism travel - through a European night train network and the targeted connection of tourist regions to the rail network.
In this way, tourism can help preserve a world that is still worth traveling to in the future.
We give the market a social-ecological framework
Reassessing prosperity and entrepreneurial success
Prosperity is not defined by GDP growth alone, but can be understood much more broadly as quality of life.
We want to measure the success of Germany and its companies not only in economic terms, but also on the basis of inclusive, social, ecological and societal criteria, and realign political guard rails such as incentives and business support accordingly.
For this purpose, an Annual Prosperity Report is to be published together with the Annual Economic Report in the future.
This then also takes into account, for example, the contribution of nature conservation, fair income distribution or even good education to the prosperity of our society.
Accordingly, we are changing the way we measure performance at the corporate level and are adding social and environmental values, such as their greenhouse gas emissions, to the accounting rules, and are also lobbying for this in international regulations.
In this way, we will finally achieve uniform regulations for measuring sustainable corporate success and make an important contribution to ensuring that sustainability is no longer penalized in competition, as it is today, but positively encouraged.
Shaping the European Green Deal ambitiously
With the European Green Deal, the EU Commission has presented a program to make the European Union the first climate-neutral continent.
It includes legislative proposals in the areas of climate and environmental protection as
well as for strengthened competitiveness, energy security and innovation dynamics of a decarbonized European economy.
We are committed to ambitious design and implementation at all levels.
We keep up the pressure so that the ecological turnaround helps to reduce inequality.
To this end, we want to increase and expand the Just Transition Fund.
In agricultural policy, we are fighting to ensure that the reform of the Common Agricultural Policy and its implementation are brought under the objectives of the Green Deal and the Paris Climate Agreement, as they have an immense impact on environmental protection and biodiversity.
In trade policy, we want to make environmental and social chapters of future trade agreements legally binding and sanctionable.
Harnessing the Power of the EU Single Market for Transformation
The EU single market is a success story based on its high standards, especially in global competition: in consumer and data protection, in environmental and health protection, and for social and product safety.
We want to maintain and expand these high standards in the spirit of a socio-ecological transformation of the internal market, because they strengthen the innovative power of companies, enable the exploitation of economies of scale and promote international trade.
To shape digitization, we need to regulate services provided by platforms and their market power.
Platforms must be obliged to guarantee European quality and security standards in online commerce as well.
We want to increase the global steering effect of the internal market by ensuring that companies in the European market also take international responsibility for their production and distribution methods along the entire value chain.
We want to expand the scope for action of municipalities in the European Union
and protect services of general interest from the pressure of liberalization.
Strengthen social enterprises and cooperatives
We want to strengthen those areas of the economy where long-term sustainability counts more than short-term returns,
and which often also contribute to the democratization of the economy.
On the one hand, we therefore support cooperatives, as they are more crisis-proof and more oriented toward the common good than other legal forms.
On the other hand, we promote social enterprises because they directly link social concerns with entrepreneurial action to social-ecological goals.
And we welcome the concept of the common good economy because it takes the idea of the common good into the private sector.
We are creating financing instruments for specific target groups and want to expand the programs of traditional start-up and innovation financing.
Our goal is to create a wave of new cooperatives and socially-ecologically inspired enterprises oriented towards the common good.
To this end, we will systematically improve the framework conditions for their business activities and eliminate existing disadvantages.
We want to make the start-up subsidy from the employment agencies dependent not only on economic profit, but also on socio-ecological impact criteria.
We want to use unused balances in orphaned accounts - provided there are no inheritance claims - for a fund that invests specifically in sustainable and social innovations.
New forms for sustainable entrepreneurship
We advocate the introduction of a corporate form of responsible ownership.
More and more entrepreneurs do not see their company as an individually consumable asset.
They want their company not to serve short-term shareholder value, but to have a long-term focus and be committed to the common good.
To do this, they need a legal form that allows one hundred percent of the assets to be tied up in the company.
Profits are reinvested or donated.
Voting rights can be held in trust by employees collectively or by individuals - they are not sold to the highest bidder(s) but, similar to legal partnerships, are always passed on to individuals actively associated with the company.
We drive digitization forward
A European cloud infrastructure
Data is a key resource of the digital world, especially for artificial intelligence applications.
In the industrial sector in particular, we want to create new approaches to improve and make legally secure the shared, voluntary use of both non-personal and personal but anonymized data, for example from development and manufacturing processes.
Medium-sized companies in particular are benefiting from this.
This requires clear legal rules for cooperative and decentralized data pools and data trust models, such as data cooperatives, which enable the shared use of this data that can be verified by antitrust authorities.
We want to set our own European standards and rules.
We want to protect our own critical infrastructure
and realize a common European cloud infrastructure based on open source technologies.
Europe needs to invest in its own expertise in big data processing for artificial intelligence.
Expand high-tech location
The rapid development of the Corona vaccine by scientists and entrepreneurs from Mainz has shown the innovative power of our research and business landscape.
An innovative force that the state must support with speed and determined investment.
Above all, we want to give special support to the fields of artificial intelligence (AI), quantum computing, IT security, communications and biotechnology, and the further development of ecological battery cells, so that we can safeguard our technological sovereignty and stay ahead of the global competition.
In doing so, we place a special focus on leveraging the ecological and social potential of the technologies.
In this way, innovations improve the living conditions of mankind and secure the prosperity of tomorrow.
To do this, we also need private venture capital, which we intend to leverage strongly through state funds.
In order to be able to keep up with the international competition between locations, a strong European network of top-level research is required.
We invest in cutting-edge research and the formation of clusters in these areas.
We want to lay the foundation today for European sovereignty in further trends in AI, for example by supporting a European ecosystem for testing Artificial General Intelligence ("AI").
But expanding the high-tech location also means attracting the urgently needed talent.
In research, that means adequate funding.
Give start-up venture capital a direction
We must not only be technologically excellent, but also be able to transform breakthrough technologies into new business models, markets, services and products.
Funding opportunities and networks for start-ups and young companies at national and European level can make the difference between a good idea on a flipchart and a globally successful company.
A state venture capital fund can help give our founders a permanent home.
We demand to invest even more and even faster.
This future fund is intended to bundle scattered funding opportunities and leverage a multiple of private money.
At the same time, a functioning secondary market for direct investments and shares in venture capital funds should also be established, for example through a co-investing platform.
The mission of the Future Fund is sustainability.
In particular, it finances projects in areas such as greentech, artificial intelligence, sustainable mobility, bioeconomy and circular economy, which do not receive easy financing on the market due to their risk profile.
We want to adapt forms of financing specifically for start-ups in the green economy and remove barriers to accessing public procurement contracts.
We want to promote regional greentech hubs to facilitate collaboration between startups and established companies.
Regulate internet giants
We are committed to functioning and fair competition in digital markets.
Excessive market power of individual Internet and tech giants restricts or even eliminates this.
Relevant acquisition transactions by tech groups should be reviewed by the Federal Cartel Office in order to prevent the strategic buying up of burgeoning competition ("killer acquisitions").
In doing so, data protection authorities should be given an opportunity to comment.
The interoperability of their software and digital services, as well as data portability and open interfaces, must be ensured wherever possible by companies that already dominate the market.
We are committed to a correspondingly ambitious implementation of the Digital Markets Act at European level.
Under the umbrella of an independent European antitrust authority, we therefore want to establish a European digital supervisory authority that acts as an early warning system and can impose sanction-proof cooperation and transparency obligations.
Companies should also be able to be split up regardless of abuse if their market power becomes too great or is already too great.
Gender diversity in the digital economy
Everyone should be involved in shaping the digital transformation and be able to contribute their potential.
That is why we will present and implement a "Women in Digitization" strategy.
Girls should be enthused about digital topics as early as elementary school and grow up without technology gender stereotypes.
We need gender-sensitive teaching, the targeting of women for STEM degree programs and apprenticeships, and more women on the boards where these directional decisions are made.
In addition, we promote family-friendly training paths for women with other professional backgrounds as a way to access the digital industry.
A cultural change is needed in the digital industry, also to realize our full innovation potential.
Voluntary and mandatory measures for companies are necessary to enable discrimination-free workplaces and equal access to design positions in the digital transformation.
The proportion of women in an organization or start-up must be taken into account when awarding grants and public investments.
For government institutions, diversity should be a guiding principle for all digital strategies.
Transparent algorithms
Data-processing and algorithmic decision systems have the potential to generate new knowledge and thus enable more sustainable action.
Data-driven systems are not neutral because they are a product of their underlying data and thus can be discriminatory and biased.
We therefore want to advance quality criteria as well as European efforts for transparency and verifiability so that algorithmic decision systems do not discriminate.
We advocate a European regulatory framework for the use of automated systems, graded according to risk, clear rules on traceability, data protection, labor law and data quality, to enable control and liability, but also legal certainty for affected businesses.
Here, we want to increasingly define and implement equal standards at the European level.
For public control of these rules, authorities must be well trained and technically positioned accordingly.
This also means modernization of the General Equal Treatment Act and strict criteria for the use of algorithmic and automated decision-making, especially in public administration.
Platform providers must also be able to make their automated decisions, comparisons or prices transparent and explain them.
IT security as a location factor
Good IT security and clear rule-of-law standards safeguard fundamental rights
and are the prerequisite for the digital transformation to succeed.
The state remains obligated to provide them.
Critical infrastructure, such as our power grids, in particular, needs special protection.
Good IT security has also long been an important location factor.
If you want to be digitally sovereign, you have to act accordingly and not undermine everyone's security.
Effective and modern data protection protects human dignity and also focuses increasingly on society as a whole in order to collectively shape the defense against supra-individual risks.
We set incentives for good data protection and best IT security, want to expand innovative, technical approaches for effective privacy protection, and promote auditing and uniform European certification.
SMEs in particular are to be supported much more strongly by a decentralized and independent IT consulting network.
The state itself must set a good example, provide greater support for the important work of the supervisory authorities, and improve their cooperation in the federal and European interplay, up to and including joint task performance and enforcement.
We are strengthening the independence of the BSI.
In government IT projects, IT security must be considered and implemented from the very beginning.
We also want to specifically promote the development of secure hardware.
In the spirit of digital product sustainability, we are introducing a commitment to provide security updates in an appropriate, risk-based, and user-friendly manner.
When expanding digital infrastructures, such as 5G, we want the integrity of our critical infrastructure,
Europe's digital sovereignty
and ensure respect for human rights such as the right to privacy.
On the one hand, this requires the highest IT security standards for components in digital infrastructures.
On the other hand, we want to strengthen Europe's technological independence through increased in-house development and production, diverse digital ecosystems and open standards.
In order to be able to concretely assess threat situations, legal, constitutional, security-related and geostrategic aspects must be included in the assessment in addition to technical aspects.
We reject the involvement of untrustworthy companies, especially from authoritarian states, in critical infrastructure.
We fight for fair and sustainable trade
New start for good trade agreements
Trade is an important foundation of our prosperity: Fair trade contributes to deepening international partnerships and thus also to a secure world.
Especially in times that are increasingly characterized by systemic competition between democratic and authoritarian states, we are committed to a proactive trade policy.
We want multilateral world trade and trade agreements that serve the prosperity of all people, that demand environmental and climate protection and respect for human rights, and that strengthen relations with our partners in the cause of democracy and freedom.
Fragmentation of trade relations makes international cooperation more difficult.
A sustainable and fair reformed World Trade Organization (WTO) must contribute to a true global partnership.
As a first step, we want to revive the WTO's Dispute Settlement Appellate Body to curb the multiplication of trade disputes according to the law of the strongest.
We want to seize the opportunity to resolve trade conflicts with the new U.S. administration and create a transatlantic market for climate-neutral products.
We reject agreements with negative impacts on the environment or food sovereignty, such as the EU-Mercosur agreement with Latin American countries.
The European Union can enter trade negotiations with confidence because of the large common internal market.
European trade agreements must contain binding and enforceable human rights, environmental and social standards, and market openings in the services sector must only be regulated in positive lists.
This includes making the Paris Climate Agreement
and ILO core labor standards a condition and enforceable.
The European precautionary principle must be upheld at all times.
Good trade policy must adequately protect municipal services of general interest and the possibility of remunicipalization.
Trade agreements should not only regulate rights for companies, but also their obligations.
That is why we are advocating for a multilateral trade court at the United Nations that covers both.
International corporations must not become even more powerful through trade and investment lawsuits, which is why we reject lawsuit privileges or special justice for foreign investors.
We want the EU and its member states to withdraw from the Energy Charter Treaty, which is completely out of date, not least so as not to jeopardize the EU's Green Deal goals.
We reject trade agreements that do not adequately protect the climate, the environment and consumers.
We will therefore not ratify the CETA agreement in its current form.
We will thus ensure that the dangerous investor-state arbitration tribunals do not come into play.
We also have considerable criticism of the parts of CETA that are currently provisionally applied.
We want to further develop the agreement together with Canada and thereby realign it.
In particular, we want to improve democratic control in regulatory cooperation.
The European Parliament must be better involved here in the future.
In addition, there is a need for stronger regulations on environmental, climate and consumer protection
and the safeguarding of the European precautionary principle.
The EU-China investment agreement, which was largely promoted by the German government, is inadequate in the areas of level playing field and human rights.
We cannot agree with it in its current form.
Active foreign trade policy and fair competition
In order to protect legitimate security interests and enforce a level playing field for all market participants, the EU must react when third countries act unfairly in the EU's internal market and pursue an active foreign trade policy.
Anti-dumping and anti-subsidy instruments need to be further developed to achieve a level playing field in global markets.
The anti-dumping rules must be even more applicable than before in the case of dumping caused by low environmental and social standards.
A reform of EU state aid law can prevent distortions of competition by state-subsidized corporations from other regions of the world.
The EU's foreign direct investment review mechanism must be improved to prevent European companies from being taken over by highly subsidized foreign firms, and a new EU instrument against economic coercion should help the EU defend itself against unlawful economic pressure from outside.
In the future, German foreign trade promotion and its instruments must support hidden champions - instead of fossil plants and power stations - that produce high-tech for better environmental and living conditions, for example.
To achieve this, they must consistently adhere to the 1.5 degree target,
on the sustainable development agenda
and human rights.
Together with the EU Commission, we are advocating a border adjustment of CO2 costs so that ambitious climate protection does not become a competitive disadvantage.
We will work to ensure that the EU also uses the revenue from this border adjustment to support poorer trading partner countries in decarbonizing.
Fair trade for sustainable development in the global south
The development opportunities of the countries of the global South are heavily dependent on how fair trade policies are.
Fair trade must become the standard, also to break postcolonial continuities.
This must be in line with the Paris Climate Agreement,
on the sustainable development agenda
and the UN core human rights treaties.
Existing fair trade initiatives need to be promoted.
In terms of a sustainable global structural policy, there is an urgent need for a fair trade policy with the countries of the global South that promotes regional value creation, regional trade and integration and leaves them sufficient room to protect their markets through tariffs and quotas and to restrict exports of domestic raw materials through export taxes.
This promotes the development of domestic industries.
Tariffs for countries in the global South on processed products are to be reduced or eliminated.
We reject the instrumentalization of development cooperation to ward off refugees.
Implement supply chain law at European level
Far too often we buy things whose production is based on the overexploitation of people and nature, although we do not want that at all.
So that companies can meet environmental and social standards in the future,
Human rights
and climate and species protection along the entire international value chain, a binding and effective supply chain law is needed at both national and European level.
Moreover, such a binding framework creates a level playing field in the market and it creates legal certainty.
The core of such a regulation is civil liability, on the basis of which companies can be held responsible in the event of damage.
Improvements to the German Supply Chain Act are urgently needed, for example an expansion of the companies covered, but also an expansion of the environmental due diligence requirements.
In addition, we are also campaigning at European level for ambitious, binding regulation in international supply chains.
Goods whose production is associated with serious human rights violations, such as child or forced labor, are to be denied access to the EU's internal market.
At the EU level, we will also advocate for an import ban on agricultural products linked to illegal deforestation
and human rights abuses such as displacement.
Around the world, forests, especially such important tropical, virgin and mangrove forests, are being cut down and burned at an accelerating rate - primarily for agro-industrial production such as the cultivation of soy and palm oil, for mining or logging.
A large part of the goods are imported into the EU.
We want to strengthen the EU Timber Trade Regulation, stop the use of soy and palm oil as fuel now, and advance strategies to reduce palm oil and soy in other areas.
We protect forests here and around the world, promote the reforestation and renaturation of destroyed areas,
and aim to conclude treaties and partnerships with relevant countries to this end.
We are also committed to GMO-free supply chains.
At the international level, the drafting of a legally binding UN agreement on business and human rights (Binding Treaty) must be driven forward.
We make financial markets more stable and sustainable
Green financial markets
In the fight against the climate crisis and in the socio-ecological restructuring of our economy, the financial system plays a significant role.
Billions are still being invested in fossil energies and business models that are built on the destruction of ecosystems and the violation of human rights - and thus against our future.
We will enforce that the public sector completely withdraws from these investments if reliable steps for a sustainable transformation of the companies behind them are still not taken.
Public-sector banks, insurers and pension funds, as well as the federal government as an investor and co-owner of companies, must take a pioneering role in the green financial turnaround and transformation financing.
Climate and environmental risks are to be disclosed and backed by equity capital in the case of banks and insurance companies, and taken into account in ratings.
All investments, not just green ones, must have a sustainability rating that is transparent to all investors.
In addition to climate goals, other environmental impacts, human rights, labor standards, and development goals must also be considered.
To do this, BaFin needs robust ESG supervisory authority in line with the Sustainable Finance Regulation.
This assessment must also be incorporated into investment advice.
To protect the climate, but also to protect investors, we need uniform certification of sustainable financial products at the European level.
This is how we ensure that capital is redirected from dirty to green and sustainable investments.
Nuclear power is not a green investment.
Clean balance sheets on the German capital market
In the Wirecard accounting scandal, the responsible auditors and the state supervisory authorities failed in their task.
Only after a new company had looked at the balance sheets was a proper audit carried out, whereas in previous years, balance sheets were repeatedly waved through in order to cover up the company's own failings in previous years.
We want companies to have to change their auditors after six years as a rule.
Auditing firms are not allowed to advise companies they audit at the same time.
The detection of accounting fraud must be enshrined in law as a goal.
Auditing firms must be effectively supervised by the state.
The personal liability of decision-makers in companies must actually become effective in the event of legal violations.
Supervisory boards also need to be strengthened and staffed competently.
The compensation of Executive Board members must be based on the long-term success of the company instead of the short-term stock market price.
A financial regulator with teeth
We need financial oversight with teeth that exposes wrongdoing instead of enabling it.
In the case of Wirecard, the German financial supervisory authority (BaFin) also failed miserably, as it has so often done before.
As a supervisor, BaFin banned short selling against Wirecard and reported journalists who uncovered irregularities.
This was tantamount to a clean bill of health for Wirecard.
As a result, investors have not only lost their money, but also their trust in Germany as a financial center and its supervision.
For honest companies, financing will thus become more difficult and more expensive in the future.
BaFin's culture and self-image must therefore change completely.
There needs to be a culture of error within supervision and a culture of skepticism and questioning.
We want to create a financial police force with comprehensive auditing rights that will exchange information with all relevant authorities at home and abroad.
Customs, as a federal authority, has important responsibilities in the area of combating financial crime, tax evasion and money laundering.
At the moment, it is not in a position to fulfill this function in terms of personnel and organization.
We will equip it better and with the necessary powers underpinned by the rule of law so that it can effectively combat serious financial crime in the future.
The banking business must become boring again
More than ten years after the financial crisis, banks still pose a threat to the economy.
It is still not ruled out that taxpayers will be liable in the event of bankruptcy.
We therefore want to go back to "boring banking."
Banks should not speculate, but finance the real economy.
Instead of the ever more opaque flood of regulations, we want simple and tough rules.
We are closing the regulatory gaps for shadow banks, payment service providers and fintechs; every product and every player must be regulated.
We will make the debt brake (leverage ratio) binding for banks and gradually increase it to 10 percent.
The risky investment business must be separated from the deposit and lending business (separation banking system).
Investment banks must also be consistently supervised and business areas that lead to conflicts of interest must be spun off.
Strong merger control is needed and banks that are too big should be unbundled.
By contrast, simpler rules should apply to small banks that do not pose a risk to the financial system.
We will make speculation and short-termism unattractive, among other things through an EU-wide financial transaction tax with a broad tax base.
To increase the stability and predictability of financial markets, we will curb harmful high-frequency trading.
Collect dirty money
Our country is currently a paradise for money laundering.
We will take action against money laundering with a comprehensive strategy.
There must be comprehensive transparency regarding the beneficial owners of all companies, foundations and other constructs.
We favor lowering the identification requirement to 10 percent.
Gaps and circumvention possibilities of the transparency register are closed.
Financial regulators must play an active role in combating money laundering, rather than merely passing on suspicious activity reports.
In the non-financial sector, especially in real estate, money laundering particularly often goes undetected.
We will enforce minimum federal standards for oversight, audits, resources, and staffing.
Responsibility for combating money laundering is to be transferred in full to the federal government.
We will comprehensively skim off illegal funds and assets.
We want to facilitate the freezing of suspicious financial transactions and extend the duration of transaction bans to ensure law enforcement.
We will examine the introduction of a high ceiling for cash payments, as proposed by the EU Commission.
Introduce digital euro
Digital payment is steadily gaining importance in our everyday lives.
It is convenient, fast and should become even safer.
We support the European Central Bank's (ECB) initiative to create a digital euro.
It ensures data and legal security for consumers and companies and increases the efficiency of euro transactions.
It counteracts unjustified costs caused by oligopolies.
Private companies can build products and apps on this foundation.
A digital euro does not replace classic cash, but complements it.
We strictly reject any undermining of the monetary and currency monopoly by private currencies of powerful large corporations.
For all digital payments and cryptocurrencies, the actual beneficial owners must be identified above a certain threshold, analogous to the rules for cash.
To combat crimes such as money laundering, depictions of sexual violence against children, tax evasion and terror financing, clear rules are also needed for the area of digital payment.
We want to expand existing cooperation obligations of crypto exchanges and train investigative authorities appropriately in this area.
We want to do justice to the rapid developments in the field of decentralized financial applications and explore the opportunities and risks of cryptocurrencies and blockchains in a differentiated manner.
We complete the European Economic and Monetary Union
Investing in Europe's future
Europe's societies and companies thrive on a strong public infrastructure.
It is therefore all the more dangerous that so much has been driven on wear and tear and not invested in recent years.
We want to expand the European Monetary Union into a Social Union.
In important future fields such as digitization or battery production, Europe is in danger of losing out.
We will consistently invest in climate protection, digitization, research and education in the EU.
To this end, we want to make the newly created reconstruction instrument permanent and transform it into a permanent investment and stabilization instrument under the control of the European Parliament.
This should enable the EU to invest in important areas for the future as well as to have a stabilizing effect in times of crisis.
At the same time, we are strengthening the EU budget by providing it with its own revenue.
The EU is to receive the revenues of the CO2 border adjustment.
The taxation of plastics and digital corporations and, if possible, financial transactions should also strengthen the EU budget.
Together with our European partners, we want to reform the Stability and Growth Pact in such a way that excessive pressure to cut back and privatize is prevented and investment in the future can be further increased in all member countries.
Public services, good health care and education must be strengthened in all European member states.
Completing monetary union, making Europe crisis-proof
It was a mistake for conservatives to prevent Europe from pursuing its own fiscal policy for decades.
We want to ensure that the EU has an instrument for a sustainable fiscal policy of its own in the form of a sustainable investment fund.
The fund stabilizes in the event of a crisis and invests in European public goods such as climate, research, digital infrastructure, railroads and education.
It must be designed in such a way that it cannot be blocked by individual countries in the event of a crisis and that strong control by the European Parliament is ensured.
The European Stability Mechanism will be further developed into a European Monetary Fund.
In it, countries receive an unconditional short-term credit line.
In this way, speculation against individual countries is averted in advance.
The banking union is completed by a common deposit insurance as reinsurance, so that every euro is equally safe everywhere.
By pursuing a joint and more countercyclical fiscal policy, we are easing the burden on the central bank and ensuring that it will not have to put out future fires on its own again.
Furthermore, we welcome the fact that the ECB is fulfilling its responsibility for the stability of the euro in all member states by keeping interest rate differentials within the eurozone within bounds.
We stand by the independence of the European Central Bank.
At the same time, we welcome the ECB's debate on its new monetary policy strategy.
The climate crisis has massive repercussions for our economies, so it makes sense that any monetary policy measures take into account the impact of the climate crisis on monetary and financial stability.
In addition, the ECB has the task of supporting the EU's general economic policy.
How it strengthens the European Green Deal with its environmental and social objectives as the EU's guiding economic policy strategy is a matter for its independent decision.
Making the euro the reserve currency
We want the euro to develop into a credible, international reserve currency so that Europe can preserve and expand its sovereignty.
In the long term, a strong and stable euro should find its place in a cooperative global world monetary system.
The euro is an essential building block of a comprehensive strategy that strengthens and enforces European values on the global stage.
We will create secure European assets in which the world can save.
In future markets such as investment in climate protection, the euro is to become the international currency.
But to strengthen the international role of the euro, we also need intra-European solidarity: We want to reduce imbalances together in surplus and deficit countries and make economic and financial policy decisions as a community.
We budget soundly, farsightedly and fairly
Federal budget becomes fit for the future
We want the federal budget to be more sustainable,
fairer
and make it more transparent.
It will become more sustainable if we finally end the environmentally harmful subsidies.
The country's public budgets are still subsidizing climate-damaging behavior to the tune of more than 50 billion euros.
We will phase out these subsidies and make the federal budget climate-friendly.
As a first step, we can raise over 15 billion euros a year and use it to finance climate protection measures.
and social justice.
For federal spending, we are aiming for a climate and biodiversity quota that will gradually increase.
We rely on green bonds to finance this sustainable spending.
With gender budgeting, we achieve consistent consideration and inclusion of gender equality aspects in financial and budgetary policy decisions.
This makes the budget more equitable.
By structuring the federal budget in accordance with the principles of double-entry bookkeeping, we are making it more transparent
and more generationally appropriate.
We want to gradually restructure our tax system in such a way that environmental pollution and resource consumption are taxed more heavily and
, in return, taxes and duties on labor are reduced, for example, or the revenue is returned as energy money.
Careful use of taxpayers' money
In recent years, money has been wasted on a large scale in the federal budget.
The passenger car toll was a disaster waiting to happen.
The Defense Department has sunk millions into expensive consulting contracts.
Poorly done public-private partnerships have proven lucrative for private companies and expensive for taxpayers.
We will be careful with taxpayers' money.
For us, this and the elimination of superfluous expenditure items take priority over borrowing and revenue increases.
We will create transparency in the future and publish all PPP contracts.
As a matter of principle, we want PPPs to be considered only if they add value or reduce costs for taxpayers in the long term.
In the transport sector, we want to exclude PPP projects by law.
Control of construction projects and large public procurements will be improved.
We reject further privatization of public companies in the area of mandatory public services.
Reform debt brake, introduce investment rule
Germany has sustainable public finances even after the Corona crisis.
Interest rates are historically low, and confidence in German government bonds is high.
But we have a problem for the future.
The earth is heating up,
schools are falling into disrepair
, and Germany is among the EU's laggards when it comes to fast Internet.
We invest too little in our country.
These are debts that are off the books but threaten our prosperity.
We want to make the debt brake in the Basic Law for the federal and state governments up-to-date so that the sustainability of the future interest burden is ensured,
while at the same time enabling the investments that are so urgently needed.
For consumptive spending, the current strict rules remain in place; for investments that create new public assets, we allow limited borrowing equal to the net investment.
In this way, we create public assets that belong to all of us, because the return on public investment is high, while the federal government pays no interest on its loans.
Create more tax justice
Taxes are the basis for financing our community and a central lever for justice.
We want to make it fairer and more transparent for citizens.
In view of the Corona crisis, the situation of public budgets will be very tight in the coming years.
Therefore, any changes in tax law must be at least revenue neutral.
The goal is for everyone to make a fair contribution.
Today, however, the top 10 percent of incomes contribute relatively less than middle incomes through taxes and duties.
We are changing that by increasing the basic personal income tax allowance to ease the burden on small and medium incomes.
In return, we want to raise the top tax rate moderately.
A new bracket with a tax rate of 45 percent will be introduced for incomes above 100,000 euros for single persons and 200,000 euros for couples.
From an income of 250,000 or 500,000 euros, a further bracket follows with a top tax rate of 48 percent.
In addition, high manager salaries above 500,000 euros will no longer be deductible as business expenses.
Capital gains are assessed at the individual tax rate while retaining the savings allowance.
Banks and other financial institutions continue to withhold capital gains tax, which is an advance payment on personal income tax.
For income already taxed at the corporate level, such as dividends, the partial income procedure generally applies again, which partially exempts investment income from tax at the investor level.
In this way, we are noticeably reducing the burden on small investors and moving closer to the ideal of a tax system that is neutral in terms of financing.
We will abolish the tax exemption for capital gains on land and real estate that has so far applied after a ten-year period.
We will also abolish the tax exemption for other capital gains, for example on trading in precious metals, commodities or crypto assets.
We will relieve the burden on lower and middle incomes by, among other things, introducing a basic child allowance and our energy allowance.
If mobile working incurs costs for employees, these must be reimbursed by the employer or be tax-deductible as income-related expenses.
Wealth inequality in Germany has increased sharply and is well above the EU average.
One of the reasons for this is that it is possible for very wealthy people to almost completely avoid taxation on assets, for example in the case of inheritance tax.
We want to dismantle such design options and tax large fortunes more heavily again.
There are various instruments for this, such as inheritance tax or wealth tax.
The introduction of a new wealth tax for the states is our preferred instrument.
The states should use the revenue from this tax to fund their growing educational responsibilities.
The wealth tax should apply to assets above two million euros per person and amount to 1 percent annually.
We will introduce preferential treatment for business assets to the extent permitted by constitutional law and economically necessary.
In doing so, we strive for solutions that create additional incentives for investment and take into account the special role and responsibility of medium-sized and family-owned companies.
We are eliminating unjustified exceptions in the area of sales tax, thereby ensuring greater fairness in the financing of government tasks here as well.
Take consistent action against tax evasion and avoidance
Every year, taxpayers lose billions in tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance.
We want to take action against this with a comprehensive strategy.
The EU-wide notification obligation for tax arrangements must be supplemented by an obligation for purely national arrangements.
We are working at international level for a global alliance against tax evasion.
In addition to the existing tax liability based on residence, a tax liability also based on nationality will be introduced for people with high incomes, similar to the U.S., in order to prevent purely tax-motivated changes of residence.
We will have regular estimates of the tax gap.
The tax administration must be significantly strengthened.
To address enforcement deficiencies in combating tax avoidance by large corporations and wealthy citizens, we are creating a special unit at the federal level.
We will impose tougher penalties for tax evasion, and the evasion of real estate transfer tax through share deals must finally be stopped.
We put an end to cum-ex and cum-cum transactions where they are still possible, and are vigorously pursuing consistent recovery of the losses incurred by the federal states.
Tax corporations appropriately
Through accounting tricks, large corporations shift their profits into tax swamps, from Europe as well as from many poor countries.
As a result, billions are missing from our infrastructure,
and companies are gaining unfair competitive advantages over smaller companies.
That is why we are fighting for an internationally binding set of rules that sets minimum standards for the tax obligations of companies and states, and for the strengthening of the UN Tax Committee.
We want to ambitiously implement the international minimum tax rates for large companies in Germany and Europe.
Europe should not undercut America's minimum tax rates, but should fight transatlantically for higher minimum tax rates.
We also need tough EU rules against the abuse of letterbox companies for tax avoidance.
We are also taking action at home: We want to ensure that corporations have to make their profits, sales and tax payments comprehensively public by country.
In the EU, we are introducing a common corporate tax base and a minimum tax rate of 25 percent in the medium term, with no exceptions.
Google, Facebook and Co. will finally be taxed appropriately with a digital corporation tax.
We will examine an excess profits tax for other sectors.
We prohibit banks and tax consultants from doing business in tax swamps or acting as intermediaries.
We are committed to moving to majority voting in the EU on tax issues as well.
To the extent that European agreements do not succeed, we move forward, in enhanced cooperation or together with individual states.
Nationally, we are taking action against profit shifting with a stricter interest and royalty barrier and with withholding taxes.
Chapter 3: Ensuring solidarity
The pandemic has shown us what makes a society strong - that people hook up and trust each other.
It made us feel how precious togetherness is for our individual happiness, how much we need other people, and how great the danger is when a society drifts apart.
This old and yet again new experience is a mandate to translate solidarity and protection into concrete, better policies.
We want to do everything we can to create the conditions for a good life - from childhood onwards: to guarantee material security, opportunities and participation, and to provide a promise of security for every situation in life that is all the stronger the more support is needed.
Freedom rights remain a privilege of the few if the social conditions for them are not guaranteed for all.
Societies without existential hardship are more resilient to crises, and societies based on solidarity and equality are stronger.
Corona was unsparing in showing us the strengths and weaknesses of our welfare state: how important a robust health care system is for everyone, how central an economic force it is to ensure societal prosperity and thus a welfare state that protects people from homelessness when jobs are lost or the economy slumps.
At the same time, however, the pandemic has exacerbated existing inequalities.
People who are poor get sick more quickly.
Women bear a particular burden in the systemically important professions of caregiving, education, and retail, but they are significantly lower paid and less represented in decision-making processes.
Freelancers and self-employed people, who already take greater risks, fall into existential fear or distress without earnings.
Those raising children or teens alone or apart face even more challenges from childcare, homeschooling and home offices.
The pandemic has thrown us back to our individual circumstances.
When the apartment is cramped, the garden is missing, but the swimming pool is closed, it is three times harder.
Loneliness becomes greater.
Now is the time to learn the right lessons.
The path out of the pandemic must lead to a new social security promise.
Step by step, we want to change social systems so that they provide security and support for all people, even in times of personal and social upheaval, and enable them to participate.
Our libraries and ball fields, sports and music clubs, theaters and youth centers - in short, our public and social places - should become the most beautiful and strongest spaces for togetherness.
Happiness and opportunities must not depend on whether one lives in the north or south, east or west, in the city or in the country; accordingly, equal living conditions are a constitutional principle.
We are doing everything we can to turn this often still unfulfilled aspiration into reality.
People living in rural areas need access to doctors, fast Internet and public services just as much as city dwellers.
And those who live in the city must also be able to find good, affordable housing there.
Housing is the social issue of our time and for many people, many families well into the middle class one of existence.
Our health care system is supposed to guarantee equal health care for all, but there are gaps: health offices have been cut to the bone, hospitals and administration lack staff, and those that are there are working at full capacity.
We want to change the course and make prevention the guiding principle: Clinics should be financed in line with their social mission, and rural areas also need access to obstetrics and emergency care.
In care, we advocate for better working conditions, more staff, safety for people who need care, and for those who care for relatives or friends.
Digitization, global competition and the necessary restructuring of the economy mean major changes for many people, accompanied by the fear of losses.
But fear paralyzes and wears you down.
People also need security in transition.
Risks must be hedged and perspectives must be provided, for example through employment insurance and further training.
Strong collective bargaining partners, strong trade unions and democratic co-determination can also help to jointly overcome the major challenges of the transition to a socio-ecological market economy.
We will show that transformation and digitization towards climate-friendly prosperity create sustainable jobs, with good working conditions and fairly distributed work.
We support children, youth and families
Children at the center
Children must be able to develop freely and to the best of their abilities.
They have a right to special protection, support and participation.
Children are people with their own needs, which must be recognized and strengthened.
We will ensure that the rights and best interests of children are given greater weight and significant consideration in government decision-making.
Therefore, strong children's rights along the basic principles of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child must be included in the Basic Law.
With a National Action Plan for Child and Youth Participation, we want to ensure that all children and young people are informed about their rights and can live participation in an age-appropriate and low-threshold manner, regardless of socio-cultural background and residence status.
Youth work plays an important role here, which is why we want to strengthen youth associations by giving them the right to take legal action against local authorities.
Democracy must not be an abstract concept, but must be experienced and tried out again and again in our own everyday lives.
Future democrats need participation and media skills as well as political education, which we strengthen conceptually and financially as cross-sectional tasks in daycare centers, schools and youth welfare.
We also want to strengthen the independence of the Federal Agency for Civic Education.
In all offers in the social area, in all building and living environment measures that affect children and young people, we will involve them, ensure their well-being and take this into account in the Building Code and the Federal Immission Control Act.
A basic child allowance against child poverty
In a rich country like Germany, no child should grow up in poverty - but especially for single-parent families (single parents), low-income earners with children or families with more than two children, the money is often not enough up front and behind.
Child poverty also means exclusion, discrimination and poorer educational opportunities.
Every child deserves our support, because future opportunities must not depend on social background.
We will therefore develop and implement an overall strategy to prevent and combat child poverty.
In addition to excellent infrastructure, we will strengthen families with simple and fair child and family support: the basic child allowance.
Our plan: Combine child benefit, child allowances, child supplement, social benefit for children, and needs for education and participation into a new, independent benefit.
With the basic child allowance, each child receives a fixed guaranteed amount, and children in families with little or no income also receive a GarantiePlus amount.
The lower the family income, the higher the GarantiePlus amount.
After a one-time application at birth, the amount of the basic child allowance is automatically calculated by the family insurance fund, which then pays it out.
In this way, the basic child benefit is guaranteed to reach every child and step by step we end child poverty.
It is fair because children who need more get more.
We combine the basic child allowance with a reassessment of what children need to live.
Child and youth services for all children
Whether daycare centers, after-school care, family counseling, educational assistance or youth work - public and private child and youth welfare organizations support families as their children grow up.
Social workers and pedagogical staff work under enormous time and work pressure.
We want to ensure that youth welfare offices are better equipped and that the workload of professionals is reduced by means of statutory requirements for personnel planning.
We want to establish binding quality standards everywhere in child and youth welfare and develop them further together with associations, providers and academia.
Benefit entitlements of children and adolescents with physical and mental disabilities have so far been regulated in a separate Social Code for Persons with Disabilities.
A Federal Inclusion Act is intended to ensure that all child and youth welfare services are in future designed in such a way that they are also aimed at children and young people with disabilities and their families.
The existing legal rights continue to apply to them.
We want to make more rapid progress on the path we have taken toward an inclusive SGB VIII.
For this reason, we will support the states and municipalities that want to bring all children under the umbrella of youth services with a federal model program even before the implementation of the Federal Inclusion Act.
In this way, valuable suggestions can be gained for the nationwide restructuring process.
We want to abolish the cost contribution of young people in a fully inpatient facility or foster family.
Self-efficacy and co-determination - strengthening youth as an independent phase of life
Adolescents and young adults must be able to develop freely and in a self-determined manner.
Responsible, self-confident and mature young people should have a say in all matters that affect them and have safe places of learning and free spaces that they themselves help to shape.
We want to strengthen low-threshold participation bodies such as children's and youth parliaments, especially at the municipal level, so that young people can also effectively contribute or demand their ideas and rights.
We become youth work,
Youth association work
and democracy education.
Together with the federal states and local authorities, we will ensure open child and youth work, youth social work, early support and all forms of educational assistance,
and sustainably promote spaces for young people.
In times of globalization, politics with and for young people needs an international orientation.
That is why we are strengthening international encounters and exchange programs.
Participation and protection in the digital world
Many children and young people are growing up with tablets, smartphones and the like - we must ensure that they grow up self-determined, safe and healthy in the digital world.
We strengthen digital education as a joint task of parents, educational institutions, and youth welfare services with training for professionals and support services for parents.
Everyone should be able to acquire digital skills, and this is only possible with the appropriate hardware and Internet connection: children living in poverty receive a digital device for school if they need it.
We also want to address the addiction potential and health risks of excessive use of digital applications.
Children and young people need special protection online against crimes such as hate speech, cybergrooming or sexualized violence.
We want to put a stop to bullying on the Internet.
To this end, we are focusing on a prevention strategy with mandatory secure default settings for platforms and age-appropriate and easy-to-find information and complaint options.
The Federal Agency for the Protection of Children and Young People in the Media is to be strengthened in its competencies.
We will protect children from commercial collection of their data by private providers.
Protect children from violence
For many children and adolescents, psychological, physical, sexualized violence and neglect are a painful part of everyday life.
We are taking tough action against this - with strong prevention, consistent processing and prosecution, and further measures for quality assurance and child protection in family court proceedings.
The primary goal is to prevent acts.
This requires education, training, age-appropriate prevention programs and active protection concepts, as well as the cooperation of all actors wherever children and adolescents are present and cared for.
Basic knowledge about children's rights, in particular participation, awareness and protection in cases of child endangerment and sexualized violence, belong in the curricula for law, medicine, pedagogy and police.
The obligation to provide further training for family court judges and the requirements for the qualifications of guardians ad litem must be clearly regulated by law.
All civil society and political levels and forces must make the fight against sexualized violence against children a central issue.
Organizations that care for children have a special responsibility in this regard.
We will put the important work of the Independent Commissioner for Child Sexual Abuse on a legal footing and thus secure it permanently, while also adequately anchoring the responsibilities of the Independent Commission for Coming to Terms with Child Sexual Abuse.
We will systematically expand specialized counseling centers nationwide and provide financial security for telephone and online counseling services.
More time for families
To have the head free for the family and the children, even when they are sick, that is our goal.
Reconciling family and career is a responsibility for society as a whole, which we are tackling together with business and public institutions.
All parents should be able to take parental leave without complications.
With KinderZeit Plus, we want to extend parental benefits to 24 months: Eight months for each parent, and a further eight months can be flexibly divided between them.
If KinderZeit Plus is taken up part-time, this extends the reference period accordingly.
It can be taken until the child's 14th birthday, because even older children may need more attention at times.
The needs of families of children with disabilities should receive additional consideration.
We support parents in balancing family and work with a new working time culture and a flexible full-time corridor, sharing family and household work as partners, and avoiding part-time traps.
No one should have to choose between a child and a job, training or studies, which is why the entitlement to a child sickness benefit is to increase to 15 days a year per child and parent, and single parents will receive 30 days.
Because many infections are carried during the first years of life in particular, there should be an additional increased entitlement to children's sick pay during this period.
Here, too, we want to raise the age limit to 14 years, and a medical certificate will only be mandatory from the fourth day of the child's illness.
For the special period immediately after the birth, we want to establish a 14-day leave of absence for the second parent in addition to maternity leave.
Maternity protection should also be possible after a stillbirth from the 20th week of pregnancy.
Strengthening the back of single parents
Single-parent families (single parents) accomplish an enormous amount and yet more than one-third are at risk of poverty.
With the basic child allowance, we are helping in several ways: When the minimum needs of children and young people are recalculated, the minimum subsistence allowance also increases.
And unlike today's child benefit, only half of it is to be counted toward the maintenance advance.
After a separation, there should be no additional crunch in care for separated parents, which is why additional costs for exercising contact and care services are taken into account appropriately.
We want to introduce an additional need for contact for separated parents who are receiving basic social security benefits.
The care model should be found on a case-by-case basis according to the best interests of the child and not defined schematically.
Whether it's an important evening appointment at work, a consultation or a doctor's appointment - children can't and shouldn't always be there.
Family-supporting services must be promoted, for example for supplementary childcare or household-related services.
This is especially important in case of illness, because children and household still need to be taken care of.
Coverage for all family forms
Whether single parents, patchwork families, step families or rainbow families - families are diverse and modern family law must reflect this diversity.
This also includes modern and liberal naming rights.
Social parents often take responsibility within the family and are important companions.
Legally, however, even after years they are outsiders for their child: In kindergarten, at school or with doctors, they are not supposed to make decisions for their children.
With the further development of the "small right of custody" into a legal institution of parental co-responsibility, which, even before conception, can be transferred to up to two other adults in addition to the natural parents upon application to the Youth Welfare Office, we give all parties involved more security and strengthen multi-parent families and social parenthood.
Two-mother families should no longer have to go through the stepchild adoption procedure, which is why we are striving to reform the law of parentage so that the co-mother is automatically considered the second legal parent, analogous to fathers in marriages between a man and a woman.
The law of parentage must also take into account the parenthood of people with "diverse" gender.
If they wish to have children, all couples and single women should have the option of reimbursement for artificial insemination.
All children need a clear legal status; the personal right to know one's own parentage must be preserved for all children.
Responsibility is not only assumed for each other where there are children.
With the Pact for Cohabitation, we will create a new legal form that legally safeguards the cohabitation of two people who take responsibility for each other, regardless of marriage.
We ensure good work and fair wages
Raise minimum wage
Work must be paid fairly.
And people need good working conditions.
But in our rich country, millions of people still work in the low-wage sector with poor wages and in insecure employment.
Women and people with a migration history are particularly often affected.
We want to change that.
We will immediately raise the statutory minimum wage to 12 euros.
Subsequently, the minimum wage must continue to rise in order to provide effective protection against poverty and at least match the development of collectively agreed wages.
We want to reform the Minimum Wage Commission and give it this mandate.
We will abolish the existing exemptions for under-18s and the long-term unemployed.
Temporary workers should receive the same pay for the same work as permanent employees from day one - plus a flexibility bonus.
Fairly paid entrepreneurs must not be put at a competitive disadvantage.
In times of Corona, it is particularly evident that short-time benefits are too low for workers with small wages.
This is why a sector-independent minimum short-time working allowance is needed.
Employment contracts may no longer be limited in time without an objective reason.
We are taking regulatory action against the widespread abuse of work contracts and the shifting of corporate responsibility by means of subcontractor chains.
We want to strengthen occupational health and safety so that it effectively protects against stress, burnout and the dissolution of work boundaries.
We take bullying and discrimination in the workplace seriously and want to provide better protection against it through clear sanctions and mandatory contact points.
Create full employment
We want to enable everyone to participate in working life, because a good job is an important source of income, recognition and self-fulfillment.
To do this, we need to create good and secure jobs.
We want to further increase employment and thus also prevent Corona from leaving long-term traces on the labor market.
With permanently higher public investments, more start-up spirit and research as well as innovation, we want to create an environment for many new jobs.
The German labor market has been divided in recent years: Skilled labor shortages and significant wage increases for highly qualified workers in some sectors, precarious employment, involuntary part-time work and stagnating real wages in others.
We want to counter this with a socially just labor policy.
In this way, we ensure good wages and dry up the low-wage sector in the medium term.
The self-employed need good framework conditions and better social security.
We want to combat structural causes of long-term unemployment.
For people who have been unemployed for a long time, we create a permanent social labor market that provides meaningful activities.
Strengthening social partnership, increasing collective bargaining coverage
Social partnership, collective agreements and co-determination are cornerstones of the social market economy.
They have made our country strong.
Where they apply, they usually ensure decent wages and good working conditions.
We want collective agreements and strong co-determination to once again apply to more employees and companies instead of fewer and fewer.
In accordance with European law, companies that are bound by collective agreements or pay at least collectively agreed wages should be given preference in public procurement.
To this end, we are relying on a federal tariff loyalty law.
We also want to make it easier to declare collective agreements generally binding so that they apply to everyone in an industry.
Tariff evasion must not be profitable for companies.
We want to oblige companies to publish whether they are parties to collective bargaining agreements.
In the event of restructuring, the previous collective bargaining provisions are to apply until a new collective bargaining agreement has been concluded.
In the future, companies with more than 1,000 employees will be subject to co-determination on a parity basis, and we want to introduce an arbitration procedure if decisions have a particularly strong impact on employees.
Works councils that stand up for employees also need more protection themselves.
The same applies to employees who wish to establish a works council for the first time.
We want to expand and modernize the co-determination rights of works councils, staff councils and also youth and trainee representatives, including when it comes to personnel development, further training, relocations abroad, empowering women, promoting diversity or improving the company's carbon footprint.
Greater employee financial participation in companies, in addition to wages and salaries, can bring about more co-creation.
The changes in the world of work brought about by digitization and ecological transformation must be shaped together with the employees in the company.
Work more self-determined, use digital opportunities
We want to support employees in better adapting their work to their family and private lives.
For us, a modern working world also means more say in the place, location and scope of work.
During the Corona Crisis, working from home became a widespread experience, associated for many with greater independence and less stress when, for example, the long commute was eliminated.
For others, however, it can also be a real test of endurance - when there is a lack of workrooms, work safety and colleagues at home, or when work becomes unmanageable.
We therefore want to preserve and strengthen the possibility of self-determination in working life by introducing a right to mobile working - with a view to operational possibilities, but also provided with strict protection criteria and strong influence of the interest representations.
Mobile working can take place in a home office or in a nearby co-working space; the switch there must always be voluntary and associated with a right to return and sufficient time at a workstation in the company.
More freedom in working hours
Whether in the office, in care or on assembly - for many people, the physical or psychological pressure of work has grown.
At the same time, having time - for yourself or your family - is an increasingly important value for many people.
We welcome shorter working hours, such as those proposed by IG Metall as a contribution to managing structural change in the automotive industry, because they offer the opportunity to distribute work more fairly, secure jobs and relieve employees.
We want to support employees in industries where stress levels are particularly high with better working conditions.
In addition, the opportunities for all employees to determine their own working hours more flexibly - precisely in order to facilitate the reconciliation of family and career and to have time for themselves - should be improved.
To this end, we want to transform rigid full-time working, for example with the help of a flexible working time corridor, and in particular support the social partners in enabling flexible working time models for the benefit of employees.
We reject attempts to weaken the Working Hours Act to the detriment of employees.
Working time is to be documented in the future, as decided by the European Court of Justice in a ruling.
We advocate better monitoring of existing regulations in order to strengthen employees whose actual working hours regularly exceed 40 hours.
Employment insurance strengthens opportunities
We want to gear labor market policy to the future and transform unemployment insurance into employment insurance.
Central to this are a legal right to continuing education and the strengthening of professional qualifications.
In a world in which frequent career changes are the norm for many and people no longer automatically work in the same company for 40 years, all people need points of contact and support in order to shape their professional lives in a self-determined way.
Wherever there is an employment agency, education agencies are to become central points of contact and support people in their reorientation; further training advice and support are thus to be simplified.
We want to expand the promotion of lifelong learning for people with disabilities.
We will significantly simplify access to employment insurance and introduce an entitlement to unemployment benefits from as little as four months of employment subject to social insurance contributions.
Self-employment also needs better social protection.
To this end, we simplify access to voluntary unemployment insurance and create an access option for all self-employed persons, also via a choice between two tariffs.
In addition to entitlement to unemployment benefit I, the self-employed are thus also to be entitled to short-time allowance in special emergency situations, such as during a pandemic.
We want to provide better support for start-ups from phases of unemployment and build a bridge into the labor market for young people who have been set back by the crisis with an entry subsidy.
Better protection for work placed online
From handyman services to software development to cleaning - more and more services are being brokered via online platforms (gig working) or even take place in the cloud regardless of location (crowd working).
The digitization of activities and the digital mediation of work harbor many new opportunities.
But labor law and occupational health and safety must be adapted to the online world so that it does not give rise to new forms of exploitation and dependencies.
We want to regulate work done or arranged online to give people working there the same protections as those working analog.
We want to prevent bogus self-employment by ensuring greater legal and planning certainty in the demarcation between self-employment and dependent employment.
If the contractor claims to have employee status, the client will have to prove that this is not the case.
Unfair price dumping must be prevented by a minimum fee for time-based services.
Employee-like persons and solo self-employed persons should be able to organize themselves more easily under collective agreements in future
and sector-specific, further binding fee floors can be agreed, which can also be declared generally binding.
Platform operators have a responsibility for their contractors.
We want to ensure fair play in the platform economy and in the digital world of work as a whole, with clear minimum standards for labor and data protection and general terms and conditions, strong employee data protection, and digital access rights for trade unions.
Fair working conditions for employees from neighboring European countries
Being able to work in any neighboring European country is one of the great achievements of our united Europe.
What brought a lot of freedom in highly skilled professions led to exploitative work realities in some service sectors.
Abuses in German slaughterhouses have highlighted this.
But exploitative conditions often prevail elsewhere as well, for example in construction or nursing.
We want all employees - regardless of how long they have been working here - to be just as well paid and secure as their German colleagues.
This requires effective action against undeclared work and bogus self-employment, the right of trade unions to take legal action, a European social security number, higher minimum standards for accommodation for posted workers, the abolition of short-term employment exempt from social security contributions, better regulation of placement agencies and more control by a strengthened European Labor Authority.
Workers from other EU countries must be better informed about their rights,
and we advocate at the European level for better social security for EU citizens seeking work.
We create justice between the sexes
Equal pay for work of equal value
Equal pay for work of equal value is still a long way from being a matter of course.
On average, women earn only about half as much as men throughout their working lives, especially when they are caring for children or those in need of care, and this is also reflected in their inadequate retirement security.
That is why we are campaigning at European level for an ambitious EU directive on equal pay and will introduce an effective equal pay law at national level that also applies to small companies and obliges companies to report on their own initiative on the pay of women and men and on their measures to close their own pay gap.
This law must also include an effective right of action for associations so that, in the event of structural discrimination, associations can also take legal action and those affected are not left to fend for themselves.
Paycheck procedures can uncover discrimination.
Therefore, we will require collective bargaining partners and companies to review all pay structures for discrimination and make anonymized ranges of pay and fee structures available to employees.
We are committed to ensuring that professions that are primarily performed by women are valued more highly than before, particularly in the form of better working conditions and better pay.
Reconciling family and career must be made easier for everyone.
Strengthening the economic independence of women
In order to be able to live self-determined, economic independence is indispensable.
Therefore, stones that hinder this must be removed.
Women still do most of the care work that is systemically relevant to our society.
We want to ensure independent coverage in all phases of life - from career choice to retirement.
We want to convert mini-jobs, with exceptions for students, pupils and pensioners, into employment subject to social insurance contributions and create regulations for household-related services.
We want to expand the career choice behavior that is restricted by narrow role expectations by providing gender-sensitive career counseling.
We want to break down the glass ceiling that prevents women from advancing.
This can be achieved through a smart time policy that also makes it easier for partners to take on responsibility in the family and to share work in a gender-equitable way.
We want care in the family to be shared and equal, and see this as a prerequisite for equal opportunities and gender equality.
This requires that fathers in particular take on equal responsibility and care work in the family.
Single parents must not be disadvantaged compared to couples.
We want to strengthen those affected by discrimination in the labor market, among other things with a right of action for associations, the expansion of appropriate legal counseling and a genuine right to return to full-time work, which also applies to smaller companies.
To ensure that parents are not disadvantaged in the world of work due to the fact that they have children, we will take necessary measures including necessary legislative changes.
Equality also in taxation
German tax law is still stuck in the last century.
While many couples share family work and gainful employment more equally than was the case years ago, the model of a male breadwinner and a woman who, at most, earns extra money and mainly takes care of the household and children still applies to taxes.
This model is unfair because it privileges marriages, leaves out single-parent families (single parents) and unmarried couples, inhibits women's employment, and at the same time does not really protect women.
In crises, women in particular feel the disadvantages, for example through lower short-time working or unemployment benefits.
In combination with mini-jobs and free coinsurance, these measures have a negative impact on women's employment.
That is why we want to introduce individual taxation with a transferable basic allowance for newly married couples.
In the case of income tax, the second earner, who is currently overly burdened, is to be relieved by making the factor method the rule and abolishing tax class 5 for additional earners.
In this way, we ensure that equal life plans are no longer disadvantaged.
Couples who are already married can decide whether they want to be assessed individually or continue to use the spousal splitting system.
At the same time, we are strengthening families with the basic child allowance.
We relieve the burden on single parents, who are most affected by poverty today, with a tax credit.
We secure the social networks
Guaranteed security instead of Hartz IV
Every person has the right to social participation, to a dignified life without existential fear.
That is why we want to overcome Hartz IV and replace it with a guarantee system.
It protects against poverty and guarantees the socio-cultural subsistence minimum without sanctions.
It thus strengthens people in times of change and, in the face of major changes in the world of work, can provide security and open up opportunities and prospects for a self-determined life.
The green guarantee security is a basic security, which does not stigmatize and which is granted simply and at eye level.
We will recalculate the socio-cultural subsistence minimum and put an end to the current reduction tricks.
As a first step, we will raise the standard rate by at least 50 euros and thus noticeably.
We want to gradually individualize the benefits of the guarantee.
We will make the imputation of income much more attractive so that additional gainful employment always leads to a noticeably higher income.
Young people in families receiving benefits should be allowed to earn money without imputation.
In the future, assets will be checked more unbureaucratically and with the help of a simple self-disclosure.
The protected assets will be increased.
We are striving to gradually simplify social security further by merging the social benefits that secure people's livelihoods and integrating their payment into the tax system.
We welcome and support model projects to explore the impact of an unconditional basic income.
By abolishing bureaucratic and degrading sanctions, the guarantee creates space and time in the job centers for real job placement and support.
We need a change of perspective in employment promotion with sufficient staff to cope with the diversity of the long-term unemployed.
What is needed is intensive support, individual assistance and, instead of giving priority to placement in precarious work, we want priority to be given to training and qualification.
Social participation through a permanent social and inclusive labor market that is low-threshold and needs-based and from which the long-term unemployed also benefit in many ways thanks to good support is particularly important.
Self-determination and equal participation for people with disabilities
People with disabilities have the right to equal participation and protection from discrimination in all areas of society.
On the basis of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the principle of self-determination, we will drive inclusion forward and want to accompany its binding implementation with an Enquete Commission.
Participation benefits must be provided at every stage of general, vocational and higher education.
We want to create an inclusive labor market and provide better support for employers who employ people with disabilities.
We will strengthen and secure the structures for self-representation.
Employers who do not employ enough severely disabled people, on the other hand, will pay a higher compensatory levy, which we will invest in promoting inclusive employment.
We want to develop today's system of workshops into a system of inclusive enterprises in which people with disabilities are enabled to obtain employment subject to social insurance contributions at least at the minimum wage level by taking advantage of needs-based compensation for disadvantages.
We will ensure workers' rights and promote the transition to the general labor market.
We want to include the day support centers in this process.
We will expand the budget for work and ensure that people who use it are covered by unemployment insurance.
Trainees and students with disabilities receive a budget to cover their needs during stays abroad that is equivalent to the benefits they receive at home.
Our goal is to further develop the Federal Participation Act and to guarantee participation - no pooling of benefits against the will of those affected, genuine rights of choice, benefits independent of the income and assets of those entitled to benefits, and a federal participation allowance.
Applications for participation benefits should be simple and unbureaucratic
and decisions are made quickly in the interests of people with disabilities.
Common minimum social standards in the EU
We advocate a European Union that guarantees social security and minimum standards throughout the EU.
Social rights must be given the same status as the economic freedoms of the internal market.
Common European labor and social standards are essential for this.
We advocate a European Basic Income Directive that sets minimum social standards for each country, adapted to the respective economic situation.
Country-specific minimum wages are to ensure that people can live from their work everywhere in the EU.
We want to continue the European short-time working program introduced during the Corona crisis.
To stabilize the situation in the event of crises, we advocate the introduction of a European unemployment reinsurance scheme.
We want to strengthen European works councils and further safeguard co-determination in cross-border companies by strengthening information rights and tightening sanctions.
Our long-term goal is for the social rights enshrined in the European Charter of Fundamental Rights to be enforceable as fundamental rights against the member states before the European Court of Justice.
A reliable old-age provision for all
Securing the pension level at at least 48 percent in the long term is a high priority for us.
If the decline continues, more and more people would be dependent on basic pensions and the acceptance of the statutory pension would be jeopardized.
In order to secure the pension level, we want to increase women's employment, among other things through a right to return to full-time work, create a genuine immigration law and improve the employment situation of older workers.
To limit the burden on insured persons and employers, tax subsidies are to be increased if necessary.
Precarious employment must be overcome, because only poverty-proof wages also lead to an adequate pension.
We want to gradually develop the statutory pension insurance system into a citizens' insurance scheme that includes everyone in the long term, so that everyone is well covered.
As a first step toward citizens' insurance, we will ensure that self-employed persons without mandatory coverage, for example in professional pension funds, and members of parliament are included in the statutory pension insurance.
Existing private pension plans and age limits are taken into account.
To prevent poverty in old age, we will repair the basic pension and develop it into a genuine guaranteed pension that includes significantly more people than before and makes them financially better off.
We will also introduce a minimum contribution base financed by employers, which will provide full-time low-wage workers with an adequate pension in old age if they have been employed for many years.
In principle, we are sticking to the retirement age of 67.
But we want to make it easier for people to decide for themselves when they want to retire, even beyond the standard retirement age.
A citizens' fund for the pension
A funded pension can be a useful supplement to the pay-as-you-go system.
However, the Riester pension has turned out to be a complete failure and the Rürup pension has serious weaknesses.
The products are expensive and opaque, and some have lower returns than grandma's piggy bank.
They are often only profitable for the insurance industry or thanks to public funding.
Therefore, by far not all of them have made use of it.
We want to replace the Riester and Rürup pensions with a publicly administered citizens' fund.
We will reform public subsidies for private pension provision and focus them on low and medium incomes.
For people with an existing Riester contract, there is grandfathering, if they wish.
The fund can provide long-term oriented equity for the economy.
Everyone who does not actively object pays into the citizens' fund.
This creates a volume that keeps administrative costs low, spreads risks broadly and does away with expensive guarantees.
The Citizens' Fund is managed in a publicly and politically independent manner and
invests based on ESG sustainability criteria.
It invests for the long term, helping to overcome the short-term orientation of the markets.
Thus, it offers the potential of a good return on investment.
In the future, employers should be able to offer a company pension plan, make their own financial contribution and use the citizens' fund as a standard for this purpose.
To make it easier for small companies to offer a company pension plan, we want to introduce the pure contribution guarantee for small companies, relieve them of liability, and thus ensure better dissemination of company pension plans.
In addition, we want to ensure that the self-employed have comparable opportunities to receive an appropriate pension as employees.
We give health and care a new value
Precaution as a guiding principle
We want to ensure access to good health care from childhood to old age - but good health policy encompasses more.
Those who work in precarious conditions in the meat industry, live in a moldy apartment or on a busy street, or live in poverty on Hartz IV benefits have difficulty protecting their health, are more likely to fall ill, and often have poorer access to health care.
A healthy society requires policies that take precautions, fight the causes of disease, promote prevention research and act with foresight.
In the future, instead of just reacting to the next crisis, common health goals and an expansion of health reporting will focus on causes of disease and the state of health care.
We want to pursue prevention, health promotion and health care as a cross-cutting task in all policy areas.
Be prepared for pandemics
The Corona crisis demonstrated that our health care system must be better prepared for future pandemics.
That's why we're kicking off a comprehensive analysis of pandemic management.
Now, at the latest, is the time to initiate long overdue change, for example, to reform hospital and emergency care and to vigorously promote digitization, especially in the health offices.
In order to combat pandemics effectively and comprehensibly in the future, stages for the containment of pandemics are to be defined in the Infection Protection Act, pandemic protection plans are to be updated, and an independent and interdisciplinary pandemic council is to be established.
Measures taken must be evidence-based and proportionate.
A clear communication strategy is to be used to make the data basis, reasons for decisions and decision paths transparent to citizens.
We invest in health research, for example in medicines, vaccines or the development of new testing methods.
Where there are insufficient incentives for therapy development, such as with antibiotics or antiviral drugs, we create alternative incentive systems.
The production of medicines and medical products is also to be driven forward - in European cooperation - and the supply, for example of respiratory masks, is to be ensured by the company's own production sites.
We will continue to strengthen university medicine in view of its important role in combating the pandemic - from cutting-edge research to networking in data and digitization to telemedicine care in rural areas.
More joint strategy and coordination is needed at the European level, for example through joint planning and use of emergency medical capacities or through a European early warning system and the joint collection and use of relevant data.
We are therefore committed to the swift establishment of HERA, an EU authority that will better coordinate government and private-sector activities in the future.
We want to strengthen the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control and advocate closer cooperation with national health authorities.
Strengthen health offices
It is not only in the Corona pandemic that it becomes visible that we as a society need to make greater efforts to strengthen public health and enable people to live well.
Whether it's mobile dentists visiting schools or vaccination campaigns in nursing homes, the public health service needs to be strengthened if health promotion is to reach people in an uncomplicated way.
Our goal is to work together to build a strong public health pillar through the interplay between state and local health departments, university and college public health structures, and a newly created Federal Institute of Health.
The Institute is to develop common, long-term health goals, report on the functioning of the health care system, ensure the quality and coordination of health care services, and contribute to the improvement of health care as a central public health body by combining existing federal structures.
To date, public health departments have been chronically underfunded and understaffed, and staffing and technical resources must be permanently improved.
We therefore want the federal and state governments to work together to ensure that funding for the Public Health Service is gradually increased to at least 1 percent of health spending so that it can perform its health protection and health promotion tasks on a permanent basis.
We want to involve the health services more closely in health promotion and prevention in local living environments.
Employees in the public health service, in particular public health officers, must be paid comparably to other employment relationships in the health service.
Nursing expertise should also be more involved - as so-called community health nurses or in school health care.
Good health care in urban and rural areas
Health is a service of general interest.
We want people across the country to receive good, reliable care.
Many practicing physicians, midwives, health care providers and other medical professionals work hard every day to make this care possible.
But if in some places the way to the midwife is hardly manageable, the children's wards have to turn away patients or GP practices in the countryside have to close because there is no successor, this endangers health care.
We want to further strengthen primary care by family physicians and other health care professionals.
In order to ensure the provision of care in urban and rural areas, we want outpatient and inpatient services to be planned on an overarching basis in the future and, for example, regional care associations with close links to the municipalities to be promoted.
In the future, there will be a joint billing system for outpatient and inpatient services.
We are also abolishing the strict separation of the EBM and GOÄ outpatient fee schedules.
The standard dental care in the SHI system must also be regularly adapted to the current state of science.
At the same time, we want to strengthen interdisciplinary cooperation between the health care professions.
Because care must be thought of from the patient's perspective.
To this end, we want to support in particular the establishment of public welfare-oriented regional health centers in which all health care professions work together on an equal footing under joint sponsorship.
We will reform the distribution of tasks in the health care system so that non-physician health care and nursing professions can take on more activities and prescribe aids and care-related products on their own responsibility.
We want direct access for therapists with proven qualifications.
The working conditions in and the remuneration of therapy professions urgently need to be adapted to their important role in the health care system, and
tuition fees for these training programs must be abolished.
Training in the therapy professions must be available in regular degree programs.
Finance hospitals according to social mission
In hospitals, everyone should receive the care they need.
However, the wrong political course has been set and the resulting economic pressure has led to misguided incentives at the expense of patient welfare and cost savings at the expense of staff.
More binding state hospital planning is needed that defines public care interests in primary, specialty and maximum care.
The federal government should have the option of defining common nationwide principles for hospital planning for this purpose.
What services are available locally should not depend on what is profitable or what providers can still afford, but on what is needed.
In this context, the provision of comprehensive, accessible basic services to the population has its own priority.
The common good orientation in the health care system is to be strengthened and the trend toward privatization reversed.
The focus on high-yield offerings must come to an end.
In the future, hospitals should therefore be financed not only according to the number of cases, but also according to their social mission.
This requires a new financing system that includes a strong pillar of structural financing so that decisions are made based on what is best for patients and employees - and low-bureaucracy cost control does not run counter to this.
Specifications for staffing levels, treatment and care quality ensure high-quality care that meets the needs of the patient.
We want to close the gap in state investment financing that has been growing for years by means of joint financing by the federal and state governments.
Organ donation saves lives.
We want to further improve the structures in the organization and quality of organ donation in the clinics and the transplant registry.
Reform emergency care
How well a healthcare system functions often only becomes apparent in an emergency - and then it often becomes serious.
In order for emergency care in Germany to function better, a number of things need to change.
This starts with the ambulance service, which can now provide more comprehensive medical treatment to people in need and therefore needs to be regulated by law, just like the rest of healthcare.
The emergency call centers of the numbers 112 and 116117 must be merged organizationally so that in case of doubt it does not matter where people call, but they always get the appropriate help after a standardized emergency call query.
That's why we want to combine these emergency call centers into health control centers that provide a reliable pilot function around the clock.
At central hospital locations, emergency centers are to seamlessly dovetail the previously separate outpatient and inpatient care options for emergency care.
At night and at weekends in particular, these should be supported by staff so that patients in less serious situations can also receive good outpatient care.
Through separate budgets for emergency and intensive care medicine as well as uniform levels and specifications for emergency care, we want to ensure that people in need, in the city and in the country, always find the help they expect, reliably.
Improve care for the mentally ill
Strong prevention and appropriate care - we want to set the course for both, because mental health is the foundation for quality of life, social participation and physical health and more than just the absence of mental illness.
It is unacceptable that many people in a mental health crisis have to wait months for therapeutic help.
Those who have a mental illness need fast and easily accessible help so that their suffering does not worsen.
Stigmatization, for example in the workplace, must be prevented.
Comprehensive and needs-based care with outpatient and inpatient therapy, support and counseling services, for example for suicide prevention or addiction, is key.
We want to create outpatient psychotherapy places by increasing the number of licensed psychotherapists.
Community-based and person-centered care and improved cross-sector collaboration are needed.
The specifics of care for children and youth, LGBTIQ*, refugees and traumatized people, and women affected by violence must also be taken into account.
Treatments under duress must be reduced to an unavoidable minimum.
This requires systematic documentation and consistent patient orientation of the therapeutic offer.
Offers of help between outpatient and inpatient treatment must become more flexible and the various professional groups must be able to provide coordinated treatment as part of a team.
The inadequate reform of psychotherapy training must be improved, among other things so that future psychotherapists can finally be trained under good conditions.
Improve obstetric care, strengthen women's health
Good obstetric care focuses on the well-being of birth mothers and children.
In order to create the necessary cultural change, midwives and other actors should develop quality standards at an obstetrics summit, oriented to the health goal of "health around birth".
In addition to 1:1 care, these include freedom of choice of birth location, ensuring care close to home, raising awareness of violence in obstetrics, and establishing a care sheet before, during, and after birth.
In order to ensure security of care and strengthen the midwifery profession, it is also necessary to reform liability for health care professionals, to include the on-call flat rate in the catalog of health insurance benefits, to make it easier for trained midwives to obtain an academic title at a later date, and to expand midwife-led delivery rooms and birth centers.
There must be no financial disincentives for a medically unnecessary cesarean section.
We want to make the health care system gender equitable.
Gender-specific aspects in research and education and in medical practice are not sufficiently taken into account, for example in drug research.
This endangers the health of women as well as trans* and inter* people.
Research on gender-specific medicine and nursing, as well as women's health, must be ensured, implemented in medical and nursing practice, and embedded in training.
This must be accompanied by more targeted investment in research and further development of contraceptives for all genders.
With the help of a parity quota for women in management positions in the healthcare sector and through better working conditions, we are bringing more women into the management bodies of our healthcare system.
Ensure access to the health care system, end discrimination
We also want to combat discrimination in the healthcare sector.
For example, people with disabilities often do not receive all the health services, assistive devices, or home care they urgently need, limiting their participation.
That is why we want to comprehensively remove these hurdles with an interdepartmental inclusion plan,
target health services to the respective needs
and reduce bureaucratic processes as much as possible.
This also includes mandatory requirements for accessibility in demand planning and a reform of the provision of therapeutic products.
The healthcare system as a whole must be designed to be inclusive, including in the education and training of staff.
Non-discriminatory health care must also be ensured for LGBTIQ*.
To this end, we will anchor the right to medical measures for trans* and inter* people in law.
We will close the existing loopholes in the ban on so-called "conversion therapies."
We want to give greater consideration to educating doctors about HIV and current treatment and prevention options in training and continuing education in order to prevent stigmatization.
Access to health care must also be guaranteed for people without health insurance coverage or homeless people and regardless of their residence status.
This also applies to EU citizens and people living in Germany without papers, for example through an anonymous health insurance certificate, the abolition of notification and information obligations at public offices, or the strengthening of counseling networks for people without papers.
To ensure that language is not an insurmountable hurdle, we want to create an entitlement to qualified language mediation in SGB V.
We want to revoke the facilitated deportation of sick and traumatized refugees and make it possible again to recognize psychotherapeutic reports in the proceedings.
On the way to citizens' insurance for health and care
People with statutory health insurance wait longer for appointments with specialists, and many people with private health insurance can no longer afford the high premiums.
This two-tier medicine benefits a few, to the detriment of many.
Our goal is a solidarity-based citizens' insurance system in which everyone receives the care he or she needs, regardless of income.
We want to set the course for this in the next election period.
With citizens' insurance, we want to include everyone in the financing of a high-performance insurance system and thus ensure stable and solidarity-based burden sharing, even against the backdrop of future cost increases in the health care system.
Civil servants, self-employed persons, entrepreneurs and members of parliament also participate with income-related contributions, without fictitious minimum incomes.
Contributions are to be levied on all types of income, for example, on capital income in addition to wages and salaries.
We are improving care for people with statutory health insurance - for example, in the reimbursement of eyeglasses.
We also want to put an end to the discrimination against civil servants with statutory insurance by introducing a tariff that is eligible for subsidies and to provide better coverage for privately insured persons who can only afford the basic tariff.
We want to make it easier for people with statutory health insurance who owe contributions to return to full
health insurance coverage, and we want to improve health insurance coverage for low-income self-employed workers so that they are not financially overburdened by excessively high contributions.
Strengthen patients' rights
For us, the needs of patients and those in need of care and the benefits for them are the focus.
We want them to move from being bystanders to participants in our health care system.
To this end, we want to expand the opportunities for patient and policyholder representation in healthcare bodies, in particular by having our own impartial member on the Federal Joint Committee, greater participation and information rights and a reform of social elections.
Patients should be able to make decisions on a self-determined and informed basis and, in the event of problems, to assert their rights effectively and promptly, for example vis-à-vis their health insurer.
We want more quality transparency in the health care system
and advocate the establishment of a foundation supported by patient and self-help organizations that will give the Independent Patient Counseling Service a reliable and non-profit new home.
We want to advance patient safety.
Victims of medical errors must be compensated more easily and structures to prevent errors must be introduced across the board.
Digitization improves healthcare
We want to take advantage of the opportunities offered by digitization - whether robotics to assist in care, telemedicine or electronic patient records - to make the healthcare system fit for the future.
Patients will be able to securely access their digital vaccination certificate, health information such as their own blood group, medical history or the latest blood values via an app.
To coordinate all these projects, we want to develop a strategy for digitization with all users of the healthcare system.
For it to be of real benefit to patients, the electronic patient record must be further developed and made easily accessible and understandable for all patients;
an information campaign should also reach patients regardless of their social situation or digital health literacy.
Among other things, patient organizations should be more closely involved in this process.
Health data should be made available to science anonymized and, where necessary, pseudonymized in order to improve health care in Germany.
The data is not passed on against the patient's will.
Medical confidentiality and patient secrecy must be maintained at all times, even for digitized health data.
Your own health data must be accessible and secure for patients.
A decentralized research data infrastructure is needed.
The results obtained from shared health data should be available to the general public according to the open data principle.
All digital offerings financed by the solidarity community must be barrier-free
and meet the highest standards of data protection and data security.
We advocate for an independent benefit assessment of digital health applications.
We want to support the expansion of digital infrastructure and technical assistance systems in care.
In order to ensure safety and interoperability and thus, for example, also reduce the administrative burden on medical and nursing staff, manufacturers of medical devices and software should offer open interfaces that are based on cross-national (interface) standards.
Climate protection is health protection
Health care has a special role to play in addressing the climate crisis, for example, by adapting to a changing spectrum of illnesses and to increased extreme weather such as heat waves.
Older people and those at risk of poverty in particular are already suffering from these today, and allergies and diseases of the skin, for example, are also occurring more frequently.
This is a challenge for the health care system, which we want to meet through more preventive care, better emergency care, and increased assistance for particularly vulnerable people such as the chronically ill.
We will also create a special fund to implement heat action plans.
At the same time, healthcare must also contribute to reducing CO2 emissions.
We will support investments in green hospitals and health centers, for example.
Environmental and climate protection should also be given greater consideration in the production of pharmaceuticals and become a quality feature in health insurance contracts.
Linking climate protection and health can thus become a driver of the transformation toward greater sustainability.
Strengthening outpatient care
Anyone in need of care deserves the best possible care and support for a self-determined and dignified life.
Particularly in an aging society, there is a need for a wide range of care services everywhere that are tailored to local needs and respond to the individual needs and biographical backgrounds of those in need of care.
Instead of more large facilities, more outpatient forms of housing and care are needed, such as day care, short-term care and respite care, or shared care apartments - embedded in an environment that supports people in old age or in need of assistance to actively participate in social life.
Especially in rural areas, community health nurses, like community nurses in the past, can be a great support.
This also makes care easier for family members.
To this end, we want to create the legal framework for neighborhood care and enable local authorities to carry out binding care needs planning in order to shape the range of care available locally.
A federal program is designed to provide start-up funding for municipalities that get off the ground in this area.
Long-term care insurance benefits should be needs-based, independent of the type of housing and available as a personal budget.
Caring for someone deserves our recognition and the support of society.
That's why we want to give special support to people who take on responsibility for relatives, neighbors or friends with PflegeZeit Plus.
In this way, we enable all employed persons to receive a wage replacement benefit in the event of a three-month full withdrawal and a three-year partial withdrawal, which financially cushions reductions in working hours due to care.
A double care guarantee
People in need of care and their relatives have to raise more and more of their own money for their care.
We want people in need of care to receive the care services they need without being threatened by poverty.
With a dual care guarantee, we want to quickly reduce and permanently cap co-payments.
In this way, we guarantee that the costs to be borne by the customer can be reliably planned.
Long-term care insurance is to cover all costs for needs-based care (both outpatient and inpatient) that exceed this amount.
With a solidarity-based citizens' long-term care insurance, we want to ensure that everyone contributes to the financing of the long-term care risk with income-dependent contributions.
Improve working conditions in nursing and health care
Nurses make an invaluable contribution to our society.
People who need support in old age, due to a disability or illness, rightly want caregivers who can look after them professionally and with care.
Currently, employees in medical professions too often have to work beyond their limits.
Understaffing, overtime, physical and mental overload are everyday occurrences, not only in times of pandemic.
Everyone suffers from this, patients and caregivers alike.
We want to improve these working conditions.
This requires not only more pay, job protection and recognition - but above all more colleagues and more time.
We want to create working conditions under which many people - completely new, continuing or returning - are happy to work in care by means of binding, needs-based staffing levels - including in long-term care - better reconciliation of work and family life, more independent work by skilled employees, the reduction of unnecessary bureaucracy and the enabling of new working time models, such as the 35-hour week in care with full wage compensation.
We want to limit the exceptions in the Working Hours Act for the healthcare sector in order to prevent overwork
and stem the loss of personnel in the medical and nursing sectors.
For potentially traumatizing events, there is a need to strengthen psychosocial support for all health care professionals.
Appreciation also needs wages that testify to it - ideally through good collective agreements.
We want to oblige the social long-term care insurance system to work only with providers who pay according to tariffs.
In order to sustainably increase the attractiveness of the nursing profession, we want to strengthen training, self-organization, professional nursing's ability to exert influence and its structures at the federal level, for example through a federal nursing chamber and, above all, through strong co-determination rights in the Federal Joint Committee and other decision-making bodies.
We want to provide financial and structural support for the study of nursing sciences and nursing pedagogy as well as research in nursing.
For the work of migrant domestic helpers and care workers, we want to develop a legal framework that defines rights and obligations for both sides (care household and care worker).
Expand palliative and hospice care, regulate self-determined dying
Living with dignity also includes dying with dignity.
Patients and their families need to be fully informed about the disease and treatment options so that decisions can be made that they are comfortable with.
To this end, we want to initiate nationwide education programs on advance directives and health care proxies.
Palliative care tailored to the needs of the seriously ill and dying of all ages must be guaranteed everywhere.
We will strengthen and expand inpatient hospices and outpatient SAPV and pediatric SAPV teams.
Preserving self-determination until the end of life includes self-determined dying.
We advocate that the Bundestag, in accordance with the decision of the Federal Constitutional Court, regulate access to euthanasia in a free vote, linked to a protection concept.
For a responsible drug and addiction policy
We want a change in drug policy that focuses on health and youth protection as well as empowerment to take responsibility for risks.
Green drug policy is based on the four pillars of prevention, assistance, harm reduction and regulation.
Current narcotics law is in need of reform.
There is no youth and consumer protection on the black market.
People who are addicted need help, not prosecution.
In principle, the regulation of drugs should be based on the actual health risks.
We want to enable municipalities to carry out model projects
and support them in expanding target-group-specific and low-threshold services in drug and addiction support.
These include, for example, outreach work, substance analysis (drug checking), substitution and diamorphine programs (also in prisons) and services for homeless people, as well as better placement in outpatient and inpatient treatment.
We want to reduce barriers to substitution by doctors and outpatient clinics.
We strengthen addiction prevention with modern approaches and digital media involving the target group, including for alcohol, drugs and tobacco.
We want to strengthen the protection of non-smokers.
Drugs should not be advertised.
The current prohibition of cannabis causes more problems than it solves.
That is why we will take the black market out of the ground and, with a cannabis control law based on strict youth and consumer protection, enable the regulated sale of cannabis in licensed specialist stores and introduce clear regulations for participation in road traffic.
We want to improve the supply of medical cannabis and support research into it.
We create affordable housing
A right to housing in the Basic Law
All people need adequate housing.
Housing is a human right.
But it is becoming increasingly difficult to find apartments at all.
And rents and real estate prices are still rising in many places.
Large cities are increasingly dividing into income districts, and inner cities are losing life.
Many cities need a reorientation toward a community-based housing market.
That is why it is important to act so that families, students, people with disabilities, older people and low-income earners in particular do not get into difficulties, but can live well and safely.
We want to include the right to housing in the Basic Law.
In Germany - according to estimates - about 700,000 people are currently homeless, 40,000 of them live without shelter on the street, more and more young people, women and families.
To end this state of affairs, we want to establish a national action program to prevent and address housing and homelessness.
In this context, the Housing First approach is a key component, allowing homeless people to move into housing without first having to "qualify" for assistance.
No person should be without shelter and permanent dignified housing.
In addition, we will convene a housing and rent summit that creates a genuine dialog at eye level between tenants' representatives, the housing industry, and the federal, state, and local governments, and jointly develops new, sustainable, and social concepts.
Preventing crisis-related housing losses
We want to relieve the burden on tenants and families with owner-occupied housing and prevent them from losing their homes due to the crisis.
The ability to pay rent or loan installments in arrears is intended to avert terminations and evictions.
Forced evictions to the streets must not happen.
We want to expand free tenant counseling and debtor counseling in the municipalities.
In the event of a crisis-related loss of income, a KfW Bank program ("Sicher-Wohnen- Programm") is intended to provide financial support for tenants and borrowers.
Landlords* who rely on these rent payments should then receive government assistance.
New non-profit status for social housing
We want to create new housing - and we want it to be primarily family-oriented and public, social-space and community-oriented.
Instead, many more public housing units continue to be lost - about 100 every day.
We will therefore significantly increase and stabilize funding for social housing instead of cutting it.
We will support local authorities in strengthening their existing housing associations and public-interest building cooperatives and in establishing new ones.
To this end, we will provide for one million additional rental housing units, securely and in perpetuity, with a new housing community benefit.
The remaining federally owned stocks are no longer to be sold to private investors, but are to be sold exclusively at a discount to municipalities with a permanent social commitment.
For example, we want to increase the stock of social housing by one million over the next ten years.
We also want to enable local authorities to include more social housing in development plans.
Strong tenants, fair rents
Many people are spending an increasingly large proportion of their income on their housing, and many can no longer afford their rents.
Our goal is therefore fair and affordable rents and strong rights for tenants.
A nationwide overall concept is needed that ensures in a federal law that rent caps are made possible for existing properties and that the rent cap is made permanent and significantly tightened.
We are abolishing unnecessary exceptions, for example in the case of furnished housing.
Regular rent increases are to be limited to 2.5 percent per year within the rent index.
To this end, we want to strengthen, disseminate and legally secure qualified representative lists of rents.
The leases of the last 20 years are to be used for the calculation.
We aim to further reduce the modernization levy and limit it to a maximum of 1.50 euros per square meter so that energy-efficient refurbishments can be carried out without affecting rents.
Within such an overall concept, the BGB is to make it possible to adopt state law regulations in regions with a tight housing market if they at least meet the requirements of the overall concept.
This must, of course, be done in a constitutional manner.
We abolish the apportionment of property tax to tenants.
In addition, we are also focusing on space-saving housing so that existing housing space is better utilized.
For example, we want to make it easier for tenants to exchange their apartments together with their existing contracts.
The ban on conversion in the Building Code and the expansion of milieu protection are further instruments.
To this end, we are strengthening the municipal right of first refusal on the basis of an income value that ensures affordable rents and prevents speculative increases in value.
Rent usury must - according to § 5 of the Economic Crimes Act - actually be punished.
In addition, notices of termination for own use should be more clearly limited than today to the actual use by the owners and close relatives in order to prevent abuse.
We are examining the extent to which it is possible to completely rule out terminations of owner occupancy in tight housing markets for groups of people who are particularly worthy of protection.
In order to strengthen tenants' communities and implement the common good orientation in the housing market, we want to develop real co-determination rights and instruments.
End real estate speculation and money laundering in the housing market
Housing is a basic social right and the housing market must not be a place for speculators.
Too often, real estate is used to launder money, and that needs to stop.
We plan to introduce transparency through a real estate register of owners, to
make the land registers accessible free of charge to journalists, non-governmental organizations and the residents of the properties,
and to prohibit cash in the purchase of real estate.
In addition, we want to put an end to the abuse of so-called "share deals" for tax avoidance and rely on a pro-rata taxation of real estate holdings in the case of company sales.
Capital gains from private real estate transactions must be taxed appropriately.
Speculation with building land is to be prevented.
If there is a great housing shortage in municipalities, this results in an obligation for owners to build on land instead of speculating on higher prices.
We will also step up our efforts to combat the misuse and speculative vacancy of residential space.
We also want to open up the possibility of a compensatory levy in the Building Code for the benefit of local authorities.
Land for the common good
Land differs from other goods because it is in principle not multipliable and at the same time indispensable.
Rising land prices result in rising construction and housing costs, which in turn leads to displacement.
In the event of undesirable developments, this results in a special obligation for the state to intervene.
We want to see the public sector once again pursue a strategic and equitable land policy.
The federal government should no longer sell its own real estate to the highest bidders
, but instead specifically promote the creation of affordable and sustainable housing, cultural, social, and public welfare facilities.
To this end, we want to transform the Federal Real Estate Agency into a non-profit land fund.
The fund strategically purchases new space and transfers it to public benefit agencies.
Preference is to be given to leaseholds in order to secure social housing in the long term.
If they are sold, municipalities and municipal housing companies are to be given first right of access.
The revenues from the fund do not go into the budget, but are used to purchase more land.
Facilitate the acquisition of residential property
For many people, home ownership is a desire that is becoming increasingly difficult to fulfill due to skyrocketing real estate prices in most regions of the country.
We want to make it easier for people to buy their own homes - including existing ones.
Therefore, the principle of "he who appoints the broker pays" should be introduced for real estate purchases in the same way as it already applies to broker commissions for rentals.
We are striving to significantly reduce the brokerage fee so that it does not lead to even higher purchase prices in a hidden way.
To this end, we want to further reduce ancillary purchase costs by enabling the federal states to increase the rate of land transfer tax for large housing companies, for example, and to reduce it for owner-occupiers.
We want to promote lease-purchase for owner-occupied housing via the states and municipalities, and we also support the purchase and modernization of vacant apartments and conversions to affordable housing.
We want to support participations in cooperatives and joint acquisitions by tenants, for example within the framework of the Tenement House Syndicate and other joint projects, for example by granting unbureaucratic, favorable loans or guarantees.
Advance resource-conserving and cycle-friendly construction
We can only achieve the climate targets with a consistent building turnaround toward resource-conserving and sustainable construction.
In future, the entire material and energy consumption for construction, operation and subsequent deconstruction must be comprehensively taken into account in all urban development and building planning.
A life-cycle approach is to become mandatory for all construction measures; preservation and building on existing structures will take precedence over new construction.
The goal is complete material recycling or reuse.
To achieve this, we are relying on a change in the economic framework conditions, a Building Resources Act and binding climate protection standards in all legal requirements, standards and building codes, as well as a sustainable timber construction strategy, so that in the future, construction will be energy- and resource-efficient and free of toxins.
In all of this, the public sector must live up to its role model function.
We want to strengthen research into and the market launch of sustainable, climate-friendly building materials.
Wood is a valuable raw material, and we keep an eye on its targeted and efficient use so that our houses are sustainable, but at the same time our forests are not overexploited.
We also promote the digitization of planning and construction.
In order to be able to plan, construct and modernize buildings in a cycle-friendly manner, we are introducing a digital building material passport with all relevant information about the materials used - our buildings and construction waste landfills are thus becoming raw material mines.
Reducing land consumption in settlement development plays a central role in nature and species conservation.
With appropriate legal requirements and incentives, we are realizing the priority of inner development and land-saving construction.
Sealed areas that are no longer needed are returned to nature.
In the future, more buildings will be built high than wide, and traffic areas will be reduced.
Areas that are still sealed must be compensated for locally by unsealing.
In this way, we are entering a circular land economy that ultimately no longer requires a net consumption of land.
We are also committed to ensuring that Section 13 b of the Building Code is not extended beyond 2022.
We invest in livable villages and cities
Strengthening regional services of general interest
For a good, self-determined life in all regions, we need equal living conditions.
There are restrictions in many places, and they often differ from region to region: here a center is missing in the village, there the swimming pools are closed in a municipality, and in many places the Internet is still far too slow.
Our goal is to ensure that individual development,
democratic participation
and social engagement are possible everywhere in the country.
We need good infrastructure and access to public goods in the communities.
That is why we want to anchor a new joint task, "Provision of Regional Services of General Interest," in the Basic Law.
Regions that today are struggling with major supply problems should be able to invest and shape again.
The aim is to select support regions in the federal states on the basis of regional indicators and to support the strengthening of municipalities in these regions.
With regional budgets, we give citizens and local actors the opportunity to develop and shape their villages and towns in a self-determined way.
We want to formulate the necessary minimum standards for key service areas such as healthcare, mobility and broadband.
An inclusive and solidary society needs places of togetherness, places against loneliness, places of social cohesion.
This can be a marketplace or a family center, the youth club or the skate park, the district library, the cultural station or the free movement area.
Together with experts and citizens, we are developing a national strategy against loneliness.
And we want to work with local communities and initiatives to launch a federal "Places of Cohesion" strategy.
With federal facilities in eastern Germany and the targeted establishment of new research institutes, we will provide important impetus in structurally weak regions.
We also support the idea of establishing a "Future Center for German Unity and European Transformation".
Solid financial resources for municipalities
Strong local government and resilient public services require solid financial resources.
However, many municipalities no longer even manage to fulfill the mandatory tasks assigned to them, such as repairing municipal roads or renovating schools.
They were already financially weak or indebted before the Corona crisis and their room for maneuver is increasingly shrinking.
This is felt directly by the people on the ground.
If there is no funding left for so-called voluntary services such as sports or cultural facilities and their maintenance, this has an impact on community life in the municipalities and on trust in the state.
We want to make municipal finances better and more crisis-proof.
When the federal and state governments assign new tasks to local governments, they must also provide funding.
We will implement fair support for municipal old debts and for municipal tax shortfalls caused by the crisis in order to give even highly indebted municipalities a perspective again.
For their debt management, the municipalities should be able to draw on the support of the federal government if they so wish.
We therefore want the trade tax shortfall for 2021 and 2022 to be covered in full by the federal and state governments.
We also want the costs of housing and heating for tolerated persons to be covered.
We want to enable more municipal investments, for example in climate protection, the transport turnaround, start-up infrastructure and cultural facilities.
As a first step, access to funding is to be made simpler and less bureaucratic, and the hurdles to participation are to be lowered, especially for financially weak municipalities.
We want the federal and state governments to support the municipalities with a joint competence agency for funding policy and investment, providing advice and enabling the implementation of projects.
In the medium term, however, there needs to be a fundamental reorganization of funding for municipalities: away from more and more individual funding programs and toward higher basic funding so that local decisions can be made about which expenditures to prioritize.
Redesigning city centers
Downtowns and town centers that people enjoy visiting, linger in and meet other people contribute enormously to our quality of life.
They offer cultural exchange and give a stage to life in the city and the country.
With a good building culture, we want to make city centers and town centers more livable, more attractive and also safer for all people through new housing, commerce, education and culture.
A smart urban development policy, sustainable traffic concepts and an urban development emergency fund are the best prerequisites for ensuring that retail and the skilled trades also have a future there.
To this end, we want to realign urban development funding: for more beautiful cities, more urban greenery and water areas, so that people can live well in the city even in times of increasingly hot summers.
With additional funding for smart city projects, we are supporting the development of independent digital platforms with which owner-managed bricks-and-mortar retailers in particular can make attractive offers.
To this end, we are working against displacement and vacancy.
One million new nonprofit apartments are to be built in our cities over the next few years.
With the "100,000 Roofs and Houses" program, we are investing in roof conversions and the modernization of vacant apartments.
This requires sufficient planners in the municipalities and capacities in the construction industry.
Smaller trades such as craft businesses,
social and cultural projects as well as clubs, we want to preserve and enable a central location in the cities with a commercial tenancy law and via the building use ordinance.
In the future, federally owned real estate is to be sold only to non-profit, public or public welfare oriented sponsors.
Live rurally, work digitally
Life in the countryside and in the village has a lot to offer.
Founders, families or freelancers - they all need fast and reliable Internet for their lives.
Sufficiently fast broadband and mobile communications coverage is part of the provision of public services.
Every citizen must be able to assert this right quickly and unbureaucratically.
We create prospects for young and old to arrive and stay.
Through the Joint Task for Agricultural and Coastal Protection,
we promote housing projects for all generations,
co-working,
the activation of vacant properties,
and community and cooperative living arrangements.
We create incentives for the revitalization of old building stock instead of new construction on greenfield sites and support programs and initiatives for the conversion of vacant properties, for example for co-working spaces, social and cultural facilities or the reestablishment of grocery stores in small towns.
We want to further develop station buildings as community-oriented spaces into inviting mobility hubs and make them more attractive.
In this way we link the railroad with the localities.
We support the state's programs on market meeting places: when, for example, supermarkets convert their spaces to integrate a café, bank and post office.
Municipalities are to receive subsidies if they combine public facilities, sports hall, library, playground, working space or cinema under the roof of a cultural center.
Fast Internet everywhere
Whether in urban or rural areas, whether for mobile working, innovative business or teaching - fast Internet is an essential prerequisite for social participation and equal living conditions and, for us, is part of the public service.
However, with fewer than two million active fiber-optic connections, Germany is far behind in all European and international comparisons.
The future belongs to fiber optics.
Our goal is fast, cost-effective and reliable fiber-optic Internet (FTTB) in every home.
We ensure that funding reaches where it is needed most, without red tape.
We are strengthening open access to existing fiber and removing blockades to accelerate deployment.
The comprehensive fiber-optic roll-out is also to be driven forward and secured in the long term within the framework of operator models.
In order to provide people with faster Internet access, even in the short term, we want to structure a legal entitlement to fast basic Internet service in such a way that it is unbureaucratic and easy to enforce.
With minimum bandwidths based on people's usage habits.
In this way, we ensure that the white spots are closed quickly.
We want to further safeguard and consistently enforce net neutrality.
And we're putting an end to bandwidth cheating: If telecommunications companies don't deliver the promised download speeds, there should be uncomplicated lump-sum compensation and high fines.
When it comes to expanding mobile communications, the aim is to ensure nationwide coverage, regardless of which network is used for surfing.
Where providers do not reach cooperation agreements to close radio gaps, local roaming must be ordered if necessary, with appropriate compensation, of course.
In future spectrum auctions, coverage requirements for the area should be adjusted to keep pace with increasing demand - especially along rail lines and roads.
Self-determined in old age, in town and country
We want to enable self-determination even in old age.
We want to provide more financial support for the removal of barriers in homes and in the residential environment and thus enable older people to remain self-determined in their familiar surroundings for longer than before.
Social participation enables self-determination.
We follow the intergenerational approach of the World Health Organization's Age-friendly Cities and Communities - also for older people in urban and rural areas and in the digital space.
We want to promote this with a program in which contact points and community centers provide information about age-appropriate living, further education, care and social security, as well as opportunities to get involved in the village or district.
To improve participation in the digital world as well, we want to promote initiatives of practical education and application in the living environment and in the meeting places of older people such as neighborhood centers and libraries.
Self-determination also includes being mobile according to one's own needs, independent of one's own car.
To achieve this, local transport services in cities and rural areas must be expanded and intelligently networked, and supplemented with intelligent on-demand systems such as on-call buses.
Barrier-free access to all means of public transport is needed throughout the city, and the routes to public transport and local amenities should be equipped with sufficient opportunities for resting and "gathering strength".
Chapter 4: Enabling education and research
Education made possible.
From the very beginning, education gives children, young people and adults the opportunity to develop into old age.
Questioning the old and discovering the new.
Education and inclusion create the foundations for being able to follow one's own path in life in a self-determined manner.
In forward-looking education policy, training and continuing education, in visionary research and smart science policy, there is infinite potential to make this country fairer, more modern and more crisis-proof.
That is why we need socially diverse and inclusive schools where young people learn together for as long as possible.
Education for sustainable development (ESD) as well as classical environmental education are key to the necessary transformation of society.
It enables people to think and act in a way that is fit for the future, to shape and participate in a democratic and pluralistic society, and to understand the impact of their own actions on the world.
ESD enables people to actively participate in shaping an ecologically compatible, economically efficient and socially just society.
A good education system is essential for equal life chances
and cohesion in a diverse society.
But far too much of the curriculum vitae in Germany still depends on family, name or place of residence rather than on one's own abilities.
And the pandemic is exacerbating social inequality, which is already too great: Where children and young people can hope for little support from home, where access to laptops or tablets is lacking and no parent can help, they are in danger of permanently losing out.
The children and youth who have been hit hardest by the crisis therefore need the most support.
But also overall, the school closures led to an educational gap across all grades; there was a lack of shared learning, conversation, and togetherness in the recess yard, which can also impact cognitive and social development in children and adolescents.
Children and adolescents have made special sacrifices during the pandemic - the restriction of contact hits them harder than adults in their developmental opportunities.
We owe it to them to finally put them at the center of politics.
Equal life opportunities for all children means that we are committed to joint learning and individual support for all children from kindergarten (daycare) to school graduation.
We want to overcome the social divide between schools as well as KiTas, also through targeted investments by the federal government that are distributed locally.
Because we want daycare centers and schools where children and young people, as well as educators and teachers, enjoy going.
And it doesn't matter whether they're in rural or urban areas, poorer or richer neighborhoods.
Educators and teachers are relevant to the system at all times, and this appreciation should be reflected in their work, pay, and facilities.
Schools should be attractive places.
To do this, they need not only fast Internet and clean toilets, but also contemporary room concepts with enough space for diverse and inclusive forms of learning.
Multi-professional teams should provide the best possible support to children in their diverse needs.
For this, they need good education and training, secure career paths and a good wage.
Cultural education must become a fundamental part of our education system.
Since the course is set at the beginning, that's where most of the resources must go.
We will significantly increase investments, especially in daycare centers and the primary school sector, also to eliminate the backlog of school building renovations.
In order to support pupils nationwide, schools need to be able to apply for funding easily and without bureaucratic hurdles from the federal government.
Education is a right for every age and every walk of life.
A curriculum vitae cannot be planned on a drawing board, which is why our educational paths must be flexible and permeable.
A-levels on the second educational path, starting an apprenticeship in your mid-30s or the first degree ever in the family - all this must be possible and must not depend on whether there is financial support from home.
Whether full-time or evening school, dual vocational training, continuing education or university studies, regardless of whether as a craftsman on a construction site, as an employee in an office, freelance or self-employed in one's own business: we support the diverse life paths and the appropriate educational pathways.
We want to counteract the trend of a growing number of students leaving school without a diploma.
Trainees and students are also suffering from the effects of the pandemic.
Training positions that were thought to be secure have been eliminated, and
some students have never seen the inside of a lecture hall.
Precisely because this is a decisive phase in life of reorientation, we have a duty to create security and perspectives.
All students who have experienced financial difficulties as a result of the pandemic are to receive assistance through BAföG as part of an emergency aid program.
We do not consider student loans to be a suitable means of support because of the risk of debt.
We want to guarantee a good apprenticeship and a good training for all those who aspire to an apprenticeship.
In order to contain the major crises - the climate crisis, pandemics - creativity, the spirit of research, and the transformation of our education and science system are the basis.
For innovations to benefit the general public, public infrastructure must also be available for development.
A good life will also be possible in the future because scientists, artists and researchers in companies, universities and non-university institutions are constantly and passionately working on new ideas, on answers to questions that we have not even asked yet.
But they can only develop novel vaccines or alternative fuels, new economic prosperity concepts or sustainable business models if they have a well-equipped research environment and they can explore and try out new things with uncertain outcomes.
They need optimal and reliable conditions for their work, and
we should remove unnecessary bureaucratic hurdles.
Scientific collaborations with European partners, especially among universities, contribute significantly to the attractiveness and innovation dynamics of the German science system, which is why we want to promote them more strongly.
We want to think more about education, research and innovation policy together in order to fill the European Research and Higher Education Area with life and to establish sources of future prosperity.
Science is always revealing new horizons of thought and possibilities, changing the course of events.
It provides a central orientation for political action, as demonstrated by the climate crisis and the pandemic.
But in times of information filter bubbles and conspiracy ideologies, scientific findings are publicly doubted.
What is needed is a comprehensible and interdisciplinary science dialogue that brings science and society closer together - through participatory formats and the promotion of science communication.
We promote good education from the very beginning
For every child a KiTa place in a good KiTa
No matter from which corner of Germany and from which parental home, all children need the chance to grow up in a good and secure environment.
KiTas have a decisive share in this.
As places of early education, they provide support, arouse curiosity, convey the joy of being with people of the same age and accompany children as they grow up.
Out of curiosity and the desire to discover, the foundation for learning and the acquisition of skills is laid here.
They are the first stage of the educational system.
Each individual child has his or her own needs and requires individual support, which is addressed in the KiTa.
With a federal quality law, we ensure that top quality comes to the facilities to which we entrust our youngest children.
This top quality must also be reflected in a corresponding infrastructure.
Children need exercise and sufficient space to move.
The time that professionals have for children is crucial to ensuring that children feel comfortable and can receive individual support.
That's why we want to set minimum standards to ensure that educators and other pedagogical professionals take care of no more than four children under the age of three or nine children over the age of three at the same time.
Inclusive facilities require a better childcare ratio depending on the support needs of the children.
In addition, they must have sufficient time for preparation and follow-up, collaboration with families, networking in the social space, and continuing education.
We support the professionals in the KiTa with professional advice, supervision and mentoring programs, learning location cooperation and support for professional development within the KiTa system.
To ensure that all children can get a place in a good and inclusive daycare center, we want to continue and strengthen the federal government's commitment to expanding the number of places.
A childcare place enables parents, especially single parents, to participate socially and professionally.
The KiTa place must meet the living and working realities of parents.
There must also be offers for shift and weekend work.
More specialists in daycare centers, nurseries and schools
Pedagogical staff in daycare centers, after-school care centers and schools bear a great deal of responsibility, because they play a decisive role in shaping children's lives from a very early age.
But this responsibility is not yet adequately reflected in the pay of skilled workers.
For the important work that educators, teachers and other pedagogues do in the education system and in youth welfare, they need a good wage and good working conditions.
With an effective skilled workers' offensive, we also want to ensure fair training pay, opportunities for further development and good working conditions, and training to become a kindergarten teacher must not be allowed to fail because of school fees.
In order to be able to overcome the shortage of educational specialists and teachers with well-qualified personnel in the long term, we want to promote high-quality lateral entry training with a federal-state program, strengthen existing further training and qualification offers and ensure common quality standards.
Right to an all-day place for every primary school child and good learning conditions at secondary schools
Schools should be strong places of education, encounter and inspiration.
To do this, they need motivated professionals, well-equipped barrier-free rooms and time.
Time for learning and playing together, researching and discovering, shared cultural, social and democratic experiences, language and movement promotion, individual support and supervision.
For this, all-day places in an elementary school or after-school care center and good learning conditions at secondary schools are important.
Our goal is to implement an individual legal entitlement for every elementary school child to all-day education and care with quality standards - with enough professionals in multiprofessional teams, stimulating rooms and schoolyards, a healthy lunch and a wide-ranging cooperation with clubs, music schools and other local actors.
We want to support such cooperations financially.
In the design of all-day programs, youth welfare is an important partner of schools, since informal education is essential in all-day programs in addition to learning at school.
The guiding principle is integrated all-day concepts for comprehensive personal development.
It is necessary to make all-day and good secondary schools possible for all children, whether with disabilities or not.
We are committed to the WHO's physical activity goal of reducing physical inactivity among children, youth and adults by 15 percent by 2030.
At least one physical activity program should be available for selection in each full-day session.
The right to integration assistance must apply everywhere - via individual assistance or via a pool solution, whether in all-day schools or in after-school programs provided by youth welfare services.
The working conditions and remuneration of integration assistants should reflect their demanding and responsible work.
Parents of children and youth with disabilities must not incur additional costs.
The implementation of the legal entitlement will be an all-German tour de force.
This must be reflected in the federal government's participation in the costs.
In order to support all elementary schools on their way to becoming inclusive places of all-day education, we will launch an accompanying program to promote integrated, cross-professional school development and thus support coordinating bodies.
In the long term, we want to expand school social work and make it an integral part of all-day schooling.
Corona rescue parachute for children and teenagers
The pandemic has left deep scars, especially on children who already had a hard time at home.
Summer camps and tutoring in core subjects alone will not be enough to address the consequences of the crisis.
We want to put the children and young people at the center.
They now need a helping hand, a sympathetic ear and open spaces to find their way back to their normal lives.
To this end, we are expanding sports, adventure, and cultural offerings and strengthening counseling and individual case assistance for students, as well as providing knowledge about mental health and crises in schools.
With mentors, education guides, school social workers and psychologists, we are building a secure network of broad support to better protect the mental health of our children and young people in the long term.
Each additional offer for crisis management should advance the quality at KiTas, after-school care centers and all-day schools in the long term.
Program for schools in disadvantaged regions and neighborhoods
Educational opportunities are opportunities for the future.
Every child has a right to a good school, no matter where they live.
But everyday life looks different.
We want to create permanent funding streams for greater educational equity to strengthen regions or neighborhoods with schools in need of special support.
Sustainable educational successes only result from the coordinated cooperation of all institutions and people involved in the educational process and from long-term funding channels.
We promote multiprofessional teams in which teachers, school social workers, educators, school psychologists and other professionals working in the school or region complement each other and enrich each other with different perspectives in order to be able to support the students and their families in the best possible way.
This includes systematic preventive work, closing learning gaps and promoting German as well as native language skills.
Multilingualism should be understood as a wealth and not as a deficit.
All actors cooperate on an equal footing.
In this way, student participation and cooperation with parents are also improved, and schools become places of support for the whole family.
We want to better protect the mental health of children and young people in the long term.
Students should feel comfortable and safe at school.
Not only in the classroom, but also in the playground, in the corridors and in the sanitary facilities.
That's why we want to invest in a better learning environment and higher quality education.
The measures for educational equity that work well, also in international comparison, are to be investigated more intensively scientifically and provided with recommendations for action.
Bringing education up to date
Education in the digital world is much more than imparting knowledge; it is a key to future competencies.
Digitization has changed the way we live, so the way we think about school has to change, too.
Of course, this also includes vocational schools and colleges.
With teachers who place competence orientation at the center of learning, students who cooperatively explore new content through play, for example through game-based learning, and schools that are optimally equipped for this technically.
Both the basic technical understanding and the social dimension of digital development must be addressed.
However, the pandemic has shown that the basics are already lacking, even in comparison with other countries.
We want to change that: with up-to-date, data-protection-friendly digital equipment and with structures that effectively support schools in digital teaching and learning - with continuous training and development opportunities for teaching staff and a central place for advice and exchange on education in a digital world.
Full-time administrators are needed to build and maintain the technical infrastructure at schools.
We want to encourage this within the powers of the federal government.
Together with the federal states, we want to improve the digital training of teachers.
We want tablet or laptop to be natural learning tools.
Our goal is to enable new ways of learning for all students and also to prepare them for self-determined and healthy participation in a digitalized world.
To this end, we want to comprehensively promote applications such as open-source and secure learning platforms or video conferencing systems,
and we are committed to implementing the right to erasure of personal data for children.
Future skills such as cooperation, communication, creativity and critical thinking are becoming increasingly relevant.
We want to promote these future skills in the way that makes the most pedagogical sense, whether digital or analog.
This includes promoting STEM subjects in schools.
Digitization makes education less location-bound: New scope for supraregional and international cooperation with educational and cultural institutions is emerging.
To implement all of this, we also want to further develop the DigitalPakt into a genuine joint project on a sustainable and lasting basis - with clear goals and time horizons that are to be achieved jointly within the framework of the respective responsibilities of the federal, state and local governments.
Strengthen education for sustainable development (ESD)
We promote the implementation of UNESCO's Education for Sustainable Development program, which aims to advance the integration of ESD into all education networks and at the community level worldwide.
ESD must therefore be anchored in all phases and areas of education in accordance with the national ESD action plan.
To create incentives for municipalities, local and regional education networks are initiated and supported in cooperation with the states.
The federally funded ESD Competence Center is already supporting around 50 of the more than 10,000 municipalities in Germany.
It must be strengthened in order to be able to make offers to more municipalities.
Educational cooperation between the federal and state governments
Our goal is an education system that ensures good starting conditions for a free, future-oriented and inclusive education everywhere and for all,
and guarantees equal and fair opportunities regardless of gender, origin, residence title or disabilities.
On the one hand, the federal states need sufficient funding for the necessary measures,
On the other hand, we want to constitutionally safeguard cooperation between the federal, state and local governments.
In this way, schools are to become places that - anchored in the neighborhood - focus on the development of the children's respective potentials.
Schools need their own decision-making leeway for this.
The basis for all of this, however, is smart, forward-looking education funding that allows for more flexibility, especially in elementary schools and daycare centers, as this is where the foundation is laid.
In coordination with the federal states, we are committed to modern, sustainable and more standardized educational goals.
and the implementation of the constitutionally enshrined ban on special treatment.
Children and young people must be able to develop freely and be protected from discrimination in kindergartens and all forms of school.
They need contact persons and educational programs on anti-discrimination, diversity, LGBTIQ* and understanding democracy.
We strengthen training and studies
Secure training prospects
Despite an enormous shortage of skilled workers, the number of young people starting vocational training is falling.
At the same time, more and more end up in the waiting loops of the transition system.
Dual training must be put on a secure footing.
With the training guarantee, we want to enable all young people to start a recognized training program and secure the right to training.
To this end, we are increasingly promoting joint training programs and, where necessary, also making use of external training.
We support companies that want to provide training through pay-as-you-go financing.
In this way, companies can be encouraged to continue and increase their training programs, and young people - especially in rural regions - can be given the prospect of staying.
By expanding and improving inclusive assisted training and training support, we want to help more young people into training.
It should be possible to certify and recognize individual training modules as partial qualifications so that no performance is lost on the way to a full vocational qualification.
In addition, we want to lobby the responsible bodies to make examinations in easy language increasingly possible.
To ensure that all young people making the transition from school to work receive good advice and support in the initial phase of their training from a single source and under one roof, we support the expansion of nationwide youth employment agencies.
We will bundle career counseling and services to promote vocational qualification up to initial vocational integration and strengthen them together with the employment agency.
Equal opportunities through vocational and academic education
Germany has high-quality educational pathways, both at universities and in the dual vocational training system.
We want vocational and academic education to offer equal opportunities for self-determined life planning and a successful working life,
and for there to be genuine freedom of choice for young people.
Both training and studies impart valuable and versatile skills.
To achieve this, all vocational schools must be well equipped and training must enable people to live independently above the poverty line.
We therefore advocate a minimum training allowance of at least 80 percent of the average collectively agreed training allowance.
We want to make the graduation requirements for classification in pay groups in the civil service more flexible in the federal government and strengthen the equivalence of vocational and academic education in invitations to tender by federal authorities.
In addition, talent scouting programs and support for the gifted must be expanded, regardless of the course of education.
Training and studies are time to discover new things.
Therefore, more stays abroad should be made possible for trainees and students.
Likewise, we want to make studying and training easier for people from abroad.
We support the increase of European funding programs such as ERASMUS+ and would like to see at least 10 percent of trainees being able to spend time abroad.
In this way, we are internationalizing vocational training as well as academic education.
A basic assurance in training and studies
We want everyone to be able to afford school education or university studies, regardless of their parents' income and financial situation.
To this end, we want to revamp BAföG and turn it into a basic benefit for all students and trainees.
In a first step, it is to consist of a guarantee amount and a needs allowance that substantially increases the total amount compared to today's BAföG and benefits the majority of the eligible group of persons.
Students or trainees receive the amount transferred directly.
In the future, it will be designed to be independent of parents.
Since not every educational path is linear or partly part-time, we want to make education funding even more age-independent.
One step in this direction is the introduction of a further education BAföG.
People with disabilities receive more extensive, non-bureaucratic support.
We reject tuition and administrative fees at state universities.
We want to further develop student health insurance, especially with regard to age and semester limits.
As long as the standard period of study is relevant for the financing of studies, student engagement should be promoted through improved opportunities for crediting volunteer work.
We want to involve students and their representatives at the federal level more closely and expand their opportunities to have a say in higher education and science policy issues.
To this end, we want to pave the way at the federal level, for example, to introduce representation for all students.
It is to be fully self-governed by students and operate independently of other institutions.
We enable lifelong learning
A legal right to continuing education
The opportunity for professional reorientation and the freedom to learn new things are essential in a modern knowledge society and working world in transition, which should offer opportunities.
The Corona pandemic has also created a need for many to seek out new areas of work.
We want everyone, whether unemployed, self-employed or employed, to be able to develop new career perspectives in a self-determined way in the future.
We therefore advocate an individual legal right to further training and qualification.
In order to provide social security, an adequate continuing education allowance is needed for continuing education and training related to the labor market; for all others who want to develop or reorient themselves professionally, a continuing education allowance (Weiterbildungs-BAföG) is needed.
In this way, those who have so far been left behind in vocational training and qualification, such as women, people with a migration history or disabilities, and all precariously employed people, also benefit.
In order to give dependent employees the time they need for professional qualification and further training, we want to introduce a leave entitlement with the right to return to the previous number of hours.
In addition, we will establish educational agencies for improved and bundled guidance and support.
The relevant regional providers of continuing education are to network there.
We advocate for good working conditions and fair remuneration in continuing education and want to support adult education centers and similar public and non-profit educational institutions as important partners in continuing education.
Advance literacy
More than six million people in Germany over the age of 18 still cannot read and write adequately.
Thus, they have difficulty understanding entire texts and are thus impaired in their social participation.
These figures are unacceptable 100 years after the introduction of compulsory education and in one of the richest industrialized nations in the world.
We want to provide money and course capacity - for adults, but also for children.
This is because the causes often lie as early as preschool age.
We want to set and evaluate specific illiteracy reduction targets.
In public areas, we want to promote barrier-free communication to enable all people to participate in society.
We improve the conditions for science
More room for big ideas
The major challenges of our time, such as the climate crisis, pandemics or even a more efficient use of raw materials, can only be overcome with the help of innovative solutions and progress.
The market cannot do everything on its own.
In solving such large tasks, the state must drive innovation in a mission-oriented manner.
It should set clear targets, create incentives, organize cooperation between companies, universities and civil society, and
spark momentum with targeted research funding and strategic industrial and procurement policies.
Here, a university campus becomes an experimental space for real change, which is strongly networked with its surroundings and develops radiant power throughout the region.
Major problems can only be solved jointly and comprehensively.
We therefore want to align the federal government's funding policy with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The civilian orientation of science is central.
Technical, social and ecological innovations, which are also linked in socio-ecological research, are of equal value to us.
We also want to drive forward the urgently needed sustainable transformation by establishing and expanding research networks and infrastructures in Germany and Europe.
The "Leap Innovation Agency" (SprinD) is to be made more flexible so that it can concentrate on its core tasks.
Overall, we want to strengthen the competence for science and research in all ministries as well as the central, highest federal authorities and improve interdepartmental cooperation on the major research challenges.
Our authorities should enable sustainable change, not slow it down.
It is also important to maintain independent access to space, where spaceflight is gaining important insights into fundamental issues.
That is why we want to strengthen the European Space Agency (ESA) and the New Space sector and advocate for a European and new international legal framework that also regulates private actors.
Adequately funding science
We want to take responsibility for advancing Germany as a knowledge society, creating the best conditions for research and innovation, and strengthening the diversity of the science system.
This includes outstanding non-university research institutions as well as broad-based universities with cutting-edge research.
We want to ensure that the state and companies invest a total of at least 3.5 percent of economic output in research and development by 2025 and further expand investment in the future.
In this way, we enable more creativity, freedom to enter uncharted territory,
and international networking,
and create plannability for the research landscape.
In addition, we need adequate basic funding in science in order to curb the dependence on third-party funding, which has risen sharply in recent years.
To ensure that the third-party funds used can unleash additional momentum, we want to set up public third-party funds for longer than the usual three years and orient the overhead costs assumed to the actual costs incurred.
Internationally visible top-level university research should also increasingly benefit students, and we want to further develop the excellence strategy in a cooperative manner.
Together with the Länder, we want to consolidate and improve the quality of the Zukunftsvertrag Studium und Lehre and the Pact for Research and Innovation.
Adequate and sustainable funding also increases the responsiveness of the science system in future crises.
Because the future of our country also depends on how flexible and free our research landscape is.
Science for all
In times of information filter bubbles and conspiracy ideologies on the one hand and epochal new challenges on the other, scientific advice and the comprehensible communication of scientific methodology are more important than ever for democratic debate.
The skills of proper use of information and scientific knowledge are fundamental to an enlightened society.
Greater involvement of civil society through participatory and networking formats, secure access to information for all, and comprehensible communication of scientific findings are prerequisites for a constructive, mutually stimulating relationship between science and society.
We also want to strengthen science communication and promote the education and training of scientists in this field.
More participatory formats such as reallabs, citizen science, or experimental spaces can help society better participate in research projects.
This brings in further perspectives and helps to scientifically accompany real change processes.
In the context of science-led policy, we want to incorporate inter- and transdisciplinary scientific expertise into policy development at an earlier stage - for example, through "legislative laboratories."
Technology assessment and monitoring of the societal consequences of political measures should be expanded in order to support decision-makers.
Making university fit for tomorrow
We want to enable sustainable, climate-friendly and barrier-free modernization at universities, including digital infrastructure and IT security.
We will support them in developing new solutions for climate protection and in practically testing ideas on site as real laboratories for climate neutrality.
In addition, we will use a digitalization allowance to strengthen the IT infrastructure at universities and demand IT accessibility,
expand training and continuing education for teachers,
and expand digital advising and support services for students.
Access to research and education data should be facilitated and FAIR Data should become the basic principle.
We also want to declare Open Access to be the standard for publications and promote it more strongly as a guiding scientific idea and drive it forward together with the scientific community.
The resulting reform of the financing of scientific publications must not be at the expense of researchers or their institutions.
Universities are laboratories for the future of science, business and society.
As key players in our innovation and education ecosystem, they bear responsibility for educating the shapers of our future and for the renewal capacity of science and society.
We want to strengthen the national research data infrastructure
and seize the opportunities of the European cloud for science and research.
Future-proof infrastructure at universities includes modern libraries, teaching and learning spaces, climate-friendly renovation of aging university buildings, and sustainability and climate protection for new buildings in science.
We also want to fully implement the National Action Plan "Education for Sustainable Development" and support the development of new teaching and learning formats at universities as well in order to be able to meet the major social challenges of our time.
We want to strengthen the unity of research and teaching at universities.
In order to ensure good teaching for all students, we want to improve supervision ratios and strengthen the "Foundation for Innovation in University Teaching" in order to bring best practice to a wider audience.
For us, good teaching is student-centered, research- and project-oriented, it is based on a variety of methods and perspectives, and it strengthens curiosity and creative competence.
Together with the states, we want to work to ensure that students have access to good counseling services.
With an offensive for student housing, we promote and secure affordable housing for students.
Better working conditions and safe career paths
Secure working conditions and equal career opportunities for all are the prerequisites for a lively and innovative scientific landscape that is also attractive for scientists from abroad.
For young scientists, however, there are hardly any predictable and secure career paths, especially at universities.
This endangers the spirit of research and squanders potential in innovation, performance and quality.
And it is an imposition for those affected.
We want to further develop the Act on Temporary Academic Contracts and substantially increase the proportion of permanent staff positions, especially in the mid-level faculty.
Permanent tasks should also be secured with permanent positions.
This includes open-ended career paths alongside professorships in order to reduce hierarchies and strengthen cooperative working methods in science.
We want to clearly define the qualification within the framework of the fixed-term contract and make the family policy component binding.
The rate lock is to be eliminated.
We want to further develop the tenure-track program so that secure career paths are created early on after the doctorate.
Particularly in teaching, many tasks continue to be covered by poorly paid teaching assignments.
We want to increase the importance of teaching and create temporary positions for this purpose.
The science and higher education landscape is still predominantly male, white, West German, and dominated by people from academic homes, and thus does not adequately reflect the diversity of society.
As a result, important potential and perspectives are lost.
We want to change that through the targeted promotion of diversity at universities and scientific institutions, funding formats for diversity and anti-discrimination policies, equal opportunity access, equal integration, inclusion, and diversity of perspectives, so that social diversity is also reflected on campus.
Only a quarter of all professorships in Germany are held by women.
In addition, many young female scientists are only in temporary employment.
These are structural barriers that need to be removed.
We want to achieve a proportion of women of at least 40 percent at all levels through the introduction of concrete target quotas, a strategy for better reconciliation of family and career in the science sector, the introduction of a binding cascade model, and the expansion of the female professor program.
In all employment relationships, we want to enable flexible working time models that allow care and family work to be performed.
Greater diversity in science also helps reduce gender data gaps and bring in new perspectives.
Defend scientific freedom
Political action in the intellectual tradition of the Enlightenment and orientation toward the findings of science are under increasing pressure, also in Germany.
We oppose this and want to develop strategies together with the science organizations against misanthropic, discriminatory and conspiracy-ideological hostilities against scientists.
We want to better protect persecuted scientists and students worldwide here in Germany and at the EU level and offer them a perspective in exile.
To this end, we want to better fund and coordinate existing programs and initiatives from the federal government and establish a common European fund.
The recognition of foreign professional qualifications and the issuance of visas are to be simplified.
We will consistently oppose attacks on academic freedom in other EU states, such as Hungary,
and advocate sanctions under the rule of law mechanism.
Strengthening academic freedom must be a central aspect of foreign policy.
To this end, we want to expand foreign science policy and better fund the intermediary organizations of foreign cultural and education policy.
We want to protect sensitive data and the researchers who use it for their work from access by the authorities.
There must be effective protection against hostility, as researchers and foreign students now also frequently experience.
Critical discourse and a diversity of opinions within universities and science are prerequisites for a democratic, pluralistic society.
In times of increasing polarization of social debates, we depend on science as a factual-rational discourse space.
It must also be possible to discuss controversial topics and issues constructively in this space.
Chapter 5: Living together
Our diverse society is strong.
Because people get involved, in sports, in the volunteer fire department, in music schools, in religious congregations or on the worry line, young for old, old for young.
Because there is a broad cultural offering, a diverse media landscape.
Because young people get involved, because people take responsibility in local parliaments, because citizens get involved in forums and take the fate of their communities into their own hands.
But democracy is never finished.
Our democratic coexistence in Germany and Europe is a promise that we must fulfill again and again.
It promises equal development opportunities and rights for all who live here.
Courageous people have taken to the streets for democracy, freedom and tolerance in the past: Civil rights activists, environmentalists, peace activists and women's rights activists.
And even in the present, people are fighting for a diverse, open and tolerant society.
Alliance-Green policy ties in with this with an all-German view that recognizes the special features of the regions.
It is often exhausting, sometimes an imposition, when other views and values have to be accepted and respected, when things move too fast for some and too slowly for others.
But above all, it is a strength: listening, seeking dialogue, wrestling with content.
This is how we as a democratic society have mastered the challenges of the past decades.
Now, with full equality and more participation, we must strengthen our liberal democracy, in Germany and in Europe, on the streets, in parliaments, and make our institutions fit for the tasks of this decade.
People are different, but equal in their dignity and rights.
Only when dignity and equal rights are non-negotiable, when all people in our society, in our Europe have equal protection and equal opportunities and can claim their rights, freedom and security - individual and societal - come out and justice is promoted.
However, this claim has not yet been fully realized.
If with women half of the population is not equally involved, represented and paid and people still experience discrimination, racism and anti-Semitism, democracy is not perfect.
What is needed is more access, more participation, more self-efficacy and more representation, for example for people in precarious living conditions, people with a migration history or with disabilities.
An equal society needs policies that change structures.
Racism does not affect us all, but it does affect us all.
If we as a society learn to understand diversity as cultural, social and economic wealth, we protect each other from violence, agitation, exclusion, misogyny, queerism and racism.
But that's not enough.
We know that discriminatory words turn into action.
The attacks of enemies of democracy, especially from the right, hit our democratic society to the core.
They target people at prayer, at boisterous get-togethers, or in the institutions of the state.
They must be clearly opposed with an anti-racist and anti-fascist stance.
Our democracy must defend itself with a strong civil society, self-confident parliaments, a well-equipped police force that is close to the citizens, and an independent judiciary that can act quickly.
It is the task of politics to create the conditions for this.
How we shape our lives together depends heavily on the interaction between citizens and the state.
When people are involved and heard, planning goes faster.
When young people have a say, decisions become better and more future-proof.
When equality and diversity prevail, they become more balanced and sustainable.
We therefore want to create more opportunities for people to get involved.
More and more challenges are European and global.
We can only master them in a strong European Union that brings together the will to act and the ability to act, and which is actively and democratically shaped by its citizens.
That is why we think of our democracy consistently in European terms, want to deepen and strengthen it, structurally overcome paralyzing blockades - and thus courageously tackle issues of the future.
Our fixed star for the further development of the European Union is the Federal European Republic with a European Constitution.
The pandemic has revealed a number of shortcomings in the fight against it, as if under a burning glass: Fax machines in continuous operation, a lack of personnel and excessive bureaucracy prevent effective government action.
Our goal is a modern, engaged state with an efficient, accessible administration that is transparent, open, and able to effectively manage crises, ensure digital participation, and overall make it easy for citizens* to manage their daily lives and claim their rights.
Familiar traditions and principles must be reconsidered, because an inclusive digital transformation and the modernization of processes are central building blocks for strengthening democracy, participation and collaboration.
To accomplish this task, digitization needs to be better anchored structurally at all levels of government.
We want to govern with decency and transparency.
Equality, cooperation and cohesion in diversity are benchmarks for realizing a state that is close to its citizens.
We make the state more effective and closer to its citizens
Planning and investment acceleration: better quality for faster implementation
Germany needs a modernization offensive next year.
The rail infrastructure, renewable energies and energy networks must be expanded, schools, roads and bridges must be renovated, and digital infrastructures must be built.
But at present it often takes far too long to realize such projects, investment funds do not flow.
We want to change that.
To accelerate planning, we are creating more public planning capacity.
We are launching a personnel offensive at all levels in planning authorities and competent courts.
Procedures will be streamlined by bundling permits and existing approaches of "concentrated permitting" will be extended to all core infrastructure projects.
We are also implementing intra-agency deadlines
and paying attention to inclusion in all planning.
In addition, the Bundestag should take on more responsibility for infrastructure projects if conflict resolution can be achieved more quickly.
Involving local citizens at an early stage also usually means that projects can be completed faster and better.
The goal is to cut all planning and implementation times in half.
Digital offices - service-oriented, fast and courteous
Every day, well-trained professionals in government agencies do their job to keep the country running.
Nevertheless, for many people, contact with German authorities is uncomfortable and outmoded.
One reason for this is inadequate technology and outdated and outmoded processes.
With barrier-free e-government services, secure digital participation formats and open government, we want to modernize our administration and reduce unnecessary bureaucracy such as written form requirements.
Administrative procedures should always be thought of and designed digitally, especially in cooperation with companies.
At the same time, it must be ensured that the doors of the state also remain open for personal contact with citizens* and are supplemented by mobile services.
Digital administrative services are to be used via a central access point.
The exchange of documents among authorities must be possible upon consent and in compliance with data protection.
For the administration to be able to do all this, it must itself be digitized.
Together with the federal states, we are working to ensure that the administration is equipped with the latest technology across the board, from the health department to the citizens' office.
Digitization will put the relationship between the state and its citizens on a new footing.
In doing so, we pursue the vision of a digital, application-free and proactive welfare state.
In this, benefits from the state are verified without complicated applications and automatically provided to the beneficiaries.
The identity card on the smartphone
Anyone equipped with a digital identity can conveniently authenticate themselves and communicate securely.
What has long been the practice in Scandinavian countries - simply being able to complete administrative procedures using a smartphone - is something we want to achieve here as well, thinking holistically about opportunities for the state, the economy and society right from the start.
We want to see the administration's digital service offerings as a platform for the state, business, and civil society, and create added value for everyone through modular and secure components.
We also want to open up existing systems and enable public authorities to confirm identity features.
In this way, we want to create an identity infrastructure that allows natural and legal persons to use their digital identity with the help of smartphones, online services or identification documents.
With openness and technology neutrality, we want to make interoperable digital identities across the EU a basic infrastructure of our digital community.
For communication with the public sector, we want to create an open system that enables end-to-end encrypted message exchange.
Citizens should be entitled to digital delivery of official documents.
People who only use analog devices need support in the form of training and assistance.
Every person should be equipped with a free digital identity so that they can identify themselves digitally and sign digitally.
Such a smartphone wallet can be used in all sectors.
As part of a holistic e-government strategy, we want to enable a mobility passport for a wide variety of mobility offerings, service offerings from the administration, e-health and e-justice infrastructures, and also digital participation formats.
At the same time, we want to create the legal basis for the economy to be able to use this procedure across all sectors, for example for secure login procedures, financial and insurance services, or access to public registers permitted by digital powers of attorney, such as for the verification of driver's licenses.
The EU and Germany must be pioneers in sovereign digital identities and create trust through sovereignty.
Transparency law for Open Data
Access to government data assets enables innovative, electronic services
as well as new democratic participation opportunities.
Regulated access to open data from government holdings is also important for new technological applications.
By proposing a federal transparency law, we will make government data holdings available to the general public in accordance with the principles of Open Data.
This is how we lift the treasure trove of non-personally identifiable data generated with public funds.
We want to expand the existing GovData data portal into a central and user-friendly open and e-government portal.
To ensure full, equal participation
and sovereign administration, we want to use open standards, interfaces and software wherever possible, publish the resulting software under free license and will include it as a standard in the procurement and contracting regulations for public funds.
Renewal needs good data
The Corona crisis has once again shown that Germany lags far behind comparable countries in terms of data availability.
While in the U.S. much data was available in quasi real time and policy measures could be evaluated in a timely manner, we lack sufficient and readily available data.
We want to change this and provide timely data to research, policy makers and civil society.
We are establishing a public data institute with a statutory research mandate to address fundamental questions about how to make data more available or anonymous, and to drive networking, standards development, and licensing models.
The aim is to broaden research in the field, to test new approaches, to promote exchange between different projects and to provide advisory support in the consolidation of data, thus also preventing misuse and accompanying mediations.
There needs to be a paradigm shift toward common standards instead of compartmentalized data silos and, for example, the possibility of using data trust models to enable simple and privacy-friendly data sharing.
We are also strengthening the Federal Statistical Office to improve data availability for policymakers, the public and researchers and to make data available in a more timely manner.
Climate-neutral federal administration
Climate protection needs pioneers and role models.
We want the federal administration to finally become both.
The federal administration must become climate neutral.
This includes both the supply of green electricity and the vehicle fleet of the federal authorities as well as the federal buildings, which are equipped with renewable heating and cooling systems and comprehensively modernized in terms of energy.
With the introduction of a solar standard beyond new buildings, the roofs of federal agencies will become power plants.
For business trips, air travel should be kept to a minimum.
We also ensure that the federal government bases its procurement and funding criteria on compliance with environmental, human rights and social standards.
We want to use a CO2 shadow price as a basis for the profitability calculation in the tendering and funding of public projects.
In this way, politics sets a good example.
The learning state
The Corona and climate crises remind us of the major challenges facing government and administration today.
We want public administration to be able to act with foresight and, at the same time, to adapt swiftly and consistently to its respective tasks.
This requires a culture of regulatory collaboration and enabling innovative approaches.
Innovation units and agile project teams in the authorities are to promote this cultural change and at the same time ensure collaboration across all levels.
Flexible working hours and a positive error culture strengthen the acceptance of new behavior patterns.
The authorities should work closely and transparently with the sciences, business and civil society, network with each other and test new ideas.
Artists and other creative people should be involved in transformation processes as providers of ideas and impulses.
Employees and civil servants in public administration should also be supported and strengthened in their expertise and creativity, for example through further training.
We also advocate for more cooperation among ministries in pursuit of common goals.
Relieve the burden on the judiciary and digitize it
Courts and law enforcement agencies are struggling with a heavy workload.
Procedures take too long.
There is an urgent need to relieve the burden by increasing staffing levels, settling disputes out of court, decriminalizing petty offenses and equipping the judiciary with the necessary technology across the board.
We fundamentally want to make the judiciary more service-oriented and seek new ways to do this.
We will implement the digitization of the judiciary and its personnel requirements through a federal-state digital pact for the judiciary in continuation and concretization of the pact for the rule of law, which expires at the end of 2021, with sufficient funding.
Police and public prosecutors must be able to work together digitally, which requires standardized programs and sufficient bandwidth.
We promote and simplify electronic communication between citizens and the judiciary.
This includes easy access to justice through fast online procedures for simple legal cases and to strengthen consensual dispute resolution procedures.
We want to limit and make transparent the external ministerial right to refer individual cases to the public prosecutor's office
and allow the states to test models of judicial self-governance.
Strengthen and modernize the public service
The civil service, the millions of people who work in administrations, ministries and agencies, are a backbone of our democracy and the foundation of our polity.
But in recent decades, public services have been cut too often - and we are all feeling the consequences today.
In order for our state to keep up with the great challenges, the employees of our community must be enabled to do so.
We therefore want to strengthen the civil service again and modernize it at the same time.
More jobs, especially in IT and planning, good pay, flexible career paths, more permeability make the civil service fit for the 21st century.
To this end, we are launching a major training offensive for public administration
and will make digitization the focus of every administrative training program.
Diversity in management
The diversity of society must also be reflected in its administration.
This strengthens state institutions and contributes to trust and proximity to citizens.
However, a diverse and discrimination-critical administration does not emerge by itself, but requires resources, structures and targeted support.
In the area of public service and companies with federal participation, the state has the opportunity to set a good example in terms of diversity and introduce diversity mainstreaming throughout the administration.
This includes, for example, promoting multilingualism in the administration and taking into account not only gender equality but also social diversity in hiring and promotion practices, implementing discrimination-critical organizational developments in public authorities and companies and anchoring the goal of equality and representation of discriminated groups in corporate mission statements, as well as offering diversity-sensitive continuing education.
This is especially true for units that are particularly relevant in the application process, such as the HR department or hiring committees, which should be staffed as far as possible in a gender-appropriate and diverse manner.
We will introduce binding targets to increase the proportion of people with an immigrant background at all levels.
We want to advance diversity budgeting, i.e. the use and evaluation of budget funds in a way that particularly promotes diversity.
We stand up for diversity, recognition and equal rights
Unity in diversity
We are all different, but equal in rights and dignity.
Cohesion in diversity requires being respected, recognized and heard, being able to shape and participate, to live freely without fear and to meet as equals, to see the common ground alongside the differences.
That is why we will enshrine in law the guiding principle of "Unity in Diversity" to shape an immigration society that is critical of racism and fair to all.
To ensure that the perspectives and expertise of those who are affected by discrimination and structural disadvantage are heard, and that they are given the opportunity to participate fully as equals, we want to introduce a Participation Council, similar to the German Ethics Council, as a legally anchored and independent body with representatives from (post-)migrant civil society, academia and research, who represent the different dimensions of diversity.
In order to systematically reduce discrimination and promote social cohesion, we want to bundle the issues and responsibilities relating to equality and participation in the open and diverse society under one ministry.
To this end, we will remove the tasks relating to the immigration society from the Ministry of the Interior.
For more representation and participation, we will present a Federal Participation and Participation Act and reform the Federal Committee Appointment Act.
Government action should be geared to our diverse society and ensure equality.
Anyone living here permanently must have the opportunity to participate equally in elections, votes and all other democratic processes; as a first step, we want to introduce the right to vote in local elections for third-country nationals.
Consistently against racism
Racism is a reality in everyday life, on the street, on the net, in institutions.
It does not affect all of us equally, but it affects us all equally.
The fight against racism and its various forms, such as anti-Black and anti-Asian racism, is a task for society as a whole, with the aim of strengthening the individual rights of all people.
Racism and all forms of discrimination not only pose a great danger to the people concerned, but also threaten equal and peaceful coexistence and security in Germany.
We want to anchor the protection against and elimination of discrimination, structural and institutional racism with a state guarantee claim in the constitution, complementing the overdue replacement of the term "race."
The Federal Anti-Discrimination Agency (ADS) is to be upgraded to the highest federal authority - with more staff, budget and competencies.
Its leadership is to be elected by the German Bundestag as an anti-discrimination commissioner.
We want to further develop the General Equal Treatment Act into a genuine federal anti-discrimination law that finally closes protection gaps, simplifies lawsuits against discrimination for those affected and includes a comprehensive right of action for associations so that action against discrimination can be taken structurally and sustainably.
The network of civil society counseling centers is to be expanded nationwide and financed in such a way that they can perform their tasks continuously and with planning certainty.
Contact points and complaints offices should be created in state institutions.
We want to promote the empowerment of people affected by discrimination.
The Black Lives Matter protests have made it clear that racism against Black people must be comprehensively combated in Germany as well.
That's why we want to push the UN Decade for People of African Descent.
Crimes against Black people should be explicitly reported in constitutional protection reports.
We also advocate for anti-Asian racism to be named in the National Action Plan Against Racism.
We will expand independent research on postcolonialism, discrimination and racism, regularly collect anti-discrimination and equality data, and conduct scientific studies related to government institutions and effectiveness of anti-discrimination policies.
We want to anchor anti-racism, anti-discrimination and post-colonialism in teacher training and in the curricula.
Strengthening and security for Jews in Germany
We will consistently promote Jewish life in its diversity in Germany and make it visible.
We support projects and initiatives that strengthen both Jewish secular and Jewish religious life, Jewish culture and Jewish education.
We want to make political and cultural educational opportunities accessible to all citizens in order to impart knowledge about Jewish life in general as well as contacts and experiences with Jewish people and institutions in Germany.
Jewish people in Germany must be able to feel safe.
Their security and the protection of Jewish institutions and communities must be comprehensive.
Anti-Semitic attacks in the present, above all the attack in Halle in 2019, remind us how widespread hostility and hatred of Jews as well as ignorance about the reality of Jewish life continue to be in Germany.
It is our joint responsibility to oppose anti-Semitism, anti-Semitic hate speech - also in everyday life and regardless of the motives - with all determination.
This requires better analytical capacities and resolute punishment and documentation of anti-Semitic incidents.
Anti-Semitic narratives, Israel-related anti-Semitism, and conspiracy ideological narratives - also in connection with demonstrations by pandemic deniers - must be preventively addressed in a wide variety of places, including and especially in the digital space.
This requires concrete awareness-raising and prevention projects in associations and civil society organizations, for which we want regular funding.
The prevention of and confrontation with anti-Semitism should also be anchored as a guiding perspective in the curricula outside of history lessons.
We want to expand training in a targeted manner, especially for employees of security and law enforcement agencies and the courts.
Guidelines for effective protection of Jewish institutions are needed, and Jewish communities must be involved in their development.
We want to strengthen the social security of the older Jewish generation in Germany, mostly Holocaust survivors and their descendants, many from the former Soviet Union.
They must be put on an equal footing with immigrant (late) repatriates from the states of the former Soviet Union as far as pensions are concerned.
Protect and empower Muslims
Muslim life in all its diversity is part of our social reality in Germany.
At the same time, Muslims are particularly affected by structural discrimination and violent attacks.
The ongoing threats to Muslim institutions show the urgent need for prevention programs as well as comprehensive protection concepts for persons and spaces read as Muslim.
Victims must be protected, counseled and empowered,
the causes must be looked at more closely.
The state may not discriminate against or give unjustified preference to any religion.
The heterogeneous structure of Islam, which is perceived as a strength by Muslims and knows neither a religious nor a structurally anchored hierarchy, must therefore not be a disadvantage for them on the part of the legislator.
Actual equality presupposes legal equality.
We therefore support state treaties with Islamic religious communities that are not structurally dependent on a state, party or political movement and its or their respective government policies and that determine themselves religiously.
We also want to engage progressive, liberal Muslim proxies who stand up for values such as gender equality, LGBTIQ* rights, and feminism, and practice a vibrant faith within the Islamic religious spectrum.
We also show solidarity with critics of fundamentalist political forces when they are massively threatened.
Imam training in Germany is urgently needed for the independent and self-confident practice of religion by Muslims.
To this end, we want to establish and support Islamic-theological and practice-oriented training and continuing education programs for imams and Islamic religious staff throughout Germany in cooperation with the institutes for Islamic theology.
In the long term, the aim is to meet the Muslim communities' need for religious personnel with people trained in Germany.
Combating Antiziganism Decisively
People with a Romani background are still discriminated against in Europe and Germany because of deep-seated racism that reaches into the middle of society.
Members of the largest minority in the European Union are still disadvantaged in terms of access to education, health, housing and work.
We therefore want to implement the new EU Roma Framework Strategy (post-2020) and achieve the EU's ambitious inclusion targets.
This requires a "National Coordination Office" with sufficient financial resources and authority to take over the implementation and monitoring of the German strategy in coordination with the federal states, administrations and self-organizations.
Minority rights such as the preservation of language, history and cultures of Sinti*zze and Rom*nja must be guaranteed.
We want to set up an independent, civil-society monitoring and information office to document and deal with racist incidents and to support those affected, as well as to examine and implement the recommendations of the independent expert commission on antiziganism.
We will push for the establishment of a student union for Sinti*zze and Rom*nja and
advocate for a museum of the history and cultures of Sinti*zze and Rom*nja in Germany.
Rom*nja are still being deported from Germany, even if they have been living here for decades and suffer discrimination in their countries of origin.
Therefore, the situation of Rom*nja in their countries of origin should be given greater consideration in asylum procedures and in the examination of asylum-independent rights to stay.
For an inclusive and barrier-free society
We advocate for an inclusive society in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, in which people with disabilities can contribute their own abilities and talents.
Steps, doors that are too narrow or web pages that are difficult to read - in our everyday lives there are many different things that represent a barrier for people with disabilities, but also for older people, parents with strollers or injured people with plaster legs.
It is tedious, sometimes impossible, to take advantage of offers that others take for granted.
We want to create accessibility so that people with different disabilities, including mental illnesses, can participate in public life on an equal footing and live, learn and work together with non-disabled people in a self-determined way.
We want to achieve this with an "Accessibility Act" that obliges private and public providers of publicly accessible offers and services to provide comprehensive accessibility and the federal government to make its buildings accessible within ten years.
Small businesses are protected by an overcharging clause, but are required to make reasonable accommodations.
An increase in federal funding is expected to significantly increase the proportion of barrier-free housing.
To enable self-determined mobility and self-determined living, we also want to strengthen urban development funding for inclusive urban neighborhoods and tie social housing funding to accessibility.
Accessibility is to become the standard in public transport, which all people with severe disabilities should be able to use free of charge, in public facilities, stores, commercial and office buildings.
We want to continue to come to terms with the crimes of German history against people with disabilities and compensate the victims appropriately.
Developing the relationship between the state and the churches
Christian churches and congregations are important actors in civil society.
They give our society a variety of impulses and contribute to social cohesion.
Church agencies are also of great importance for the work with people in need of care, people with disabilities and children.
Their active support when it comes to sea rescue and the integration of refugees is an important social contribution.
We want to further strengthen the fundamental right to freedom of religion, conscience and belief, also worldwide,
and protect those persecuted on religious or ideological grounds.
We uphold the right of self-determination of religious communities,
seek cooperation and dialogue with all religious and ideological communities that respect the Basic Law,
and always stand by the secular state and its principle of neutrality.
Non-denominational persons also have a right to full consideration of their concerns and to equal participation.
We want to preserve the established relationship between the state and the Christian churches and, where necessary, adapt it to social reality.
For example, we want to see church labor law reformed and union co-determination promoted
, and the exemption clauses for churches in the Works Constitution Act
and the General Equal Treatment Act repealed.
The religious proclamation area remains unaffected by this.
The many believers who are committed to the necessary modernization of the Christian churches
and urge a complete investigation into cases of sexualized violence.
We will implement the completion of the constitutional mandate to replace state services.
We want to delete Section 166 of the Criminal Code ("insulting confessions, religious societies and ideological associations") and advocate for an independent scientific institution to research the religious and ideological landscape.
We renew the democratic foundation
For a more transparent policy
Democracy thrives on the trust of its citizens; any appearance of venal politics is damaging.
We want to strengthen trust in democratic institutions and elected officials
and protect the primacy of politics against non-transparent influence.
We are convinced that transparent and comprehensible policies strengthen the common good.
That is why we want to make lobbying more transparent and the influence of organized interest groups and lobbyists more visible.
We want to tighten up the lobby register for the federal government, federal ministries and the Bundestag and abolish the many exceptions for key players.
With the legislative footprint, we create clarity about who influences the creation of laws.
We want to take a closer look at conflicts of interest and have transfers from government offices to the private sector reviewed during a two-year waiting period.
For members of parliament, the free mandate is the center of their activity.
In the future, income from sideline activities will be published in euros and cents, there will be stricter rules for company shareholdings and stock options, and donations to MPs and lobbying for MPs will be banned.
The application of these measures will be evaluated.
We also want mandatory disclosure of the industry for ancillary earnings of members of parliament.
Independent control strengthens transparency and integrity.
To effectively combat corruption cases, the criminal offense of bribing members of parliament needs to be rewritten and the evidentiary requirements revised.
Donations to political parties must be made more transparent.
That's why we want stricter publication rules.
Party donations should be restricted to natural persons and capped at an annual maximum of 100,000 euros per donor.
Donations of as little as 5,000 euros are to be listed in the annual report, and donations of 25,000 euros or more are to be published immediately.
As long as there is no legal regulation, we apply the regulations of our Donation Code that go beyond the Political Parties Act.
We want to finally introduce a legal regulation for party sponsoring and a publication starting with the first euro and an annual maximum limit per sponsor*.
We will strengthen the law on political parties and independent monitoring so that concealed campaign financing can be better combated.
Political advertising and campaigns on the web must become more transparent - as long as there are no mandatory regulations, we are leading the way with our voluntary commitment.
Strengthen parliament, reform electoral law
The Bundestag is the central place for public debate, speech and counter-speech, and decision-making in our democracy.
Good legislation requires sufficient consultation and a strengthening of parliament's rights of control.
We want to expand the role of the Bundestag in legislation.
Its ability to work must be guaranteed and strengthened.
That is why we are committed to electoral reform that significantly reduces the size of Parliament, including by reducing the number of constituencies, and that is also fair and constitutional, with every vote worth the same.
As part of this reform, the extension of the legislative term and the term limit for the office of Federal Chancellor should be examined, among other things.
As a rule, the meetings of the technical committees are to be held in public and streamed.
Members of parliament are to be strengthened in their control rights vis-à-vis the government with a right to inspect files.
We want to make complex legislative procedures easier to understand by making textual comparisons of legislative amendments public.
Sharing power fairly, also in parliaments
It is high time for a fair distribution of power.
Our representative democracy needs to become more diverse, our parliaments need the diversity of origins and lifestyles, debates need the perspectives that arise from this.
We will break down barriers so that queer people, non-academics, people with disabilities and people with a migration background are also represented equally and as a matter of course.
Sharing power fairly also means that there is an urgent need for more women in parliaments and local councils, as they make up 51 percent of those eligible to vote.
Equality for women is a historical and constitutional mandate for all of us and should be reflected in the nomination process.
Examples from other European countries show that parity by law is effective and appropriate.
Rulings by constitutional courts in two German states have shown that constitutionally high hurdles exist.
These hurdles must be removed in order to find legally sound solutions.
We are therefore also advocating for a parity law at the federal level and will initiate the corresponding legislative changes.
In order to make it easier for women to get involved in politics, there also needs to be measures and offerings that make it easier for women to get involved in and shape politics.
Youth suffrage
Democracy thrives on the shaping and commitment of all citizens, from childhood to old age.
Many of today's political decisions are crucial for the future of young people, and many young people assume responsibility for society at an early age.
When young people have democratic experiences in their everyday lives and can exercise their rights, this strengthens democracy and makes it more secure for the future.
In order to be able to forge the broadest possible alliances for a constitutional lowering of the voting age, we want to lower the voting age for federal and European elections to 16 in the coming legislative period.
Based on an evaluation of the voting age of 16, we want to lower the voting age further if necessary.
Citizens' councils for more participation
Direct participation opportunities enrich democracy and strengthen representation.
With citizens' councils, we create the opportunity to incorporate the everyday experience of citizens into legislation on selected topics.
As a first step, we ensure that there is a legal basis for citizens' councils and that parliament has to deal with the results.
In the coming legislative period, we want to examine further options for a stronger institutionalization of citizens' councils, including direct-democratic procedures on individual consultation results.
On the initiative of the government, parliament or a citizens' initiative, randomly selected people who live in Germany and must be at least 16 years old deliberate on a specific issue within a specified period of time.
They develop recommendations for action and provide impetus for public debate and parliamentary decision-making.
Free, equal, and fair consultation must be ensured, including through civil society and scientific consultation.
We will also introduce a digital portal, such as the one already successfully used in Baden-Württemberg, for active participation in legislation and expand the right of petition into an easily accessible tool for better participation in the democratic process.
We want to encourage participation and promote political education as an important cross-sectional task at the municipal level as well.
Public broadcasting for all and a diverse media landscape
Critical and independent journalism is a pillar of our democracy.
We stand by a pluralistic, critical public broadcasting service for all that is independent of the state, just as we stand by the quality and diversity of the private and non-profit media landscape.
To ensure that public service broadcasting is strong and fit for the future, we are working towards funding that is appropriate to its function and follows a defined program mandate.
Because it is financed by everyone, it must also reach everyone.
Its special position and its claim to reflect the diversity of the population's lifeworlds, opinions and interests also give rise to its need for reform.
The digitization of public broadcasting must be driven forward and its existing offerings must be reviewed.
To this end, we want to launch an initiative together with the federal states and initiate a social debate.
We advocate for broadcasting councils that better reflect the diversity of today's society, become more assertive, and become more distant from broadcasters and the state.
The media libraries of the public broadcasters should be permanently accessible and interlinked at European level, with appropriate remuneration for the authors.
Local media need funding that is coordinated with the states and organized remotely from the state.
Quality journalism needs significantly better framework conditions, for example through improvements to source protection and rights to information or the opening of the artists' social security fund for journalists, including compulsory contributions for media platforms.
Nonprofit journalism needs legal certainty.
Combating hate crime on the web
Digital platforms and applications must serve people and not the other way around.
Our aim is to strengthen user rights and democratic discourse
while maintaining a balance between personal privacy and freedom of expression.
We want to combat hate crime on the net and the deliberate spread of misinformation more effectively.
We want to develop an effective legislative framework for this.
Those affected must be able to defend themselves quickly and effectively against attacks on the Internet.
We want to achieve this through the ambitious design and then swift implementation of the EU's Digital Services Act.
We advocate for effective handling of user complaints,
improved law
enforcement and civil enforcement.
To achieve this, we need law enforcement agencies with the best possible personnel and technical resources.
These must be able to work, well trained, on the basis of clear legal guidelines.
Platform operators must live up to their great responsibility throughout Europe.
They must not undermine existing rights, are liable for content, and must uphold fundamental rights when moderating content.
When deciding which content should have no place on digital platforms, the targeted use of representative, civil society platform councils could be an option.
Large providers should contribute to the independent counseling services for victims of hate and incitement through a levy.
We want to bundle this in a law for digital protection against violence, which includes the possibility to take action against accounts if no perpetrator is identified.
Every person has the right to his own opinion, but not to his own facts.
Porn platforms that host user-generated content must be subject to special due diligence requirements to protect people whose visual material is shown there against their will.
To deal with disinformation, but also for the legal control of providers in general, we want to improve the structure of supervision at both national and European level, including a joint media authority of the federal states.
We reject an obligation to use upload filters.
Software for the general public
Our everyday life is increasingly characterized by participation in and access to software.
Free and open software forms the basis of countless applications, be it digital learning platforms, secure applications for working from home, strengthening IT security with good encryption, or secure and simple voting options in association and party work.
It plays a decisive role in more and more socially relevant areas and is the basis for our requirements in terms of openness, participation and security.
However, developers often lack the support they need to keep them permanently up to date with the latest technology and to make them user-friendly, accessible and inclusive.
We therefore advocate the creation of an independent public funding foundation that promotes socially relevant, free and open software whose results are available to society, science, schools, business and administration and are accessible without barriers.
End-to-end encryption protects fundamental rights, creates trust in digital applications, and must become the standard for all government IT projects.
Democracy Promotion Act for a Strong Civil Society
A vibrant civil society is elementary for political debate in our democracy.
Committed people in initiatives, associations, societies or NGOs strengthen cohesion, help to put important concerns, such as the fight against racism, on the public agenda, and contribute to the formation of public opinion.
We are committed to ensuring that they can carry out their work in the future without intimidation and criminalization.
With a Democracy Promotion Act, we want to provide sustainable, project-independent and unbureaucratic financial security for their commitment and that of democracy-promoting initiatives and organizations.
We want to regulate the work of political foundations in a more binding way.
We want to ensure that they are oriented toward the values of the Basic Law and establish transparency - also in their relationship with the parties.
We are creating an independent legal basis for this.
Reform non-profit status
All citizens should be able to participate equally in the decision-making process of our society.
Non-profit status is an important status that opens up access in many places.
To ensure that initiatives and associations remain independent, we therefore provide clarity and legal certainty in non-profit law.
They should also be allowed to realize their charitable goals through political expressions of opinion and activities such as studies and demonstrations.
Not only the promotion of the democratic state system, but also the promotion of supporting principles should be clearly non-profit.
We want to recognize and strengthen the public utility of additional purposes such as peace, the enforcement of national and international fundamental and human rights, the rule of law, the enforcement of the welfare state requirement and, in general, equal participation and the fight against discrimination.
By introducing a democracy clause, we ensure that associations can actively participate in social debates.
We want to abolish the reversal of the burden of proof in Section 51 (3) of the German Fiscal Code.
We ensure greater transparency with a non-profit register and easy-to-handle transparency obligations, as well as with rules on the disclosure of the donation structure.
Commitment and volunteerism as a pillar of society
Commitment and volunteerism support our society in many ways.
The task of the state is to enable, promote and strengthen commitment and voluntary work.
Increasingly, this includes digital forms of volunteering, because they enable networking when distances are long or when other things get in the way of physical engagement.
To this end, we want to remove the bureaucratic hurdles to involvement and expand educational opportunities for those involved, as well as reorganize funding policy.
We want to develop the German Foundation for Commitment and Volunteering into a genuine funding foundation that supports local and decentralized organizations.
Together with the states and municipalities, we want to introduce an engagement card to reduce the cost of visiting swimming pools and cultural institutions or using public transportation.
We want to gradually harmonize the lump-sum allowances for exercise leaders and volunteers.
Expand voluntary services and make them possible for all
Voluntary services strengthen cohesion and promote active participation in our society.
Every person who wants to should be guaranteed the opportunity to do voluntary service in Germany or Europe.
We want to double youth volunteer services (such as the Voluntary Social Year and the Voluntary Ecological Year) and the Federal Volunteer Service to 200,000 places per year.
Voluntary services should be better funded so that young people can get involved regardless of their parents' income.
To achieve this, we want to raise pocket money rates to a uniform level and make free public transport tickets possible.
The framework conditions should become more inclusive so that everyone, whether young or old, whether at the beginning, in an orientation phase or after the end of their professional life, can find a suitable volunteer position for themselves.
We shape the diverse immigration society
Facilitate naturalization
Citizenship ensures a permanent bond of legal equality, participation and belonging.
Those born in Germany are to be granted German citizenship if one of their parents is a legal habitual resident of Germany.
Citizenship may not be withdrawn, also as a lesson from National Socialist injustice.
For people who have lived here for years and have become part of this society, naturalization should become possible earlier.
After five years of residence in Germany, everyone should be able to apply for naturalization, and an accelerated and simplified naturalization procedure also applies to recognized refugees.
We want to abolish the option requirement in nationality law and recognize multiple nationality.
We want to reverse the undermining of citizenship law and make the naturalization process less bureaucratic.
Obstacles in the clarification of identity that are beyond the control of the naturalized persons must not be blamed on them.
For binational families and couples, whether with or without a marriage certificate, we want to make entry unbureaucratic and fair.
In order to build a life in Germany, long-term perspectives are needed.
A modern immigration law for a diverse immigration society
Germany is a country of immigration, but to date it lacks an active immigration policy and immigration law that actually promotes immigration and does not make it more complicated.
We want to adopt a modern immigration law that creates new access routes for educational and labor migration - including for people who cannot prove their talents and abilities through formal or recognized educational qualifications - that offers transparent, unbureaucratic and fair procedures, that takes global and regional needs into account.
For this purpose, a points-based talent map is to be introduced on the basis of annual manpower requirements.
We facilitate educational migration through scholarships and educational visas, as well as the requirements for a permanent residence permit and the recognition of professional qualifications acquired abroad.
We are also ending the automatic loss of residence permits after a six-month stay abroad.
For people who are in Germany without a secure residence title but who are integrated into the labor market or whose qualifications fit the labor needs, there should be the possibility of a genuine change of track.
We are expanding and consolidating well-functioning concepts for labor migration, such as the Western Balkans arrangement.
Integration only succeeds right in the middle - language, access, participation right from the start
Arrival in a diverse immigration society is a two-way process with the goal of creating equal access and opportunities for participation in all areas of life.
It makes demands on those who come to us as well as on all those who have lived here for a longer time, and only succeeds when everyone comes together and embarks on a common path.
The values of the Basic Law are the basis for living together.
Access to and participation in language courses is essential, which is why we advocate that all newly arriving migrants and refugees have the right to free access to tailored, accessible and federally funded language and integration courses from the very beginning.
In particular, we want to ensure the accessibility of courses for women and also develop offerings for people with learning difficulties.
At present, this is only possible with difficulty and at a cost for many people, such as family migrants or EU citizens.
In addition, we want to maintain the offerings of advanced language courses that were expanded after 2015.
Equally important for successful integration are decentralized housing and self-determined living in one's own apartments, a broad range of counseling services, especially for families, and indiscriminate access to health and social services as well as to daycare centers, educational institutions, training and work, i.e. participation in cultural and social life.
In this way, targeted support strengthens overall social cohesion.
We want to set up a municipal integration fund at European level to provide direct support for arrivals in municipalities throughout the EU.
Among other things, this is intended to strengthen and establish migration counseling centers, finance interpreting services in the community, promote civil society support structures, and secure structural relief in the EU for municipalities that agree to take in refugees.
Companies that give refugees a chance at training or employment need appropriate support and funding.
For recognized refugees, we want to lower the barriers to free movement within the European Union.
Asylum procedure fair and transparent
We want asylum procedures in Germany to be legally secure, fair and transparent, and for a decision to be made in a reasonable time.
For this, the identification of special protection needs must take place before the hearing.
In particular, the consideration of gender-specific persecution suffered and the associated counseling in the asylum procedure must be guaranteed.
We want to ensure that a decision on the residence title is made quickly so that people have binding certainty at an early stage.
This includes sufficient staffing at the Federal Office for Migration and Refugees (BAMF) and a functioning quality management system.
We want to ensure non-governmental independent counseling on asylum procedures for all asylum seekers, from their arrival to the conclusion of the asylum procedure, and we want to reverse the length of stay of refugees in initial reception facilities, which has been extended to a possible 18 months, to a maximum of three months.
We reject AnkER centers in their current form.
According to this, decentralized housing should always have priority.
We want to guarantee the right of children, regardless of their perspective of staying, to access daycare centers, schools and other educational opportunities.
We will put an end to the blanket and indiscriminate revocation checks by the BAMF and optimize the law on asylum procedures.
Applications for family reunification under the Dublin Regulation must be approved quickly.
We want to abolish the Asylum Seekers' Benefits Act - and with it an unequal treatment of refugees that is unjustified under constitutional law and makes it more difficult for them to truly arrive and participate.
We want to abolish legal regulations that are hostile to integration, such as work bans and blanket residence requirements, as well as benefit cuts.
We want to reverse the erosion of the right of residence and asylum that has taken place in recent years.
In particular, we want to guarantee the protection of refugees who have experienced human rights violations or are seriously ill.
We reject the declaration of "safe" countries of origin or third countries - also at the European level.
We want to abolish airport procedures and immediate refoulement at Germany's internal borders.
A pandemic-related loss of employment, training or study places must not lead to disadvantages under residence law.
Out of toleration
More than 200,000 people - among them many children and young people - live for many years in a state of lack of perspective and legal uncertainty in Germany because they are only tolerated.
This is neither good for the people concerned nor for social coexistence.
Legal uncertainty and a lack of opportunities for participation make it massively more difficult to arrive and find a home in Germany.
We therefore want to reduce the number of people who have to shimmy from toleration to toleration to zero if possible.
For these people, a secure right to stay is needed after five years of residence.
Adolescents, youths and families with minor children should receive a residence permit after three years.
In cases where people cannot obtain a national passport despite proven serious efforts, we want to issue a passport replacement card if the people concerned were born in Germany and their identity has been clarified.
By converting training and employment toleration into residence rights, we are providing people with reliable access to training and the labor market and ensuring planning security for companies.
Victims of human trafficking should be given a secure right to stay.
People who are not granted a right of residence after careful examination of the asylum and residence law requirements and after exhaustion of all legal protection options and for whom there are no obstacles to deportation must leave the country again quickly.
We want to accompany this with comprehensive and independent advice and support.
Every deportation is associated with great human hardship.
Deportations, for example via readmission agreements, are the last resort if return is refused; voluntary departures always have priority.
Detention without crime to enforce departure is a massive interference with the constitutionally guaranteed right to liberty.
Consideration of the separation requirement and the provision of legal assistance must therefore be ensured.
We will end deportations to countries at war and in crisis, and reinstate the deportation ban to Syria and Afghanistan nationwide.
We advocate that there be no cooperation with Syrian authorities for deportations and that the deportation partnership with Afghanistan be ended.
Safe area designation should not establish a basis for returns to unsafe countries.
Countries for which the State Department has issued a travel warning based on Covid-19 may not be deported.
We put feminism, queer politics and gender justice in the spotlight
Equality in all areas of life
Feminism takes everyone into account and creates self-determination, participation and justice.
The goal is a society in which everyone lives in a self-determined manner, regardless of gender, and in which women can also play an equal role in shaping society everywhere - from the world of work to parliaments.
This is a task for all genders.
This also requires men who stand up for a society in which power, opportunities and responsibility are shared fairly and sexism is fought resolutely.
Gender justice is a cross-sectional task that we think about intersectionally.
With a gender check, we want to examine whether a measure or law advances gender equality and intervene accordingly where it stands in the way.
The awarding of public contracts should also take gender equality criteria into account.
We will develop the newly created Federal Foundation for Gender Equality into an effective, reliably funded and independent institution that provides secure knowledge on the living conditions of all genders and develops and bundles effective measures for equality and makes them accessible to business, politics and the public.
The social sciences and gender studies make an indispensable contribution to this.
We need a binding gender equality strategy that encompasses all areas of life and policy, works across departments, and translates findings into actionable goals.
It's time for a feminist government in which people of all genders stand up equally for gender justice.
Combating gender-based violence
Protection against gender-based violence, which primarily affects women, is a joint task for society.
Violence in the domestic and personal sphere is a structural problem that is often downplayed in both media portrayals and case law.
We therefore need more educational work and specific violence prevention programs.
With the Istanbul Convention, we have an instrument at hand that describes the necessary measures.
This also includes an expansion of the criminal statistics so that the extent of femicides committed in Germany and other crimes committed out of hatred for women are recorded in a differentiated manner and these acts are systematically classified as hate crime.
To improve protection against gender-based violence, the Protection Against Violence Act must be evaluated and amended.
Women affected by violence whose residence status depends on the residence status of their husband or partner should be able to obtain an independent residence title.
The police and judiciary must be comprehensively trained and sensitized in dealing with victims of sexualized violence.
We will not tolerate verbal sexual harassment in public spaces and will also consider appropriate regulatory measures against it.
Victims of rape need universal qualified emergency care, including anonymous evidence collection and the morning-after pill.
Offers for psychosocial process support are to be strengthened.
We will establish monitoring bodies and regularly review the effectiveness of the measures taken.
Our goal is a society in which all people can be different without fear.
Secure women's shelters
Every person has the right to physical integrity.
It is the duty of the state to protect women from gender-based violence.
Women's shelters have a key role to play here.
Therefore, significantly more women's shelter places must be created, also in rural areas.
Because every woman affected by violence, whether with or without children, needs a place to go and protection - regardless of her residency status, housing situation or whether she has an impairment.
With a legal entitlement to protection from gender-based violence, we will secure victims regardless of their income through a cash benefit from the federal government and improve access to protection facilities and their services for all women.
For their part, states and municipalities must continue to meet their financing responsibilities.
For the period of stay in a women's shelter, affected persons who receive social benefits should not be treated worse.
We need women's shelters that can take children, even if they are older.
Men who have been victims of intimate partner violence also need support and sanctuary.
We want to expand this offer.
In addition, intersectional protection concepts and sanctuary spaces, especially for queer, non-binary people, need to be developed and provided.
We promote the accessibility of women's shelters and counseling facilities so that protection options are also available for women with disabilities who are affected by violence.
Protect against coercion and exploitation, enable self-determination
Trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation is a heinous crime that we will consistently fight with the means of criminal law, but also preventively through a joint European approach, information, and protection and assistance for victims.
To this end, we also want to launch a national action plan against human trafficking.
Simply deporting victims of human trafficking is wrong.
Instead, their willingness to report and testify would be increased by a permanent right to stay and the prosecution of the perpetrators would be facilitated.
Forced marriages are human rights violations.
All people who are threatened by this need help and protection and good advice from reliably funded counseling centers.
Female genital mutilation is a massive violation of bodily integrity.
It is crucial that we help and protect those affected, including through international awareness and assistance campaigns.
But in Germany, too, we need a strategy against this.
We want to provide better support for civil society organizations that are active in this area, and
girls' contact persons as well as educational staff and youth welfare offices are to be trained and sensitized.
People who work in prostitution need rights and protection - also from stigmatization and criminalization.
We will evaluate and revise the Prostitution Protection Act accordingly with the aim of improving working conditions in legal prostitution.
In order for them to be able to carry out their work safely, prostitution sites must also be more strictly controlled.
We will expand and financially support voluntary, low-threshold and multilingual counseling services.
We support people who want to leave prostitution by providing individual assistance and advice on reorientation.
This can be achieved through further training, financial support and assistance in finding gainful employment outside of prostitution.
Self-determination through health care
All people must be able to make their own decisions about their bodies and their lives.
Good health care, including assured access and comprehensive information on abortion, is necessary for this.
The decision whether or not a woman terminates a pregnancy is hers alone.
During this time, good counseling and care structures are necessary.
We fight for a sufficient and local supply of doctors, practices and clinics that perform abortions.
The topic must be integrated into the training of physicians according to internationally recognized standards.
In addition to professional medical care, good counseling services are important.
We will therefore safeguard the broad range of family planning and counseling services and expand voluntary counseling services.
In order to guarantee long-term care, self-determined abortions need to be destigmatized and decriminalized, and the costs need to be covered across the board.
This is only possible if self-determined abortion is no longer regulated in the Criminal Code (§ 218 and § 219), but outside it.
Pregnant women seeking counseling, as well as counseling centers and doctors, must be protected from hostility and sidewalk harassment with a federally mandated protection.
In the event of an unintended pregnancy, the best possible access to information must be ensured.
In order to protect doctors from the threat of prosecution, it is particularly important to remove § 219a from the penal code as quickly as possible.
As a first step, the costs of medically prescribed contraceptives for recipients of state transfer payments and low-income earners must be covered without red tape.
In perspective, free and easy access to contraceptives should apply to all.
The simplest way would be to regulate this access through the health insurance companies.
Combating queer hostility
Lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans*, inter* and queer people should be able to live their lives self-determined and free of discrimination.
For this and against legal discrimination as well as disadvantages and hostilities in everyday life, we will send a strong signal
and ensure the protection of people on the basis of their sexual and gender identity by supplementing Article 3 (3) of the Basic Law.
Together with community organizations, we will present a nationwide interdepartmental action plan "Live Diversity!" for the acceptance of sexual and gender diversity - with the aim of guaranteeing LGBTIQ* equal participation in social life in order to promote the acceptance of diversity.
This also includes measures for LGBTIQ*-inclusive social policy as well as institutional and project funding of LGBTIQ* associations, organizations and foundations.
We want to lift the discriminatory ban on blood donations for gay and bisexual men and transgender people.
LGBTIQ* are particularly often affected by sexualized violence.
We will resolutely fight hate crime directed against LGBTIQ*.
In order to protect and empower queer youth, especially in rural areas, we want to inform young people about the diversity of sexual orientations and gender identities and raise awareness about homophobia, bi-sexuality, trans* and queer hostility with a nationwide education campaign.
We will work with the states to ensure that gender and sexual diversity are reflected in curricula and educational programs and that they are consistently implemented.
Queer-hostile crimes are to be recorded separately in statistics.
Guarantee self-determination, repeal transsexual law
With a self-determination law we will ensure that the outdated transsexual law is finally repealed.
We will make it possible to change the gender entry and name at the request of the person concerned without the need for compulsory psychological assessments.
We will make the ban on disclosure more specific and sanction intentional violations of it.
We stipulate that all unnecessary surgeries and treatments on intersex children be banned and loopholes in the relevant laws be closed.
Operations that were performed as medically necessary are to be recorded centrally, taking into account strict data protection, in order to achieve better traceability for those affected and a better data basis.
The right to self-determination must be ensured in the case of health care services as well as body rebalancing operations and hormone therapies.
We want to enshrine the right to medical body reassignment measures in law and ensure that the costs are covered by the health care system.
We will establish a compensation fund for trans* and inter*gender victims whose physical integrity has been violated or whose marriages have been forcibly divorced.
We strengthen security and citizens' rights
Security for all and a well-equipped police force that is close to the citizens
Germany is basically a safe country.
This is also due to the good work of the police.
We want it to stay that way.
Theft, burglaries, acts of violence, hate crimes or organized crime nevertheless weigh heavily on victims and their families.
We want to strengthen the police for their tasks such as prevention, education and prosecution and the protection of fundamental rights, in the city and in the countryside, analog and digital.
We want to remedy the earlier staff cuts at the Federal Police and the Federal Criminal Police Office by launching an offensive to fill vacant positions, while at the same time enabling specialized training and courses of study.
We want the police to reflect the diversity of the population.
Police officers deserve our appreciation, as do good working conditions and efficient structures within the authorities.
Secure and powerful data processing, combined with mobile IT and clearly regulated competencies, is a basic requirement of modern police work.
However, good policing cannot be a substitute for societal problem solving.
That is why we will support and further expand cooperation with civilian organizations and external experts.
The special responsibility of the police
We want a society in which everyone can live freely and safely.
Safety must be equally guaranteed everywhere.
We do not treat the rights of freedom and citizenship as a mere triviality of domestic policy, but as its central protected interests.
Safety should not be a question of social class, origin, gender, sexual identity, appearance or place of residence.
For the police to be able to perform their complex tasks, they must be able to build on the trust of the entire population.
As the executive organ of the state's monopoly on the use of force, the police also have a special responsibility.
This corresponds to the introduction of an individual, but anonymous identification for the federal police as well as the position of an independent federal police representative with comprehensive competencies, to whom both police officers and citizens can turn in the event of occurring problems or recognized grievances.
Crimes committed in office and deaths in police custody must be solved without any ifs and buts.
We will develop the control powers of the federal police in such a way that they no longer lead to racial profiling, and we will test the introduction of so-called ticket systems in order to make the reasons for police controls transparent for the persons concerned.
Police officers should be able and obliged to continue their training even after they have completed it.
Important training areas include dealing with people with mental illness, anti-discrimination and the risk of racial profiling.
Particular stresses in the service should be followed up regularly, for example in the context of supervision.
A nationwide, external specialist center for pastoral care and ethical education is to be established.
The already existing ZeBuS (Center for Ethical Education and Pastoral Care in the Police NRW) can serve as a model here.
Long overdue are independent scientific studies on right-wing extremism, anti-Semitism and racism in security and law enforcement agencies.
We want to make police research more possible and open up the police more for this purpose.
Rational security policy requires a solid factual basis and clear responsibilities.
That is why, among other things, we will reintroduce the Periodic Safety Report, whose informative value has proven itself in the past.
Create European Criminal Bureau, prosecute organized crime
Numerous crimes take place across borders; organized crime and Islamist or right-wing extremist terrorist networks in particular do not stop at national borders.
To protect citizens and defend our freedom, we need stronger cross-border cooperation between police and judiciary: through joint European police teams, by upgrading Europol to a European Criminal Investigation Office, as well as through closer judicial cooperation between the Member States, also with the help of Eurojust, and in the fight against fraud affecting EU finances with the EU's anti-fraud office OLAF and the European Public Prosecutor's Office, using state-of-the-art analytical methods.
Due to the increasing interconnection of European databases, high data protection standards
and an improvement of cross-border legal protection are indispensable.
This cooperation needs an independent judiciary and fair criminal proceedings in all EU member states.
Reorganize constitutional protection
The Office for the Protection of the Constitution has lost a lot of trust in the past, especially with regard to the NSU complex.
Changes can be observed here, especially as a result of a new start in terms of personnel, but a structural reboot must nevertheless follow, which will improve the analytical capability of the Office for the Protection of the Constitution.
The expertise on anti-constitutional efforts that already exists in academia and civil society must be used more systematically.
This expertise is to be incorporated and strengthened across the board and permanently promoted by a Democracy Promotion Act.
We want to structurally reorganize the Office for the Protection of the Constitution: on the one hand, with an independent institute working scientifically from public sources to protect the constitution.
On the other hand, with a downsized Federal Office for Danger Detection and Counterintelligence, which works with intelligence resources clearly separated from police tasks in conformity with the rule of law.
Closer and more effective parliamentary control is also needed here.
In order to regain trust, we will strengthen the control of the work of the intelligence services and regulate the use of human sources by law.
Combating right-wing extremism, dismantling networks
There are more than 32,000 right-wing extremists in Germany who, despite their exclusionary völkisch approach, are increasingly networking transnationally.
Combating right-wing extremist structures - also within the security agencies - must be a priority for all security agencies.
This requires a bundle of prevention, protection and sanction measures.
Through a nationwide networked prevention strategy, we want to massively expand prevention work and, in doing so, also focus on the anti-feminist and nationalist-folk dimension of right-wing extremism.
The latter includes, for example, the right-wing extremist and violent "Ülkücü movement," colloquially known as the "Gray Wolves," which we want to push back with all the political and legal means at our disposal.
Civil society groups are doing important work to educate and push back right-wing extremist structures.
They are to be supported structurally and in the long term by a Democracy Promotion Act.
We will initiate independent scientific studies on racism and right-wing extremism in the various security agencies, and record and consistently prosecute hate violence.
Right-wing extremists must be removed from security agencies more consistently and swiftly than in the past.
We want to create the legal conditions for this.
The murder series of the right-wing terrorist NSU as well as other racist and right-wing extremist acts of terrorism in Germany - for example the murders in Hanau - have still not been fully dealt with.
That is why we are setting up an archive on right-wing terror, based on the model of the Stasi Records Office, in which the documents and findings of the 13 parliamentary committees of inquiry into the NSU will also be evaluated and which will be accessible to researchers, journalists and civil society in the long term.
Our solidarity goes to all victims and those affected by right-wing terrorist, extreme right-wing and racist attacks.
We therefore want to establish a fund at the federal level for victims and those affected, especially by right-wing extremist, racist or Islamist violence.
Protect from terrorism
Any form of politically motivated violence endangers our constitutional state.
Terrorism by violent right-wing extremists and Islamists is a particular threat to public security in Germany.
In order to protect the open society, our democracy and the people, we must fight terror decisively - through effective intersectional prevention work, better networking of the security authorities and consistent monitoring of so-called endangered persons.
This requires a definition of the term "dangerous" that is coordinated at European level with legally verifiable classification and categorization criteria.
Dangerous persons must be closely monitored.
The aim is to ensure that outstanding arrest warrants for dangerous individuals are consistently enforced.
and ongoing proceedings across national borders.
Cooperation and communication between security authorities, including across national borders, must be reformed, including the creation of legal foundations for the counterterrorism centers GTAZ and GETZ.
Beyond the defense against terrorism, we reject encroachments on fundamental rights based on a classification as a so-called dangerous person.
We will expand exit programs for people from the right-wing extremist and Islamist scenes,
as well as assistance and counseling services for victims and their families.
A nationwide, professionalized prevention and deradicalization network is needed - analogous to the civil society organizations that have already networked better than the political levels at the federal and state levels.
We want to strengthen prevention and deradicalization in prisons.
To make assassinations more difficult, we will step up our efforts to prosecute illegal arms trafficking, especially on online marketplaces.
More security through fewer weapons
There are over five million legal weapons in Germany.
Every year, people also die from legal weapons, from handling them or from criminal acts.
These range from domestic violence to rampages to extremist attacks.
Such crimes are not necessarily committed by authorized legal gun owners, but also by people who illegally gain access to these weapons because they have access to them, for example in a shared household.
Improved crime statistics are needed to obtain a valid picture of the dimensions and causes of such crimes.
It must be documented whether a crime was committed with a legal or illegal firearm, whether the crime also involved firing a shot, and whether or not the suspect was authorized to possess the firearm.
Every person who dies from a gun is one too many.
Therefore, we want to gradually end the availability of lethal firearms - except for hunters* who cannot perform their duties without these weapons.
In the area of shooting sports, we are also working in dialog with sport shooters to promote the switch to non-lethal firearms.
Making civil protection crisis-proof
Germany has an outstanding network of actors who are capable of acting in the event of a disaster.
The backbone for this is formed by the predominantly voluntary members of the aid organizations, fire departments and the technical aid organization.
The climate crisis and the challenges of our modern society are putting this system under pressure.
Especially transnational disasters, such as pandemics, floods, forest fires or widespread power outages, have an enormous damage potential and require coordinated action when individual countries reach their limits.
We want the federal government to become more involved here and to give the Federal Office of Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance more powers.
We want to further strengthen the commitment of volunteers and spontaneous helpers and make them fit for digital areas, for example through a cyber aid organization.
We are also committed to strengthening public health population protection to ensure interdisciplinary response to future pandemics.
Protection for whistleblowers
Exhaust gas manipulation, abuses in care facilities, the sale of Facebook user data - hardly any of the major economic scandals of recent years would even have come to public attention without the tips from companies.
Malpractices in companies, public authorities and other areas such as doping in sports to criminal activities in companies and public authorities need courageous people to bring them to light.
In the interest of all of us, these whistleblowers must be better protected against foreign and domestic reprisals and the health, financial and social consequences of their reporting.
We will achieve this with a Whistleblower Protection Act that ambitiously and comprehensively implements the EU Whistleblower Directive for all national law as well.
This includes a two-stage reporting procedure and a compensation fund to minimize personal risk.
The fear of economic and personal damage as an obstacle to whistleblowing should thus be reduced and potential whistleblowers should be encouraged.
We want whistleblowers like Edward Snowden, to whom we owe the exposure of worldwide spying and mass surveillance by numerous intelligence services, to be able to live freely and securely in a democratic country, and offer them this in Germany as well.
Targeted defense against specific dangers
A functioning, democratic constitutional state must guarantee security and uphold the freedoms that constitute it.
We stand for a rational security and crime policy that protects legal assets from real harm, averts specific threats on an ad hoc and targeted basis, and ensures proportionate criminal prosecution
instead of placing the population under general suspicion with blanket mass surveillance.
Safety laws must be put to the test, be based on valid empirical evidence in the future, and be independently evaluated on a regular basis with regard to their effectiveness.
For this purpose, we draw up a monitoring overall account, which is continuously updated.
We reject the use of biometric identification in public spaces, such as facial recognition, as well as the indiscriminate expansion of video surveillance, the retention of data without any reason, general backdoors in digital devices and applications, or the infiltration of technical devices (online searches or source tapping).
In addition, an obligation is to be introduced to report security gaps and actively work towards their elimination.
Companies must not be obliged to compromise IT security and network integrity at the expense of the general public.
We are fighting for technically and humanly well-equipped and targeted police work on a clear legal basis.
In this way, we also strengthen legal certainty for the work of the authorities and create trust.
We want to strengthen digital competence in the security authorities so that existing opportunities for crime prevention and detection are applied effectively.
We guarantee the rule of law and strengthen consumer protection
Consistently against corruption
Corruption, tax evasion, money laundering or manipulation in the financial market are legal violations that can have devastating effects on competition and the free market, for the environment and human (rights).
Economic crimes account for a large share of the financial harm recorded by the police.
In the future, we will therefore hold companies more effectively accountable for violations of the law.
The aim is to combine and supplement the already scattered existing regulations in an independent law against white-collar crime.
In order to prevent legal violations by companies from not being punished due to organized irresponsibility, it should also be possible in the future to link them to organizational culpability.
We want to strengthen the obligation to prove the legal origin of large payments.
Sanctions must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive in accordance with EU requirements, for example by allowing ill-gotten gains to be estimated when skimming and providing the necessary resources to do so.
We want to expand the catalog of sanctions to include further measures, such as exclusion from the award of public contracts, compensation for damage, and mandatory precautions for companies to prevent criminal acts, and to introduce a public sanctions register.
Legal protection for everyone, introduce class actions
People must also be able to effectively enforce their rights against economically stronger parties, for example in cases such as the diesel emissions fraud.
To this end, we are introducing class action lawsuits so that people can effectively obtain justice and, for example, compensation for damages, even in the case of smaller but mass damages.
The collective action procedures introduced to date, such as the Musterfeststellungsklage, which is only available to consumers, and the Kapitalanleger-Musterverfahrensgesetz, are inadequate.
On the other hand, the increasingly popular and often effective enforcement of rights by legal tech companies can help many people get their rights quickly and easily.
We therefore want to integrate collective legal protection into the Code of Civil Procedure in a generalized and standardized manner and enable the bundling of individual claims within the framework of a class action.
For better enforcement of the law, barriers to access are to be lowered, procedures simplified, and counseling and legal aid strengthened.
We are swiftly transposing the EU directive on representative actions into national law in a consumer-friendly manner.
The effects of differing financial strength of the parties, possibilities of delaying proceedings, and the influence of third parties actually affected (for example, insurance companies) on court proceedings must be minimized.
Criminal sanctions with reason and a sense of proportion
We review the effects of the changes in criminal law and criminal procedure in recent years against the yardstick of rational, evidence-based criminal policy and reform the sanctions system with the aim of prevention and resocialization.
These include eliminating useless substitute prison sentences, making probation more effective, and strengthening outpatient sanctioning options.
Improve child protection in court
In family law proceedings, decisions are made that can have a significant impact on the future lives of children and their families.
Domestic violence must be considered in visitation and custody decisions.
It is necessary to strengthen child protection in court and to take children's opinions into account.
Hearings must be designed in a child-friendly manner and multiple interviews must be avoided whenever possible.
In family court proceedings, there is a need for appropriate interdisciplinary services, such as childhood homes.
On the one hand, we will make further training mandatory for family court judges, and on the other hand, we will take this into account in the judges' workload.
We also want to establish the possibility of an appeal to the Federal Court of Justice in matters of parent and child.
In criminal proceedings, we want to further strengthen the victim rights of children.
Sexualized violence against children must be consistently investigated and prosecuted, above all by more police and public prosecutor's office personnel - especially those specialized in cybercrime.
Protect against cost traps, online cancellation with just one click
Online contracts can be concluded with a single click, but termination must be in text form.
Long minimum terms and automatic one-year contract extensions are also anything but consumer-friendly.
Consumers are still being taken by surprise on the phone or at the front door and having unwanted contracts foisted on them.
We want to protect consumers from contract traps and ensure that online cancellation is as easy as online ordering.
Just as there is an order button, there must also be a cancellation button as well as a mandatory confirmation of receipt for online/email cancellations.
Contract terms and automatic renewals must be shortened - to the benefit of consumer protection and competition.
We want to halve the maximum minimum contract term of two years and reduce the tacit contract extension from one year to one month.
Contracts concluded by telephone shall not be valid until they are subsequently confirmed.
We also want to better protect consumers from dubious doorstep selling.
A right to repair
From washing machines to cell phones - many devices end up in the trash after only a short time because they break quickly, cannot be repaired, or software updates are no longer offered.
This annoys consumers,
wastes valuable resources
and causes mountains of electronic waste.
Instead, we focus on quality and durability.
Through a right to repair, we want to avoid electronic waste from the outset.
The basis for this is binding design specifications so that electronic devices are designed to be as durable, repairable and recyclable as possible.
This should not only be about the hardware of a device.
At least for the expected service life, spare parts and software updates must be available at low cost.
A label is to make it recognizable and comparable how long spare parts and software updates are made available.
By doubling the warranty periods to four years, extending the reversal of the burden of proof to two years, and specifying the manufacturer's intended service life, we want to ensure that devices are built to last longer.
In this way, we will make full use of the leeway offered by EU requirements and at the same time commit ourselves to greater consumer protection in the EU.
We will also introduce the reduced VAT rate for repair services and lobby at EU level for its extension to the repair of electrical appliances.
Financial advice in the interest of customers
Customers are often offered financial and insurance products that do not meet their personal needs.
These products are often good for the profits of banks and insurance companies, but bad for customers.
We want to turn financial consulting from head to toe.
To this end, we are creating a uniform and transparent job description for financial advisors.
All intermediaries and advisors are to be supervised by BaFin in the future.
We want to move away from commission-based consulting and gradually toward independent fee-based consulting.
To this end, we are creating a legal fee structure that strengthens financial advisors and makes them more independent.
Together with the consumer advice centers and the industry, we are developing fee models (installment payments, flat rates) that fit people's life situations and preferences,
and using standard retirement products to reduce costs, especially for people with small and medium incomes.
Financial supervisors should make more frequent use of the possibility to prohibit the sale of harmful misleading financial products and provide more financial education.
In addition, we want to strengthen BaFin's competencies in consumer protection and expand the participation rights of the Consumer Advisory Council.
We will limit excessive overdraft interest and fees, especially for the basic account.
We promote culture, the arts and sports
Crisis-proof structures for culture
The arts are free and do not have to serve a purpose.
At the same time, they are of central importance for the self-reflection of society, the cohesion and the personality formation of the individual.
We want the cultural landscape to find new vitality, diversity and richness after the pandemic with its months-long closures, and for culture and cultural education to finally become a natural part of the provision of public services.
That is why we want to anchor culture as a state objective in the Basic Law.
A sustainable (reconstruction) strategy must strengthen municipal finances as an important foundation for cultural life, reform the law on grants, allow for more cooperation between the federal government, the states and municipalities in financing cultural institutions and projects, and establish a fund to protect cultural institutions from displacement and demolition, securing cultural venues such as clubs for the long term.
In the future, public funding for culture should be participatory, inclusive, gender-responsive, and based on transparent criteria.
Likewise, there needs to be equal appreciation in funding and framework conditions for all cultural forms and genres, for the independent scene and institutionally funded cultural institutions.
Better protection for cultural workers and creative professionals
The Corona crisis shows the precarious conditions under which many cultural and media professionals work.
For a diverse cultural landscape, it needs a safeguard that offers freedom and enables artistic and creative work.
We advocate for good working and training conditions and fair pay so that precarious working conditions are overcome at private and especially public cultural institutions.
Solo self-employed and cultural workers should be protected for the time of the Corona crisis with a subsistence allowance of 1,200 euros per month.
But protection is also needed beyond this.
The Künstlersozialkasse (KSK) must be strengthened financially, legal certainty must be created for KSK membership, including for artists who are only temporarily employed for productions subject to compulsory insurance, and voluntary continued insurance for the self-employed in unemployment insurance must be simplified.
It must be ensured that authors receive appropriate remuneration for their works.
Appropriate participation, especially in the profits of distribution platforms, ensures that cultural and media professionals can continue to earn from their works.
Users of digital content should not be treated less favorably than analog goods when it comes to lending and reselling.
For this reason, libraries should be allowed to lend e-books under the same conditions that have proven effective for physical books, without having to enter into licensing agreements.
Culture in society
Active cultural life is the basis of democratic societies.
This is where the debate about how we want to live takes place.
Therefore, society in all its diversity must be visible in cultural creation.
We want to open up and strengthen cultural institutions so that everyone has easy access to them and can use and shape their offerings.
Existing social, financial or structural obstacles must be removed, for example, through free admission for schoolchildren to state museums, through the opening of public libraries on Sundays or through a culture pass for people with low incomes.
We want to continuously and comprehensively promote cultural offerings that take into account the situation and needs of their city or community and see this as their central task for the future.
In rural regions, but also in urban centers, cultural institutions are to become hubs of encounters and so-called "third places" that also provide access to culture for people who have so far benefited little from it.
We want to introduce a quota system in the appointment of directors, in the composition of state-funded cultural enterprises, in the awarding of grants and work commissions, and in state juries in order to ensure gender equality, and to promote flat hierarchies and participatory structures.
In addition, care must be taken to ensure adequate representation of the diverse society.
Topics such as sustainability,
diversity and inclusive participation must be an integral part of training for cultural professions.
We also want to promote cultural diversity and transculturality, i.e. the interpenetration of cultures.
Making the cultural enterprise more ecological
The cultural sector and the arts can play an important role in addressing the climate crisis.
There are many initiatives and actors who are trying with great commitment to work in a more resource-efficient way and to orientate the cultural sector ecologically.
We will support this commitment through a central advisory office, the Green Culture Desk, and establish a Green Culture Fund as a funding instrument.
Artists also provide important impulses for sustainable transformation.
In the sense of a fund for aesthetics and sustainability, we want to create an instrument for interdepartmental, transdisciplinary funding that enables the development of long-term structures and creates free spaces for experimentation and action.
This also refers to hybrid models of cooperation between artists, scientists, and civil society actors.
Strengthening film and cinema culture and leading it into the digital age
We want to strengthen film as a formative medium of the moving image and cinemas as public cultural venues in view of the rapid changes in production and distribution forms.
To enhance the artistic quality and appeal of German and European film, we are simplifying decision-making processes:
We are unbundling the structure of TV stations and a multitude of committees in favor of criteria-based, automatic funding, and are focusing our attention more on the promotion of materials and screenplays as well as up-and-coming talent.
Binding quotas ensure that women have equal opportunities in film.
Minimum social standards and fair exploitation channels improve the economic situation of filmmakers.
Ecological production is rewarded with financial incentives.
We support cinemas and festivals with reliable funding instruments.
Strengthen and open up the culture of remembrance
Remembrance culture makes a decisive contribution to self-understanding and cohesion and is a fundamental prerequisite for the protection of our democracy.
But there are still gaps in the reappraisal of Germany's history of crimes.
National Socialism must continue to be dealt with consistently.
We want to honor victim groups that have received little attention to date, such as the so-called "asocials," "professional criminals" and "euthanasia" victims, and recognize them by providing appropriate compensation.
Their life stories as well as the crime scenes of the murders should be researched and marked.
The financial support of research work, the further development of the educational and scientific work of the memorial sites as well as the further processing and restitution of Nazi looted art are the main focus.
This includes meeting further obligations to countries that suffered under German occupation.
The SED dictatorship is also to be further reappraised by continuing research and political education work at the field offices of the Federal Commissioner for the Stasi Records.
We will support sites commemorating the peaceful revolution of 1989, German reunification and the subsequent far-reaching transformation processes in eastern Germany under federal sponsorship.
We also want to provide greater support for the work of regional initiatives to come to terms with the past and are committed to unbureaucratic and higher compensation payments for the victims and persecutees of the SED dictatorship.
We also want to create legal regulations for the return of looted art from the Nazi and GDR periods.
Through a central memorial and learning site, we will raise awareness of the continuities of colonialism, fostering a social debate about our colonial legacy that provides an anti-racist perspective on history and society.
To this end, the critical reappraisal of colonial crimes and the decolonization of public spaces are central, and extensive provenance research, digitization and transparent publication, as well as binding regulations for the restitution of cultural heritage from colonial contexts are needed.
This can only be achieved in close cooperation with the descendants and civil society initiatives of the formerly colonized and aggrieved worldwide.
At the same time, the German culture of remembrance must open up to the diverse experiences and stories of people who immigrated to Germany or whose history is interwoven with Germany's, and the memorial concept must be developed accordingly.
We will also work for an active culture of remembrance in all public institutions.
A development plan for the sport
In sport, the largest vehicle of organized civil society and voluntary engagement, democratic values such as togetherness, tolerance, integration, inclusion, commitment and health prevention are lived and communicated on a daily basis.
Sport thus plays an outstanding role in social coexistence.
We will promote this and create better framework conditions.
We are committed to ensuring that the participation of women in sports and the diversity of athletes are also reflected in the composition of decision-making bodies.
We want to pool ideas and energies and, together with sports associations, states, municipalities, academia and with the participation of citizens, develop and implement a sports development plan - similar to the Golden Plan from the 1960s.
A special focus must be placed on structurally weak regions, especially in eastern Germany, because the discrepancy between east and west is still a problem in popular sports 30 years after the peaceful revolution.
Sufficiently available and barrier-free sports facilities and exercise areas are part of the provision of basic needs in cities and rural areas, which is why we want exercise and sports areas to be firmly anchored in housing policy and neighborhood planning and existing facilities to be able to be renovated by municipalities in compliance with energy regulations.
This also includes swimming facilities in particular, because our aspiration is that every child should be able to learn to swim.
We want to achieve this with a federal program for the renovation and repair of swimming pools.
Major sporting events should be made possible in a climate-neutral, socially sustainable and human rights-compliant manner, and their costs should be presented transparently so that they also create a lasting infrastructure benefit for local citizens.
This requires a nationally uniform and federally coordinated overall strategy in
which citizen participation is part of the planning from the very beginning.
The principle of prevention is the best prevention, so we want to support public spaces for physical activity that are accessible to all and allow people with a low income to participate in sports.
E-sports have long since ceased to be a niche topic and are inspiring more and more people.
We want to enable new ways in sports and youth clubs - with the recognition of non-profit status for e-sports, we strengthen voluntary commitment.
We want to activate potential for recruiting young talent in the IT and creative industries.
We will promote the development of e-sports and gaming, particularly with regard to diversity, sustainability, protection of minors, and media literacy, and will work with gamers, associations, and academia to shape these developments;
together with all stakeholders, we will take a stand against discrimination and hate speech.
Top sport needs grassroots sport
A strong grassroots sport needs role models.
Competitive sports must be about the best possible promotion of talent and not just about fixating on a certain number of medals.
That is why we want to focus on the conditions and prospects for top athletes, especially for young talent, when promoting top-level sports.
The existing state employment opportunities for competitive athletes* are supplemented by civilian alternatives.
We want to enhance the value of the important social and pedagogical work of trainers, both as volunteers and as professionals.
We strengthen NADA in the prevention of doping and in the fight against doping and call for far-reaching reforms at the international level of WADA, which must carry out its tasks completely independently and allow athletes real co-determination.
The doping past must be fully clarified, and we provide appropriate support for doping victims.
Corruption scandals at the highest level of sports officials and increasing commercialization also threaten top-level sports.
Particularly in the case of soccer as a public sport, it is important to increase the participation opportunities of fans and to anchor it more firmly in society again.
That is why transparency and good governance should also be promoted in sports.
Compliance with human rights must be implemented by sports federations on the basis of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and made a prerequisite when awarding major sports events.
We advocate for a national strategy against psychological, physical and sexual violence in sport, of which the development of an independent Center for Safe Sport is an integral part.
We are taking action against right-wing extremism and other forms of group-based hostility in sports with a long-term financially strong federal program advised by an independent body.
We ensure reliable framework conditions for the socio-educational soccer fan projects and their coordination office.
We protect the civil rights of fans and protect them from excessive data collection and collective punishment.
Sexist structures that still exist must be broken down and sports facilities must be planned in a gender-sensitive way.
We continue to build Europe
Democratically shaping the future of the EU
We see Germany as having a central and historic responsibility for the cohesion and further development of the EU.
Most recently, however, Berlin has at best administered, and often put the brakes on.
We want to actively shape European policy in a coordinated manner - with a clear set of values, along the lines of strong Franco-German cooperation and in cooperation with our European partners.
Our goal is a democratically strengthened EU that sticks together, moves forward,
and brings its full weight to bear against the climate crisis and species extinction.
We stand for a united Europe without barriers, because freedom of movement is one of the greatest achievements of the European project.
In some areas, we are only moving forward at different speeds.
Increased cooperation within the framework of the treaties offers good opportunities for this and must always be carried out with the aim of ensuring that everyone can ultimately join in and with full parliamentary rights.
For us, the further development of European institutions is closely linked to the expansion of social cohesion in the EU.
In the coming months, the "Conference on the Future of Europe" offers a great opportunity to strengthen the European public and to develop reforms of the EU together with the citizens.
We want to use it for the next phase of European integration on the way to a Federal European Republic and to formulate European answers to the major challenges.
The results of the conference are to be implemented within the framework of European legislation up to and including treaty amendments.
Strengthen European Parliament
The history of the EU is a history of increasing legitimacy of European institutions.
Our goal is to strengthen the parliamentary democracy of the European Union: with a Parliament that decides in all areas on an equal footing with the Council, a full right of initiative for legislation and a strong budgetary right.
It shall be able to elect the Commission on the proposal of the President of the Commission and to dismiss the Commission by a constructive vote of no confidence.
For the elections to the European Parliament, we advocate that the citizens, with their vote for a top candidate of the parties, also determine the next President of the EU Commission.
In the future, some of the members of parliament will no longer enter the European Parliament via many national lists, but via EU-wide, transnational lists.
We are committed to the further development of European citizenship so that EU citizens enjoy the same rights and obligations in the Member States in which they live.
We want all EU citizens who have their permanent place of residence in Germany to be able to vote not only in local and European elections, but also in state and federal elections.
Dissolving blockades with majority decisions
The European Union needs more capacity to act in order to move forward on an equal footing with today's challenges.
We can no longer afford blockades by individual states in areas such as foreign and security policy and tax issues, or in energy and social affairs.
As long as national individual interests can thwart the European common good, the EU will not be able to take on a more active role, for example for more tax justice or more responsibility for democracy and human rights in the world.
We therefore advocate the introduction of majority decisions in co-decision with the European Parliament for all remaining policy areas in which decisions are still taken by unanimity today.
This is also important to ensure the EU's ability to act in the event of further enlargement rounds.
Our goal is to develop the European institutions into a bicameral system.
A European Law on Associations and Non-Profit Organizations
Part of the European community is the growing together of civil societies.
That is why we advocate an EU-wide law on associations and non-profit organizations.
A European association status with clear rules on foundation, non-profit status and dissolution would place associations under the protection of the EU and remove them from national arbitrariness.
In addition, we want to strengthen the European Citizens' Initiative as a central instrument for the participation of citizens and civil society.
For example, citizens should be able to call for the convening of European Future Conferences or Citizens' Councils, from which a reform of the treaties can also be suggested.
If a citizens' initiative is successful, a legislative proposal should follow at the latest after one year and an examination of compatibility with EU fundamental rights, and a plenary vote should take place in the European Parliament on the objective of the initiative.
Making influence on EU legislation transparent
More transparency strengthens European democracy and citizens' trust in politics.
In order to make it easier to understand what the governments of the member states are advocating in Brussels, we are advocating deadlines within the framework of legislation by which a public debate must have taken place in the Council.
In the process, all governments must present their current position on the Council Presidency's proposal.
In a German federal government, we set a good example in this regard.
We also want to substantially develop access to EU documents.
The EU already works more transparently with stakeholders than the Bundestag.
We want to take further steps - with a binding lobby register for all EU institutions, stricter waiting periods when switching between politics and business, and a "legislative footprint" that makes influence on legislation more verifiable, monitored by an independent ethics authority that can impose sanctions.
Making European fundamental rights enforceable
The EU is a community of values and law.
In the long term, we want to make the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights enforceable against the nation states in order to strengthen the rights of all EU citizens.
With the EU Mechanism for Democracy, the Rule of Law and Fundamental Rights, we advocate a stronger instrument to sanction violations by authoritarian member states.
The annual rule of law report is to be followed by concrete measures, up to and including infringement proceedings and the non-payment of subsidies.
The newly created rule of law mechanism must be put to work immediately.
Municipalities and regions as well as non-governmental organizations should then be able to receive funding directly from the EU.
Substantial progress is needed in Article 7 procedures on the rule of law.
All member states should join the European Public Prosecutor's Office if they want to receive new EU funds and publicly account for the recipients of subsidies.
Every seventh European is part of a national or language minority.
We support the Minority SafePack initiative and want to strengthen minority rights such as the preservation of language, culture and identity as well as naming rights in the EU.
A public service media platform in Europe
A Europe that is growing together needs its own public digital places where its citizens can come together to inform themselves, to participate, to talk and to discuss politics.
So far, only commercially operated digital platforms have been considered for this purpose.
As a contemporary response, we therefore advocate a European digital platform in public ownership.
It bundles high-quality content across Europe - free of advertising, open and multilingual.
Based on technical openness, interoperability and best data protection standards, it can also serve as a communication platform for civil society and educational institutions to provide content and bring the EU closer to citizens in information campaigns.
The basis is a public law mandate.
It works with national public broadcasters to make their content accessible across Europe
and operates free from any political interference.
Europe of the municipalities and regions
A democratic, diverse and citizen-centered EU depends on the strength of local and regional authorities.
True to the principle of subsidiarity, the EU should provide support where local authorities reach their limits - but not regulate every area of life.
The competition rules of the internal market must not force municipalities to privatize public goods.
In EU trade agreements, exceptions are needed for municipal services as well as for public and social services.
For more Europe-wide cooperation, we want to strengthen town twinning, expand INTERREG programs for cross-border cooperation and promote Euregios and Eurodistricts through less bureaucracy and more flexibility.
We want to strengthen European cooperation in higher education and, with this in mind, further develop the concept of European Universities.
Municipalities and regions need more say at the European level, including through a strengthened Committee of the Regions.
To implement the Green Deal and in the design and awarding of subsidy programs, we rely on the partnership principle and support local small and medium-sized enterprises in making their contribution.
We want to reduce bureaucracy through increased digitization.
In the future, EU budget funds are to be made available directly to municipal and local civil society actors.
Chapter 6: Working together internationally
The great challenges of our time are global: pandemics, the climate and biodiversity crises, hunger, urbanization, migration and the social-ecological transformation as a special task.
We can only master them together.
For years, however, Germany has at best moderated in Europe and the world, has often hesitated, and has gone into hiding.
It is time to pursue a cooperative and active policy again and to move forward as a shaping force in the sense of a multilateral and precautionary, a coherent and value-driven policy - always European and along the lines of reliable German-French cooperation, with our partners inside and outside Europe, transatlantically and within the framework of the United Nations.
Based on the United Nations Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Paris Climate Agreement, international human rights norms and the rights-based international order, we are committed to an impact-oriented global structural policy that sees the protection and provision of global common goods, a fair distribution of resources and prosperity as well as development opportunities for all as the best precaution against the climate and biodiversity crisis, conflicts, violence or the immeasurable suffering of hunger, flight and displacement.
To this end, we also want to drive forward a European policy of global networking and connectivity and welcome corresponding partnerships The starting point of our policy is a strengthened, crisis-proof European Union capable of action.
We want to defend the values on which it is based internally and represent them vigorously externally: Human rights, democracy, freedom and the rule of law.
The EU as a force for peace is not only a response to a long and painful history of wars and hostilities on our continent, exported throughout the world, but above all a promise for the future that must be kept.
It is our home worth protecting and unique.
Precisely because we are convinced Europeans, we are fighting for its continuous development.
We work for a European community of values that reduces its dependence on third parties in critical areas and expands its sovereignty and strategic capacity to act - in a balance of cooperation where possible and autonomy where necessary.
Such an EU is able to provide and protect critical infrastructure and global common goods,
globally for international law
and universal human rights.
An important foundation for this is to counter division and anti-democratic aspirations within Europe.
With the largest single market in the world, the EU has considerable economic influence.
We want to use this leverage to shape the global transformation fairly and set ambitious standards.
We are aware of the considerable resistance and dilemmas this entails.
With their authoritarian hegemonic ambitions, states like China and Russia, which systematically undermine human and civil rights, not only force other states into economic and political dependency, but they also want to divide Europe.
At the same time, a global socio-ecological transformation will not be possible without China, even without Russia or Brazil.
That alone shows: Global system competition with authoritarian states and dictatorships is real, sometimes leaving only the choice between the frying pan or the fire - and presenting us with such formidable tasks that any form of going it alone would be doomed to failure.
We are countering this trend with a democracy offensive and strengthening global cooperation between democracies and democrats.
A Partnership for Democracy should include countries, civil society groups and parliamentarians committed to ambitious democratic standards.
In addition, we want to better coordinate and expand the strengthening of democratic rule of law, regional integration, civil society and human rights across ministries.
We prefer rules-based, multilateral cooperation to informal formats.
We cannot resolve the many contradictions and limitations of foreign, development and security policy action.
The defense of human rights,
Democracy
and the clear commitment to freedom movements lead to the limits of political action.
But we cannot escape this responsibility.
This makes European coherence and political alliances with all other states, but also regions, municipalities and civil society or intergovernmental actors, for whom the value of cooperation and the strength of law are also the basis of international relations, all the more important.
We want to strengthen these alliances and help shape them with confidence.
We want to improve Germany's representation in international organizations and strengthen its commitment.
We are sovereign only together.
We are committed to the honest reconciliation of interests, a
feminist foreign policy
, respect for the rights of marginalized groups,
cooperation and the rule of law,
non-violence and coordinated crisis prevention, and rule-based and primarily civil conflict management in a closely interconnected world.
Our goal is a world order in which conflicts are not resolved by the law of the strongest, but at the negotiating table.
And we extend our hand to all who want to participate.
We align our policies postcolonially and antiracist, aware of Germany's responsibility in the world and conscious of the crimes of National Socialism.
As a highly developed and export-oriented industrialized country, Germany is one of the main causes of global warming and acts as a decisive player in a globalization that not only means prosperity and development, but also leads to the exploitation of people and the environment.
We see this responsibility, especially toward countries in the global South, as a driver for ambitious change and decisive action with the goal of global justice, and we start with ourselves to achieve this.
This also means that we not only demand compliance with and protection of human rights from others, but also measure ourselves against them.
Human rights are an obligation under international law and the immutable basis of a value-driven international policy.
"All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights: Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is the guiding principle of our commitment - also in European refugee policy.
It is the great failure of Europe.
In no other area do European governments fail so badly to meet their own standards of morality, human rights and international law.
But we have ways and rules to address flight appropriately and according to clear, human rights-based principles.
These rules exist, just as there have always been moments in our history when they were acted upon.
We want to build on this and - if not on a pan-European level, then in a humanitarian coalition of the willing within and outside the EU - drive forward a paradigm shift towards consistent prevention of the causes of flight and humane treatment of refugees.
We rely on rationality and the will to act, on humanity and responsibility - and on the indispensable pragmatism of emergency aid.
The magnitude and complexity of the international challenges that lie ahead should be the yardstick for our national and international political action.
The global tasks are considerable.
Let's dare the necessary answers.
We are driving forward the socio-ecological transformation
Thrust for global transformation
More than ever, climate change and biodiversity loss threaten human security and freedom, as well as sustainable development - all over the world.
Time is of the essence.
That is why we need an energetic push for a socio-ecological transformation in the coming years.
The sustainable development goals of the 2030 Agenda and the Paris Climate Agreement were a departure.
Since then, all countries have been obliged to start at home and make their contribution to the common task - after all, it is our decisions in business and trade, in agricultural or arms exports, that have a major impact on climate, species conservation and global justice worldwide.
We want to align all policy areas in Germany with the transformation and establish a National Council for Peace, Sustainability and Human Rights for strategic and coherent action in all ministries and policy areas,
as well as introduce a sustainability and human rights TÜV to review relevant draft legislation for compatibility with the UN Sustainable Development and Climate Goals and human rights agreements.
Internationally, too, we want to inject new momentum into the socio-ecological transformation by working towards a binding transformation quota and supporting the countries of the Global South in particular in this process.
We are pooling spending on development cooperation, international climate finance and parts of humanitarian aid to finance a global transformation along the lines of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Climate Targets.
In doing so, we honor our international commitments to development cooperation, climate finance and biodiversity.
Germany's contribution is to achieve the ODA quota, i.e. the share of public spending on development cooperation in gross national income, of 0.7 percent by 2025 and to provide a further 10 billion euros for international climate financing.
Foreign climate policy and global climate justice
We pursue an ambitious, sustainable and human rights-compliant foreign climate policy and advocate global climate justice: We make climate neutrality as well as addressing climate impacts a cross-departmental strategic priority of our international political action.
In this way, we also want to live up to the historical responsibility of Germany and Europe.
International cooperation for climate justice is necessary for climate policy,
pursues the achievement of sustainable development goals,
prevents resource conflicts,
and ensures peace.
Because the countries of the global South have growing energy needs: With climate and development partnerships, we want to drive innovation for climate neutrality globally, support the massive expansion of renewable energies, and strengthen adaptation so that the global community can get on the 1.5-degree path.
We want to create win-win situations for Europe and its neighboring countries, as well as for countries with great potential for renewable energy, and thus secure our green energy needs in a postcolonially sensitive way: green hydrogen instead of oil and gas imports.
We are strengthening Germany's and the EU's human and financial resources for foreign climate policy and for global climate justice, and we are specifically gearing our diplomatic capabilities to a climate-just policy.
We want to improve the existing international funds for climate adaptation and protection and advocate an additional fund to compensate for damage and losses, for example to finance climate risk insurance.
We will end subsidies for fossil fuels in our development and export financing.
Development and investment banks such as the World Bank or KfW are to be transformed into transformation banks.
Protect climate and environment, respect human rights
The protection of human rights obliges us to protect the climate and the environment,
Conversely, climate and environmental protection protects human rights.
We advocate binding mechanisms to protect people who lose their livelihoods and are forced to leave their homes due to extreme weather events or gradual environmental change.
In particular, we support regional approaches that enable those affected to migrate in a self-determined and dignified manner and create residence prospects for them.
At the same time, we want to hold those states accountable that have historically contributed most to global warming to account for the principle of responsibility in international environmental law and to support home and host countries of climate-induced migration.
We want to structurally strengthen the Task Force on Displacement of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and are committed to implementing its recommendations as well as the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration and the Global Compact for Refugees.
It also needs the strengthening of the right of indigenous communities.
We support initiatives to strengthen legal recourse, including against multilateral investment banks and the instrument of climate lawsuits.
We take up the French initiative to codify and consolidate international environmental law and advocate that, as a first step, the right to a clean environment be enshrined in a UN General Assembly resolution.
Since crimes against the environment do not stop at national borders, it is in the global interest for the international community to create a jurisdiction that can prosecute these crimes independently and across borders.
Combating poverty and inequality worldwide
The Corona pandemic has dramatically increased poverty and inequality worldwide.
Poverty reduction and equitable participation are central goals of our international engagement.
We support countries in pursuing socially oriented economic and fiscal policies.
We are committed to ensuring that people worldwide have social security, including through social cash transfers,
and that children and young people have access to high-quality education and vocational training.
Together with our partner countries, we want to promote the development of sustainable and rights-based social security systems.
Fundamentally, social protection programs should be easily accessible and reach the most vulnerable groups,
establish gender equity,
and strengthen social cohesion.
To increase the effectiveness of all measures, we want to strengthen impact evaluation, transparency and exchange with the scientific community.
Strengthen humanitarian aid
With humanitarian aid, we support people worldwide who are in humanitarian emergencies.
The number of humanitarian crises is increasing, both due to armed conflicts and as a result of climate crisis-related extreme weather events.
More and more people have to leave their homes, humanitarian crises last longer.
We are responding to this by continuously adjusting humanitarian aid funding.
These are awarded on a needs-oriented basis and increasingly on a multi-year basis.
In this way, we enable plannability and flexibility for the implementing organizations and reach people in need quickly and appropriately.
We advocate respect for humanitarian principles and address structural causes through better integration with civilian crisis prevention and development cooperation.
We strengthen multilateral cooperation
Reform United Nations
Without the United Nations, multilateral cooperation on the socio-ecological transformation cannot be mastered.
Their institutions care for millions of refugees around the world, providing educational opportunities, food and health services.
They mediate countless wars and conflicts and are the framework within which the two most important multilateral agreements of recent years have been negotiated: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
We will substantially strengthen Germany's and the EU's commitment to the United Nations in terms of funding, personnel and diplomacy, coordinate it better and consistently translate international agreements into national and European policy.
In this way, we create the conditions for necessary reforms of the UN system.
The Security Council and other organs of the United Nations should be adapted to the realities of the 21st century.
The aim is to achieve fairer representation of the regions in the Security Council.
The concept of veto powers is no longer appropriate.
We aim to see the veto abolished in the long term.
As an intermediate step, in the case of the most serious crimes against humanity, a Security Council veto should be accompanied by a statement of reasons and an alternative proposal.
If the Security Council is persistently deadlocked in the case of the most serious human rights violations, the General Assembly should decide in its place by qualified majority on peace-enforcing measures, i.e. diplomatic measures, sanctions or military action under Chapter VII of the UN Charter, along the lines of the "Uniting for Peace" resolution.
Increase resilience against epidemics - strengthen WHO
To protect against new diseases and combat old ones, we are counting on increased international cooperation and solidarity under the umbrella of the World Health Organization, which is to be reformed as a specialized agency of the United Nations.
WHO is to be the coordinating organization of global health.
We want to enable them to do this with significantly higher contributions and a clear mandate.
It should be able to strengthen health systems worldwide to ensure better care for local populations and improve prevention of, diagnosis of, and response to both non-communicable and communicable diseases.
We want to further strengthen their central role in pandemic preparedness and response.
In the G20, we will work to give it a formal seat.
With a view to combating the Corona pandemic, the priority is to increase existing Covid 19 vaccine production capacity this year
and deliver vaccines to low-income countries as part of the COVAX alliance.
In addition, we are committed to active technology and knowledge transfer with regard to the manufacture of key pharmaceuticals.
Ensuring open, fair and flexible global supply chains is as much a prerequisite as lifting global export restrictions on Covid 19 vaccines.
Where voluntary production partnerships are not sufficient, we support applications for the granting of mandatory licenses for Covid vaccines in return for compensation and are therefore involved in negotiations at the WTO for a temporary suspension of patents for technologies to combat Covid-19.
Monopolies on intellectual property to combat diseases must not block access to vital protective materials, vaccines and medicines.
We support Taiwan's integration into the WHO, including observer status.
50 percent women in international negotiations
We want to give multilateralism new impetus for more cooperation.
Transformation only succeeds with cooperation, and that only succeeds by involving the affected social groups.
Women's equal and intersectional participation remains the strongest indicator of this.
We want to gradually implement a 50 percent quota for Germany and Europe in all diplomatic and multilateral negotiations, for secondments to international organizations, and at the implementation levels.
To make this possible, a 50 percent quota for women is needed in the selection process for personnel on international assignments, in ministries working internationally, and in the senior and higher European External Action Service.
There is a need for comparable criteria, standards, indicators and timeframes for the ministries' gender equality plans, comparable to the "Gender Equality Plan" modeled on the Swedish government.
We work on good relations in a multipolar world
For an active European policy with our neighboring countries
The EU must assume more responsibility, especially in its immediate neighborhood.
The EU's enlargement policy is a success story that we want to continue.
That is why we advocate concrete progress in the European integration of the countries of the Western Balkans.
We want necessary reforms, including in democracy and the rule of law,
Combating corruption
and actively support the inclusion and protection of minorities, especially Roma.
Visa liberalization for Kosovars is as essential a next step as progress in the Serbia-Kosovo dialogue, the opening of the first EU accession chapters for Albania and Northern Macedonia, or the creation of a civil society with equal rights for all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Reconciliation processes and the political and legal processing of war crimes must also be strengthened.
We clearly reject any shifting of ethnic boundaries or discrimination.
In Eastern Europe, many courageous people in countries such as Armenia, Georgia, Ukraine and Belarus are fighting for democracy, the rule of law and human rights.
We stand by their side and promote democratic and socio-ecological transformation processes in the region, within the framework of the EU's Eastern Partnership and bilaterally, for example by linking funds more closely to the sustainable implementation of reforms.
We support democratic civil society and independent media on the ground, want to facilitate more exchange between East and West, and promote judicial reforms.
We want to keep the path to EU accession open for EU-associated countries in the Eastern Partnership.
In the south, a new Mediterranean policy is needed that jointly realizes development potential for the region while at the same time facing up to the enormous challenges: Terrorism, authoritarian regimes, state collapse.
Together, we want to turn the Mediterranean region into a plus energy region within the framework of ambitious energy partnerships.
Meanwhile, to our great regret, the United Kingdom is the first country to leave the EU's common home.
It is good that the Trade and Cooperation Agreement has created the basis for a new beginning.
However, further efforts are needed to prevent European standards from being eroded.
The Good Friday Agreement and the open border guarantee peace on the island of Ireland.
This fragile peace must not be jeopardized.
We want to keep the exchange of students, researchers and vocational training between the EU and the UK alive after Brexit.
USA
The transatlantic partnership remains a central pillar of German foreign policy, but it must be renewed, framed in European terms, multilateral and oriented toward clear common values and democratic goals.
As the core of a renewed EU transatlantic agenda, we want to provide a strong joint impetus for global climate policy, building on the Paris climate goals.
Particularly with the establishment of a strong climate partnership, the transatlantic partnership can be an inspiration and driver for a social-ecological transformation that sets the highest standards worldwide.
We also rely on good cooperation with the U.S. in strengthening multilateralism, in trade issues and in health.
We want to work together for the global protection of human rights,
the further development of international legal norms
, global arms control and disarmament,
a rules-based world order
and the strengthening of a responsible trade policy.
This includes an understanding on how to deal with authoritarian states.
Even with the new U.S. administration, the U.S.'s security policy focus will not again be primarily on Europe.
The EU and its member states must assume more foreign and security policy responsibility themselves.
This applies in particular to the security of the EU's eastern neighbors, as well as the Baltic states and Poland.
We want to conduct the transatlantic debate at many levels, including at the respective federal and local levels, as well as in civil society forums - thus creating sustainable, diverse social networks.
China
China is Europe's competitor, partner, systemic rival.
We demand an end to China's flagrant human rights violations, for example in Xinjiang and Tibet, and increasingly in Hong Kong.
It also needs a constructive dialogue with China, seeking cooperation where it is willing to cooperate constructively and providing clear counterstrategies where China systematically seeks to weaken international standards.
In climate policy in particular, we are striving for joint political, economic and technological efforts as well as compliance with sustainable production standards and a transparent roadmap to combat the climate crisis, for example by phasing out coal, in China.
Cooperation with China must not be at the expense of third countries or human and civil rights.
We adhere to the European Union's "One China Policy" and emphasize that unification with Taiwan must not be forced against the will of the people of Taiwan.
At the same time, we want to expand political exchange with Taiwan.
We want to use our trade relations with China to demand fair market access for foreign investment, legal certainty and a level playing field.
We expect China to ratify the crucial core standards of the International Labor Organization (ILO) and end all forms of forced labor.
In light of human rights violations - for example in Xinjiang - the EU supply chain law must deny access to the internal market to goods from forced labor just as it holds companies liable for their products.
Germany should also advocate for a fact-finding mission on Xinjiang within the framework of the UN Human Rights Council and describe the oppression of the Uyghurs as an international crime.
We cannot approve the European-Chinese investment agreement CAI in its current form.
We will work on close European and transatlantic coordination vis-à-vis China.
Indo-Pacific
We advocate for a free and open Indo-Pacific region based on global norms and international law.
We want comprehensive cooperation with the region, particularly in the areas of the rule of law and democracy, strengthening multilateralism and in digitization and climate protection.
We regard Australia, Japan, New Zealand, South Korea and Taiwan as important partner countries, and we intend to expand our strategic partnerships with India and ASEAN.
Strengthening civil societies is an integral part of our Indo-Pacific strategy.
We are developing an Indo-Pacific trade policy that provides for sustainable bilateral trade relations with like-minded partners in a multilateral framework, is achieved democratically and transparently, and advocates for global common good interests such as climate protection, social standards, and human rights.
We aim to intensify dialogue on peace and security with partners in the Indo-Pacific.
Those affected primarily by rising sea levels deserve our increased, concrete support.
Germany should also actively promote a global EU connectivity strategy in order to realize joint infrastructure development according to high international standards and in line with the needs of our partners.
Russia
Russia has increasingly transformed itself into an authoritarian state whose foreign policy, through military and hybrid means, is increasingly offensive in threatening democracy, stability, and peace in the EU and in the common neighborhood.
At the same time, the democracy movement in Russia is gaining strength.
We want to support the courageous civil society that stands up to the increasingly harsh repression by the Kremlin and fights for human rights, democracy, the rule of law and sexual self-determination and intensify the cultural, political and scientific exchange with it.
The EU has formulated clear conditions for an easing of the sanctions imposed on Russia because of the annexation of Crimea, which is contrary to international law, and the military action in Ukraine.
We will adhere to these and tighten the sanctions if necessary.
We demand that the Russian government implement its commitments under the Minsk agreement.
The Nord Stream 2 pipeline project does not contribute to climate protection, is specifically directed against the energy and geostrategic interests of the European Union, endangers the stability of Ukraine and must therefore be stopped.
It also needs a constructive climate dialogue with Russia, with
individual steps protecting human rights.
Turkey
Turkey and the EU have much more in common than separates them: socially, culturally, economically.
Especially the relations between Germany and Turkey are close and diverse, also due to the common migration history.
We stand with all those who are fighting for democracy and the rule of law, equality and human rights in Turkey.
We condemn the human rights and rule of law violations,
demand an immediate release of all political prisoners
and a return to a political dialogue and peace process on the Kurdish question.
We firmly reject the Turkish government's aggressive foreign policy and call on it to return to a multilateral foreign and security policy.
This must also be addressed in NATO,
not least in view of Turkey's military offensive in northern Syria, which violates international law.
We condemn Turkey's withdrawal from the Istanbul Convention and call on it to reverse it.
The resumption of talks on EU accession is our political goal.
But it can only happen if Turkey makes a U-turn back to democracy and the rule of law.
Turkey has taken in more refugees - mainly from Syria - than the 27 EU member states combined.
However, the existing "EU-Turkey deal" undermines international asylum law, has failed and must be ended.
We call on Turkey to fully implement the Geneva Convention on Refugees.
Turkey is not a safe third country.
A new federal government must use the negotiations on a new agreement initiated by the Commission to learn from past mistakes.
The new agreement must be in line with international law and the rule of law, and must not fight flight but improve people's prospects.
Therefore, it should guarantee the necessary financial and logistical support on the ground, assist Turkey in receiving refugees, and make binding quota commitments to resettle refugees in need of protection in the EU.
In return, Turkey must guarantee to take good care of and integrate refugees.
Refugees must not be made into pawns.
Such an agreement must be debated and decided in parliament.
People in Germany must not be instrumentalized, monitored or even threatened by the Turkish government and its supporters.
Especially in difficult times, we want to expand the exchange with the human rights-oriented and democratic civil society in Turkey and youth exchange programs.
Near and Middle East
Partnerships with the states and societies of the Middle East and the southern European neighborhood are an important component of our foreign, climate and human rights policy.
We rely on diverse forms of cooperation, for example by strengthening civil societies in an effort to increase participation, cooperating to meet the challenge of climate change, and promoting independent and sustainable economic structures, especially for young people.
Mediation to reach an understanding between Iran and the Arab Gulf states is just as much a part of European foreign policy as efforts to mediate open conflicts, for example in Syria, Libya and Yemen, as well as the prevention of state collapse, corruption, social upheaval and displacement in the entire region.
Preserving and reviving the nuclear agreement with Iran (JCPOA) can prevent a nuclear arms race in the Middle East.
Peace, security and decent living conditions for all people in the Middle East are a central concern of German foreign and security policy, also and especially with regard to a sustainable peace between Israelis and Palestinians.
The security of the State of Israel is part of Germany's reason of state.
The existence and security of Israel as the national home of the Jewish people with equal rights for all its citizens are non-negotiable.
We advocate the continuation of close German-Israeli relations.
We condemn the continuing threat to the State of Israel and its sovereignty in its neighborhood and the terror against its people.
We criticize both the escalation of violence and measures contrary to international law, such as the annexation of occupied territories or the ongoing construction of settlements, as they run counter to the goal of a peaceful and political solution to the conflict and an end to the occupation.
Peace and security require a two-state settlement based on the 1967 borders with two sovereign, viable and democratic states for Israelis and Palestinians alike.
We will work for elections, a democratization process and the establishment of rule-of-law structures in the Palestinian territories.
Europe is to coordinate closely with the new U.S. administration to this end.
Neighborhood and partnership with the states of Africa
The African states and Europe are closely linked both regionally and historically.
We take a differentiated look at the African continent and its regions in all their diversity.
European Africa policy must free itself from patriarchal thought patterns, accept European responsibility and reconcile the respective interests.
To this end, Germany should take on a more active role within the framework of the EU.
Cooperation between the EU and Africa should focus on climate protection, digitization, technology transfer, civil crisis prevention and socio-ecological transformation,
as well as enabling fair and secure migration routes from Africa to Europe.
We want to cooperate more closely with civil society and the cultural and scientific communities in Africa and involve the diverse African diaspora in Europe to a greater extent.
We reject the continuation of a one-sided policy that is largely based on the rejection of refugees, unfair trade and agricultural policies, and the exploitation of raw material deposits, and we advocate for a jointly developed EU-Africa strategy.
We stand by the African Union and regional organizations in implementing their Agenda 2063, the African Free Trade Area, and regional development and peace agendas.
Latin America
We advocate a well-coordinated Latin America and Caribbean policy for Germany and the EU that
promotes socio-ecological transformation
and protects human rights.
In the past, many Latin American countries have relied on an economic model based on resource exploitation, which has resulted in damage to people, nature and national economies.
In addition, most Latin American countries have been massively affected by the Corona crisis.
Latin America is home to vital civil societies and strong social movements.
Social inequalities, corruption, encrusted power structures, patriarchal images of society and a way of doing business that destroys the natural foundations of life are increasingly being called into question and progressive alternatives are being designed.
At the same time, authoritarian styles of government are on the rise in many countries
and the overexploitation of nature is expanding.
Indigenous, environmental, LGBTIQ*, women's and human rights activists are under massive threat and need international attention and support.
Latin America's ecosystems play a central role in protecting global commons such as climate and biodiversity.
Trade policy, such as the Mercosur Agreement, must be based on binding guidelines for the protection of human rights,
climate and the environment.
Ecological sustainability,
democratic participation,
Peace
and gender equality
are therefore at the heart of our cooperation with the countries and civil societies of Latin America.
The deletion of many Latin American countries as partner countries of German development cooperation is short-sighted; we want to change this.
We defend human rights
Protect human rights defenders
Human rights defenders are heroines.
All over the world, often at the risk of their own and their families' lives, they are on the front line defending respect for human rights.
They need our protection, solidarity and active support - at all levels.
Human rights officers should therefore be established as an extra point of contact at the German missions abroad that are particularly affected, and systematic interdepartmental reporting on the human rights situation in the country should be introduced.
For human rights defenders who cannot remain in their country because they are acutely endangered there, we want to provide humanitarian visas more quickly and more frequently than before and expand the newly established Elisabeth Selbert Initiative for their temporary reception.
At the international level, we advocate for the expansion of funding opportunities for civil society initiatives and the financial strengthening of the corresponding protection instruments and institutions, such as special rapporteurs.
We will implement the recent declarations and recommendations at the UN level on the protection of human rights defenders.
In addition, we also advocate for the protection and targeted promotion of human rights defenders from EU member states.
Bringing war criminals to justice
Crimes against humanity, genocide and war crimes must not go unpunished - as a sign of justice to the victims, as a signal of deterrence, as a prerequisite for peace and reconciliation.
German international criminal law offers the possibility of sentencing here in Germany as well.
To this end, we will expand the capacities of the Federal Criminal Police Office and the Office of the Attorney General.
Investigations into cases of sexualized violence should be improved and the Code of Criminal Procedure should be reformed where it does not yet take into account the special features of international criminal proceedings.
In addition, we advocate for the civil liability of companies for the most serious human rights violations.
Internationally, we advocate for long-term financial support for civil society organizations and the networking of relevant actors in this field, as well as for the - political and financial - strengthening of the International Criminal Court and other institutions such as the United Nations Mechanism for the Investigation and Prosecution of the Most Serious War Crimes in Syria (IIIM).
We are committed to ensuring that all states accede to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court.
Especially children and adolescents who have experienced sexualized and gender-based violence, abductions, recruitment as child soldiers suffer from severe trauma.
If this suffering is not addressed, it affects the lives of these people and their families, as well as social cohesion for generations.
We want to significantly expand individual trauma care through more qualified staff and safe trauma centers on site, also with our international partners and in Germany.
No surveillance technology for dictatorships and autocracies
Encrypted communication saves lives every day.
In social media, human rights violations that would otherwise have gone undetected become visible to all.
And without satellite images, the displacement of entire village communities in war zones would not even be possible.
At the same time, it is often European surveillance tools that enable autocratic governments to persecute disagreeable activists.
Biometric recognition systems, such as identifying facial recognition software, pose an additional threat, especially to human rights defenders, media workers, and persecuted minorities in authoritarian states.
We aim to ban the export, sale, and transfer of surveillance tools to repressive regimes.
We want to anchor corresponding safeguard clauses in German and European export controls.
We promote the decriminalization of encrypted communications,
oppose the weakening of encryption technologies and standards,
and strengthen multi-stakeholder governance of the Internet at the international level.
As part of our international cooperation, we are committed to free access to digital technology for all.
Free access to information as a global public good must be promoted and protected.
By supporting training, we strengthen the secure digital networking of civil society organizations worldwide.
For self-determination of women and girls worldwide
Gender equality is a human right.
Without gender equality, poverty cannot be effectively combated either.
In many of the poorest or most conflict-torn countries, women and girls are particularly affected by poverty, hunger and violence.
We consistently stand up for the rights of women and girls worldwide, for a self-determined life,
and will use all diplomatic possibilities to ensure that the Istanbul Convention is applied.
Education and health are the keys to this.
We are committed to ensuring women and girls have full access to equal education and to protecting their sexual and reproductive rights.
We are committed to ensuring that women and girls worldwide have unrestricted access to contraceptives.
There is a need for innovative educational programs such as compact catch-up basic education for women or vocational training in crisis and post-conflict contexts.
We will therefore focus our international cooperation financially and conceptually on this task,
the achievement of gender equality as a cross-sectional task
and reproductive health
and enshrine the right to education in all projects.
Implement human rights conventions, strengthen institutions
In order to actually and legally enforce human rights, international human rights conventions must be ratified, consistently implemented and human rights institutions strengthened.
In particular, the implementation of the ILO Convention on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, which has now been initiated, must be completed,
the 12th Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights on anti-discrimination,
the Optional Protocol to the Social Covenant
and the United Nations Convention on Migrant Workers
and to ratify the UN Declaration on the Rights of Small Farmers.
This has been overdue for Germany for many years.
We want to support and actively promote the process for a UN agreement on business and human rights (so-called Binding Treaty).
In addition, we want to create a separate criminal offense of "enforced disappearance" in Germany to address the deficit in the implementation of the International Convention against Enforced Disappearances.
At the European level, we are committed to implementing the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights.
We support the instrument of targeted EU sanctions against human rights criminals.
We want to provide the Federal Government Commissioner for Human Rights Policy and Humanitarian Aid with better structural resources, and we want to at least double the financial resources of the National Agency for the Prevention of Torture and the German Institute for Human Rights so that they can adequately fulfill their statutory tasks.
At the international level, we are working to strengthen UN technical committees and special rapporteurs.
Human rights and democracy promotion are cornerstones of our development policy work.
Protect rights of minorities
The treatment of minorities is the yardstick for the protection of human rights in a society.
We are committed to strengthening the rights of minorities at the international level - including within the EU.
The individual states continue to transpose the protection of minorities prescribed by the United Nations into national law, without any uniform monitoring of whether this is comprehensive enough.
Thus, the protection is incomplete.
We will advocate in foreign policy for the global implementation of the Yogyakarta Principles for the protection of LGBTIQ*.
In development policy, we want to set a new focus here and significantly increase our commitment.
Even within the EU, there are major differences: there are no common EU minimum standards, no uniform legal framework granting protection and promotion of minorities.
We want to change that.
We will work for the adoption of the 5th Anti-Discrimination Directive to provide a legal basis for internationally recognized human rights in the EU
and to legally implement the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities at the European level.
We are driving forward the EU Action Plan against Racism both nationally and internationally.
We protect refugees
Implementing a human rights-based refugee policy in Europe
We advocate for a European Union that upholds its humanitarian and legal obligation to guarantee access to the fundamental right to asylum and the need to conduct procedures fairly and expeditiously according to international legal standards.
As difficult as that is in the EU of 27 at the moment.
Germany plays a central role in this.
The new federal government must defend human rights and the right of asylum.
Conditions like in the camps on the Greek islands, on the Mediterranean Sea or at the border to Croatia mean a break with European values and human rights.
We are countering the blockade of a common and humane refugee policy between the member states with the following plan: Refugees are to be registered in joint registration centers run by the European institutions in the EU states with constitutionally and European-controlled external borders and undergo an initial check to see whether there are entries in security-relevant databases.
In this way, we know who is coming to us and at the same time live up to our humanitarian responsibility.
The people who come to Europe must receive initial medical and psychological care and be accommodated in accordance with human rights.
Taking into account personal circumstances such as family ties or language skills, the EU Agency for Asylum determines the host Member State for the implementation of the asylum procedure as soon as possible.
The underlying rapid distribution mechanism relies first on the willingness of member states, regions, and cities to voluntarily accept refugees.
Those who do will receive help from an EU integration fund.
If the number of reception places is not sufficient, all member states are obliged to expand their supply in proportion to their gross domestic product and population size, or to make at least an equivalent contribution to the total costs.
The asylum procedure then takes place in the receiving Member State.
Early asylum procedure checks at the external borders are not compatible with this.
The Commission ensures that the common rules and standards are respected and apply to all people.
We will move forward with countries and regions willing to act to end the current disastrous situation at the external borders.
We reject inhumane camps and closed facilities, transit zones or European satellite camps in third countries.
Create safe and legal escape routes
No one should have to risk their own life or that of their family for the right to seek asylum, which is guaranteed under international law.
However, this is exactly the bitter reality: the possibilities for safe access routes are still far from sufficient and refugees are therefore forced to take life-threatening routes through the desert or across the sea.
We want to create safe and legal access routes - so that people can find protection and to prevent traffickers from profiting from the hardship and suffering of refugees.
We are committed to the special protection of the family in accordance with the German Basic Law, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the European Convention on Human Rights, and we advocate lifting the restrictions on family reunification.
Families belong together
and the best interests of the child are the top priority.
People with subsidiary protection status must therefore also be able to bring their relatives without the previous restrictions and be treated on an equal footing with refugees under the Geneva Convention.
We want to make sibling reunification possible again.
More staff is needed at German and European embassies and the ability to submit applications digitally to reduce waiting times for visas for family members.
In cases where the procurement of proof of identity by beneficiaries of protection from authorities in their country of origin endangers relatives living there, we advocate the pragmatic issuance of passport replacement documents.
We also want to use humanitarian visas to give those in need of protection the opportunity to come safely to Europe and seek asylum here.
We also advocate for the admission of local Afghan forces and their dependents who are in danger due to their cooperation with German institutions such as the Bundeswehr or the GIZ.
The individual right to asylum remains untouched.
Safe access routes through humanitarian host partnership
Under the UNHCR's resettlement program, refugees recognized by the United Nations as being in particular need of protection are distributed to host countries in an orderly manner and in a spirit of solidarity, instead of being abandoned to their fate on dangerous escape routes.
This saves lives, removes the business basis for touts and follows a proven, plannable procedure.
In the Global Compact for Refugees, the world community agreed to increase resettlement.
But in fact, the number of reception places has been falling for years.
We propose to work with the new U.S. administration and Canada and others in a global humanitarian partnership to significantly expand resettlement admissions and to achieve, in the medium term, the fulfillment of at least each country's fair share of annual resettlement needs as determined by UNHCR, commensurate with economic strength.
In this way, we strengthen the United Nations, live up to Europe's global responsibility in the long term, create predictability on all sides, set a good example and encourage other states to join the international alliance.
In addition, we will ensure that the planned EU resettlement is based on the UNHCR criteria.
The individual right to asylum remains untouched by resettlement.
Country intake programs and a sponsorship program enable
Several federal states and more than 200 municipalities in Germany are prepared to take in more refugees than the German government has promised.
The fact that these additional reception places are urgently needed is obvious in view of the miserable conditions in the camps at the EU's external borders, for example on the Greek islands or at the Bosnian-Croatian border.
We want a humanitarian admission policy in which the federal government and the states work together cooperatively and which no longer ignores the willingness of local and state governments to accept refugees.
The federal states, counties, cities and municipalities should be given more opportunities to have a say and shape the humanitarian reception of refugees.
By changing the approval rule between the Federal Ministry of the Interior and the federal states from agreement to consultation, we want to clarify that in the future, federal states will be able to decide independently and freely on the admission of refugees beyond the Königstein Key.
The federal government should continue to fulfill the financial and infrastructural tasks and promote readiness to receive.
European funds can also be used within the framework of the host states and regions.
We will again step up federal humanitarian admission programs as well as quotas from EU countries with external borders.
A sponsorship program modeled on Canada's can promote a welcoming culture.
Groups of mentors or associations can pledge to support refugees and thus help people in a concrete way through relocation and resettlement opportunities.
Ensuring the rule of law and human rights at external borders
A common area of free movement and without internal borders needs controlled external borders.
But borders are only controlled by the rule of law if human rights are protected at these borders and access to the right to asylum is secured.
The fact that thousands of people drown in the Mediterranean every year because European governments do not provide them with sufficiently safe access routes and also refuse to rescue them from distress at sea is a disgrace.
We continue to fight for a civilian and comprehensive, European coordinated and financed sea rescue.
Since joint action by all European member states does not seem possible at present, we want to lead the way with those states that take sea rescue seriously as a duty under international law, and make our own contribution:
rescued persons must be taken to the nearest safe port and then immediately distributed among member states, regions or cities willing to take them in, according to a distribution mechanism.
We stand firmly alongside civil society rescue initiatives and advocate for an end to criminalization and official obstruction of their work.
For example, we want to make the registration of ships of human rights monitoring and sea rescue organizations legally secure and simpler.
We rely on a European border control that has the common protection of human rights as its basis and performs its tasks without misusing them to prevent flight.
The right of asylum is based on a case-by-case assessment, and the non-refoulement principle enshrined in international and European law applies always and everywhere.
The Geneva Convention on Refugees applies in full.
Their undermining leads neither to more security nor to more European capacity to act in refugee policy.
Nevertheless, we are currently witnessing a systematic breach of the law at the EU's external borders: People are mistreated, left unprotected on the water or turned away without access to asylum procedures.
Pushbacks, committed by national border police or Frontex, must be legally and politically punished.
Germany must not participate in missions that violate international and human rights law; violations must be prosecuted and have consequences.
We will work to ensure that intransparency and human rights violations no longer have any room at EU agencies such as Frontex.
We support the European initiatives that seek to address the structural problems in human rights protection at border controls with structural changes.
We want to expand governmental and civil society human rights monitoring, especially through the EU Fundamental Rights Agency.
There is a need for close parliamentary oversight of Frontex operations as well as systematic human rights monitoring on the ground.
Support host and transit countries
Humanitarian care for refugees outside the European Union is part of our global responsibility.
We want to expand financial and logistical support for countries of first reception and transit, such as Turkey, Lebanon, Sudan, Pakistan or Uganda, as well as for the aid organizations working there.
German and European cooperation with third countries must always be conducted in a way that respects human and fundamental rights as well as international asylum standards.
It must also not be aimed at preventing flight, as is currently the case with the so-called Libyan coast guard and the Erdogan government.
We therefore reject the existing "migration partnerships" that make flight prevention and repatriation a condition of development cooperation, for example, as well
as cooperation with the Libyan coast guard.
Instead of defining "safe countries of origin," we need human rights-compliant readmission agreements for returns.
In return, we want to offer those countries that effectively guarantee security to their citizens upon return reliable prospects for orderly migration through visa facilitation or training partnerships.
Readmission agreements, however, must not be made a condition in other policies, such as development or rule of law assistance, apply to third-country nationals, or counteract immigration law.
Structurally addressing the causes of flight
We are aware that we cannot influence all the causes of displacement.
Many people flee because they are persecuted or denied basic rights.
This makes consistent action all the more crucial wherever our economic activity and consumption also lead to exploitation or a lack of prospects elsewhere.
In this way, we want to prevent people from fleeing in the first place and having to leave their previous homes involuntarily.
That is why we are placing the structural causes of flight and displacement and our responsibility in this regard at the center of our policy.
After all, many political decisions we make in Germany and Europe have a direct impact on living conditions in other regions of the world.
We therefore strongly support civil crisis prevention
and want to put an end to European arms exports to dictatorships, regimes that despise human rights and to war zones by introducing restrictive export controls.
We are committed to a fair trading system that also serves the interests of people in the global South.
And we are driving forward the socio-ecological transformation of our economy.
We fight for a just world economic order
Global crisis prevention
The Corona crisis is leading to capital flight and currency crises in many countries of the global South, exposing the weaknesses of the monetary order.
Our long-term goal remains the establishment of a cooperative world monetary system.
The IMF must be able to provide much more liquidity on an unconditional basis in crisis situations.
To this end, we will advocate a significant increase in special drawing rights.
Germany and Europe could lead the way and make unused Special Drawing Rights available to countries in the Global South, as Canada has already done.
The IMF should also help countries in the global South to introduce and implement capital controls, working with countries with global financial centers to do so.
The balance of votes must shift in favor of countries in the global South.
The EU states should pool their voting rights.
Enabling development, solving debt crises
Many countries in the global South are in a debt crisis.
The current debt service moratorium is the right thing to do, but it defers the problem to the future.
We need sound debt restructuring and also debt relief that gives countries breathing room for sustainable development.
To prepare for future over-indebtedness crises, we advocate a transparent and independent sovereign debt restructuring process based at the United Nations.
Private creditors must be legally obliged to participate in such a procedure, so that debt relief can no longer be blocked and vulture funds profit at the expense of others.
As long as an international solution is not enforceable, Germany and other governments must make a start with coordinated legislation.
In this way, we want to give the over-indebted countries in the global South further scope for socio-ecological transformation processes, for example to improve their health, education and social systems.
Ban speculation with food
Food prices are often subject to strong fluctuations.
It is not only the weather and harvests that are responsible for this, but also unscrupulous speculators who put profit maximization before food security.
Other vital resources, such as water, are also increasingly becoming speculative commodities.
We will lobby the EU for stricter regulations to prevent excessive food speculation.
This requires strict reporting requirements for traders as well as strict price and position limits on all European commodity exchanges.
In this way, we counter uncontrolled, market-distorting speculation without jeopardizing the hedging mechanisms on the futures markets that are so important for the agricultural sector.
We stand up for peace and security
Looking ahead for peace
Our foreign and security policy aims to prevent conflict and therefore relies on foresight in line with the UN Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Germany is to become a driving force in the political defusing of conflicts and in civil conflict management at the global level.
We supplement the traditional concept of security with human security and thus focus on the needs of people.
The European External Action Service (EEAS) and the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) must be strengthened, including the role of the High Representative.
We want to supplement the guidelines "Prevent crises, manage conflicts, promote peace" with a reconstruction plan with civilian planning goals and make the Foreign Service fit for its current tasks.
Personnel and financial resources for civil crisis prevention should be increased in a targeted manner and made more predictable in the long term through a reform of the law on grants.
We want to establish a permanent and rapidly deployable reserve of EU mediators and experts in conflict prevention, peacebuilding and mediation.
We want more joint departmental analyses, early crisis detection and project planning,
closer coordination with international partners,
and an appropriately endowed fund for crisis prevention, conflict management and peacebuilding.
We would like to give more support to local civil society concepts and actors in peacebuilding.
We want to further develop the Civil Peace Service (ZFD) and expand it in line with demand, and strengthen the Center for International Peace Operations (ZIF) and peace and conflict research.
We want to increase the endowment capital of the German Foundation for Peace Research and provide greater support for the newly established department at the German Police University and other academic institutions, particularly in terms of personnel and through strategies for reducing the term of office.
We also want to communicate the successes and opportunities of civil crisis prevention and conflict transformation to the population through more and targeted public relations work.
Shaping international politics in a feminist way
We are shaping our foreign, development, trade and security policies in a feminist way.
Women, girls, and marginalized groups such as LGBTIQ* persons are particularly affected by wars, conflicts, and poverty.
Respecting their rights and their role as shapers of international politics promotes peace, development, stability and security.
It is about empowering and protecting the diverse perspectives of women, girls, and marginalized groups, and always including them at least equally in any bilateral or multilateral negotiations.
This also requires gender analyses for individual country contexts at regular intervals and close cooperation with feminist actors in Germany and in partner countries.
We want to provide them with sustainable financial and political support and strengthen needs-based strategies, gender budgeting and better departmental coordination.
The implementation of Agenda 1325 "Women, Peace, Security" must be advanced both within Germany and internationally,
sexualized and gender-based violence must be decisively curbed, women's
reproductive rights must be protected,
and the security and participation of women and girls must be focused on in conflict prevention, conflict transformation, and stabilization processes.
We want to counteract gender images that have a detrimental effect on peace, security and development.
To this end, we want to work with civil society and academia to develop binding guidelines for a feminist foreign policy for the German government.
Coming to terms with colonial injustice and decolonizing international relations
The goal of our international policy is self-critical and equal cooperation.
We can neither undo nor make amends for the injustice suffered by the people in the former colonies of the German Reich.
It is all the more important that we name past injustices such as the genocide of the Ovaherero and Nama, ask for forgiveness for these and other crimes committed, such as in the Maji Maji uprising, and take responsibility for them through words and deeds.
But the crimes of the colonial era also give rise to a special responsibility for our international actions today.
We want to gradually dismantle structural injustices, such as disadvantageous clauses in trade agreements, unfair distribution of wealth and lack of representation in the UN Security Council.
Our nature and environmental protection must also be postcolonial.
This means strengthening and respecting the human and land rights of indigenous and local communities.
Local civil society, people in the diaspora and descendants of victims of colonial crimes are partners.
Together with them, we want to strengthen processes for coming to terms with the past and, together with our European partners, ensure that a comprehensive reappraisal of colonial crimes takes place.
Strengthen foreign cultural and educational policy
Particularly against the backdrop of increasing authoritarianism and worldwide attacks on artistic and academic freedom, we want to intensify cooperation with UNESCO and the Council of Europe and strengthen foreign cultural, educational and academic policy.
It ensures access to civil society, especially in times of crisis,
strengthens democratic exchange
and builds new partnerships.
We want to provide greater support for civil society's commitment to One World and for development education.
We will also strengthen the process of coming to terms with the crimes of National Socialism through international cultural and youth encounters and civil society exchanges.
Our goal is to ensure that all young people have the opportunity to gain European or international exchange experience during their time at school, college or university.
We want to come to terms with Germany's responsibility for its colonial past, for example, in joint history book commissions with former colonized states.
Cultural mediator organizations, such as Goethe-Instituts, and German schools abroad should be better funded and made digitally fit,
the programs for persecuted artists and scientists
and measures against disinformation campaigns.
Strengthening the Council of Europe and the OSCE
Peace in Europe means more than peace, security and stability in the EU.
In order for the vision of a peaceful future for all Europeans to become reality, we want to strengthen and further develop the common European institutions that extend beyond the EU, such as the Council of Europe and the OSCE, also so that we involve all European states.
Only in this way can we actually create an effective and strong system of collective security throughout Europe.
It remains our goal to win over the European Union's eastern neighbors to such a perspective on the basis of shared values
and to support democratic civil societies on the ground, which is especially necessary in light of Russia's nationalistic and backward-looking policies that undermine Europe's security and the self-determination of Russia's neighbors.
The OSCE as a forum for dialogue and fair reconciliation of interests needs more financial and human resources as well as a more active commitment on the part of the German government and the participating parliamentarians.
It should act as an actor for arms limitation, disarmament
and strengthened the joint fight against the climate crisis
and in their activities to implement the Minsk Agreement.
The continuing attempts of authoritarian states to dominate the OSCE agenda along the lines of their interests can only be countered together with other liberal democracies of the OSCE for a policy guided by values and oriented towards international law.
New push for disarmament
Disarmament and arms control mean more security for all globally.
In view of the growing military risks in Europe, a revival of conventional arms control is essential.
The first steps should be further de-escalating measures in conflict zones and the
resumption of security dialogue and military contacts between NATO and Russia.
We also want to include all countries beyond Europe, especially China.
Our aspiration is still nothing less than a world free of nuclear weapons.
Following the termination of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty (INF Treaty) between the United States and Russia, a new treaty initiative is needed.
We reject the deployment of new medium-range missiles on the European continent.
We want to use the transatlantic reboot after the U.S. presidential election and the revival of the New START treaty to engage in a conversation with the U.S. about Barack Obama's "Global Zero."
We want a Germany free of nuclear weapons and Germany's accession to the UN Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons.
A world without nuclear weapons can only be achieved through intermediate steps.
As a first step, Germany should participate in the Conference of the Parties as an observer.
In addition, we want to initiate the following processes in the coming legislative period: an international initiative to reduce the number of nuclear weapons, a NATO renunciation of any first strike, and a broad public debate on the outdated deterrence doctrines of the Cold War.
We know that - also in view of Russia's conventional and nuclear armament - this will require numerous talks within the Alliance, including with our European partner states, and above all the strengthening of the security and reassurance of our Polish and Baltic Allies.
No German weapons to war zones and dictatorships
Exports of weapons and armaments to dictatorships,
Regimes that despise human rights
and to war zones are prohibited.
To reduce European arms exports, we want a common restrictive EU arms export control with enforceable strict rules and sanctions.
Cooperation with the security sector of other states must be linked to compliance with democratic, rule-of-law and human rights criteria.
For Germany, we will present an arms export control law, introduce a right of action for associations in the event of violations of the new law, and ensure effective end-use control.
There must be no Hermes guarantees for arms exports.
We want to strictly regulate the use of security companies in international conflicts and ban private military companies.
Outlaw autonomous lethal weapon systems internationally
Autonomous lethal weapon systems that are no longer subject to effective human control in selecting and engaging targets pose an unpredictable threat.
In the interests of peace and stability, we want to regulate autonomy in weapons systems in an internationally binding manner and outlaw and ban applications that violate ethical principles and international law.
This also applies to digital weapons such as attack and spy software.
Germany and the EU must take a global leadership role in this.
To prevent the militarization of outer space, we want to launch more advanced, internationally binding rules.
Creating security in the cyber and information space
Digitization and new technologies offer many new opportunities,
but also create risks for open, democratic societies and raise serious ethical, political and legal questions in certain areas.
They change possibilities of state and non-state influence on individual freedoms and social discourse, democratic voting processes, and modern warfare.
The state has a duty to effectively protect the population from such attacks.
Early detection, analysis, and joint action by government agencies require interagency strategies to combat hybrid threats, clear legal requirements,
and strong parliamentary oversight of the Bundeswehr's actions in cyberspace.
The Bundeswehr needs a self-image in the digital space that is oriented toward protection and defense.
At the same time, all state institutions must continuously strengthen their resilience and operators of critical infrastructures in particular must be supported in this regard.
We advocate new international agreements to strengthen arms control of digital goods and international law.
The validity of the UN Charter must be extended and international humanitarian law must also be applied in cyberspace.
To this end, European cooperation must also be expanded, to which Germany must make a corresponding contribution.
Exercising the international responsibility to protect
It is important to act on conflicts at an early stage and prevent them from escalating into armed conflict.
We are guided by the concept of the United Nations' "Responsibility to Prepare, Protect and Rebuild," which obligates the international community to protect people from the most serious human rights violations and crimes against humanity, as well as genocide.
States are equally obliged to strengthen their instruments for prevention, crisis response and post-conflict rehabilitation or reconstruction of war-torn societies.
We support international operations within the framework of the United Nations that contribute to stability, the protection of civilians and the implementation of peace processes.
We aim to address resource and capability gaps in this area and significantly increase the civilian and military contribution to UN operations.
We want to significantly increase the proportion of women among deployed forces, police officers and soldiers, especially in leadership positions, through targeted recruitment.
The use of military force as a last resort, when all other options such as sanctions or embargoes have been exhausted, may be necessary in some situations to prevent genocide and create the possibility for a political solution to a conflict.
An operation needs a clear and achievable mission, balanced civilian and military capabilities, and independent (interim) evaluations.
Armed missions of the Bundeswehr abroad must be embedded in a system of mutual collective security - i.e. not in unconstitutional coalitions of the willing - and in an overall political concept based on the Basic Law and international law.
In the case of interventions in the sovereignty of a state or where state sovereignty is lacking, a mandate from the United Nations is needed.
When the veto power in the Security Council is abused to cover up the most serious crimes against humanity, the world community faces a dilemma because inaction is just as damaging to human rights and international law as action.
Modern German Armed Forces
The mission and tasks of the Bundeswehr must be geared to the real and strategically significant challenges to security and peacekeeping and must be integrated into nationwide action.
Germany should be able to rely on its allies, and the allies should be able to rely on Germany in the same way.
This also means that the Bundeswehr must be securely and predictably equipped in terms of personnel and materiel in line with its mission and tasks and must be organized in the best possible way.
It is unacceptable that soldiers go on missions with inadequate protective equipment.
In addition to sufficient and optimal equipment at all times, we want soldiers to receive comprehensive care and support after deployments and to expand the range of services for those injured during deployment.
The Bundeswehr should reflect the diversity and variety of our society in its personnel structure.
Misanthropic ideologies and right-wing extremist behavior are in no way compatible with the mission of the Bundeswehr and the duties of soldiers.
We will therefore pursue this consistently and dismantle such structures.
In addition to comprehensive education, effective prevention is crucial, through practiced and further developed Innere Führung, responsible recruitment of personnel and up-to-date, binding political education.
We reject the recruitment of minors and the armed deployment of the Bundeswehr within Germany and
want to end voluntary military service in homeland security
and give political education in schools equal status by strengthening civilian crisis prevention and conflict management.
Armed drones have been and in many cases are also used by our allies for extralegal killings and other acts in violation of international law.
For us Greens, such a deployment is unthinkable and incompatible with German constitutional and military law.
At the same time, we recognize that these systems can better protect soldiers in certain situations.
For this reason, it must be made clear for which Bundeswehr deployment scenarios the armed drones are to be used at all before a decision can be made on their procurement.
Technical challenges such as potential hackability must also play an important role in the overall consideration.
Realigning NATO strategically
NATO suffers from diverging security interests within the alliance to the point of interstate conflicts.
It lacks a clear strategic perspective in this deep crisis.
Nevertheless, from a European perspective, it remains an indispensable actor alongside the EU, which can guarantee Europe's common security and which, as an alliance of states, counteracts a renationalization of security policy.
Within the framework of the ongoing strategy process, we will advocate a reorganization of NATO and, building on this, a debate on fair burden-sharing and balanced participation of member states in order to jointly develop strategic interests based on European values such as multilateralism, democracy and the rule of law and to represent them more cohesively and convincingly.
The NATO 2 percent target, which is not based on capabilities and enablement, does not answer this and we therefore reject it.
We are committed to a new definition of goals that is not abstract, national and static, but based on common tasks, and we will seek to discuss this with our NATO partners.
This includes greater military cooperation and coordination within the EU and with European NATO partners such as the UK and Norway.
Shaping Europe's security together
Together with its international partners, the European Union must live up to its responsibility for its own security and defense.
The Common Security and Defense Policy (CSDP) presupposes a common EU foreign policy.
We want to establish an EU security union with strong parliamentary control and a common restrictive arms export policy with strict rules and enforceable sanctions.
Instead of channeling more and more money into national military parallel structures
, we want to expand enhanced cooperation among armed forces in the EU, pool military capabilities, achieve more efficient procurement and close generally recognized capability gaps jointly and by consolidating the European armaments sector.
This requires appropriate equipment, the expansion of EU units, and a strengthening and consolidation of the joint EU command structure and European initiatives such as Permanent Structured Cooperation (PESCO).
Joint EU foreign deployments should be more closely monitored and controlled by the European Parliament.
We reject the reallocation of funds from the EU budget, previously earmarked exclusively for civilian purposes, for military purposes.
Governing at eye level with the future
Dear voters, in this program we have described to you the direction we want to take with a new policy and which projects we believe will lead to a better future.
If we want to make the best possible in times of upheaval and epochal tasks, however, it is not only the content of politics that must change, but also the way we do politics, the way a government runs the country.
In democratic societies, leadership is based on the power of conviction.
Yes, you can "govern through" with political majorities and see after four years whether you agreed with the political decisions or not.
However, this simple principle of winning and losing in a four-year cycle alone has proven too weak to cope with the current challenges facing society.
Democratic societies can do more by networking, learning from each other and joining forces.
We can only overcome the great challenges of our time together.
The end of the current political era can at the same time be the beginning of a new political self-understanding and togetherness.
As politicians, we are committed to the common good and charged with serving you, the people of this country.
We need lively, controversial discussion and a willingness to question conditions and concepts and to learn, otherwise things will not progress.
On the other hand, those who work with insinuations and deliberately provoke misunderstandings stifle debate.
But we want to make them possible.
We know you are as serious about our future as a society as we are.
And that is why we say: Yes, our plans are ambitious, not least the human task of climate protection, because anything less would not meet the challenges.
And no, we can't promise that every single project will be exactly the same reality.
We cannot promise that no one will be burdened by climate protection.
We cannot predict what leeway the state will have after Corona.
No one knows all the conditions of the future.
But: you now know our proposals and goals, our views and our attitude.
What we promise you: We have been preparing for many years, and we will do everything we can to achieve as much as we possibly can.
Because governing is not an end in itself.
Our ambition is nothing less than a renewal of the country.
The major transformation tasks, the cohesion of our society demand more than ever the will to cooperate, to bring together, to compromise, which is more than the sum of its parts.
The great tasks of our time will not succeed if a government thinks it can do everything on its own.
They can only succeed if many feel responsible, if as many as possible see themselves as part of the team.
We want to take responsibility, but we know we will need your support.
We ask you to get involved, get involved and invite you to lead the way with us.
With combined strength, we can accomplish many things together.
To this end, we would like to reestablish the relationship between government, parliament and citizens: strong parliaments and members of parliament,
new forms of participation, for example through citizens' councils
, the early involvement of citizens in planning processes, the
transparent involvement of democratic civil society
and scientific facts.
Governing does not mean omniscience, opposition does not mean opposing on principle.
Often, the people a law directly affects are the first to recognize its unintended effects.
We want to listen and include so that our policies are better ones.
This also includes a new style of cooperation within a government.
As a party, we have successfully tested and lived team spirit and cooperation in recent years.
We now want to introduce this idea - starting with the fact that full equality for women is a matter of course.
We want to lead a coalition that tries to make the best of opposites instead of settling for the lowest common denominator.
Which recognizes that a coalition partner brings valuable things to the table and can be just as right.
A coalition that includes those who are not on the coalition committee.
Not all people feel represented by us, we know that.
This makes it all the more important to also reach out to those who do not or will not vote for us.
The Corona crisis has shown how much our state accomplishes - and where it lacks.
Inequality has grown,
but a tight social safety net has so far prevented the Corona pandemic from developing into a profound social crisis.
Doctors, nurses and hospitals have done a tremendous job.
But the pandemic has also shown where our state reaches its limits.
Fax machines, busy hotlines, running to the authorities and plans that are not implemented for what feels like an eternity due to a lack of staff are a reminder that something has to change.
We have also made suggestions for this in our program.
We want to modernize our administration, make it more creative, more digital, more innovative and better equipped.
We want to encourage people to experiment and develop a positive culture of error.
Our statehood should become more colorful and feminist.
We want to create scope for urgently needed investments in the future,
exploit the potential of renewables and
use the state's buying power for innovation and sustainability.
Because socio-ecological transformation and digitization, the modernization of the state and the public service can only succeed as joint projects, we want to launch a convention in order to build on the lessons learned from the pandemic to readjust the interaction between the federal, state and local governments in a new and far-reaching way.
We are planning to build new authorities and administrative structures because we want a strong and efficient state that fits the tasks.
This then also includes checking what is no longer needed, what can be closed, what needs to be improved.
We want to tackle this after the election, together with you and the other democratic parties, without blinkers and dogmatism.
A return to the trenches of more or less government, more or less regulation, more or less federalism, that is not adequate to the task.
For the major tasks of the coming decade, we must dare to do more.
And to make.
Now it's up to you.
In elections, a society decides who it wants to be.
Elections are a moment of freedom.
Use it - for freedom.
