For a new social idea The Left Party.PDS
A different policy is needed - for social and democratic alternatives
Five million unemployed, tens of thousands of apprenticeships missing despite the training pact, millions of people in insecure jobs, a continuing gap between East and West Germany - these are the results of the policies of the SPD and the Greens.
The social conditions are absurd:
rising dividends go hand in hand with mass layoffs and tax giveaways to the representatives of big capital.
The reduction of the top income tax rate is accompanied by increasing public debt and mass unemployment.
Increasing productivity of employees allows for shorter working hours and rising incomes, but in fact we are experiencing working time extensions, wage and pension cuts.
Those with health insurance are burdened with practice fees and co-payments.
Employer contributions are being reduced unilaterally, thereby subsidizing the already rising profits of economically strong companies.
The main losers are the unemployed.
The Red-Greens have cut the duration of unemployment benefits, abolished unemployment assistance, and reduced unemployment benefit II to the level of social assistance.
The motto is not "demand and promote", but "demand instead of promote":
with stricter control regulations and reasonableness rules that take neither qualifications nor collectively agreed pay into account.
Hartz IV stands for poverty and humiliation by law.
Agenda 2010 stands for electoral fraud and desolidarization.
With it, the SPD has abandoned social democratic principles.
The governing parties want to continue this unjust and failed policy of Agenda 2010.
A few striking, social-sounding statements in the election programs cannot hide this fact.
SPD, Greens, CDU/CSU and FDP do not offer the possibility to choose between different political directions.
They merely represent different variants of a policy of social cuts and redistribution from the bottom to the top.
What are the alleged alternatives of the bourgeois opposition?
It was always Schröder and Merkel, it was the great cartel of social coldness from SPD and CDU/CSU, Greens and FDP, which together pushed through in the Bundesrat what the people have been expected to accept as "reforms".
The CDU/CSU and FDP want to restrict protection against dismissal, extend working hours, lower wages, increase the value-added tax, limit co-determination, reduce the importance of collectively agreed wages and introduce what is now called a "capitation fee" instead of solidarity-based health insurance.
This leads to further dismantling of people's social and democratic rights and to more unemployment.
Society becomes even more divided.
The opposite is socially and economically imperative:
People's incomes must rise, and working hours must become shorter.
Public services and services of general interest must be improved.
The state must pursue an active economic, social and ecological policy.
With fair taxes, this can also be financed.
There is a social, democratic and emancipatory alternative to the policies of the de facto grand coalition of the past seven years.
The Left Party.PDS, together with others, is committed to work and social justice, to basic social rights and individual liberties, to gender justice and to overcoming discrimination.
For democracy and co-determination,
for socially equal access to education and knowledge.
For peace and peaceful conflict participation,
for socially and ecologically sustainable development.
Committed to democratic socialism, we fight for a better society.
One in which the weak no longer remain weak, individuals no longer alone, job seekers no longer unemployed, strangers no longer alien, and addicts no longer defenseless.
Therefore: Your vote for real alternatives!
Your vote for Die Linkspartei.PDS!
I. Work for all. Renewing and guaranteeing basic social rights
1. work with dignity - economy for the people instead of people for the economy
A sustainable society must guarantee as a fundamental right that its citizens can secure their existence through their own efforts.
This does not apply to more than five million unemployed people in Germany today, because a basic principle of contemporary society is that people have to "pay their way".
Those who don't pan out will be fired.
We counter that every human being has a right to live a dignified life.
The red-green federal government broke with this principle with its Agenda 2010, especially with the Hartz IV law.
However, we stand by it and stand for solidarity.
There are alternatives - breaking out of social humiliation and exclusion is possible.
Jobs can only be secured, unemployment can only be reduced, if the principle is observed in economic policy: No demand means no growth and no new jobs.
Therefore, the purchasing power of the population on the domestic market must be strengthened.
That is why we need to move away from low-wage strategies!
Instead, we need the restoration of the longer duration of unemployment benefit I
and an increase in incomes at least in line with the rise in overall economic productivity and prices.
No further reduction of social incomes!
The assertiveness of trade unions and the binding effect of collective agreements are to be strengthened
and the relaxation of protection against dismissal should be rejected.
The declaration of the general applicability of collective agreements must be facilitated.
Demand must be increased through public investment.
Instead of privatizing and restricting services, we want public and social services to be expanded - in schools and universities, care, nursing and cultural facilities, public transport and environmental protection.
If Germany were to devote the same proportion of its national product to public investment as the USA, that would be 30 billion euros more a year than at present.
At the same time, socially and environmentally meaningful growth, more jobs, and more spending for the common good are possible.
In short: millions of new jobs require a fair redistribution of existing work
substantial investments - more ecologically sound investments by the public sector
and more private investment, which can only be expected if higher consumer incomes lead to higher domestic demand.
Increasing exports alone will not even lead to a reduction in unemployment.
However, mass purchasing power and public investment are unlikely to increase abruptly.
Every path begins with first steps:
1.1 Instead of unemployment, finance work. Away with Hartz IV!
Hartz IV is costing everyone dearly.
Billions of euros are being used to finance the permanent exclusion of millions of people from gainful employment
- with occasional guest roles on the fringes of the world of work in the form of "work opportunities" for one euro an hour.
Our alternative proposal is simple and feasible.
As an alternative to unemployment and one-euro jobs, we propose the creation of regular employment subject to social insurance contributions in publicly funded and non-profit employment sectors.
A living wage for the previously long-term unemployed would be financed by pooling the funds currently raised for unemployment benefit II, the costs of accommodation and the so-called additional expenses allowances for one-euro jobs.
Combined with existing support funds from the states, the federal government and the European Union - for example, from the European social funds -
without tightening the reasonableness regulations, without constraints and without humiliations.
In addition, part of the tax revenue that could be generated by a fairer tax system - for example by reviving the wealth tax - could be used to provide jobs.
Such jobs should additionally be created where services to individuals or the community are not profitable for the private sector.
This is possible outside of competition with private companies through an entry into publicly supported nonprofit employment sectors between the private sector and the state, for which the specific terms are to be collectively negotiated.
Lower pay compared to existing pay scales for comparable jobs is to be compensated for by shorter working hours, family- and qualification-friendly working conditions, opportunities for older employees and gender equality.
Jobs in non-profit employment sectors are to be established under regional responsibility with the involvement of trade unions and employers' associations in transparent procedures.
A reduction in regular employment in the public sector
and competition that is harmful to small and medium-sized enterprises must be avoided.
The right of young people under 25 to work promotion
and job offers to recipients of social assistance are to be enforced.
Young people have a right to education;
we reject the compulsion to accept any job.
1.2 For living wage jobs
Among the losers of the global cut-throat competition are the low-skilled in our country.
Their jobs are being rationalized away the most, and new employment often fails due to a lack of demand in the face of low purchasing power.
In order to open up prospects for the low-skilled unemployed and prevent them from being pushed into undeclared work, we call for a qualification and employment program for people working in the production and service sectors or in the non-profit sector.
The provision of jobs for these people is to be made possible through temporary wage subsidies for problem groups in the labor market.
These subsidies range from the assumption of social contributions to the additional reimbursement of qualification expenses.
Wage subsidies must not create an incentive to expand the low-wage sector, but must facilitate the integration of the particularly disadvantaged into regular employment.
Wage cuts and an expansion of the low-wage sector, as demanded by other parties, are not a viable path to more employment.
People with disabilities should be able to participate in social life in a self-determined manner.
We want them to have equal access to the labor market.
Structural and communication barriers must be removed.
Personal assistance that meets their needs must be more accessible to them.
1.3 Introduce statutory minimum wage
In Germany, the introduction of a statutory minimum wage to ensure a living wage is denounced as an intolerable threat to the economy.
It exists in most other developed countries.
We demand a statutory minimum wage of not less than 1. 400 euros gross for a full-time job per month.
This does not bring "paradise on earth," but it does open up a way out of social exclusion and, on the other hand, establish a safeguard against social decline.
This requires respect for human dignity
and is a sensible contribution in terms of economic policy to increasing domestic demand
and the sales opportunities of small and medium-sized enterprises.
In economic sectors in which the lowest collectively agreed wage groups are above this minimum wage, it should be easier to declare collective agreements generally binding.
A law on the posting of workers must require all industries to apply the standards of the place of work to wage payment and working conditions.
1.4 Future investment program
Our country needs broader solutions to the employment problem, it needs a future through innovation and high quality production.
The most important conditions for this are well-trained people,
an efficient public infrastructure and modern services.
Providing for the future therefore means investing more in high-quality education and educational institutions,
in science and research for future-proof technologies and products that create jobs.
We need investments that guarantee public services
and promote social-ecological restructuring.
This is why a comprehensive, longer-term investment program for the future is necessary.
In this way, we can compensate for market deficits through political design
and promote the structural change to an information and knowledge society.
1.5 Redistribute work
The trend toward extending working hours again - usually without wage compensation - must be stopped and reversed.
It means lowering wages and leads to more unemployment.
A first important step is to effectively limit overtime.
The Working Hours Act must be reformed and the average regular maximum working time reduced to 40 hours.
We support the unions in their attempt to agree on reductions in working hours.
The progressive increase in productivity will also make it possible to reduce working hours in the future without sacrificing wages.
As long as this is not enforceable, full wage compensation must be guaranteed at least for employees in the lower income groups.
Reductions in working hours are also necessary to open up career prospects for young people who have just completed training.
What is urgently needed is a family-friendly working time policy that leaves more time for recreation and personal interests, for children, partners and friendships.
Part-time employment is to be promoted through full social security coverage for illness, unemployment and old age.
Those who have had to move from full employment to part-time work should have the right to return to full-time work.
We want to strengthen collective bargaining autonomy by making it easier for collective agreements to be declared generally binding and by introducing a right for trade unions to take legal action.
Co-determination at the company level and in the Works Constitution Act must be expanded and the anti-strike paragraph in SGB III must be deleted.
1.6 Limit capital power
Business is not an end in itself; it is not only an independent but also a socially responsible part of a sustainable society.
This must be taken into account: Co-determination and employee participation in productive assets are being expanded.
Stock options for managers will be banned.
Regulation and control in the financial markets will be strengthened.
The growing claims of the owners and major shareholders to performance-free income can only be pushed back by a comprehensive democratization of the economy.
The tax exemption on sales of investments is withdrawn.
International monetary relations and capital flows must be stabilized and controlled.
We demand the introduction of a tax on international foreign exchange transactions
and a consistent fight against tax evasion .
The European Commission's pressure to privatize must be effectively countered.
2. social security: solidarity and self-determination instead of social robbery and incapacitation
2.1 Basic social security based on need
Those who are poor or at risk of poverty due to unemployment, insufficient income, education, or other social, health-related or age-related reasons should be entitled to an individual needs-based basic social security benefit in the medium term.
For such a basic security system, the standard benefits in the tax-financed security systems must be raised to a level that is based on the needs of those affected.
At a minimum, needs-based means avoiding poverty.
Each and every person, including every family with children, must not have less available per month than 60 percent of the average household income of comparable families in the country after the introduction of basic security.
For a single person, this is now at least 750 net euros a month; for a family with two small children, it is at least 1,900 net euros.
Such basic social security is an individual right;
relatives should not be held liable as "communities in need" for the necessities of life
and their own efforts to provide for old age should not be burdened.
Rejection of unreasonable working conditions must not lead to loss of entitlement;
we reject compulsion to work.
As a first step toward a real basic security system, we demand:
- an increase in unemployment benefit II to at least 420 euros in both East and West Germany (plus housing costs),
- higher allowances for savings, especially for old-age provision.
- a significant improvement in the opportunities for additional income.
2.2. subsistence pension with basic amount
Every person is entitled to a dignified life, even in old age.
That is why we oppose cutting pensions and raising the age limit for drawing pensions.
We are aiming for a pension with a basic amount of currently 800 euros per month as the lower insurance limit.
Disadvantages that still exist for East German pensioners must be eliminated.
In order to sustainably reduce poverty among women of old age, more credit must be given for raising children and caring for dependents.
This is to be secured with tax funds.
Pension growth is to be in step with net wage growth.
The current pension system is at risk because mass unemployment, a growing number of uninsured, and low-wage employment are undermining its funding and limiting the ability of those with higher benefits to pay.
Our society is getting older and older.
This poses additional challenges to the tried-and-tested intergenerational contract.
The Linkspartei.PDS therefore proposes to transform the statutory pension insurance into an insurance for employed persons, in which members of all occupational groups, freelancers, self-employed persons, members of parliament and also civil servants are included in a longer process - without individually already acquired claims being forfeited.
All incomes must be taken into account.
The contribution assessment ceiling is to be raised and later lifted.
People with higher incomes are thus to be called upon to a greater extent for the solidarity-based financing of pensions, without their entitlements increasing to the same extent.
2.3 Solidarity-based citizen insurance
For a long time, the "reforms" of the health care system have been aimed at placing a greater burden on patients and restricting the benefits catalog of the statutory health insurance.
With the introduction of the "capitation fee," now called the health premium, the CDU and CSU are planning an even more far-reaching de-solidarization of the health care system.
This contrasts with the idea of a citizen's insurance for everyone.
The Left Party.PDS wants a solidarity-based citizens' insurance that ultimately includes all occupational groups and types of income in the statutory health insurance and in the long-term care insurance.
The higher-income earners in particular should contribute to the financing of a solidarity-based healthcare system and not be able to switch to private health insurance.
The contribution assessment ceiling is to be raised to 5,100 euros in a first step and later abolished altogether.
We adhere to the principle of parity funding and call for appropriate corrections.
We also urgently need structural reforms in the healthcare system to increase efficiency and quality.
The Left Party.PDS has drawn up concrete proposals to this end.
The social conditions for healthcare workers must be designed in such a way that they can fully assume their responsibility for patients.
The shortage of physicians in rural areas, especially in eastern Germany, must be countered with models such as medical centers and community nurse stations that include financial incentives to locate in sparsely populated areas.
2.4 Value added tax
Today, companies pay contributions into the social security systems according to the number of their employees and the amount of their gross wages.
Due to economic developments in recent decades, the number of employees in a company is no longer the decisive factor in its economic strength.
The current structure of non-wage labor costs makes jobs more expensive.
We want companies to pay into social security systems according to their real economic performance, i.e., according to their value added, and not according to the number of employees and the amount of gross wages.
We therefore advocate a process in which today's non-wage labor costs are replaced by a value-added levy.
2.5 Public services of general interest
The supply of people with water and electricity, waste and sewage disposal, public transport, postal and telecommunications services, cultural services, health services, sports facilities and education are services that must be guaranteed in the interest of the common good.
Services of general interest and public services of general interest must not be subject to private competition.
Above all, education, culture and health must not be degraded to commodities.
We fight against the privatization of public services,
against EU liberalization policies
and support a democratic EU framework law on services of general interest.
Affordable and needs-based housing is a basic prerequisite for social security and human dignity.
We want to prevent the sell-off of public ownership of housing and municipal utilities and preserve and promote affordable housing for families and the elderly - especially in cities.
We want to consistently continue the urban redevelopment programs
and combine them with regional economic and employment promotion in order
to stabilize social, economic and urban life in the communities.
II. Quality education for all!
Education is a key issue for the development of society as a whole as well as for the individual.
Today, more than ever, the life and performance chances of everyone depend on free access to information and knowledge.
It is about socially equal opportunities to educate oneself and to participate in the goods of culture.
Education and innovation have become the crucial resource.
So far, German society has not been able to meet this challenge.
Privatization is the wrong way to go here, too.
The scale of the problems requires a whole-of-society effort at various levels.
1. social and democratic education reform
National studies and international comparisons prove this: In Germany, educational opportunities and success are more dependent on social background than elsewhere.
Already existing social inequalities are reproduced and reinforced by a lack of individual support, early selection and social exclusion.
Good education remains the preserve of a portion of children and youth.
We have to break this vicious circle.
The Left Party.PDS demands energetic steps towards a comprehensive democratic educational reform according to the following principles:
Support all, leave no one behind; individual support instead of early selection!
- One school for all - an end to the inefficient, socially exclusionary segregated school system! -
Long, shared learning in an integrative community school from grade 1 to grade 10, initially at least up to grade 8.
A balanced network of all-day programs and all-day schools.
The school must become a place of learning and living for children and young people.
- Ensure socially equal access to the gymnasium level.
- Concentrate efforts on education in early childhood and in the primary school years.
Access for all to daycare and preschool.
- An apprenticeship for every school leaver!
Companies that do not train - even though they could - should pay. -
Free tuition in schools and apprenticeships,
no tuition fees!
Universities and other scientific institutions need permanently secure funding.
Socially equal access to higher education - regardless of social background - must be guaranteed.
We demand sufficient education funding without repayment obligations,
democratization through improved co-determination and a large degree of autonomy for universities.
There is an urgent need for a change in personnel structures to counteract the hierarchical and male-dominated nature of scientific institutions.
2. hold federal and state governments accountable
Education for all can only be ensured under the responsibility of the state and with sufficient public funding.
That is why we oppose privatization in education.
If this is ensured, private initiatives and non-profit involvement by educational institutions also make sense.
Ensuring a socially just and sustainable education system is a joint task of the federal, state and local governments.
We need more collaboration on education policy, not less.
It is a question of overcoming small-scale state structures in the education system: An educational qualification must not be worth less in one federal state than in another.
We advocate uniform quality standards and audit requirements throughout Germany.
The federal government must commit more money to education.
The states, each on its own, will not be able to provide the necessary finances on their own.
According to our ideas, public spending on education should initially be raised to five percent and, in the long term, to six percent of gross domestic product.
We focus on a long-term structural redistribution of funds in favor of preschool and elementary school programs.
Education reform must not stop at continuing and further education, lifelong and in-service learning.
We demand the legal right to lifelong learning, accompanying measures through legislation, collective agreements and further education funds.
Companies have a greater responsibility - also financially.
Education and culture are essential prerequisites for creativity and the power of renewal in a modern, efficient society.
The system of public support for culture is one of the core elements of the welfare state.
The Left Party.PDS is committed to its preservation and further development.
The maintenance and promotion of culture must be secured and further developed as a joint task of the federal, state and local governments.
We advocate a contemporary further development of cooperative cultural federalism in a national and European framework.
We are committed to ensuring that culture is included in the Basic Law as a state objective.
Only in this way can the demand for a cooperative cultural federalism be given a solid foundation and a basis for enshrining culture in law as a compulsory task in the municipalities.
Further reductions in funding and liberalization in services threaten the cultural landscape.
We advocate the broad promotion and development of cultural offerings.
We demand framework conditions that enable all people to engage in cultural self-activity and participate in culture.
We are committed to a modern artist community law and to finally legally securing exhibition remuneration for visual artists.
We want the artists' social insurance to be maintained and the federal subsidy to be raised again to 25 percent.
3. against child poverty! A good start in life for every child!
Around two million children live in poverty in the wealthy Federal Republic: for them, poor education is pre-programmed.
Exclusion from the community of other children, often no school-leaving qualifications and no training place - this blocks life chances from the very beginning.
Gender equality in the labor market is overdue.
Fathers and mothers must be given the opportunity to reconcile raising children with a career.
The Left Party.PDS will immediately take the initiative for a joint effort by the federal, state and local governments to achieve the following in the next few years:
- Free daycare places for all children; unrestricted legal entitlement to education, upbringing and care from the very beginning,
- no deduction of child benefit for recipients of unemployment benefit and social assistance,
Child benefit is to be increased from 154 to 250 euros,
- All-day childcare services for children of all ages,
- good starting opportunities for all children through educational tasks in kindergarten, through the use of trained specialists and through intensive language support at school,
- social integration of children from immigrant families.
4. for an innovation offensive
Germany needs a new culture of innovation in which social and ecological, economic, technological and societal innovation are given equal consideration.
What is needed is a reorientation of the political-ecological framework conditions for the design of a research and innovation policy that contributes to the rapid implementation of sustainable and ecological technologies in connection with the expansion of regional economic cycles.
as well as the accelerated development and introduction of high technologies for the supra-regional sale of products with high added value.
III A New Approach for East Germany, for Structurally Weak Regions in East and West
If a region loses its people, it loses its future.
Since 1996, the gap in economic development between West and East has been growing again.
Despite huge West-East transfers, unemployment in the East is still twice as high as in the West.
Even though many things have improved in the East German sub-society: Young, well-educated people in particular, including many women, are leaving the East.
Since even 15 years after the establishment of German unity large parts of the East German population are treated second-class, since so many of them do not find any perspective in their homeland, a new approach must be dared!
We want to bring the existing, often fragile or blocked development potential of structurally weak regions in East and West, the common views and experiences of the people living there, to the center of political attention.
We want the experience, knowledge and culture of the people of eastern Germany to be seen and treated as fully equal.
Then our demand for equal social standards and equal wages for equal work between East and West would also be accepted by the vast majority of the population in West Germany.
We want East and West German history to be treated equally as German history.
1. stabilization of the economic and social situation
A new policy at the federal level that focuses on jobs and social justice, on investment and innovation, on strengthening domestic demand and on political power to shape the market's wild growth is the first prerequisite for reversing the development trend in eastern Germany and the other structurally weak regions.
The federal government must also give the eastern German states planning security - both in terms of funds from the EU and the Solidarity Pact and in terms of its own financial relations with them.
Structurally weak states such as those in eastern Germany continue to need a funding instrument such as the joint task of "promoting regional economic structures," albeit in a modernized form.
Countries with particular structural and budgetary problems should no longer have to co-finance half, but only a quarter of the funding.
The funds should be used more specifically to promote knowledge-based production, i.e. for research and development activities and for personnel development.
A sensible subsidy policy must take into account the problems that the equity-weak eastern German companies have today.
The second wave of investment is necessary for them after privatization or foundation.
Start-ups should be freed from excessive bureaucratic requirements and receive targeted first-hand offers - even beyond the conclusion of the funding.
The positive experience of the red-red state government in Schwerin with a labor market and structural development program encourages us to let the regions decide for themselves and to give them their own budgets for this purpose instead of hierarchical allocation of funding.
For the weakly developed regions of Germany, we propose a special model-based regional planning.
It should contain billable targets, for the realization of which binding agreements are concluded with the respective state level.
Transport connections, accessibility of school locations, medical care and other issues of social and cultural infrastructure require special attention from the state governments.
For young women and families, framework conditions must be created to reconcile family and career.
Comprehensive childcare is already an important locational advantage of the East, which must be expanded into a locational advantage for all of Germany in the course of European integration.
2. future through innovation and education
We advocate a new type of industrial and structural policy in the East and in structurally weak regions in general - for an industrial policy - which above all profiles future industries and companies and turns them into crystallization centers (clusters) of regional and overarching structural and economic development,
- which ensures,that eastern Germany is not overrun and left behind by EU enlargement
, but becomes a hub, service provider and beneficiary of the new European West-East cooperation in a variety of ways,
- that improves funding opportunities for research and development in small and medium-sized enterprises and facilitates their access to funding.
Solidarity Pact II as a whole is to be geared more strongly to promoting industry-related infrastructure and cooperation between innovative companies and research institutions in order to strengthen growth cores.
What is needed is science expansion as a location policy with increased federal funding.
Federal programs to promote centers of excellence in eastern Germany must be re-tailored accordingly.
It is about new models for university financing and administration, for the introduction of a new personnel structure
and for the promotion of young scientists.
In science and research, we are expressly committed to promoting women.
The potential of highly qualified women should be better exploited.
It is necessary to improve technology transfer between universities, non-university research institutions and companies and to make even better use of the innovation potential of universities and technology and start-up centers,
Support start-ups in financing their ideas
and to ensure the continuity of technology funding.
Networks should not only connect companies, but also universities and non-university research institutions.
3. give East Germans more voice in politics and the public sphere!
If we return to the German Bundestag with the strength of a parliamentary group, eastern Germany will regain an indispensable voice.
East Germans must be much more involved in political opinion-forming and decision-making.
Their competencies and achievements have been disregarded for too long, their potential for co-determination has lain idle, and their experiences as well as the diversity of their interests have been insufficiently taken into account.
Close cooperation among the eastern German states is a common sense imperative.
Egoistic selfishness leads to undesirable developments in the border regions, to senseless competition in the development of economy and infrastructure.
The eastern German states should strive together to become the nationwide model for modern administration: Outdated regulations from the times of the industrial society that were exported to eastern Germany must be abolished, applicants must be relieved of outdated proof and approval requirements, and modern regulations for a knowledge-based society must be developed.
IV. Preserving the environment, shaping the future
The Left Party.PDS is fighting for sustainable environmentally compatible development.
We want economy, social and ecology to be brought into harmony.
Our goal is to drastically reduce resource consumption and significantly cut emissions and waste streams.
Wildlife and endangered ecosystems must be effectively protected.
Obstacles to social-ecological structural change arising from property rights and power politics must be removed.
No right of way for concrete and profit at the expense of the natural environment!
For environmental organizations, we seek more democratic rights of planning, control and objection.
We attach great importance to environmental education.
1. protect climate, initiate energy and transport turnaround
To protect the earth's atmosphere, greenhouse gas emissions in industrialized countries must be reduced by 50 percent by 2020 compared with 1990 levels, and by at least 90 percent by 2050.
That's why we want to achieve by 2050 that the energy we need is largely generated from renewable sources.
This can only succeed if energy efficiency is significantly increased at the same time and energy is saved on a large scale.
We are committed to establishing an international renewable energy agency at the United Nations level.
The use of solar energy must be advanced, among other things, through major international cooperation projects.
We will defend and further develop the Renewable Energies Act, as well as the promotion of combined heat and power generation.
The Left Party.PDS advocates an ecologically weighted primary energy tax.
In the process, the social misperceptions of the current eco-tax must be corrected.
Environmentally harmful subsidies must be dismantled.
We are also committed to the further development of the European emissions trading system on the basis of the aforementioned savings targets.
We consider decentralized energy supply to be extremely important.
We want to unbundle the energy monopolies
and subject them to democratic control.
The CDU/CSU and FDP announce that they will continue to use nuclear power and keep the construction of new nuclear power plants open.
We will oppose this.
We want a short-term phase-out of nuclear power.
We reject the construction of new nuclear power plants as well as the export of nuclear technology and unnecessary nuclear waste transports.
Safety criteria must have the highest priority when selecting a repository for nuclear waste.
We are striving for a social and ecological transport turnaround.
Public transport is to be expanded and made considerably cheaper.
Deregulation and privatization in public transport must be stopped.
The rail network is to grow again, and freight traffic is to be increasingly shifted to rail.
We call for the abolition of the acceleration laws for traffic route planning.
Aviation fuel must finally be taxed.
2. preserve biodiversity
We want to preserve biodiversity and - as far as possible - restore it.
We are committed to advancing the designation and networking of protected areas.
Renaturation and peatland protection are to be promoted, and water bodies are to be free of obstructions.
Land consumption for infrastructure must be drastically reduced.
For flood protection, floodplains are to be kept free and reclaimed, and soils are to be unsealed.
To safeguard the national natural heritage, we call for a halt to the privatization of conservation land.
At the international level, we advocate for the protection of boreal forests.
The primeval forest protection law, which was delayed by the Red-Green Party and blocked by the CDU/CSU, must finally be passed.
Inland navigation must be aligned with the potential of the rivers and not vice versa.
We oppose the nature-destroying expansion of the Danube, Elbe, Saale, Oder, Havel, Main and Weser rivers.
3. ecological management
The Left Party.PDS will strengthen regional economic cycles
and work to make not only production processes but also products ecological.
We call for strict criteria in the authorization and registration of chemical substances for the current revision of European chemicals legislation.
The promotion of business and research must be geared to the environment.
Agriculture and forestry shall be conducted in an environmentally sound manner.
The use of mineral fertilizers and pesticides must be reduced, and husbandry systems must be made more animal-friendly.
Performance enhancers and antibiotics do not belong in animal feed.
We consider green genetic engineering to be neither desirable nor necessary.
That's why we support GMO-free zones.
The labeling requirement for genetically engineered ingredients must be reduced to the detectability limit.
We reject the patenting of living beings and genes.
The Left Party.PDS is committed to securing jobs in agriculture and promoting different forms of farming on an equal footing.
Healthy food also requires honest prices.
We reject price dumping by retail chains at the expense of farmers.
V. Taking protest seriously. Enforce more direct democracy
Willy Brandt's claim "Dare more democracy!" has meanwhile degenerated into "dare democracy" from the point of view of those in power.
Contrary to their election promises and the coalition agreement, and supported by the CDU/CSU, the SPD and the Greens did not allow referendums at the federal level, even when the future of the continent was at stake.
In other EU countries, referendums showed how great the difference between the ruling policy on the one hand and the interests of citizens on the other has become.
This gap will not be closed by removing political decisions from the people's vote.
Political decisions must be made in such a way that they stand before the people as sovereign.
1. more direct democracy
We renew the call for more direct democracy and citizen participation.
The Left Party.PDS wants to move away from spectator democracy toward a culture of participation and dialogue.
We will continue to advocate for the introduction of popular initiatives, referendums and plebiscites at the federal level.
In Germany, too, the people are to decide directly on the amendment of the Treaties on the European Union and, in particular, on the Constitutional Treaty for the European Union.
We are fighting for the right to vote for non-Germans who live permanently in Germany and for a lowering of the voting age to 16.
We also want to strengthen the co-determination and decision-making opportunities of children and young people.
We oppose the loss of importance of parliaments vis-à-vis governments and their apparatuses.
The Bundestag must not only be informed about the preparation of decisions at an earlier stage, but must also be involved in them.
Parliamentary public relations must be qualified.
Positions of trade unions, social, environmental, consumer, tenants' and disabled people's associations as well as self-help organizations and democratic movements operating nationwide must be heard at an early stage.
Our future parliamentary group will be an open and committed contact for them.
The rights of committees and members of parliament to be informed and to inspect files must be strengthened.
The Bundestag and state parliaments must be put in a position to effectively monitor the actions of the federal government and state representatives in the EU councils.
The consent of the Federal Republic to EU legislative acts may not be given against the declared will of the Bundestag.
Self-help work and volunteerism must be strengthened structurally and financially.
The Left Party.PDS stands for a cooperative federalism based on solidarity.
The Länder's scope for action must be considerably expanded, and the powers of the Land parliaments must be strengthened.
It is about more democracy, more transparency, more closeness to the citizens
and more room for maneuver and action for those who are closest to the social problems.
We therefore want to make local self-government more secure.
To this end, we believe it is necessary to strengthen the position of the municipalities in the federal system.
This includes adequate funding for the municipalities in line with their tasks, as well as anchoring municipal participation rights and the principle in the Basic Law according to which those who transfer tasks to the municipalities must also be responsible for their full financing.
We encourage citizens to participate in a self-organized way in drawing up public budgets and monitoring their implementation, starting at the municipal level (participatory budgeting).
2. ensure public safety, guarantee fundamental rights
Democratic civil rights and liberties, like basic social rights, are for us an indispensable condition of democratic politics.
Discrimination of any kind is inhumane.
People are still discriminated against because of their gender and age, skin color, religion, disability or sexual orientation.
To guarantee their rights, we demand that a comprehensive anti-discrimination law finally be passed and implemented.
A law that does not allow exceptions other than danger to life and limb, that contains clear sanctions and reliable compensation provisions.
This also includes the opening of marriage for lesbians and gays - with all rights including the right of adoption.
Those who want public security must ensure internal peace, social balance and social justice, not the dismantling of freedom and self-determination.
Public safety arises where effective government action is subject to the control, influence and participation of the public.
For us, guaranteeing public safety includes identifying and combating the causes of crime.
We take many people's fear of crime and terrorism seriously.
But we oppose policies that fuel people's concerns and fears in order to restrict fundamental rights and freedoms.
For us, public safety always means protecting individuals from disproportionate state intervention.
Core areas of private life must be inviolable.
This means: abolition of the great eavesdropping attack.
The Left Party.PDS vehemently opposes the abolition of the separation of police and secret services.
We are resolute opponents of the deployment of the Bundeswehr in the interior.
We reject the criminalization of drug addicts.
Instead, the political actions of those responsible at local, state and federal level must in future be determined by more education, prevention and assistance.
The main criminals are the illegal drug traffickers and drug cartels, who make vast amounts of money from drug trafficking on the black market.
3. fight right-wing extremism
Right-wing extremism, neo-Nazism, nationalism, racism, anti-Semitism, intolerance of other ways of life are gnawing away at the foundations of democracy.
Anyone who opposes fundamental rights in a democratic society, freedom, equality, the separation of powers and equal democratic participation should be fought politically and, if necessary, under criminal law.
We demand the consistent prosecution of racist and right-wing extremist, neo-Nazi and nationalist incitement to hatred and acts of violence, as well as better education about anti-Semitism, racism and xenophobia.
The Left Party.PDS will continue to advocate broad alliances to combat the extreme right.
We will continue to actively participate in this process and maintain our demand for better public support for anti-fascist and anti-racist groups in order to build and expand civil society structures against right-wing extremism.
4 The Federal Republic of Germany is an Immigration Country - Realizing Equality
We defend the fundamental right to political asylum and advocate the abolition of the discriminatory Asylum Seekers Benefits Act and the Residenzpflicht.
For hundreds of thousands who live here illegally and are often victims of unscrupulous exploitation, we want to create prospects of legal residence.
The Left Party.PDS stands for an EU-wide harmonization of asylum and migration policy based on human rights standards.
A new asylum and migration policy must say goodbye to the failed isolationist policies that put refugees' lives at risk at the EU's external borders and foster the emergence of "shadow societies" in member states.
Detention pending deportation with its inhumane conditions is unacceptable.
In the interest of refugee minors, we demand the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the adaptation of the law on aliens and asylum.
There is an urgent need for an old-case regulation that grants people who have been living here for a long time - regardless of their status under aliens law - a secure right to stay.
The Federal Republic is a country of immigration.
People come to us from all over the world - but immigration law is characterized by rejection and exclusion.
What is needed is a migration and integration policy that shapes the cultural diversity of our society.
Not a German Leitkultur, but basic and human rights that bind everyone must be the basis of coexistence.
A democratic immigration and settlement law must place migrants on an equal footing.
Legal regulations should prevent them from being misused for wage and social dumping.
Migrants must be entitled to equal pay for equal work.
Investments are needed in language support and cultural facilities, integration assistance and social work.
The Left Party.PDS is committed to ensuring that the Federal Republic fulfills its obligations towards minorities such as Danes, Frisians, Sinti and Roma as well as Sorbs.
The federal government must not continue to abdicate its responsibility for promoting their specific linguistic and cultural concerns; its financial participation is indispensable.
There should be a Council for Autochthonous Minority Affairs in the Bundestag to provide advice in parliament.
Adding the rights of ethnic minorities to the Basic Law remains on the agenda.
We advocate a modern citizenship law:
Everyone born in the Federal Republic should receive German citizenship.
Dual citizenship becomes permissible, Article 116 of the Basic Law is to be amended with a view to the different ethnic affiliations of the citizens of the Federal Republic.
For newly naturalized persons who applied for their passport of origin again after January 1, 2000 and thus lost their German citizenship, we demand legal support by independent counseling centers, no downgrading of their residence status, and facilitated re-naturalization.
5. gender equality and advancement of women
Equality between men and women is one of the basic prerequisites of a democratic society.
It requires not only legal protection against discrimination, but also the active promotion of gender wherever outdated role models prevent equal participation in work and society.
To this end, the recognition and legal equality of life plans beyond civil marriage is also crucial.
We demand equality for all lifestyles.
Despite constitutionally guaranteed equal rights, the unequal distribution of social opportunities between women and men has not been eliminated.
Political, economic power are patriarchal; so is the self-image of men and women and their respective roles in society.
We want to eliminate structural discrimination against the female gender.
This process of change and self-transformation begins with equality and the advancement of women.
Currently, women's advancement is being dismantled.
We want to maintain and expand women-specific structures in politics and society.
We need equality laws, including for the private sector, and programs to promote women.
The Hartz laws disproportionately push women into precarious, unprotected employment and into part-time work that is not of their own choosing but imposed.
We look at this development from the perspective of women and demand framework conditions that enable women to secure an independent livelihood through gainful employment or social benefits in all phases of life.
In principle, the following applies: equal pay for work of equal value.
All gainful employment must be subject to social insurance contributions so that women are protected from poverty in old age.
We welcome considerations to define child-raising periods for fathers and mothers separately.
We call for targeted training support for girls and women in technical professions.
Women and children are entitled to basic security - regardless of their partners, spouses, parents.
Elementary is the self-determination of women over their bodies.
The Left Party.PDS continues to demand the abolition of § 218.
Violence against women must be consistently publicly outlawed and resolutely prosecuted.
Women and children need legal protection, a functioning network of support and counseling centers, and women's shelters.
VI. redistribution from top to bottom: For a solidarity-based tax system
More and secure jobs, social justice, education and innovation, and the restoration of local self-government require corresponding financial resources.
The tax concept of the Left Party.PDS aims, on the one hand, to reduce the tax burden on below-average incomes
and, on the other hand, to provide the public sector with significantly higher revenues.
By increasing the municipal share of total tax revenue, we want to ensure that the municipalities regain and permanently maintain their ability to act.
Additional revenues are possible through the reintroduction of the wealth tax and higher revenues from the inheritance tax, higher tax payments by profitable, large companies and a reform of the trade tax, the restriction of tax breaks, the closing of tax loopholes for profitable companies and high-income households, and higher taxation of high incomes.
Subsidies must be tied to clear socially desired purposes and, if possible, given as direct support rather than through taxes.
The fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance must be stepped up, and
stock market transactions and financial speculation must finally be taxed.
We want to simplify the tax system
and make it fairer.
The wealth tax is to be levied on assets of more than 300,000 euros per person.
Real estate and business assets must be realistically valued close to active market value.
Special social cases must be taken into account.
Inheritance and gift taxes must also be increased.
They are at a low level in Germany compared with other countries.
We want to tax capital gains on securities and real estate without speculation periods.
Dividends, interest and other capital gains must be recognized for income tax purposes.
The stock exchange turnover tax, which was abolished in 1991, is to be reintroduced.
With regard to corporate income tax, we want to ensure that companies make an appropriate contribution to financing the community in line with their performance.
The reduction in corporate taxes in recent years has significantly reduced government revenues, but has not created a single new job.
Large and internationally active companies in particular must once again assume their responsibility for society more strongly, including through the tax system.
Their ability to hide profits on balance sheets or shift them to low-tax countries must be restricted.
We want economic crime and corruption to be fought more decisively.
The trade tax is to be further developed into a municipal business tax that basically includes everyone.
In addition, debt interest payments, rents and leasing rates paid are to be included in the assessment basis in order to reduce opportunities for circumvention and to strengthen the financial basis of the municipalities.
By crediting the tax payment against income tax, most personal businesses should not face an additional burden.
The sales tax (VAT) is to remain at 16 percent.
There is to be an additional reduced rate of 7 percent for handicrafts
and pharmacy-only drugs.
With regard to payroll and income tax, we want to reduce the burden on individuals and families with low and medium incomes and increase the burden on taxpayers with high and very high incomes.
The entry tax rate is to be 15 percent - with an exemption amount of 12,000 euros.
Then the tax rate is to rise gradually (linear-progressive) up to a top tax rate of 50 percent.
This is to be levied on the income portions above 60,000 euros.
A number of tax breaks should be eliminated, e.g., for extraordinary income and household-related employment.
Tax-saving funds and unjustified deductions and arrangements for real estate rentals are to be restricted.
We want to raise the commuter allowance to 40 cents per kilometer and maintain the tax exemption for bonuses for work on Sundays, public holidays and at night.
We want the introduction of individual taxation, the abolition of spousal splitting and all regulations that favor the inactivity of women.
Under our tax model, additional revenues of over 60 billion euros are possible to finance education and innovation, for social security systems and for an investment program for the future.
VII Living Peace, Enabling Peace, Shaping Globalization
1. germany refuses military service
Our freedom is not defended in the Hindu Kush.
German soldiers around the world are not ambassadors of peace.
And the provision of military equipment, overflight and landing permits to belligerent powers in no way promotes peaceful conditions.
The fight against terrorism can be won, the war on terrorism cannot, because it does not overcome the causes of it.
Greater security can only be achieved through global justice.
We want Germany and Europe to become a peaceful alternative to the USA's quest for world domination.
For this reason, efforts at strategic appropriation by the USA must be consistently resisted.
We demand the abolition of compulsory military service, the conversion of the Bundeswehr to structural non-aggression capability and the numerical reduction of the Bundeswehr to a personnel strength of 100,000.
Germany no longer participates in war missions around the world and brings back soldiers from such missions.
The Left Party.PDS demands the dissolution of European intervention forces, the EU Battle Groups as well as the NATO Rapid Reaction Force.
The 1999 NATO strategy must be withdrawn.
We counter the European Arms Agency with the demand to create an agency for disarmament and conversion as well as for the control of arms export bans.
Instead of sending European military, we want to establish a permanent Green Corps for disaster relief.
2. jobs through disarmament and conversion to civilian production.
Armaments are a business with death - paid for by taxpayers.
The Federal Republic spends over 25 billion annually on armaments and the military.
Under the Red-Green coalition, Germany has become the world's 4th largest arms exporter.
Instead, we want to create jobs with disarmament and conversion.
In the next ten years alone, it is mandatory to dispose of millions of tons of conventional ammunition in Europe.
This means approximately 15,000 jobs across the EU.
Our party calls on the German Bundestag to demand that the U.S. withdraw its nuclear weapons from Germany, thus setting in motion a momentum for a Europe without weapons of mass destruction.
The money freed up in this way can be used by the municipalities for investment programs that create jobs,
and for development aid, which also brings security.
An alternative security policy requires a consistent redirection of scientific and economic potential for peaceful, not armament purposes,
for the protection of the environment, for the increase of energy efficiency, for an economical use of raw materials and resources, for the development and application of modern materials.
The use of highly enriched uranium at the Garching reactor must be terminated.
Military training areas should be dismantled, not expanded.
No Bombodrom in the Kyritz-Ruppiner Heide.
Develop a national conversion program at the federal level.
Create 30000 to 40000 jobs in Germany through conversion policy.
Gradual reduction in defense spending (ten percent annually).
Ban landmines and anti-tank mines.
Stop and ban all arms exports.
3. for a renewed european union
The Left Party.PDS says YES to Europe, YES to a changing European Union.
The perspective of the Federal Republic is a European one.
The European Union faces extraordinary political, economic, social, environmental and cultural challenges.
It is getting bigger, and we want it to be more social, democratic and peaceful as well.
This can only succeed if there is a change in this direction in the European integration process and in German European policy.
The prevailing policy in Europe is on a wrong track.
The rejection of the Constitutional Treaty in France and the Netherlands and the failure of the negotiations on EU financial planning have shown that there can be no "business as usual" on the Maastricht path.
We want a European Union that operates in a socially and ecologically sustainable manner, adopts common minimum standards for wages, taxes and social benefits,
and consistently becomes a non-military union.
Brussels' policies must no longer focus solely on the market and monetary stability, but on living wage jobs and social security.
It is essential to complement monetary union with economic, employment, social and environmental union.
The Left Party.PDS wants a European Union with democratic, transparent, non-bureaucratic institutions that are close to the people.
Citizens should be effectively involved in shaping and deciding on the further development of the Union.
It is in this spirit that we are also striving for a new European constitutional treaty.
The European Parliament must be given the right of legislative initiative and full freedom of decision in the selection of the President of the Commission.
Military alliances - including NATO - should be dissolved.
We are in favor of strengthening the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) for non-military intervention and conflict prevention.
Negotiations between member states must ensure that the necessary financial resources are available for the economic, social and environmental development of the entire Union.
This applies above all to regional, structural and cohesion policy, which contributes significantly to the harmonization of living conditions between the regions and to promoting the growing together of the formerly divided border regions on the eastern border of the Federal Republic in the interests of Germans, Poles and Czechs.
We want the European Union to change its trade policy and reject the unrestricted expansion of the GATS services agreement.
Public services must be withdrawn from the system of free competition and profit - for example, services of general interest such as education and health care.
We want the planned Services Directive (Bolkestein Directive) to be withdrawn because it leads to legal uncertainty and significant social dumping.
The Left Party.PDS opposes the right-wing populist and nationalist campaign of the CDU/CSU against Turkey's admission to the EU.
We advocate a speedy start to the accession negotiations and the objective discussion of all social, economic and democratic problems in a spirit of partnership.
The Left Party.PDS is convinced that a Turkey in which human rights are guaranteed and minorities are respected, rule of law and social reforms take place
and a democratic, peaceful path is opened for the Kurdish population is important for the people in Turkey and for Europe.
This position is in line with the positions of the democratic opposition in Turkey and many migrants in Germany.
4. shaping globalization fairly
Our peace policy goals fit into the spectrum of demands of a large number of organizations, associations and initiatives at the regional, national and international level.
In alliance with this growing peace movement we oppose the neo-liberal globalization with demands that are based on the strengthening of international relations without war and military threat,
on the enforcement of social and ecological standards, on the
granting and strengthening of human rights and on the
democratic regulation of the financial markets.
Around the world, poverty, disease, human trafficking, flight and displacement have a female face.
Women and children are predominantly the victims of the wars of the new millennium.
We demand that UN Resolution 1325, which calls for women's significant participation in the prevention and resolution of armed conflict and in post-conflict political and social transformation, finally be implemented.
Development aid - as demanded by the United Nations - must be gradually increased over the next few years to 0.7 percent of gross domestic product.
With comprehensive debt relief, the promotion of steps toward self-determined economic development, fairer economic relations must be established between North and South.
What is needed is a comprehensive democratization of international organizations such as the IMF and the World Bank.
We advocate a strengthening and democratic reform of the UN.
We want a social and solidarity-based society.
We therefore want the supremacy of capital to be pushed back, because it stands in the way of a dignified life.
We will be where protest and resistance are needed in our country.
We want to develop and implement feasible alternatives - tolerantly and fairly in a broad alliance with all those who want to democratically pursue a different development path for society.
After sixteen years of Kohl's government and seven years of Schröder's government, the Left Party.PDS represents a serious opportunity to bring a new social alternative to bear in the Bundestag
and thus to strengthen the social forces outside parliament and the parties.
Alternative policies are not only overdue.
It is possible!
