Performance and safety
Time for action
Government program
2002/2006
Preamble
It is time for action. It's time for the Union.
People in Germany are working hard for their future.
You deserve a government that works hard for the citizens
and runs the country efficiently
. Performance and security for our country - this is the opportunity of September 22.
Together, we will restore optimism to the country, roll up our sleeves and tackle the future.
After four lost years, we can set a new course for our country together.
The change is necessary.
This federal election is also a vote on the last four years.
Schröder is the chancellor of the promised - broken.
His record is desolate: more than four million unemployed, a health care system on the brink, increased taxes and duties.
People are rightly disappointed.
The majority of Germans will not continue on this path.
The red-green experiment has failed; it must not become a red-red one.
Let's not allow Germany to go off the rails!
Only a strong Union can guarantee that the negative trend will be stopped and reversed.
We need to make the right decisions today so that the years and decades ahead will be a good and successful time.
With us, Germany is tackling the future - from the middle of the political spectrum and from the middle of society.
Let's make the federal election a turning point!
We want to achieve something together for our country.
We want to free it from the grip of the "steady hand" of this federal government that has brought gridlock to the country, that is squandering our opportunities instead of securing our future.
Germany now needs a government with competence, a government of opportunity for the individual and for the country, a government with a clear strategy for a new upswing and new security.
And Germany now needs a government that embodies values and makes them the principles of its policies: this includes orientation toward the Christian image of man
and this also includes love for our country.
We are committed to the diversity of our country
and to Germany as a fatherland.
Home gives support.
Homeland - that is human ties and cultural traditions, and self-confidence.
Our commitment to Germany is based on enlightened patriotism.
It gives us the strength to master the future with all its challenges.
Together, we will make Germany once again a strong and capable nation
that is firmly rooted in Europe
and at the same time knows how to defend its national interests.
Performance is the first key to the future.
Germans are willing to make a contribution - for themselves and for others.
We ensure that the willingness to perform of the silent majority - from nurses to entrepreneurs, from start-ups to patrol officers - can once again unfold and be fairly rewarded:
by ensuring that low-income earners are better off than benefit recipients; by ensuring that
normal earners retain more of their wages and salaries in net terms; by ensuring that
the middle class is at the center of economic policy;
and by ensuring that parents who raise children and thus achieve a great deal are treated fairly.
A strong economy is a prerequisite for a state that can do a lot for its citizens.
We are taking our country, this strong country, back to where it belongs: among the European leaders.
We must no longer fall behind in European comparison in terms of unemployment,
growth figures
and public finances.
With us, there is sustainable economic growth.
Safety is the second key to the future.
We are creating new security where old security is disappearing: We are setting the direction for the future in both pension provision and healthcare - so that German citizens can regain confidence in the security offered by the community of solidarity.
We are also creating new security for families
and for young people, who are entitled to the best possible education.
Germany needs new security.
The Union stands with those who guarantee our security.
We are resolutely fighting crime.
And we are making Germany a reliable partner again in a world of diverse, changing threat scenarios.
We Christian Democrats and Christian Socialists are jointly presenting our government program - as one Union for Germany.
It is an ambitious program and it is an honest program.
Everyone can count on us to walk the talk.
We have results to offer.
The record of Union-governed countries proves: It is also possible to govern well.
This is our offer for Germany: a government program with a clear project: performance and security.
And in Edmund Stoiber, a candidate for chancellor who acts because he knows: It's time for action.
Work and prosperity for all
Germany must no longer bring up the rear in terms of growth
and the fight against unemployment.
The red lantern of the European economic train is not an unalterable fate.
The people in our country are doing a good job.
Germany has the potential to become Europe's economic engine once again.
But the wrong government policies are giving away the most important opportunities.
We want to open up these opportunities again for people in Germany.
Greater economic freedom
and more reliable financial security are possible.
Our main political goals are jobs and prosperity for all.
The challenges of the 21st century demand new answers.
In confusing terrain, only those who know how to orient themselves will find a way.
Our policy follows a proven compass.
The social market economy as a guiding principle of regulatory policy continues to point the most humane, efficient and best way forward in the 21st century.
The Union has used the past few years to renew and revitalize this guiding principle.
In this way, it offers the best basis for providing sustainable and consensual answers to globalization, technical revolutions, changes in the world of work, demographic upheavals and ecological challenges.
The renewed social market economy encourages freedom and sets incentives for personal responsibility.
With their help, we are strengthening Germany's performance capacity.
Because if we want to remain at the top in terms of prosperity and income, we also have to be at the top in terms of performance.
To this end, we have developed the "3 times 40 percent" program.
It stands for low taxes,
stable social security
and a thrifty state.
engine for growth and jobs:
Program "3 x 40
We want to use the untapped potential for more growth in Germany.
The crippling effects of excessive bureaucracy,
tax and duty burdens must be eliminated.
Freedom and property, personal responsibility and private initiative should once again become the dominant drivers of economic development.
We will therefore gradually and - 7 - permanently reduce the public spending ratio, i.e. the share of public spending in total economic output, from the current level of just under 50% to below 40%.
In this way, we better protect the state, public budgets and social security systems from excessive demands and overindebtedness.
We want to reduce the top tax rate to below 40%.
With every step in this direction, we give citizens back a piece of their own achievement and their economic freedom of development.
In order to sustainably strengthen the economic drivers, we will significantly limit the growth in government spending.
The growth rate of the federal budget must be consistently kept lower than economic growth.
Privatization and market liberalization will give more room to entrepreneurship.
This applies in particular to the postal and telecommunications, transport, and supply and disposal sectors.
Industries with a promising future need free fields of activity, not narrow niches.
Then they develop unimagined employment opportunities, new professions and technological feats.
The level of social security contributions continues to be a brake on more economic dynamism.
We will use all leeway to reduce contribution rates and gradually limit social security contributions by employees and employers to below 40%.
With this relief, we are giving citizens more opportunities to provide for themselves.
Companies are given greater and, above all, reliable leeway for hiring new workers.
We reject the misuse of the individual branches of social insurance as shunting stations for financing the federal budget.
Detour financing, such as with the help of the eco-tax, only prolongs the problems.
In the end, they cannot replace the necessary reforms.
Instead, a new balance between personal responsibility, private risk provision and solidarity is needed to curb the spending dynamics in the social security systems.
This is also an important prerequisite for surviving in the international competition for investment and bright minds.
Tax policy: fair and performance-enhancing
Germany needs a tax policy that sets incentives for performance.
We want to motivate people to develop their performance potential.
Citizens should once again be able to feel that taxes are fair.
Germany therefore needs a tax policy that focuses on simplicity and transparency.
The CDU and CSU will therefore launch a major tax reform based on the guidelines of "simpler, lower and fairer".
We will create a simpler and more transparent tax law,
that is fair
and internationally competitive
motivated to invest and perform again
and brings more tax justice for all types of income.
The multitude of special regulations currently in place complicates tax law.
The confusing nature of the regulations opens up opportunities to influence the tax liability through tax structuring in such a way that it hardly corresponds to the actual economic performance.
Overly complicated tax law opens the door to tax evasion and exposes even honest taxpayers to the risk of criminalization.
Since exceptions contradict the concept of simple and transparent taxation, we want to put them to the test.
Our goal is that, as a result, everyone is relieved and pays less tax.
We will simplify tax law so that all citizens can once again prepare their own tax returns.
In principle, a simple tax system is also a fairer tax system.
We will reduce the tax burden.
In the medium term, we will gradually reduce the top income tax rate to below 40% and the entry-level tax rate to below 15%.
A lower top income tax rate, a lower input tax rate and a flatter linear-progressive tax scale allow all taxpayers to benefit from the lower tax progression.
All taxpayer groups will be relieved.
Average earners should no longer come close to the maximum tax rate;
We want to avoid "cold progression".
The tax-free subsistence minimum is to be updated in line with economic developments.
We are sticking to the spousal splitting system.
Spousal splitting is not an arbitrary special benefit, but a necessary tax law expression of the spouses' cohabitation and welfare.
We reject all red-green attempts to soften or reshape the fundamental, evolved structures of our society through tax law - in accordance with the Basic Law.
The Red-Green tax reform was wrong.
It also causes an imbalance in tax relief for partnerships and corporations.
We will eliminate this discrimination against SMEs, the self-employed and start-ups by improving income tax.
We want to restore the legal form neutrality of corporate taxation.
The tax exemption for disposals of shareholdings is subject to review due to its impact on tax revenue and with regard to the equal treatment of partnerships.
We will abolish the wealth tax for reasons of legal certainty and prevent its reintroduction, which has been called for in some cases.
We reject an increase in inheritance and gift tax.
Especially for medium-sized businesses, an increase "through the back door" of the valuation of businesses and real estate would be detrimental.
The eco-tax pushed through by the red-green coalition on a national solo basis has proven to be economically misguided, ecologically counterproductive and socially unjust.
The CDU and CSU will reverse the further increase in this tax planned for 2003.
Our goal is to abolish the eco-tax in its existing form in the medium term and replace it with a revenue- and competition-neutral, harmonized and pollutant-based levy that is coordinated across Europe.
Our policy aims to strengthen the forces of growth in order to open up scope for tax cuts.
We will implement the first measures as early as 2003: the eco-tax will not be increased.
Childcare costs of between €1,000 and €5,000 per child per year are taken into account for tax purposes.
The trade tax levy will be reduced to the level before the Schröder "tax reform".
Small employment is encouraged.
On January 1, 2004, we are putting a major tax reform into effect.
With a strong start, we will create the conditions to achieve our goals of reducing the entry tax rate below 15% and the top tax rate below 40% by the end of the next legislative period.
Labor market: promoting opportunities, removing barriers
Chancellor Schröder is responsible for around 6 million unemployed: 4 million officially counted and around 1.8 million statistically unrecorded.
In addition, around 1 million people are seeking employment without being registered as unemployed.
At least another 800,000 people do not get off welfare despite being able to work.
This record is disastrous.
Every year, around 200,000 more older people leave the labor market than younger people enter it.
The misguided policies of the Schröder government have thus not fought high unemployment, but encouraged it.
It is only for demographic reasons that this has not become more visible.
Despite strong growth impulses from abroad, too few jobs were created in Germany.
In 2001, Germany's unemployment rate exceeded the European Union average for the first time.
The touted increase in the number of employees in the years since 1999 was largely for statistical reasons.
The inclusion of marginal employment, for example, increased the number of employed persons on paper, but not a single unemployed person found a new job as a result of the legal change.
Germany must no longer be a laggard in Europe in the fight against unemployment.
Our guiding principles for more employment are: Support and challenge the unemployed - Unlock the labor market - Relieve the burden on employees and companies.
We act on the conviction that the practice of managed unemployment urgently needs to end - in favor of a policy of assisted re-entry into the labor market.
Promote opportunities
We will repeal the law against so-called "bogus self-employment" in order to eliminate the Red-Green overregulation and bureaucratic obstacles.
We welcome any initiative by citizens that leads to greater independence.
That is why this path must be facilitated and not made more difficult by bureaucratic mistrust.
In principle, we want to create more employment opportunities in the entire low-wage sector in order to make it easier for people to find their way out of unemployment and social welfare, which is often not easy.
Schröder's 630-DM bureaucratic monster has hit numerous employees hard, destroyed marginal employment relationships and, in particular, side jobs in many sectors, burdened small and medium-sized businesses and voluntary work in associations and churches, and, above all, encouraged undeclared work.
Marginal workers need a perspective of less bureaucracy and higher net earnings.
The red-green €325 rule will not stand up in our country.
Instead, we will raise the €325 limit to €400, eliminate the burden of social security contributions, and subject marginal employment to a flat-rate tax liability of 20%, which the employer must pay uniformly.
The shortfall in contributions by the social insurance institutions is offset by federal subsidies.
We will use our "three-pillar model" with lowered social security contributions for low-wage earners and "combi-wages" to create graduated incentives for taking up work in the low-wage sector.
Social security contributions will therefore be reduced for employees who earn between €401 and €800 in full-time or part-time employment of more than 20 hours per week.
This offer applies not only to the long-term unemployed and welfare recipients, but to all low-income recipients.
In this way, a more sustainable bridge into employment is built than with many of the previous instruments of active labor market policy.
Unemployed persons who accept a job whose net wage does not reach previously received social benefits are to receive a top-up amount as an incentive to take up work.
In addition, private households must be activated as potential employers in the service sector.
Many households would like to make use of services related to daily life, but are deterred by excessive costs and bureaucracy.
Bureaucratic requirements must be thoroughly simplified for private households.
Greater employee participation in the earnings and assets of the economy is of great importance.
The formation of productive assets in employee hands is an expression of social partnership, enables a fairer distribution of income, creates motivation and strengthens loyalty to the company.
Investing wage agreements open up new sources of capital for companies and improve the conditions for greater flexibility in the organization of labor relations.
Reduce barriers
Structural reforms in labor law are necessary to create new jobs.
We are guided by the idea of providing security for employees and their families and
greater flexibility for companies to weather times of crisis.
That is why we will ensure a modern labor law that will lead to as many hires as possible and thus open up new employment opportunities.
We need a new balance between flexibility and security.
This includes enabling a more flexible HR policy through improved framework conditions for temporary employment and the contractual limitation of employment contracts.
We will abolish the general legal entitlement to part-time work and limit it to periods of child-rearing and care.
We want to give older unemployed people the option of receiving a severance payment when they sign a new employment contract if they waive their right to take legal action against dismissal in the event of a future layoff.
We will examine whether transferring the option model to the long-term unemployed would also create additional opportunities for them on the labor market.
We advocate making the law on protection against dismissal more transparent for employees and employers; this includes ensuring that social selection agreed with the works council is transparent.
We will exploit the opportunities for co-determination through a better and more modern Works Constitution Act,
remove obstacles to recruitment created by the Schröder government
and safeguard the diversity of employee interests.
We need collective bargaining legislation to expand the scope for company-based alliances for work.
In addition to wages and working hours, employment prospects must also be included in the favorability comparison.
However, the collective bargaining parties must retain a justified right of objection in order to safeguard the autonomy of collective bargaining.
We will withdraw those parts of the Schröder reform of the Works Constitution Act that are particularly costly for small and medium-sized enterprises.
In doing so, we will also review the size of the works councils and the lowered thresholds for exempt works councils for future election periods.
In the company of the future, autonomy, independent decision-making authority, employee creativity and differentiated work opportunities are required.
Participation of the works council,
faster legal certainty are part of this.
Decisive for the success of the companies and the career prospects of the employees are also their professional qualifications.
When it comes to vocational training measures and the reconciliation of family and career, we therefore want to strengthen the partnership with the involvement of the works councils.
Turning the unemployed back into employees
We want to restore two principles to labor market policy: People who work should have more in their pockets than if they do not work.
The state and society should support and challenge recipients of social transfers - because rights and obligations belong together.
That is why we will focus on getting people who are fit for work back into the primary labor market.
Only then will "active labor market policy" really deserve its name.
Only in exceptional cases can it be a matter of organizing and subsidizing activities on the second labor market, which in reality is not a labor "market."
To this end, we plan to expand individual support in new job centers.
With the help of integration agreements, jobseekers are accompanied to re-enter the labor market.
Targeted training opportunities during the period of unemployment will play an important role.
We will strengthen training and retraining programs and reorganize them in line with demand.
Because we intensively support job seekers and those who are capable of working, the general public may also demand something from them.
We consider it reasonable that the recipient of social transfers who is capable of working first verifiably demonstrates that he or she has really made a serious effort to find work.
For unemployed and welfare recipients who are capable of working, we will tie financial support to the obligation to participate in further training measures, to otherwise qualify for a return to the labor market, or to perform community service.
For foreigners, German language courses can be added.
We will ensure that qualification measures are also offered to a sufficient extent.
An essential conceptual step toward such a new culture of promoting and demanding consists in merging unemployment assistance and social assistance.
The previous shifts between the municipalities as providers of social assistance and the employment offices responsible for unemployment assistance must be avoided.
For this reason, labor and social welfare offices are to work together in the new job centers to provide flexible support from a single source.
In this way, we can make better use of the expertise of the municipalities in the local labor markets.
The placement activities of the employment offices and the social welfare offices must be reformed and adapted to the new concept.
The Federal Labor Office will be decentralized and streamlined, the core task of job placement will be strengthened in the employment offices, and placement services will also be improved through more competition with private providers.
The funding of infrastructure measures from unemployment insurance contributions is an aberration that we will reverse.
At the same time, our policy creates scope for reducing unemployment insurance contributions,
relieving labor costs
and facilitating the creation of new jobs.
Encourage self-employment, strengthen SMEs
Economic growth and employment in Germany need an optimistic, committed and successful SME sector.
From 1980 to 2000, small and medium-sized enterprises in Germany created 2.9 million jobs, while large companies shed around 1 million.
Germany ranks a disgraceful 22nd in the "start-up climate" in a comparison of countries.
Germany needs to catch up here.
To improve the framework conditions for growth that also brings more employment, we will launch an offensive for self-employment, start-ups and SMEs.
We do not see SME policy as protecting SMEs from competition - but as actively promoting their ability to compete.
Small and medium-sized enterprises need a reliable market-based regulatory policy and an SME-friendly economic and tax policy if they are to stand a fair chance against large corporations.
In tax law, we will eliminate the disadvantage of partnerships compared with corporations.
There must be an end to the misconception that companies are good but entrepreneurs are bad.
The compulsion for medium-sized companies to change their legal form must be eliminated again.
After all, in a "Germany with limited liability," the personal responsibility of the business owners often means that social obligation and consideration for societal concerns fall by the wayside.
We will facilitate the generational change that is pending in over 400,000 medium-sized family businesses instead of hindering it.
This includes improving the tax conditions for the restructuring of partnerships as well as a clear rejection of an increase in inheritance tax.
It is not the new name "Mittelstandsbank" for merged federal credit institutions that helps SMEs, because the necessary and efficient financing of SMEs is not achieved in this way.
We will not agree to disadvantaging SMEs in the negotiations on the capital adequacy guidelines for banks ("Basel II").
The federal government's commitment to this issue to date has been inadequate.
We will adapt SME financing to the changed framework conditions in order to secure favorable financing conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises.
Our goal is to facilitate access to debt financing as well as to enable companies to achieve higher equity ratios.
Start-ups must be actively supported.
They need framework conditions that facilitate and promote the emergence and growth of new businesses.
Our goal is to improve the supply of investment and venture capital for SMEs and start-ups.
To this end, we will also improve the incentives for venture capitalists and business angels and the framework conditions for employee profit-sharing, for example through stock options.
We will bundle the support programs for start-ups and remove bureaucratic obstacles in the process.
We will promote technology transfer in a targeted manner and make current research results more accessible to SMEs via innovation databases and innovation advisory centers.
Basically, we want to create a social climate that sees start-ups and entrepreneurial responsibility as worthwhile goals.
In schools and universities and in vocational training, the willingness to engage and take responsibility, to take risks and to be creative must be anchored as central educational goals.
We want to preserve the master craftsman principle in the skilled trades.
The "Grand Certificate of Competence" ensures a high standard of quality and impressive training performance, and also ensures that start-ups in the skilled trades are far more successful than in other sectors of the economy.
We will correct the Schröder government's half-hearted reform of the Meister-BAföG and ensure sustainable improvements by increasing the grant component, expanding the family component and easing the repayment conditions.
We will actively support SMEs on foreign markets on an individual basis: with trade fair participation programs, participation in delegation trips, contact exchanges.
The environmental policy of the CDU and CSU is tailored to the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises.
and the municipalities' interest in attracting businesses and jobs.
Reduce bureaucracy
Economically, Germany is at the bottom of the league in Europe, but in terms of regulatory density it is one of the leaders.
Regulation and regimentation hinder the individual responsibility and creativity of citizens and paralyze the economy.
For the citizen, the legal situation is no longer clear.
He often feels helpless and powerless in the face of the flood of laws and regulations.
Red-Green believes in the omnipotence of the state, tends to patronize citizens and has therefore produced a strangulating bureaucracy, regulatory confusion and opaque rules.
There are no effective measures by the federal government to reduce bureaucracy in the interest of citizens.
On the contrary: additional confusing regulations and bureaucratic excesses with the eco-tax, the 630 DM law, the law to combat bogus self-employment and the tax and pension reform.
We want reliable, clear and understandable legislation where necessary, deregulation where possible.
Fewer and simpler laws so that initiative and entrepreneurship are not stifled by bureaucracy.
To strengthen individual responsibility and initiative, we want subsidiarity and privatization, i.e. a withdrawal of state activity.
We see comprehensive deregulation and a containment of the flood of legislation as the most urgent task.
What is needed is a strict regulatory impact assessment and a "bureaucracy MOT", i.e. the constant review of existing regulations. In future, administrative regulations should in principle be limited in time to ensure that they are regularly reviewed.
Approval procedures must be simplified and bureaucratic requirements for businesses put to the test.
Transparent administrative procedures are essential
and more service and support from the authorities.
Administrative processes must be accelerated, which can be achieved by reducing instances and unnecessary bureaucratic involvement.
The planning and approval processes are not intended to delay investments, but to make them safer and more reliable.
We want to make the impetus for innovation from the new federal states fruitful for the whole of Germany: Simpler administrative procedures, a
reduction in superfluous regulations
and a limitation of the sprawling legal system.
We will make greater use of auditing procedures and project management.
To enable German companies to be on the market with competitive products as early as possible, opening and experimentation clauses give them leeway to deviate from standards and specifications in justified cases.
With modern information and communication technology (e-government), we will ensure rapid communication and interaction between citizens and the state.
In the future, citizens should be able to take care of "official business" from home.
We will support municipalities, cities and counties in e-government services on a broad basis.
Top level research -
Innovation offensive for Germany
Germany needs optimal framework conditions for innovative technologies.
In the social market economy, the state and politics are not directly responsible for innovations.
But government and politics must set the framework, create scope, encourage innovation and give new technologies public backing.
As a highly productive and wage-intensive location, Germany is reliant on its companies constantly asserting themselves in competition with new products and services that are suitable for the global market.
This is the only way to create and secure jobs in the long term.
That is why Germany needs an aggressive modern research policy.
We want to make the German research landscape fit for the future.
Researchers at universities and non-university research institutions need more freedom, more flexibility, more interdisciplinarity, more internationality and more competition.
The private-sector organization of public research institutions can be tested in pilot projects.
New research institutions should be established primarily for sustainable research fields, with a clear mission and in cooperation between non-university institutions and universities.
The research policy of the CDU and CSU will replace the dirigiste detailed control of the research institutions with autonomy and control of success.
We want to enforce more competitive elements in "institutional funding."
We will separate responsibility for program definition and program implementation as much as possible.
In the face of globalization, it is essential to turn the whole of Europe into a strong and powerful research and innovation area.
German research policy must be the engine for the development of a European research and innovation network.
We want to see greater networking of German and European research funding policy.
Our research and technology policy strengthens cooperation between industry and science in applied research,
improves patenting and technology transfer
, and accelerates the commercialization of new processes and products.
Interdisciplinary and networked research work is to improve the prerequisites for Germany's leading position in future technologies - mechatronics, robotics, optoelectronics, genetic engineering and biotechnology, materials science, nanotechnology, information and communication technologies, aerospace, environmental sciences, life sciences.
To secure its competitiveness on international markets and position itself in the new technologies of the future, Germany is dependent on innovations from university research, on well-trained young academics and on a high-quality range of continuing education programs.
In doing so, we also rely on a strong self-confidence of the humanities and social sciences, which have a lot to say in the high-tech society with their own competence and authority:
They describe and hand down our evolved identity, open up foreign peoples and cultures to us, and offer orientation in a time when norms and values seem to be dissolving.
We have set ourselves the goal of making more German universities a top international address for research and teaching.
We will promote competition between universities,
work toward shorter study times and
strengthen the international attractiveness of German universities.
The degrees of German universities must be compatible in the international system.
We will correct the mistakes of the red-green university service law, especially the de facto abolition of the habilitation.
The diversity of subject cultures must also give universities the opportunity to pursue different ways of promoting young scientists.
We will use opening clauses in university service law to allow for deviating regulations within the framework of pilot projects in individual research institutions.
We want to largely unbundle responsibilities between the federal government and the states in the Framework Act for Higher Education in favor of the states and competition.
The red-green ban on tuition fees is an encroachment on the cultural sovereignty of the states,
but not a contribution to a student financing system that does not deter students or force them to take up part-time jobs and improves the quality of teaching and studies.
A serious debate about new ways of financing education must include BAföG, education savings, education loans, fees with income-based loan repayment, and free places for the gifted and needy.
We want to make it easier for universities to form their own profile.
Our goal is to abolish the centralized allocation of study places.
Students should be able to choose their university and universities should be able to choose their students.
Education: Foundation for the future of our society
Education is the key to individual life opportunities and the driving force behind social developments.
Education is the foundation of prosperity.
Enabling cultural participation, political maturity and career prospects through education for all is a key sociopolitical responsibility.
A structured, gifted education system provides the best opportunities for all children.
The basic cultural techniques - reading, writing, arithmetic, but also the use of new media and the processing of the amounts of information available today - must be mastered with confidence.
In secondary schools, more attention must be paid to mathematics, science and basic economic knowledge in view of the rapid changes in technology and the economy.
Religious education must have a permanent place in the curriculum of schools.
There is no education without education and no education without values.
In young people's search for answers to ethical and religious questions, schools must provide orientation.
This is the task of all subjects, but not least the special task of religious education.
Religious education is not only part of the churches' proclamation mission, but it offers the value-laden opportunity to discuss fundamental life issues.
The Basic Law deliberately enshrines it as an ordinary subject to be taught in accordance with the principles of the religious communities.
For schools must also help young people to pursue the question of God and to provide answers to the question of the meaning of life.
International studies show strong differences between countries.
Education policy fails where performance is neglected.
We respect the cultural sovereignty of the states and want to use the opportunities offered by federalism to promote the performance of educational institutions in a competitive environment.
We need a transparent and honest comparison of performance between schools in Germany.
We say openly: Only schools that demand and promote performance can ensure the teaching of values and equal opportunities.
The CDU and CSU advocate the promotion of gifted students, regardless of their social background.
Our country needs them in all areas of cultural, economic and social activity - the researcher as well as the qualified skilled worker.
Public funds are to be used preferentially where the recipients' performance and willingness to perform justify such use.
The formation of elites, understood in this way, must be seen as a task for the entire education system.
The knowledge and skills acquired in initial training are already no longer sufficient for an entire working life.
That's why we need to work toward shorter initial training periods in school, vocational training and university, and promote continuing education.
We will ensure quality control and fair competition among continuing education offerings.
An essential instrument will be the "Education Test Foundation" that we have proposed.
It must be able to deliver an independent vote on quality, free of government attempts to control it, and identify the need for action.
We will restore luster to the "dual vocational training" trademark.
For many people, the combination of practical learning in the workplace and school-based training is the basis of their professional success and a cornerstone of the economic success of German companies.
In-company training deserves to be decisively strengthened.
We want a differentiated range of occupational profiles and training regulations that offer opportunities to all talents.
This includes modular training courses and examination regulations and the approval of theory-relieved, shorter training occupations.
We want to accelerate the development of new, future-oriented training occupations.
Trustworthy, investment-friendly
Budget policy
We will conduct a cash audit, expose the budgetary risks of the Red-Green policy and put the federal budget on a consolidation course.
The Schröder government's financial policy is anti-performance:
Citizens were not relieved, but have to pay for additional tax revenues (about € 20 billion).
Government spending has been increased (around €15 billion), but the share of investment is lower than ever before.
These undesirable developments must be corrected.
The revenue and, above all, the expenditure structures of public budgets must be fundamentally restructured.
Without this, we will not be able to end the great vulnerability that characterizes the German economy and public budgets when the economy slumps.
In addition to reducing the tax and contribution burden on citizens and businesses, strengthening public spending of an investment nature and reducing consumption-related government spending are important building blocks for more growth and employment.
Our budget target is to reduce new debt.
This requires three things: a consistent policy for growth and employment, a reduction in the state share of GDP and disciplined austerity among authorities and institutions.
The self-imposed claim is that Germany should once again be the pioneer of a stability-oriented budget policy in Europe.
Government policy in Germany must no longer be an occasion for "blue letters".
The "European Stability Pact" is an indispensable foundation for the stability of the common currency, which German policy must not weaken.
The "European Stability Pact" must be accompanied by a functioning national stability pact to effectively counter the imbalance caused by the German government's misguided economic and fiscal policy, with a general government deficit of 2.7% of GDP in 2001.
We want to anchor the national stability pact in a state treaty.
This guarantees the budgetary sovereignty of the Bundestag and the parliaments of the federal states and leads to binding decisions by the federal government and the federal states.
We are aiming for a 45:55 ratio for deficit sharing between the federal government and the social insurance institutions on the one hand and the states and municipalities on the other.
Deficit sharing between countries must be based on objective criteria.
The penalties for any deficit overruns are to be borne by the polluters.
Comprehensive municipal finance reform is intended to ensure the financial autonomy of municipalities as enshrined in the Basic Law, to
put their financial strength on a permanently sound footing and to
provide municipalities with predictable and growable sources of tax revenue.
The interest of the municipalities in attracting companies and creating and maintaining jobs must be taken into account.
An important element could be an independent right of assessment for municipalities in the area of income tax.
We take the principle of subsidiarity seriously and help to safeguard the services provided by local authorities to their citizens.
The municipalities need a reliable financial framework again.
In our municipal finance reform, we attach great importance to close coordination with the municipalities and their associations.
Our reforms to taxes, the labor market, the economy and social security will create lasting and reliable scope for more investment in infrastructure throughout the country.
We will use this to ensure Germany's future viability.
Future-proof infrastructures
Mobility must be affordable for everyone.
Mobility is also an essential factor for economic prosperity.
We will again increase the share of capital expenditure in the federal budget and eliminate the investment backlog in the transport sector.
If Germany's development as a business location is not to suffer any lasting damage, the measures currently under construction must be continued swiftly, the measures ready for construction must be started as quickly as possible, and the remaining projects in the priority requirement must be realized on schedule.
Systematic and sustainable future planning for transport infrastructure and mobility must be relaunched.
We will therefore immediately initiate the overdue update of the Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan, which must present the objective needs for roads, railways and waterways.
The capacity situation at the airports and the necessary infrastructure measures must be integrated into the planning.
The CDU and CSU will put an end to the economic losses caused by traffic jams and gridlocked traffic, which, according to the Federal Ministry of Research, amount to nearly €100 billion annually.
A forward-looking policy such as the one we are pursuing reorganizes infrastructure financing and makes greater use of the opportunities for private financing in federal highway construction.
It ensures that road tolls do not put road haulage companies at a permanent competitive disadvantage.
At the same time, we will ensure attractive rail transport and continue the rail reform.
We will create the conditions for customer-friendly and fair competition between competing companies on the railways.
We will enforce non-discriminatory access to the rail network for different companies and ensure the necessary operational independence of network and operations.
We will increasingly promote cooperation between the road and rail modes of transport.
The "German Unity Transport Projects" are to be completed without further delay as a prerequisite for economic recovery in the new federal states.
We will ensure that new transport technologies developed in Germany, such as the Transrapid, are also rapidly deployed in Germany.
Promote home ownership
Broad-based ownership is a contribution to social peace.
Home ownership is an important component of wealth creation, makes a decisive contribution to economic independence, relieves the market for rental housing and is an important contribution to private provision for old age.
Our goal is to strengthen the promotion of owner-occupied housing in new and existing buildings, to
make the promotion of owner-occupied housing more family-friendly,
and to effectively integrate home ownership into the promotion of private pension provision.
The further development of housing and urban development must take into account the need to maintain livable cities, prevent the concentration of social problems in a preventive manner, and the expected demographic changes in housing demand.
We will end the downward slide in housing policy and improve the framework conditions for housing construction.
Social housing must be adequately promoted again
, with special support for families.
Existing and new construction are promoted equally.
When occupying social housing, care is taken to maintain socially stable resident structures.
In this context, it is important for us to strengthen the responsibilities of the federal states.
This is because they are better placed than the federal government to tailor housing policy instruments to the housing market, which is highly differentiated in terms of supply and rents.
A government led by the CDU and CSU will restore the willingness to invest in housing construction.
Sufficient housing at affordable prices - especially large and affordable apartments for families with children - is only available if housing construction is economically interesting for landlords.
We will remove the restrictions on loss offsetting for rental housing, improve depreciation conditions and noticeably shorten the so-called "speculation period".
We will ensure that major maintenance expenditure on rented properties can once again be spread over several years for tax purposes.
Something new in the east
With their peaceful revolution in the fall of 1989, the East Germans overcame socialism and created the conditions for the restoration of German unity in freedom.
The new Länder have been integral parts of the Federal Republic of Germany since state unification.
Since then, the economic and social situation of East Germans has improved decisively.
In the next decade, eastern Germany will become the center of Europe.
The transformation from an industrial to a knowledge-based society will lead to far-reaching changes.
Both must be seen as opportunities.
The previous orientation toward the fastest possible adjustment of living and economic conditions in the old Länder can no longer be the sole yardstick for the reconstruction of the East.
The hallmark of the reconstruction of the East is not a copy of the West copied down to the last detail, but a creative realignment to the requirements of global competition.
Only if the economy in the new states grows significantly more strongly again can Germany move from bringing up the rear in Europe to becoming a growth engine once more.
First and foremost, it comes down to the East!
The targeted promotion of new companies, new products and new markets is the decisive prerequisite for more growth and employment.
The examples of Saxony and Thuringia show the progress that innovative and targeted policies can lead to.
The Union is the party of German unity and remains the guarantor of Germany's internal unity.
It needs to come back into stronger responsibility.
Both in economic development and on the labor market, the gap has widened again since the red-green coalition came to power - to the disadvantage of the new states.
Since 1990, the gap in the unemployment rate between East and West has never been as high as it is now.
The migration of young, well-educated and performance-oriented people from the new to the old states has increased dramatically since 1998.
Eastern Germany needs new perspectives!
SME offensive for eastern Germany
We will use federal privatization proceeds to launch a start-up and innovation offensive for SMEs in eastern Germany.
In order to expand the promotion of start-ups, advice for start-ups ("coaching") and the provision of venture capital will be intensified.
The research and development potential of small and medium-sized enterprises in eastern Germany should be strengthened within the framework of innovation funding
and to expand the networking of these companies with industry-related research at universities and research institutions.
In addition, the development of supraregional sales markets for East German products and services must be improved.
Strengthening innovation potential
By expanding research institutions, universities and universities of applied sciences, we want to strengthen innovation potential in a targeted manner and continue or establish new, innovative structures where this has not yet been done.
We will aggressively promote technology-oriented start-ups at universities and universities of applied sciences.
In addition, more foreign investors must be attracted to invest in research in eastern Germany.
Infrastructure development
The focus is on improving links between the regions and the major connecting axes, upgrading the rail network and improving transport links to the EU accession countries.
In the case of measures that are ready for construction, funding is to be given priority.
Alternative financing models are to be included in the considerations.
The German Unity transport projects must continue to be financed consistently.
The bypass road program must continue beyond 2003.
An infrastructure flat rate should be introduced for the municipalities.
Financing
The special program is to be financed from privatization proceeds, reallocations of funds in the federal budget and leeway arising after the economy picks up, which will be used in a targeted manner once the Investment Allowances Act expires at the end of 2004.
More freedom to go your own way
We will create time-limited opening and experimentation clauses in federal laws to specifically promote settlement and investment in eastern Germany.
In this way, flexible and unbureaucratic answers to specific East German challenges can be found, especially in approval procedures or in higher education law.
New regulations to speed up planning procedures and for simplified building law must be put into effect.
More autonomy in economic development - On its own
Set strengths
The countries must be given the opportunity to focus their economic development more on their own regional strengths and growth poles.
Starting points for such growth poles or "clusters", especially in technology-intensive industries, can be found above all where there is a high-quality research and education infrastructure.
Networks of suppliers and service providers form around these poles.
The "spillover effects" of such centers into the surrounding areas must be specifically supported by regional funding.
An efficient infrastructure, a high level of investment and a broad range of innovative products and services are the supporting pillars for more growth and employment.
Economic development for eastern Germany must therefore focus consistently on the core areas of infrastructure, investment and research and development.
Investments must once again be above the all-German benchmark for equipment and plants.
Further building up the capital stock of eastern German companies is a basic prerequisite for sustained higher growth.
It must continue to be supported at a high level.
The volume of investment support through grants, low-interest loans and guarantees must therefore be maintained.
We will lobby the European Union to ensure that economic development in eastern Germany can continue to be maintained at a high level.
Effectively secure self-employed livelihoods
Drastic legislative changes must be adopted to protect providers.
In order to better protect construction tradesmen in particular against insolvency through no fault of their own, unjustified payment refusals and delays must be made more difficult and justified claims must be enforced faster and better.
The bill drafted by Saxony and Thuringia to improve payment practices offers important starting points for this.
The liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises is to be improved by extending the actual taxation in the sales tax to companies with a turnover of up to € 2.5 million per year.
In the case of advance income tax payments for start-ups, the special liquidity situation must be taken into account.
The Basel negotiations on a new capital adequacy directive for banks must not lead to a general deterioration in lending conditions for SMEs.
In the planned impact analysis, the effects of Basel II on lending conditions in the old and new federal states must be examined in a differentiated manner in order to do justice to the different economic situation and economic structure.
In order to stabilize the economic basis of small and medium-sized enterprises, the focus should be on promoting equity capital for start-ups and small and medium-sized enterprises in particular.
To accompany the structural change in the economy, equity-poor companies in eastern Germany are to be supported in setting up and improving their competitiveness through stronger risk protection.
Against this backdrop, the tax reform conceived by the CDU/CSU, which will above all eliminate the disadvantages faced by small and medium-sized enterprises, is of particular importance.
Promotion of east-west migration must be put to the test
Financial aid to promote mobility is to be scaled back in order to limit migration from the east.
Improve employability in the primary labor market
The instruments of active labor market policy, in particular job creation schemes and retraining and advanced training measures, must be designed in such a way that the unemployed can be reintegrated into the primary labor market as quickly as possible.
The focus of job creation measures should be on supporting older unemployed persons.
For the long-term unemployed, fields of activity outside gainful employment must be opened up if other possibilities for labor market integration are ruled out.
Manageable prospects for wage alignment
It would be wrong to permanently buy the future of the new states with low wages.
In the private sector, economically reasonable wage differentials should take precedence.
Any productivity gains achieved should therefore be passed on to the employees.
By 2007, there must be an alignment of salaries and pay scales in the federal civil service.
For the federal states, opening clauses must be allowed in salary and allowance regulations so that pay can be performance-oriented, flexible and in line with the economic situation.
In the case of office-based panel physicians, fees must be gradually adjusted by 2007 in order to ensure high-quality medical care.
Competitive structures are part of the German
Agricultural Order
The historically evolved agricultural enterprises and business forms in eastern Germany are equally important elements of the German agricultural constitution.
When supporting farms, it is their problem situation that matters and not exclusively their farm size.
In national decisions, such as the introduction of modulation, the social situation of eastern German agricultural enterprises and the interests of land-intensive eastern German agriculture must be given special consideration.
Strengthening the autonomy and self-governance of local authorities
Municipalities need more autonomy in municipal finances.
Commitment to attracting businesses, securing and creating jobs, and providing an attractive living environment must be rewarded more strongly.
Demolition of prefabricated buildings should be given priority over expensive deconstruction concepts.
Strengthen country competencies, promote independent developments
In constitutional practice, the distribution of legislative powers originally laid down in the Basic Law has been shifted to the detriment of the Länder.
In many cases, rights of co-determination and participation have taken the place of design rights.
In order to preserve the autonomy and responsibility of the Länder, a system of competences with pronounced Länder legislative competence is necessary.
This strengthens regional diversity and restores proximity to citizens.
The current system of joint tasks limits the autonomy of the states
and is cumbersome and bureaucratic in its execution.
By breaking up such mixed financing, an incentive system must be introduced that makes the success and failure of the policy clear.
The financial starting position of the eastern German states must be taken into account.
East Germans must be adequately represented in federal agencies - especially in management positions.
Peaceful revolution of the East Germans in 1989 as a fixed
Part of our culture of remembrance
Germany must honor this event by erecting a Freedom and Unity Monument in Berlin.
The 50th anniversary of the workers' uprising on June 17, 2003 must be commemorated with dignity as a national day of remembrance.
The victims of the SED dictatorship must be adequately compensated on the basis of the motion of the CDU/CSU parliamentary group for an honorary pension.
Their commitment to freedom, democracy and
Human rights recognized.
Justice must be done for the approximately 50,000 East Germans who, as repatriates or former civilian deportees, had not received compensation, unlike West Germans.
To promote internal unity, politics should support all activities and initiatives so that people from the old and new countries can meet and come closer.
National program for the promotion of border regions
The development of border regions must be ensured by appropriate transitional provisions for EU enlargement to the east and a border belt support program.
The expansion of trans-European networks must be driven forward by Germany.
Shaping a humane Germany
Happiness and contentment also depend on things that have no price and cannot be bought.
Rapid social change and ever new demands for flexibility and mobility have made people's lives more unmanageable in many respects.
The CDU and CSU see it as their duty to also stand up for values beyond euros and cents.
Freedom,
Solidarity
and justice are the core values,
which, based on our Christian view of mankind, are indispensable for shaping our country and our society.
We advocate reverence for established traditions.
We are open to the new.
But everything new has to prove itself to be better than the tried and true.
There is no reasonable alternative to our society, which is shaped by technological progress.
But there are humane alternatives to a society understood exclusively in technological terms.
No one finds a home in the "global village";
economic rationality alone does not create an environment worth living in.
We need more togetherness in our society.
The voluntary commitment and civic engagement of many women and men enrich our society.
We need security in the smaller unit: in the family, in the club, in the community, in the homeland.
Equally indispensable is identification with the nation as a historical, spiritual and cultural community.
Our society must keep its human face.
The individual must not get lost and lonely in the mass society.
The diverse associations of people of all ages have a high social, cultural and societal significance.
In this way, sport promotes not only health, but also fairness, integration, public spirit, a willingness to perform and an understanding of democracy, and we will support it appropriately, both at the top and the bottom.
To the best of our ability, we want to support sports, social and cultural institutions and initiatives.
We want to strengthen individual initiative and responsible self-help.
Our model is not the patronizing welfare state that serves the people,
but the state that builds on the joint responsibility and solidarity of its citizens and
offers foreigners the chance to integrate.
The Christian churches and religious communities are of great importance for the spiritual climate in our society.
They point beyond the finiteness - of our existence and contribute to the meaning of their lives and value orientation for many people.
Without them, the transmission of the Christian occidental tradition is not possible.
Together with the non-profit welfare organizations, churches and religious communities are doing excellent work in the field of social services for people.
We advocate comprehensive protection of religious confession from hurtful attacks and insults.
We are holding on to the church tax.
As we understand it, in a free and open society, politics does not dictate how people should live.
That is why we respect people's decisions to realize their life plan in diverse forms of coexistence.
This applies to non-marital partnerships between women and men.
This also applies to same-sex partnerships.
We promote tolerance and oppose any form of discrimination.
The CDU and CSU reject legal equality of such partnerships with marriage.
Protect and preserve life
We want to shape a humane future for our children and grandchildren.
That is why human dignity and the protection of life are our top priority and guide our political actions.
We are committed to the fact that human beings are entitled to undivided human dignity as the image of God in all stages of their lives - from the fusion of the sperm and the individual cell to their death - and that it is the duty of all state authority to respect and protect this dignity.
We will measure our political actions against this constitutional principle.
An essential measure of the humanity of a society is its treatment of disabled people.
As part of our society, disabled people and their families are entitled to solidarity and support.
Integration instead of isolation is the right way.
We want to achieve that disabled people get opportunities to work together with non-disabled people as far as possible.
We advocate a close-knit network of vocational training and vocational promotion centers for the disabled.
We will separate the benefit entitlements of disabled persons from social assistance and bring them together in a separate law.
We want to work so that being different will be normal in our society of tomorrow.
The new and still expected possibilities of genetic engineering and biomedicine present us with great challenges.
We must carefully examine and weigh up the opportunities and risks of these future technologies in order to set the right course for future generations.
We must by no means fall prey to a scientific mania for feasibility.
Utility considerations must not take precedence over the protection of all human life.
Therefore, we adhere to the strict principles of the German Embryo Protection Act
and reject the legalization of active euthanasia.
We strongly support advocacy for dying with dignity, such as in the hospice movement.
We are intensifying pregnancy counseling so that in the future more families in difficult conflict situations can decide in favor of their child and thus of future life.
These and future ethical issues call for a value-oriented policy of the kind advocated by the Union on the basis of the Christian image of man.
For us, the Christian image of man is the compass for responsible, sustainable shaping of a humane future.
Encourage citizenship, clarify responsibilities
We want a community in which citizens feel at home: without today's excess of bureaucracy, transparent and lively.
That is why we are striving to increase the decision-making leeway of states and municipalities and to
abolish superfluous regulations that are no longer up to date.
In return, we build on people's willingness to contribute to a livable and humane society through personal commitment and citizenship.
The public service serves the citizen.
We want efficiency, flexibility and motivated employees for a high-performance, citizen-oriented administration.
We protect the principles of civil service law associated with the special obligation to the common good and oppose their creeping erosion by the current federal government.
We want a state that is efficient and effective at all levels.
That is why we will set up an "Innovation Commission for a Modern Germany" as soon as the government comes to power, in order to fundamentally review the tasks of the state and the distribution of responsibilities among the federal, state and local levels and to initiate a modern reorganization.
We want to decisively improve the enforceability of reforms at the federal and state levels and
at the same time make political responsibilities recognizable to citizens once again.
To this end, we want to strengthen the legislative powers of the states and clearly demarcate them from the responsibilities of the federal government.
This strengthens regional diversity in the sense of a competition for the best ideas,
restores proximity to citizens
and makes Germany as a whole more capable of reform.
We want a major reform of federalism with a financial reform at the federal level that gives the states and municipalities more freedom again on the revenue and expenditure side.
By reducing mixed financing and joint tasks and by shifting responsibilities, we will give the Länder back their scope for action while guaranteeing the federal government's financial responsibility.
In particular, the Länder are to be given more powers with regard to taxes whose revenue is due to them.
The dismantling of joint tasks and mixed financing gives the Länder back their political room for maneuver.
So far, they curtail the decision-making powers of the states, ,
prevent competition for better solutions
are cumbersome and bureaucratic.
The delimitation of competencies and the clarification of responsibilities will make it possible to significantly reduce mutual approval requirements and veto rights, thereby improving the ability of both the federal government and the states to act.
Priority for families
For us, the family is and will remain the most important form of living together.
Family cohesion is the basis for solidarity in our society.
The family is still the most attractive form of life in the 21st century, because it makes it possible to experience the meaning of life, security and happiness, and because it is lived out in community.
A society without children has no future.
Our mission statement is the family and child-friendly society.
We want to achieve this through fair policies for families.
For the CDU and CSU, family is wherever parents bear responsibility for children and children for parents.
We maintain that marriage, as an institution of a lifelong relationship, remains particularly protected in our constitutional order.
In our time, the family is particularly affected by the change in lifestyles:
The number of marriages is declining.
The number of non-marital partnerships has increased.
Compared with the baby boomers of the 1960s, birth rates have halved today.
Almost one in five children under the age of 18 now lives with only one single parent.
Most couples today have the desire to combine family and employment.
Men can and want to be the sole breadwinners of the family less and less often.
More and more men want to do justice to their role as fathers.
Many women reject the idea that their life plan is largely focused exclusively on household chores and child rearing.
However, there are still a large number of women who would like to devote at least some time to their children alone.
This must also be possible and socially recognized in the future.
The task of raising children has become more demanding.
We will better promote and support parenting skills.
Family counseling and family education services must be expanded, made more widely known and more easily accessible.
We will hold the "secret co-educators" media more accountable.
Overcoming the "family or career" alternative
Parents should be free to decide whether to raise and care for their children themselves or to seek the support of childcare facilities to do so.
Today, more than half of all mothers with children and more than one-third of all mothers with young children are employed.
More and more parents want to be able to combine family work with gainful employment.
Here, politics is called upon to create better framework conditions.
The CDU and CSU support a diverse range of childcare options that are geared to demand and parents' wishes: crèche places, playgroups, parent initiatives, childminders, kindergartens - also run by companies - with opening hours geared to local needs, all-day schools, schools offering all-day care and after-school care.
We want "reliable school," where all elementary school students can stay at their school for at least half the day under supervision - even when classes are cancelled.
We want to encourage the responsible states and municipalities to do so.
The relationship between the world of work and families must be rebalanced.
We want family-size jobs instead of job-size families.
We want to work with the collective bargaining partners to ensure that the needs of families with children are given greater consideration in collective bargaining or company agreements.
Families in particular benefit from arrangements such as flexible working hours, job sharing, working time accounts or flexitime.
Particularly after returning from a family phase, mothers or fathers need improved opportunities to return to work and to work part-time.
Families do not belong on welfare
The CDU and CSU take the view that no family should have to rely on social welfare simply because they cannot afford to pay for their children.
Family support is an investment in the future.
That is why we will fundamentally redesign the system of state family support:
We want to gradually replace the current child benefit and the previous child-raising allowance with a new "family allowance".
In this way, we want to strengthen families materially.
We are thus offering a uniform benefit in place of the now confusing system of family support.
Children should no longer lead to welfare dependency.
In principle, the family allowance will only be paid for children living in Germany.
The payment is to be made by the family insurance funds.
We will create the financial conditions for the gradual introduction of the family allowance from 2004 with a consistent policy for growth and employment.
The family allowance is to be tax and duty free.
It is paid irrespective of the amount of gainful employment and the level of family income and is linked to the tax exemption of the subsistence minimum.
The family allowance is to reach the following levels for children living in Germany: Ø 600 € for each child under three years of age.
Ø In this phase of life, the amount of care required is particularly high.
Ø 300 € for each child aged three to under 18 years.
Ø 150 € for children 18 years and older (170 € from the fourth child) who are still in education.
We will ensure that childcare costs of between €1,000 and €5,000 per child per year are taken into account for tax purposes as early as 2003.
Making equality a reality
The CDU and CSU want to realize equal rights for women and men in a society based on partnership.
We want to eliminate the disadvantages that still exist for women in the world of work, politics and society.
Women and men should be able to develop in freedom and responsibility according to their inclinations, talents and desires.
We therefore advocate better framework conditions for reconciling family and working life;
Ø more qualification measures for women during family time
Ø and more support for re-entry into working life after the family phase;
Ø equal opportunities and equal pay as well as the elimination of disadvantages in working life; Ø the
comprehensive participation of women in leadership roles in business, politics, administration, science and society.
Equality can only be achieved if the conventional understanding of the roles of men and women is overcome and more men than in the past participate in family work, regard child rearing as a joint task and set an example of partnership to their children.
Every year, more hours are spent on domestic and family work than on gainful employment in Germany.
This service is predominantly provided by women.
We are committed to ensuring that this achievement is more strongly recognized by society.
The skills acquired in domestic and family work must be valued as a qualification and recognized on the labor market.
The public sector has an exemplary role to play here.
Partnership of the generations
We live in a time in which the weights of the age groups are shifting significantly: more and more older people and fewer and fewer young people are shaping the image of our society.
The CDU and CSU are committed to ensuring that old and young live together in partnership in our country.
We will therefore ensure that the necessary reforms to the social security systems are carried out in such a way that the burden is borne fairly by older and younger people.
Younger and older people alike can learn from each other;
each younger generation builds on the life's work of older ones.
Older people in particular have experience and skills that cannot be dispensed with in today's modern world.
Our democracy also thrives on the requests and ideas, the persistence and impatience, the enthusiasm and personal commitment, and the criticism of younger people.
The CDU and CSU know that the vast majority of the young generation is committed, capable and willing to take responsibility for the future.
We advocate giving young people real opportunities for participation at an early age, through which they can participate in decisions that affect them today and tomorrow.
We therefore support municipal models such as children's and youth parliaments and are prepared to develop them further in line with the times.
The involvement of young people in churches, political parties, trade unions, clubs and youth associations will continue to be of particular importance in the future.
In the community of peers, it makes a decisive contribution to the development of a creative, emotionally secure and socially competent personality.
Plural youth work in a mandatory or open form is indispensable.
International youth exchange not only makes an important contribution to international understanding, but also offers young people a unique learning field for the globalized world.
The CDU and CSU regard it as an essential task of their policy to create all the necessary framework conditions so that older people can shape their third phase of life as long as possible, independently and free from oppressive economic worries.
We advocate for a better quality of life in old age.
This includes, as a priority, preventing and reducing age-related discrimination and restrictions.
We will promote residential structures that enable the elderly to maintain a variety of social contacts.
Those who are old must not be lonely.
Safety in old age
Maintaining intergenerational equity is the greatest sociopolitical task of the years ahead.
All generations must have the certainty that their retirement provision is secure in the long term - even under changing economic and demographic circumstances.
Old-age provision needs reliability.
Security in old age is a top priority for the CDU and CSU.
We also want to give younger people the chance to enjoy a decent standard of living in old age.
For about 30 years, fewer children have been born in Germany than would be necessary to maintain the population in the long term.
At the same time, life expectancy is increasing.
The population is aging.
According to projections, there will be 80 to 97 retirees for every 100 workers aged 20 to 60 in 2035.
A massive increase in the expenditure of the statutory pension insurance and a rise in the contribution rate to around 25% in 2030 are expected if the pension insurance is not reformed to make it fit for the future.
In view of the shifts between the generations, we need to think about how to place old-age provision on a broad, solid foundation so that reliable provision is possible, and support private provision to this end.
The red-green pension reform will not stand, because it is founded on the deceptive foundation of dishonest figures.
A maximum contribution rate of 22% cannot be maintained with this reform.
The projected development of employment has been glossed over;
Schröder cannot keep his promise to significantly reduce unemployment.
Statistical tricks were used to promise a pension level of 68%; in reality, it will be only 64%.
Contrary to all election promises, the red-green government has lowered the pension level.
The red-green government only managed to avoid a contribution increase in 2002 by reaching into the pension insurance reserve fund.
The misguided pension policy leads to a generational conflict, because the younger generation has to pay increasing contributions without being able to hope for a performance-based pension.
We will once again put this inadequate pension reform to the test and make necessary corrections.
We want to secure long-term pension provision that can be planned for every citizen and contributor.
We will ensure honest pension reform with a reliable pension formula and realistic assumptions of future development.
The consequences of the changing age structure of the population must be borne jointly by contributors, pensioners and the state.
We will put a stop to arbitrary state intervention in pension funds.
The pension must be and remain an old-age reward for life's work.
The Basic Security Act may not go into effect.
We will bring the three pillars of old-age provision (statutory pension insurance, occupational pension insurance and private provision) into a new balance.
The funded elements of occupational and private pension provision will be given greater prominence in the future.
Statutory pension insurance remains the mainstay of old-age provision.
We will clean up the arbitrary elements of the current pension formula.
Against the advice of experts, the Red-Green Party has replaced the "demographic factor" in pension law with the "Riester formula".
In pension insurance, however, the shifts in the population structure must be taken into account appropriately and in a comprehensible, transparent manner in order to avoid a massive increase in contributions and to secure trust.
A pension system cannot function if the time in which contributions are paid becomes shorter and shorter.
For this reason, combating the far too high unemployment rate is also a matter of urgency from the point of view of old-age provision.
We must also ensure that the actual working life becomes longer again.
By shortening training periods, young people can enter the workforce earlier.
The actual retirement age must also be brought closer to the statutory retirement age again.
In addition, we will eliminate incentives for early retirement.
We will gradually make the standard retirement age more flexible and give insured persons options.
More insured persons should be able to take advantage of the opportunity to receive supplements in line with the deductions that have to be accepted by those who retire earlier because they voluntarily work longer and pay contributions.
The red-green government has made policies against women and families.
Child-rearing must finally be taken into account appropriately in pensions.
We want to introduce a child bonus for every child in order to relieve parents of the burden of social contributions.
We want to correct the anti-women's reform of the survivor's pension.
We reject the choice between "pension splitting" and "survivor's pension".
It is not reasonable for the spouses to have to estimate in advance who will die first.
We also want to give the younger generation the chance to make adequate provision for old age and therefore strengthen additional private and occupational pension provision on a broad basis.
We will significantly improve the framework conditions for this by taxing these pension expenses on a downstream basis and making the Occupational Pensions Act more flexible to a large extent.
We will fundamentally reduce bureaucracy and improve state support for the private accumulation of old-age provision.
We will focus this support primarily on families with children and low-income earners.
We want citizen-oriented administrative structures in pension insurance.
That is why we will strengthen the function of the state insurance institutions.
Health is a high good
We want a health care system that remains committed to medical progress and that benefits all insured persons regardless of their income, age, type of illness or marital status.
The fundamental problem of health policy in Germany - ensuring affordable and efficient medical care for the population - can only be solved by an overall concept for structural reform of the health care system that focuses on patients and maintains statutory and private health insurance.
For the CDU and CSU, it is clear that what is medically necessary must actually be provided.
Declining birth rates, the gratifying increase in life expectancy and growing medical progress have put our healthcare system in a difficult situation: Particularly in advanced age, the need for health care services increases sharply.
The expansion in spending will accelerate considerably.
If nothing is done, contribution rates will rise to over 20% in the foreseeable future.
The red-green coalition has failed to get to grips with this problem.
Health care for the population is deteriorating.
Patients are increasingly being denied services and medications and offered certain treatments only after lengthy waiting periods.
This red-green aberration into two-tier medicine must be ended.
With over 4 million jobs, the healthcare sector is one of the largest employers in Germany.
The quality of medical care in Germany would not be possible without the commitment of physicians, pharmacists and those working in all health care professions to the well-being of patients.
The CDU/CSU left an orderly health care system to the Red-Greens.
The statutory health insurance, had surpluses and solid financial reserves.
Contribution rates were stable, and non-wage costs were reasonably calculable.
The Red-Greens have abandoned this solid course through nonsensical experiments, budgeting and dirigisme.
We advocate for a free healthcare system.
This means: human attention instead of bureaucracy, free choice of doctors instead of state medicine, freedom of therapy instead of list medicine, competition instead of standardized care.
We advocate greater efficiency in health insurance to keep it financially viable in the long term.
At the same time, the solidarity-based balance between young and old, healthy and sick people, low and higher income earners, and single parents and families must be maintained as a supporting element of social health insurance.
We will offer more preventive care and provide incentives to take up such offers.
Improving and expanding prevention and health promotion is an indispensable prerequisite for halting the increase in major widespread diseases, improving the quality of life and health of the population, and ultimately reducing health care spending.
Health care reform can only succeed if the insured can be sure that all medically necessary benefits will continue to be provided by the statutory health insurance system in the future.
In the future, insured persons are to be given greater freedom of choice regarding the scope of their insurance coverage.
In the future, they will be able to decide for themselves whether they want to maintain the current scope of care, receive additional benefits, or opt out of benefits while reducing premiums, or assume a deductible.
Only when different care options compete with each other do patients have a choice and can decide on the form of care they consider best.
Free choice of doctor and hospital as one of the few existing elements of freedom of choice for the insured remains untouched.
More competition and flexibility in the overly rigid contract system between health insurers and providers will help eliminate the structural deficits of the health care system, improve the quality of medical care and increase the efficiency of medical services.
Health insurers are to be given more responsibility for structuring their offerings, such as different deductibles and additional benefits.
Only with more freedom of design can there be functioning competition among the statutory health insurance funds.
This competition ultimately leads to higher quality and better efficiency in our healthcare system.
We will create the necessary conditions for this in the organizational, contract and benefit law of the statutory health insurance system.
All provider budgeting will be eliminated.
In order to make the actual cost of medical services clear and to better control services rendered, a choice between the principle of benefits in kind and the principle of reimbursement - without advance payment for larger amounts - is to be created.
We want to empower the insured and the patients and therefore decisively increase transparency in the healthcare system in all areas.
Patients must be informed about the quality of medical care in a comprehensible and comprehensive manner.
A patient receipt should be issued to the insured for the services and their billing.
With a "smart insurance card" on a voluntary basis, we will avoid unnecessary duplication of services while respecting data privacy.
The nationwide risk structure compensation between the statutory health insurance funds must continue to compensate for different risk factors and thus different revenues of the funds.
Risk structure compensation must be designed to be fairer, simpler and more transparent and
to promote fair competition between health insurance funds.
This reform will ensure that different risk and income structures in Germany will not lead to higher contributions in the east than in the west.
In the future, economical management of the individual health insurance funds must pay off more than it has in the past.
We will consolidate long-term care insurance.
Red-Green has plundered the long-term care insurance system and used its coffers to plug budget holes.
We will conserve the reserves that mitigate the effects of demographic trends and safeguard the stability of contributions.
We will further strengthen home care, the core of social long-term care insurance.
In addition, greater private pension provision can also ease the burden of long-term care insurance.
Security for all - everywhere in Germany
Security and freedom are inseparable.
Security is a fundamental social right and an indispensable prerequisite for freedom.
All people in Germany should be able to feel safe from crime and terror.
Only those who can live without fear for themselves, their family and their property have confidence in our democratic state.
The protection of life, limb and property of citizens is an intrinsic task of the state.
We pledge our full support to the police and the judiciary.
The Red-Green Party, on the other hand, has only half-heartedly followed up its sound announcements on internal security and the fight against terrorism with action and has prevented urgently needed measures from being taken.
Tackling crime and violence decisively
We want all citizens to be able to feel safe on streets and squares, on buses, trains and at stations at all times of the day and night.
Police must have a visible presence, and
public crime hotspots must be technically monitored with video cameras.
There must be an end to the tolerated neglect of public transport or squares by drug scenes and alcoholism milieus, by litter and vandalism.
For us, the focus is not on caring about the perpetrators, but on protecting the citizens and alleviating the plight of the victims.
We want to help victims of crime more effectively and further improve their position in criminal proceedings
Anyone who breaks the law and thus goes against society's system of values must expect consistent prosecution and just punishment.
Our principles are: "Wehret den Anfängen" and "Zero tolerance for crime".
We want more effective crime fighting and solving to take precedence over the rights of criminals.
Data protection must not become the protection of offenders.
We reject the trivialization of lawbreaking and violence through "decriminalization," because it creates a breeding ground for crime, lowers inhibitions, encourages lawbreakers, and discourages law-abiding citizens.
We will meaningfully expand criminal penalties.
The driving ban, for example, is an appropriate and tangible sanction in many cases, even for non-traffic-related offenses.
We will clarify that "graffiti" graffiti is to be punished as damage to property.
We will relieve the judiciary and speed up proceedings.
Punishment should follow the act as directly as possible.
We will launch a nationwide initiative "Alliance for Children - Against Violence".
We will improve the protection of children from sexual crimes.
We will ensure by federal law that offenders identified as dangerous in custody do not have to be released against their better judgment ("subsequent preventive detention").
We will require DNA analysis for all sexual offenses to make the DNA file even more effective in convicting and deterring offenders.
In the case of crime scene evidence, DNA analysis should be able to be performed without judicial authorization.
Child abuse damages young people for their entire lives and should always be punished as a crime in the future It
must also be possible to use the means of monitoring telecommunications against crimes of child abuse.
The massacre in Erfurt must be the reason for a significant tightening of gun laws.
The basic line is: no weapon too many, weapons only in the right hands.
Among other things, this means raising the age limit to 21, at least for the purchase of large-caliber firearms, restricting the purchase of ammunition, and strictly checking the reliability of all gun owners.
We will make prevention of child and juvenile delinquency more effective.
Juvenile criminal law must provide for more differentiated sanctions in order to be able to have an even better effect on individual offenders: we will make "warning shot detention" for educational reasons, reporting obligations and driving bans possible.
In order to make young people aware of their responsibility for their own actions, they should be required to make amends to a greater extent.
We will raise the maximum sentence for adolescents in juvenile criminal law from 10 to 15 years.
For offenders older than 18, the application of adult criminal law should be the rule and not the exception.
We want parents to be able to let their children go to school or to the disco without fear of drugs.
The rising number of drug-related deaths and first-time users of hard drugs is a reminder to return to a responsible drug policy that promotes prevention,
Help for addicts to quit
and combating drug-related crime with all the means available under the rule of law.
The legalization of "fixer's parlors" and government dispensing of hard drugs are pernicious signals of downplaying the danger of drugs.
We will not tolerate lawless spaces in the fight against narcotics.
We want to drastically tighten the penalties for drug dealers, and drug dealers caught in the act must be able to be taken into custody immediately.
The skimming of profits must be even more consistent.
We want to ensure more "equality of arms" between the police and the constantly modernizing organized crime.
We want to create the legal possibilities for the optical surveillance of criminal meetings also in apartments.
We will use the means of telephone surveillance against corruption offenses.
We will facilitate and accelerate the deportation of foreigners who have committed criminal offenses and improve the legal conditions for serving a prison sentence in the country of origin.
We will make it clear: Closed prison sentences are the norm.
We reject shorter prison sentences even for serious criminals, as planned by the Schröder government.
Only prisoners who do not pose a threat of danger or violence may be placed in the open prison system.
We will consistently oppose extremism, violence and xenophobia.
We will not tolerate any lawless spaces on the Internet either.
The distribution of video films that are seriously harmful to minors, as well as corresponding video and computer games, must be banned absolutely and irrespective of age.
Video and computer games must be provided with a mandatory age rating.
Democracy needs free and independent media that responsibly use their fundamental right of freedom of opinion and freedom of the press, which is guaranteed in the constitution.
However, in view of the trivializing and increasingly uninhibited portrayal of violence in mass media, especially on television and the Internet, stricter protection of minors is necessary.
This includes uniform, powerful supervision with clear regulations and tangible sanctions.
Providers also need to meet their own responsibilities to a greater extent.
Parents' right and duty to educate include taking care of their children's media consumption.
We demand the full force of the law against every act of violence - regardless of the slogans that violent criminals blare.
We will improve the protection of the democratic state against politically motivated violence and religiously concealed fanaticism.
Images of marches by extremist groups at the Brandenburg Gate, for example, that are disseminated around the world damage our country's reputation.
We want to ensure the undisturbed work of parliament
and prevent the abuse of widely known places with high symbolic power by radical minorities.
Internal security must be maintained even with open internal EU borders and growing mobility requirements.
We therefore want to promote intensive cooperation with foreign police authorities.
Just as important as solving crimes and convicting and sentencing offenders is preventing crimes through successful prevention work.
We focus on prevention through value-based education in the family and at school,
on leisure activities and
social support for young people.
Protection against violence and crime is a task for society as a whole.
We therefore rely on the cooperation of the citizens.
We are convinced that civic responsibility for security must be intensified.
Defend freedom and justice against terror
Citizens are entitled to a strong state that does not neglect protection against terror.
Security is an indispensable prerequisite for freedom and prosperity.
There must be an end to indifference to the security needs of the majority of citizens disguised as liberality.
A liberal state must also be a defensible state, otherwise liberal democracy will not endure.
We want to provide the police and judiciary with modern equipment
and adapt their powers to the growing threats.
The Federal Border Guard must be expanded.
Germany must have sufficient numbers of operationally strong and experienced closed police units.
Extremist organizations have around 150,000 members in Germany, quite a few of whom are prepared to use violence.
These organizations must be monitored more effectively and, if necessary, banned.
The Law on Associations must be amended so that foreigners' associations can be banned, if necessary, even below the threshold of aggressive and militant activity.
The constitutional protection authorities must also be used to combat organized crime.
We want to put an end to ideological reservations about effective police and judicial powers to combat terror and international crime.
We want clear legal foundations for the work of undercover investigators.
We want a proper leniency program that can effectively break up the structures of organized crime and terror.
We want to be able to use state-of-the-art acoustic and optical technology to detect terrorist and criminal groups at their meeting points.
In the fight against organized crime, the skimming of criminal profits is of particular importance, which is why we will tighten the regulations against money laundering in an appropriate manner.
Public incitement to violence and propaganda for religiously motivated fanaticism are incitement to hatred and must be punished as such.
Anyone who abuses the right of hospitality in Germany against our liberal-democratic social order should have no place here.
We will work toward the swift expulsion of foreigners for whom there are actual indications that they belong to a violent extremist organization.
Foreign extremists must be consistently kept away from Germany.
We will create the conditions for a comprehensive exchange of data between foreigners and asylum authorities on the one hand and security and constitutional protection authorities on the other.
The Federal Office for the Recognition of Foreign Refugees must be obliged to provide information directly to the constitutional protection authorities of the Länder as well.
Before an entry visa is issued, it must be possible to establish the identity of persons from certain problem countries beyond doubt by storing biometric data.
In order to prevent the influx of violent foreigners, we will make it mandatory to consult the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution and the intelligence service before naturalization or the granting of a permanent residence permit.
We will ensure unambiguous identification using modern technical means.
We will immediately introduce biometric features such as fingerprints in identity documents.
Following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, and the resulting new threat scenarios, the federal government faces new challenges in civil defense and disaster control and has a greater responsibility than in the past.
We will re-establish the Federal Office for Civil Defense.
The funds for civil protection must correspond to the task of effectively supplementing the forces of the federal states with the operational and performance capabilities of the Federal Agency for Technical Relief in the event of major incidents.
Together with the countries, we will present a comprehensive intelligence, prevention and protection concept against attacks with chemical and biological weapons.
Liveable environment and healthy nutrition -
for us and our children
We human beings are part of creation.
If we do not treat creation sustainably, we are giving up our own livelihoods and those of our children.
It is up to us to protect them and use their resources carefully.
A better quality of life is in the common interest of consumers, farmers and the economy.
Strict rules for healthy food are essential
and products that have as little impact on the environment as possible.
But above all, it is the responsibility of consumers to ensure that quality and environmental compatibility prevail on the market.
For us, the protection of natural resources, the preservation of economic performance and the fulfillment of social responsibility represent a unity.
We advocate sustainable development that balances economic and social prosperity with the preservation of the environment and nature.
Reliable consumer protection
An intact environment and biological diversity are fundamental prerequisites for people's health and quality of life,
Protection against health hazards caused by harmful substances, safety of products, services and food,
effective occupational safety,
the provision of safe, environmentally friendly and affordable energy,
clean drinking water
cultivated landscapes
as well as a humane living environment.
That is why consumer protection is one of the central political tasks in Germany, in Europe and worldwide.
We advocate comprehensive and effective consumer protection.
Its cornerstones are: transparency, precaution, control and personal responsibility.
The consumer also needs security in economic and legal matters.
In addition to food safety, we will also focus on consumer protection in private pension plans, insurance, financial services, e-commerce, construction and tourism.
Comprehensive consumer protection includes information transparency: for example, the ownership structure of newspapers and broadcasters must be openly disclosed, and consumers must know who is behind a newspaper and the opinions it represents.
We want safe food for all consumers.
Food safety should not be a matter of pocketbook.
For this, the entire German agricultural sector needs opportunities.
We will make a policy for all farms, regardless of how they are farmed, and for all consumers.
We will not leave farmers alone as victims of the BSE crisis.
We will consistently continue and improve the fight against BSE.
Since the causes and modes of transmission are still too little known, we will continue to drive research forward.
Consumer protection can only be effective with EU-wide enforcement and with global standards.
That is why we want uniform consumer protection standards in the Europe of open markets and in a globalized world.
We will work resolutely in the EU and in the WTO process to enforce consumer rights.
We will do everything we can to strengthen producer ownership.
We will examine the existing control systems for consumer protection at the federal, state and European Union levels for weaknesses, better coordinate them where necessary and increase their efficiency.
This applies in the same way to the import of goods from third countries.
We will improve consumers' ability to identify and assess the quality of a product.
This includes strong consumer representation, more consumer education, and workable labeling regulations that are understandable to the layperson.
Genetically modified foodstuffs must be identified as such, because responsible use of biotechnology and genetic engineering in agriculture requires objective consumer information and optimum consumer safety.
Strengthen agriculture and rural areas
Anyone who wants to promote quality of life and sustainability must strengthen agriculture and rural areas and not treat them as stepchildren of politics.
We stand for a policy of fair opportunities for urban and rural areas.
Rural areas should retain their character as independent and valuable living spaces and have good chances for the future.
German farmers, winegrowers, gardeners, foresters, fishermen and fisherwomen,
craftsmen and the entire SME sector in rural areas once again receive the respect and appreciation they deserve.
The CDU and CSU want to maintain agriculture and forestry throughout Germany and also safeguard them in disadvantaged areas.
The cornerstones of our policy for agriculture and rural areas are: protection of property, competitiveness, entrepreneurial freedom, sustainability.
We want sustainable, competitive, rural agriculture and forestry that produces high-quality and healthy food in a variety typical of the region, that keeps animals in a manner appropriate to their species and respects and protects them as fellow creatures, that grows plants in an environmentally friendly manner, protects and maintains nature and the cultural landscape, and that is and remains a formative factor in rural areas and an important factor in their social and economic stability.
The family farm plays a key role in this.
The prerequisite for this is that adequate and living incomes can be generated in agriculture and forestry.
We are concerned about the future for all of German agriculture.
We want to create a framework in which all farms, regardless of size and type of farming, whether conventional environmentally friendly or organic, can develop well.
We will therefore renew the Agriculture Act, which dates back to 1955.
We want fair competitive conditions for our farmers so that they can seize their opportunities in domestic markets and exports.
We will therefore make investment support for all types of farms a focal point of agricultural policy once again and end the fiscal discrimination against agriculture and small and medium-sized enterprises.
We want a future-oriented further development of the agricultural social security system, in particular a reform of the agricultural accident insurance.
We will reduce bureaucratic obstacles.
This also applies to finishing, which must retain development opportunities in Germany.
We want to replace the bureaucratic and expensive agricultural diesel for agricultural machinery and vehicles with a uniform European regulation to end the discrimination against German farmers.
If this is not possible, we will align taxation with other European countries.
The production of renewable raw materials is an integral part of any sustainably oriented agriculture and offers new income and market opportunities.
We will therefore continue to improve the framework conditions for the production and use of renewable raw materials.
The CDU and CSU will pursue an animal welfare and environmental protection policy in agriculture that is based on scientific findings and recommendations and is practice-oriented.
To this end, we will also utilize and promote technical and structural progress.
Animal welfare and environmental protection in agriculture must also be organized on a uniform EU basis in order to avoid distortions of competition.
We want to further limit the duration of the transport of slaughter cattle.
Effective conservation only works with farmers, not against them.
We need the commitment of farmers to maintain and preserve the cultural landscape.
That is why we will ensure appropriate financial compensation and promote contract-based nature conservation.
Agriculture needs planning security.
We reject a renewed reform of EU agricultural policy within the term of Agenda 2000.
In the necessary further development of EU agricultural policy, it is important to keep the option open for all instruments of EU agricultural policy and to examine new ones.
Volume control for milk is necessary throughout Europe, even beyond 2008.
EU enlargement to the east must not lead to farmers in the current EU being placed at a disadvantage.
In order to prevent this and at the same time not overburden the EU financially, the principle of national co-financing is to be introduced for direct payments.
In the WTO negotiations, we will fight to safeguard multifunctional agriculture in Germany and Europe.
and advocate globally applicable high health, social, environmental and animal welfare standards in agricultural production.
On the way to such internationally binding standards, German agriculture continues to need adequate external protection as
well as assurance of the admissibility of compensation payments for environmental and public welfare services rendered.
We will continue to improve the development opportunities of rural areas through a good and reliable agricultural policy and an integrated structural policy.
The primary goal is to create promising jobs and strengthen the economy.
To this end, we want to take advantage of the opportunities offered by modern communications and information technology.
Small and medium-sized businesses, crafts and retailers in rural areas deserve our special attention.
The development of the development potential of rural areas requires sufficient public infrastructure, in particular good transport links, the availability of educational facilities, services for families with children, young people and senior citizens, and cultural and leisure facilities.
Good transport links and the provision of services to the population close to home remain important goals of our policy.
Safe, environmentally friendly energy at affordable prices
Safety, cost efficiency and environmental compatibility are basic requirements of a sustainable energy policy.
The liberalization of the German electricity and gas market pushed through by the CDU and CSU has reduced costs for consumers and companies by around €7.5 billion - but this has largely been eroded by the current government's policy of increasing energy prices.
The market and competition are the central mechanisms of a viable and sustainable energy supply.
We therefore advocate a complete opening of the energy markets in the European Union by 2004.
In the Europe of the future, energy policy can no longer be seen in purely national terms.
We therefore advocate an overall European strategy for energy supply and energy services.
As essential cornerstones of our energy policy, we see Ø the market-based development of existing and future savings potential in the areas of heating, electricity and transport;
Ø the competition-oriented promotion of the most ecologically and economically efficient technologies;
Ø continuous, broad-based and open energy research;
Ø fossil-fuel power plants, which can be made low-CO2 or even CO2-free using the latest technology; Ø
the use of nuclear energy;
Ø heat-led, efficient cogeneration, the development of hydrogen technology and increasing use of fuel cells;
Ø renewable energies, whose share we want to double, among other things by making greater use of biomass.
Ø The feed-in of electricity from renewable energies must continue to be promoted on a competitive basis.
We focus on energy saving, rational energy use and the use of renewable energies in order to reduce climate-damaging CO2 emissions and to advance climate protection in the sense of the Kyoto Protocol.
We intend to achieve these goals primarily through the use of market-based instruments.
We want to tap the hitherto untapped potential for saving energy in buildings.
Public funding must focus on technologies that are already very close to economic viability.
We want to advance and promote solar thermal energy, the resource-, environmentally- and climate-friendly use of biomass, and photovoltaics.
We also intend to do this for heat pump technology, which the current German government has stopped promoting for ideological reasons, as well as for electricity generation from renewable energies and in cogeneration.
In the further development of the regulations on electricity feed-in, we are focusing on increased incentives for innovation and cost reduction.
We want long-term research and development for a sustainable energy policy.
We will revise upward the declining trend in federal energy research funding.
Research funding in Germany must no longer lag behind what other countries spend on energy research.
We will place particular emphasis on renewable energies, nuclear fusion and, above all, the further development of fossil power plant technologies, the development of innovative systems to improve nuclear safety and hydrogen/fuel cell technologies.
The development of technologies to reduce or even eliminate CO2 emissions from coal-fired power plants is of paramount importance for global climate protection policy because the share of coal in power generation will remain very high worldwide for a long time to come and will even continue to rise in many countries.
We want to reduce the amount of energy required for transportation and the resulting environmental impact.
We see fuel cells based on hydrogen or methanol/natural gas and hydrogen engines as promising options for the future that could gradually replace the internal combustion engine as a drive technology.
We rely on domestic energy sources.
German lignite must continue to make its contribution to a secure and affordable electricity supply because it is available at competitive prices.
In the eastern German coalfields in particular, it is an important job creator
and the fuel basis of a highly modernized power plant park.
German hard coal production has been agreed until 2005, after which it is to be reduced to an efficient and viable mining operation.
This ensures the development of modern mining technologies and machines made in Germany that can be exported.
Although there are currently no plans for new nuclear power plants in Germany, we want to change the phase-out law:
Phasing out nuclear energy does not solve the climate problem, but exacerbates it and creates a dependency of Germany on foreign countries.
This means that Germany will no longer be able to meet its CO2 reduction obligations in the future, or will only be able to do so at enormous expense.
The phase-out law does not resolve the waste disposal issue, but rather terminates the consensus on waste disposal.
The phase-out law disconnects Germany from research and technology development and
weakens its position as a business location.
We will continue to keep open the option of using nuclear energy in the future.
Maximum possible safety must have absolute priority in the use of nuclear energy.
Therefore, research and development work for advanced reactor systems must continue.
German safety technology, which has set international standards, must be maintained and expanded.
The orderly disposal of radioactive waste from the peaceful use of nuclear energy must be regulated.
The safe final disposal of radioactive waste must not be delayed - as was the case with the Red-Green coalition - and thus burdened on future generations.
Clarity must be established in time for the disposal requirement regarding final storage facilities for low- and intermediate-level waste as well as high-level waste and their conditioning.
We are in favor of exploring the Gorleben salt dome, the suitability of which must be decided on a scientifically sound basis.
The red-green federal government has forced the establishment of interim storage facilities for spent fuel elements at nuclear power plant sites.
These interim storage facilities must not become final storage facilities.
The eco-tax implemented by the red-green coalition on a national level has proven to be economically misguided, ecologically counterproductive and socially unjust.
The CDU and CSU will reverse the further increase in this tax planned for 2003.
Our aim is to abolish the eco-tax in its current form in the medium term and replace it with a harmonized, pollutant-based tax that is neutral in terms of revenue and competition and is coordinated across Europe.
Preserving and shaping creation together
The protection of the natural foundations of life and the preservation of creation are core concerns of CDU and CSU policy.
Our guiding principle is sustainable development that reconciles economic and social prosperity with the preservation of nature and the environment.
When it comes to protecting the environment, we also place greater emphasis on the market and competition, on personal initiative and responsibility. Environmental protection is a task of preservation and design, but not one of prevention.
Environmental precaution takes precedence over aftercare and repair.
We will consolidate the fragmented German environmental law into an "Environmental Code".
Our goal is to make environmental law more manageable, quicker to enforce and thus more effective and, above all, more practicable for small and medium-sized businesses and agriculture.
To this end, we will merge the approval procedures into a single project approval.
The protection of nature is one of the central challenges of our time.
We advocate that nature conservation is not implemented against, but with the citizen.
In nature conservation policy, we rely on cooperation instead of confrontation.
Effective nature conservation can only be enforced with the farmers, communities and citizens affected.
This also means examining the inherently inconsistent system of protected areas in Germany.
Our goal is nature conservation that ensures the survival of native flora and fauna through sufficiently large protected areas, a biotope network system and the expansion of contract nature conservation.
Together with many citizens, the protection of animals is an important concern for us.
We are committed to the consistent implementation of the protection of natural resources and animals, which is enshrined in the constitution as a state objective.
CDU and CSU want to further develop the circular economy.
We will continue to update the Packaging Ordinance with the aim of adapting it to the changed framework conditions and technical progress in material development and recycling technologies, and to promote the conservation of resources.
Both economic and ecological concerns must be taken into account.
The high quality of drinking water is a precious commodity.
Our goal is to ensure that the municipalities can continue to perform important public service tasks in the future.
That is why we advocate that water supply should remain the task of the municipalities.
We reject liberalization of the water supply, as genuine competition is only possible to a limited extent.
We want to promote sustainable regional development.
We see regionalization as a necessary balance to globalization.
We are therefore strengthening the development of regional economic cycles and municipal alliances.
We will expand cooperative environmental protection.
We will work toward the conclusion of voluntary environmental partnerships between the state and business, agriculture and local communities.
We will intensify Germany's contribution to international cooperation on the global challenges of protecting the Earth's atmosphere, protecting biodiversity and combating desertification, water scarcity and forest destruction.
We will strengthen development cooperation in the areas of energy, environmental and resource protection.
Preserving Germany's identity
Over the past decades, democratic Germany has earned a worldwide reputation and gained trust.
A sense of belonging and enlightened patriotism, i.e. a positive relationship with the nation, are a foundation that cannot be dispensed with for the joint shaping of a good future.
Cultivate art and culture
Art and culture as an expression of creative freedom are more important than ever in the modern world shaped by technology and economy.
Art and culture are the epitome of human expression of life.
Art and culture must not only be seen as location factors of growing importance, they must above all be seen as a value in themselves, as a stimulating and reflective force that is also indispensable for the state and society.
In order to promote the free development of artistic talent in all fields, we want to ensure the greatest possible diversity for artistic creation.
The public sector and private commitment must work together to promote art and culture.
Germany's cultural wealth is fed by the diversity of its regions and its openness to stimuli from all over the world.
The cultural sovereignty of the federal states is a cornerstone of Germany's federal system that we will not allow to be shaken.
We see the promotion of art and culture as a mission of the federal, state and local governments, each of which has its own indispensable tasks.
The federal government must consistently perform the cultural tasks for which it is responsible: for its internationally outstanding institutions, in German foreign broadcasting, in foreign cultural policy and the promotion of German language and culture abroad, in schools abroad, and in the legal obligation to preserve the historical and cultural heritage of the expellees.
In these areas, there must be no further reduction in federal funding in favor of prestige projects for which the federal government has no jurisdiction at all.
The federal government's promotion of culture must not be reduced to promoting the capital city at the expense of cultural highlights of national importance in the states.
In this sense, the office of the Federal Government Commissioner for Culture must finally be exercised.
Even in the modern knowledge society with its global economic interdependencies, a sense of national belonging is indispensable.
The vast majority of Germans see themselves as a community of solidarity and destiny, united by a common history and a common state as well as by a common language and culture.
We Germans can be proud of our cultural heritage, of outstanding works of faith, philosophy and literature, of impressive creations in music, theater and the fine arts, of top achievements in science and technology.
Control and limit immigration
Germany is a cosmopolitan and hospitable country.
With a share of foreigners in the population of 9%, Germany occupies the top position among the major Western industrialized nations.
The number of foreigners living in Germany has increased from 3.5 million to 7.3 million since 1972, while the number of foreigners in employment subject to social insurance contributions has declined from 2.3 million to 2.0 million.
Unemployment among foreigners has increased massively during this period and is now around 20%, twice as high as in the population as a whole.
Thus, most of the immigration was not into jobs, but into the social security systems.
Three quarters of the people from other countries living in Germany come from countries outside the European Union.
However, due to its historical, geographical and social situation, Germany cannot become a classic immigration country like Australia or Canada, for example.
Germany must control and limit immigration more than it has in the past.
Immigration cannot be a way out of the demographic changes in Germany.
We clearly reject an expansion of immigration from third countries, because it would overtax our society's ability to integrate.
Increased immigration would endanger domestic peace and encourage radical forces.
Red-Green does not want effective control and limitation of immigration.
With the unregulated abandonment of the recruitment freeze, Red-Green is creating gateways for expanded immigration, and with the alleged "hardship regulation" and the expansion of residence rights beyond the Geneva Refugee Convention, massive incentives for poverty refugees from all over the world.
In a short time, this would lead to significantly higher immigration to Germany, which is not in the interest of our country.
Immediately after the election, we will correct the wrong course set by the red-green federal government.
With unemployment totaling almost 6 million people, there is justification for labor migration to Germany only in exceptional cases.
Given government programs to integrate young people into the labor market and growing unemployment among workers older than 55, more immigration is not responsible.
The qualification of domestic workers has priority over immigration.
In the future, we must be increasingly open to top foreign talent, not only in sports and culture, but also to ensure scientific excellence, high innovative strength and economic dynamism.
We want to further restrict immigration incentives for asylum seekers who are not eligible for recognition.
Only state persecution may give rise to a claim to asylum and residence.
We will speed up administrative court decisions in asylum cases and, to this end, concentrate judicial responsibilities for reviewing asylum decisions in order to combat abuse of the right to asylum.
We want to put a stop to smuggling organizations.
To this end, we are relying on a Europe-wide strategy.
The external borders of the European Union must be secured against illegal immigration and organized smuggling.
We will work towards more efficient cooperation between the border guards, police and judiciary of the countries involved.
We will include all foreign refugees in the Asylum Seekers' Benefits Act with the lower benefits compared to social assistance for the duration of their only temporary stay.
The benefits are to be designed in such a way that they do not create an incentive to come to Germany instead of another European country.
We want to enforce fair burden-sharing in refugee policy in Europe.
Comparable rules for admission, residence and termination of stay must apply throughout the EU in order to reduce the still too high number of unjustified asylum seekers in Europe in the interest of internal peace and the protection of the politically persecuted.
This requires, above all, the creation of a largely harmonized, rapid asylum procedure that meets the requirements of the rule of law.
Imbalances in the admission of asylum seekers and refugees in the EU member states must be compensated for by distributing them according to quotas based on population size and economic strength.
Demanding and promoting integration
Without solidarity and a sense of belonging, even a modern state cannot exist.
Germany should preserve its identity.
We reject the transformation into a multicultural immigrant society pursued by the Red-Greens.
The integration of immigrants does not come for free.
The integration of people from other countries who are lawfully and permanently resident in Germany is a task for all forces in society.
We want to integrate foreigners.
At the same time, we expect foreign citizens to want to integrate.
The goal of integration is unifying beliefs. I
ntegration requires not only law-abidingness and respect for the basics of living together, but also acceptance of the traditions and values in our society.
It requires the willingness to speak German and to participate in society in Germany -
but also includes the possibility to preserve one's own cultural imprints and religious convictions within the framework of the applicable legal and constitutional order.
We will put an end to a policy that on the one hand selectively expands immigration and on the other neglects the necessary integration, cuts existing integration offers and leaves the states and municipalities alone with the costs of integration and the consequences of a lack of integration success.
Germany has no shortage of immigration, but of integration.
Parallel societies are already forming in the big cities.
The high proportion of foreigners, especially in large cities such as Frankfurt a. M. with around 28 % or Munich with around 22 %, already leads to partial minority situations for Germans.
The poor language skills of many foreigners, especially young ones, their frequent lack of prospects on the labor market and the strong educational gap between German and foreign young people are just a few recognizable harbingers of a threatening social explosive in Germany.
We will demand and promote the learning of the German language more strongly.
In all countries, increased efforts are needed for schools to ensure that students have the same opportunities as everyone else whose classes include an above-average number of children who do not speak German as their native language.
Sufficient German language skills should be taught before school enrollment, if possible.
Learning and achievement deficits of foreign students must be addressed and remedied.
In addition, adult education must make better offers for people from other cultural backgrounds who want to settle into our society.
We will resolutely oppose the tendencies of self-imposed isolation of people with a common country of origin.
The development of parallel societies must not be accepted.
We will align housing policy with this goal.
We want genuine togetherness, not mere coexistence, and will therefore make it compulsory for immigrants to take part in integration courses in which not only language skills but also the basics of the legal and social order are taught.
We will counteract the undesirable development that quite a few Turkish parents living in Germany send their children to school in Turkey, which permanently damages their chances of integration.
We will set the age limit for family members to join foreigners in Germany in such a way that young people coming to Germany have optimal opportunities for integration.
This is usually the sixth, at most the tenth year of life.
We believe it is necessary to establish an Islamic education program in German for children of Muslim faith in Germany, taught according to state-approved curricula and under state supervision by teachers who are subject to the same rules as all teachers.
We will consistently use the legal possibilities to ban extremist, nationalist, anti-integration foreign associations in Germany.
Confidence for Germany
in Europe and the world
A prerequisite for freedom and democracy is security.
Security and freedom for the people of Germany can only be protected in alliance with our partners and friends in Europe and around the world.
The terrible terrorist attacks in New York and Washington on September 11, 2001, were a stark reminder of this.
Europe must be done right
The unification of Europe is the most valuable legacy of the 20th century.
European unification is the central task in order to secure peace and freedom in the long term.
It must be built on the trust of citizens and on a thorough public discussion of the prospects for Europe.
Europe's ability to act must be strengthened.
Self-confident nations and regions are the building blocks of Europe.
Its historical diversity is Europe's strength.
A good future can only be shaped with federalism, subsidiarity and clearly delineated, powerfully perceived competencies at the local, regional, national and European levels.
Germany has lost weight in Europe.
The Schröder government shows no real commitment to European unification.
It has repeatedly thrown the small partner states, including above all Germany's neighbor Austria, under the bus.
The Franco-German engine of European integration is sputtering, and relations with France have been neglected.
In Europe, the CDU and CSU laid the foundations for the euro as a stable common currency and pushed through the Stability Pact in the European treaties.
The foundations of a stable euro must not be weakened.
The independence of the European Central Bank must be preserved and defended against attempts at political interference.
We will work to ensure that European tasks are financed more equitably.
We want to end traditional European structural policies and replace them with a European solidarity fund that provides financial transfers according to objective standards for investment measures.
To compensate for the concentration of this EU structural support on the neediest regions, all member states and regions must be given a certain amount of decision-making leeway that allows for targeted independent regional support, but excludes a subsidy race.
A reform of EU finances must ensure an equitable contribution of all member states to the EU budget that is commensurate with their economic prosperity (gross domestic product in purchasing power standards).
We will successfully complete the EU's eastward expansion.
As a country in the center of Europe, Germany must be equally committed to partnership with all its neighbors.
However, it is the task of the incumbent Federal Government to make Germany's contribution to a proper conclusion of the accession negotiations by the end of 2002.
The eastward enlargement of the European Union opens up the historic opportunity to secure peace, freedom and security throughout Europe in the long term.
The enlargement of the European Union will develop markets on both sides of its existing borders, secure jobs and bring greater prosperity to its people.
The more solidly the accession negotiations now underway are conducted, the more likely this opportunity will be seized.
The enlargement of the EU must not overtax the capacity of the candidate countries or the integration strength of the European Union and its member countries.
Flexible transition periods, differentiated by sector and region and sufficiently long, are necessary until freedom of movement for workers, freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services can be granted in full.
We want to use an action plan for the border regions to exploit opportunities and mitigate risks: coordinated and accelerated expansion of infrastructures
, targeted funding instruments for the necessary adjustment processes
and an effective structural policy.
Today, the German expellees and the German ethnic groups in Central and Eastern Europe have an important bridging function in the cooperation with Germany's eastern neighbors.
This is another reason why the German minorities in the East deserve our support.
The Union will raise the legitimate concerns of the expellees in view of the eastward enlargement of the European Union.
The freedom of movement and settlement that applies in the European Union is a step towards the realization of the right to the homeland also of the German expellees - in a Europe that sees itself as a community of rights and values and in which the peoples and ethnic groups can live together in harmony and without legal discrimination, also from the past.
The right to the homeland applies.
The expulsion decrees and laws are injustice.
They are contrary to the spirit and values of the European Union and international law.
Expulsion and ethnic cleansing must not be part of the existing legal order anywhere.
In contrast to the SPD and the Greens, who want to arbitrarily exclude German Aussiedler to a large extent, we are committed to the history of all Germans.
With a "Center against Expulsion" in Berlin we want to set a sign to remember the injustice of expulsion and to outlaw it forever.
We will press ahead with the reform of the European institutions, which is stuck in its infancy.
We want to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the European institutions.
The goal of keeping a Union of 25 or more member states capable of acting has not been achieved.
Europe needs a Commission of workable size.
Parliament and the Council should be jointly responsible for legislation and the budget.
In this context, the seats in the European Parliament should be allocated to the member states - with the exception of a minimum number for the smallest ones - in principle according to population size.
The Council shall, in principle, make its decisions by weighted majority.
However, a prerequisite for the transition to further majority decisions is a clear delimitation of competencies.
Amendments to treaties, the admission of new members, the use of the general clauses, fiscal policy and the revenues of the European Union, on the other hand, must remain subject to unanimity.
We advocate that the German language - the language spoken as a mother tongue by the majority of people in the European Union - be given due consideration in the institutions of the European Union.
Particularly in the interest of the citizens who turn to the European institutions and of small and medium-sized businesses, it is unacceptable for German to be used only as a secondary language.
German shall not be inferior to any other language in the availability of native language documentation.
We want to ensure a clear delimitation of competencies between the European and national levels.
Clear answers to the question of what Europe should decide and what is and must remain the responsibility of the member states and regions consolidate the trust of the citizens, without which we cannot build the common house of Europe.
The competences of the European Union must be identifiable, predictable and limited.
In a considerably enlarged Europe, the EU must confine itself to the tasks that can only be handled jointly, which include foreign, security and defense policy, and the single market with functioning economic competition, unified external representation and a common currency.
The national or regional level retains, in perpetuity, responsibility for all policy areas that are particularly closely linked to the evolved traditions in civilization, culture, and "civil society."
These include, in particular, the internal structure of the state and local self-government, social security and family structures.
All necessary fundamental regulations, in particular on the distribution of competences between the European Union and the member states, on the financial constitution as well as on the institutions of the European Union and their procedures are to be combined with the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights in a constitutional treaty.
Strengthening the Transatlantic Partnership
Promoting pan-European unification
In the 21st century, German foreign policy is increasingly determined by the tasks and opportunities arising from globalization.
Advances in communications technology and the great mobility of knowledge and capital are giving people more freedom.
However, openness and growing networking also make individual states and existing regulatory structures more vulnerable:
The highly technical free world is a target for attack by terrorists operating worldwide.
In the "global village," in which the most diverse nations, religions and traditions are moving ever closer together, cultural differences are becoming more apparent.
As an export nation that is open to the world and dependent on the global market, Germany has an interest in making the most of the new opportunities
while at the same time resolutely and successfully averting the security threats.
We are once again clearly aligning German policy with Germany's security interests:
Securing peace and freedom in the alliance of the West.
Even under the changed conditions, we must ensure credible and strong national and alliance defense.
Germany's partners and allies need to know where Germany stands and that Germany can be relied upon in crises.
At the same time, we must take security seriously as a task for society as a whole.
We will strengthen Europe, but not in competition with America, but
with the aim of making Europe a more responsible partner in the performance of international security tasks.
Only together with America can we effectively counter the new security threats.
To achieve this, NATO's European pillar must be strengthened.
We believe it is essential to provide the EU's common foreign and security policy with common instruments as well.
This requires a coordinated structure, equipment and military and political operational capability for the European armed forces.
Only in this way can European capabilities gradually become compatible again with American ones.
The European Rapid Response Force must finally become operational.
We need a, European industrial base.
The European Rapid Response Units are a first step towards further integration of European forces.
We are therefore striving for joint force planning, a common armaments policy and joint military procurement within the framework of the European Security and Defense Policy (ESDP).
This also creates important synergies in times of tight budgets.
We will cultivate the reliable friendship with America, strengthen the transatlantic partnership and therefore be a partner to be taken seriously.
The close ties between Europe and the USA are unique in the world:
on the basis of shared values, we can find joint responses to global political challenges.
We will advocate for a new "Atlantic Charter" and more cooperation on law enforcement, energy and the environment.
Deeper cooperation among intelligence agencies will contribute to a common assessment of global threats.
We see the creation of a transatlantic free trade area as a prospect for avoiding trade disputes and for even closer integration of our economic areas.
Due to the numerous conflicts in the Balkans, Caucasus, Middle East and Northern Africa, we will work with our partners to shift the strategic focus of the Atlantic Alliance to the South East.
This is another reason why, at the NATO summit in the fall, not only Slovenia, Slovakia, Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia, but also Bulgaria and Romania must be invited to join, insofar as the respective domestic political situation permits.
Together with our partners in the Alliance, we will act decisively against the global proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
We will actively take up President Bush's plans for the creation of an "Allied Missile Defense", and contribute with our own initiatives for a European protection component.
We will get the Franco-German engine, which was criminally neglected by the Red-Greens, moving again.
As we approach the 40th anniversary of the Elysée Treaty, the time has come for a new founding pact that will give a new quality to relations with our most important partner in Europe.
In the future, Germany and France must be able to dispose of jointly provided funds for joint procurement projects required by security policy.
We want to give new impetus to the peace process in the former Yugoslavia.
The soldiers of the Bundeswehr are doing a great job - in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Kosovo and Macedonia.
But soldiers alone cannot solve the problems there.
For lasting stabilization, German and European foreign policy must resolutely advance political and economic cooperation in this part of Europe.
We will actively shape the strategic partnership with Russia that has proven its worth in the alliance against terror since September 11, 2001.
This includes energetic support for the process of reform and a frank word wherever it falters.
The partnership relationship with Russia must take into account the size, potential and importance of the country.
We want to support Russia's democratic and economic development and promote diverse cross-border contacts in the sense of a "social foreign policy".
We particularly want to promote cooperation between the Kaliningrad/Königsberg region and the future EU member states of Lithuania and Poland, so that it can join the economic dynamism of the Baltic Sea region.
Turkey is a reliable alliance partner.
Its strategic role has grown again under the changed security conditions.
We want to promote a European orientation for Turkey.
We want to link Turkey closely with the European Union economically, politically and institutionally outside of membership.
Future for the Bundeswehr
The nature and origin of threats to our security have changed significantly since the end of the Cold War, and the dividing lines between external and internal security are becoming visibly blurred.
New tasks have been added to the traditional demands on our armed forces.
But it is precisely in the fight against international terrorism that the growing military-technological gap between Europeans and Americans is also becoming apparent.
What had already become apparent during the Kosovo war in 1999 has now developed into a threat to military cohesion within the Atlantic Alliance.
The Bundeswehr must become fully operational and alliance-capable again.
To this end, we will make the necessary corrections and ensure credible funding.
Today, the Bundeswehr is suffering from an emaciation in terms of ideas, personnel and material, which is leading to long-term damage that is almost irreparable.
Tasks, structure and finances no longer fit together, and the Bundeswehr suffers from drastic underfunding.
The gap between international commitments and actual capabilities is widening.
The European Security and Defense Policy must not fail because of insufficient contributions from Germany.
The German contribution to the European task forces agreed in Helsinki must finally be made in a credible manner.
We will once again ensure that members of the Bundeswehr have full confidence in their political leadership.
Soldiers and civilian employees must once again be given attractive prospects and the best possible training and equipment.
The Bundeswehr as an institution must regain public recognition.
Unlike the Red-Greens, we will no longer regard the armed forces as a necessary evil, but will respect them as an indispensable component of a sovereign state.
Germany ranks second in the NATO alliance in terms of population and economic strength.
Our contribution to common security must be commensurate with the importance of our country.
The concept of Bundeswehr reform must be supplemented, and the Bundeswehr must be renewed in terms of its military structure, scope and equipment so that it can fulfill its mission: National and alliance defense; the new tasks of prevention, crisis response and stability transfer; the contribution of its specific capabilities to civil-military cooperation at home.
A contemporary Bundeswehr reform builds on a reorientation and adjustment of the objectives of the German armed forces.
Capabilities important for the future are: - Rapid deployment capability of rapidly deployable formations, personnel and materiel endurance, highest technical standards in armament, command and control, communications and reconnaissance.
To counter the threat of international terrorism, more anti-terrorist units, mountain troops and paratroopers are needed, as well as an increase in forces for object protection, engineer services, NBC protection and medical services.
In view of the totality of its tasks, the Bundeswehr must have a strength of at least 300,000 men - including 100,000 conscripts.
We will maintain and further develop the nine-month compulsory military service while maintaining the principle of fairness in military service.
Compulsory military service is necessary from a security policy point of view in order to ensure that the Bundeswehr has the necessary capacity to take off and to obtain a sufficient number of new recruits in terms of quality and quantity.
Compulsory military service ensures that the Bundeswehr is firmly anchored in society and best reflects the principle of the "citizen in uniform".
We will ensure that compulsory military service means meaningful service in the armed forces;
the person doing basic military service must be able to experience that he or she is needed and can contribute his or her knowledge and life experiences.
We want to ensure military justice and service justice in the long term.
The drastic underfunding of the Bundeswehr must be corrected.
The structure and tasks of the armed forces and their financing must be brought back into line.
The defense budget will be increased appreciably in line with tasks.
This will include funds for immediate actions to address the most serious equipment and facilities shortfalls.
But underfunding cannot be eliminated only by increasing the defense budget; it is also necessary that current and planned defense procurements be closely scrutinized.
Internal and external security are becoming less and less separable.
We need structures in which the forces for external and internal security complement each other effectively, just as in other democratic states.
We will create clear legal bases and responsibilities to enable the Bundeswehr to be deployed within the framework of its specific capabilities to complement the police and the Federal Border Police in situations of particular danger.
We are seeking greater flexibility in the preparation and implementation of Bundeswehr participation in multilateral peace operations and will create the appropriate legal basis for this.
Actively shaping development policy and humanitarian aid
We see the fight against poverty, hunger, underdevelopment and environmental degradation within the framework of a modern policy of economic cooperation and development for the people in developing, newly industrializing and transition countries as an ethical obligation and
a component of a precautionary policy for our own security.
As long as a large part of humanity does not see any perspective for itself and its descendants, peace and prosperity in the prosperous countries are also fragile.
Germany must honor international commitments
and exert greater influence on the international framework for development policy.
We advocate bringing the level of the development budget closer to the internationally agreed target of 0.7% of gross domestic product as soon as possible.
This goal has become a distant prospect under the red-green federal government.
The cuts in the development budget in particular show: The Schröder government has no answer to the global challenges.
German development policy must make an effective contribution to the social and economic development of the world.
We will focus German development policy more strongly on preventing terrorism:
Development policy must counteract "zones of disorder" that could be misused as retreats by terrorist networks.
We will fulfill Germany's responsibility for peace
and development in the 21st century.
Germany offers people in developing countries help to help themselves.
The prerequisite is that the framework conditions for successful aid are in place: Respect for human rights, the rule of law and legal certainty, and a socially oriented market economy.
Our measures will focus on education and training, strengthening state functions and democracy consultation, protecting natural livelihoods and strengthening economic competitiveness as the most elementary means of reducing poverty.
For successful development cooperation, we rely on the expertise of and cooperation with non-governmental organizations.
We will work toward more efficient coordination and division of tasks in the international institutions of development cooperation and humanitarian aid.
Within Europe, the European Union is to oversee development cooperation with those countries that are organizationally overburdened with a large number of donors.
Election call
You, the citizens, now have the power to set the course for the future:
Performance and security for our country - that is the opportunity of September 22.
Four years of Red-Green were lost years for all of us in Germany - Red-Green policies have made Germany the bottom performer in Europe.
Gerhard Schröder bears responsibility for this.
The Germans deserve better than another four years of wasted chances, another four years of relegation, another four years of Promised - Broken.
We are united with the majority of people by an insight and a will: it is time for action.
It is time for our country to be governed efficiently and energetically again.
This is exactly the offer we make to you.
Competence decides:
With Edmund Stoiber at the helm, we offer people a new perspective
- for more jobs, for an
efficient economy, for a
policy that creates new security, for a
policy of optimism, for a
stable and reliable centrist policy.
We call on all citizens: Go vote.
Use your voice on September 22.
Let's make more of Germany together!
