THE GREEN NEW SOCIAL CONTRACT CLIMATE WORK JUSTICE FREEDOM Federal Election Program 2009 BÜNDNIS 90/DIE GRÜNEN This Federal Election Program was adopted at the 30th Ordinary Federal Delegates Conference of BÜNDNIS 90/DIE GRÜNEN on May 8-10, 2009 in Berlin.
Preamble
Dear voter, our program for the federal election on September 27 reaches you at a time of great upheaval and also concern.
The consequences of the economic and financial crisis are weighing on many people.
More and more fear losing their jobs, and those who are unemployed see their chances of getting back into work soon dwindling.
However, the effects of rapidly advancing climate change are also worrying
and the intensifying international conflicts over resources and food.
Poverty and hunger are still major and unresolved problems worldwide.
We can no longer pretend that none of this has anything to do with the way we manage and live.
The crisis is an expression of a mindset that has put short-term profit interests above all else.
Many societies have lived beyond their means and consumed more than their own capacity actually allowed.
We are at a turning point and cannot afford to continue as we are.
Not wanting to tackle climate change until the good times come again,
would be just as irresponsible as putting off people with existential economic fears until the next economic upturn and leaving them to fend for themselves until then.
With our program, we would like to make you an offer for a different policy in these difficult times.
We want to convince you of our ideas.
Neither muddling through nor blind actionism will help now.
What we need is a new understanding of how we want to solve the major social, economic and ecological problems.
We need an understanding of what holds our society together internally and what rules should apply.
That is why we are proposing a Green New Social Contract.
It is up to us to lay the groundwork now to create new work
and give the economy a foundation that will sustain it into the future.
It is up to us to set up the world in such a way that we protect our climate instead of destroying it.
It is up to us to make our society fairer and to remove blockades that prevent everyone from having a real chance to participate.
It is up to us to strengthen civil rights in our society and not to further dismantle them.
And it is up to us to lay the foundation now for a new, more just international order that fights hunger and poverty globally.
The time to act is now.
We Greens were founded almost thirty years ago in a time of upheaval, when the world was also in great anxiety in the face of military threats, global environmental problems and the dangers of nuclear power.
Ten years later, the East German civil rights movement prepared and shaped the way for the peaceful revolution and the upheaval in the GDR with Bündnis 90.
Then as now, we Alliance Greens respond in times of change with commitment, imagination and very concrete proposals.
Many things were considered utopian that are now the consensus in society.
More than ever, people are realizing that ecology and a forward-looking economic policy belong very closely together.
And they suspect: Perhaps we would have been spared an economic crisis in this form if our economy had speculated less on future expectations and relied more on the sensible and careful use of available resources.
The green principle of sustainability means nothing else.
In the crisis, we are not concerned with pessimism and lamentation, and not with bossiness.
We are about an optimism of action and change.
It is not your fault that the world is the way it is.
It's only your fault if it stays that way.
We must learn from the crisis and make our society, our world, a better one.
It's possible - right now.
With a view to the big picture and with many concrete changes.
Time for a Green New Social Contract
What united society in the old social contract of the Federal Republic was at least the promise that education and advancement were possible, regardless of origin.
It was widely understood that in a society based on solidarity, those who have more and earn more also pay more.
It was the self-image that social peace is a high good
and that the state and society step in when people are in danger of being left behind.
This social consensus has been broken up and no longer exists.
Something is wrong when social exclusion, educational poverty and mass unemployment become a permanent condition and when people have to worry about making ends meet.
Something is out of kilter when wealth is distributed ever more unfairly
and avarice and greed dominate the markets.
Extreme wealth and great poverty coexist and the gap is widening.
The richest tenth of society earns more than 40 percent of market income, while the bottom half together earn just three percent.
Women in Germany still receive 22 percent less pay for work of equal value - and are often burdened twice and three times over.
But there is no going back - not to the Federal Republic of the 1970s and certainly not to the GDR.
And it is also true that the old social contract was often enough a bad check:
a contract at the expense of others, future generations
and our environment.
The fact that we are destroying our livelihoods is not a recent development - only the consequences are becoming more and more dramatic.
The old social contract was to the detriment of women
and ignored the fact that Germany is an immigration society.
Our growing prosperity is also based on international injustice, especially toward developing countries.
That is why we now need a New Social Contract - social and ecological.
This New Social Contract is based on the agreement not to live at the expense of others.
It lays a sustainable foundation for an economy that uses precious resources more sparingly
and creates new work - not cheap jobs, but jobs with a future.
To achieve this, we need smart innovations - not only technological ones, but also social and cultural ones.
The New Social Contract combines ecological fairness
and a policy of participation and social security that enables everyone to lead a self-determined life and gives them new opportunities for development.
The New Social Contract wants more democracy and less lobbying, and it involves everyone who bears responsibility: the state, companies and trade unions, associations and civil society.
It focuses on the major challenges facing our society and gives people a sense of direction.
As at the beginning of the industrial age, we are now faced with the task of providing a new response to major changes.
A new industrial revolution is needed.
We must set out for the solar age.
This is only possible if we think European and globally, because this is the only way to successfully overcome the many crises we are facing at the same time.
That is why we want a strong and reformed European Union
and hold fast to the goal of a European constitution for a democratic, solidarity-based and ecological EU.
This requires the Lisbon Treaty and further reforms.
Green Responses in the Crisis - New Work and Sustainable Economies
We are focusing on a stimulus policy that helps immediately, but does not simply fizzle out and end up only adding to the existing problems.
That's why we don't want to invest in yesterday's ideas and structures, but in the infrastructures and products for tomorrow.
If we are going to spend so much money now, then please do it properly.
We just borrowed this money from our children.
In this way, we are combining a sensible economic policy today with a policy for the future and improved competitiveness of industry, the skilled trades and the service sector.
An important first step toward a Green New Social Contract is our Green New Deal.
As in the years following the stock market crash of 1929, we need a major effort today to combat the crisis and its consequences.
In the Great Depression of the 1930s, U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt combined economic policy and welfare state reforms with a "New Deal. Roosevelt combined economic policy and welfare state reforms with a "New Deal" in order to "redraw the cards.
Today, we need a Geen New Deal to lay a new economic, social and ecological foundation in the crisis.
That is why we are focusing on climate, justice and education.
We want to invest the money in schools, early childhood education and childcare,
in efficient local public transport,
in energy-efficient building refurbishment, energy efficiency
and into modern energy grids, into our cities, villages and regions.
That is why we are committed to the rapid expansion of renewable energies, ecological investments and energy- and resource-efficient products and production processes: from the automotive industry to mechanical engineering and the chemical industry.
For far too long, the signs of the times have been slept through there.
This is now taking revenge.
When companies are threatened with bankruptcy and there are calls for the state to come to the rescue, we must not only cushion the social consequences but also, wherever possible, begin with ecological and economic restructuring at the same time.
This is the only way to secure jobs in the long term.
Especially in times of crisis, many people have a growing need for security.
This makes it all the more important to have reliable social security systems and a social safety net that ensures no one falls into the bottomless pit.
We are fighting for this with the Citizens' Preamble insurance, the guaranteed pension and our green basic security.
We want to make it possible for all people to be able to live from their work through a statutory minimum wage
and we want to immediately top up unemployment benefit II.
This is above all a question of justice, which incidentally also stimulates business.
The economy is not boosted by tax giveaways that the rich put on the high side, but by an increase in mass purchasing power.
In times of crisis, we focus on qualification, because every additional training, advanced training and retraining is an active contribution to reducing unemployment.
We want to support attempts by workforces to take over their companies in self-administration and realign them,
as well as solidarity-based works agreements in which a reduction in working hours guarantees employment.
It is feared that the economic crisis will lead to a dramatic increase in unemployment.
We will ensure that victims of the financial crisis are not relegated to indigence after one year.
In a crisis, those who can shoulder more must also bear more - especially if they have benefited particularly from a lack of regulation in the past.
This applies to all those beneficiaries of neoliberal ideology who have contributed to the fact that it could come to this point in the first place and that today we are facing the biggest economic shambles of the post-war period worldwide.
With our Green New Deal, we are creating a stable foundation for economic recovery that benefits everyone.
We want to do nothing less than usher in a new industrial revolution
and create a million new jobs in Germany.
Solidarity must grow anew.
This applies at national level, but also at European and international level.
For this, we need new rules for the global economic system
and a strong EU that works for peace, for fair and sustainable globalization, and for the enforcement of human rights.
In the current crisis, we must also change the rules of the international financial system and international trade so that globalization has a social and ecological impact.
We're all about the big picture
The Green New Social Contract we are calling for is more than economic policy.
We're all about the big picture: Our society today is perceived by many people as being blocked.
This blockage starts with children, who, as the weakest in society, have many obstacles placed in their path.
Who do not get the attention they deserve in the early, crucial years through nurturing, education and upbringing.
It continues in schools where not only is there segregation by social background at an early stage,
but where, in addition, the lack of quality education and the lack of individual support obstruct later career opportunities.
The blockade continues in a labor market that still tells many job seekers they are not needed
and that still drastically discriminates against women
and excludes people with migration histories.
And it also increasingly affects older people who have a lot of knowledge and experience to offer in their third stage of life - but too few people ask for it.
It is time that we break the blockades and our society becomes permeable.
We want to give people back the feeling that they are an important part of this society.
And not through head-up slogans, but through genuine participation.
Our coordinates: Climate - Justice - Freedom
The green New Social Contract combines climate, justice and freedom.
The other parties play that off against each other.
We say: All three belong together!
This is how we want to live, this is how we want to manage.
And only when these three combine, peace and development are possible in our globalized world.
An active climate policy creates justice and freedom.
Investing in the climate creates jobs - renewable energies and active thermal insulation have created hundreds of thousands of jobs in Germany alone.
Progressive climate change, however, creates severe economic crises and destroys jobs.
Climate protection has long been an economic issue - and is increasingly becoming a social issue.
Climate change is already threatening the economic livelihoods of many and causing more people to go hungry in the world than ever before.
Those who have contributed least to climate change are those who suffer most from its consequences.
That's why it's about more equity in the international burden-sharing of climate protection measures,
but also about measures to adapt to a changing climate.
A consistent climate policy is becoming increasingly important, because by destroying the climate we are depriving ourselves of the possibility of living a life in freedom and self-determination tomorrow.
That is why we fight for ecological fairness and a self-determined life in responsibility.
Justice creates freedom for all.
Without a policy of participation in education, work, health and income, freedom remains an empty promise for many.
That is why we want a permeable society in which social blockades are broken down and no one is excluded.
That is why we are fighting for public institutions that enable this participation - for better daycare centers, for better schools, for better work, for a better health care system and better wages for low-income earners as well as equal pay for work of equal value.
That is why we combine distributive justice with participatory justice, intergenerational justice, gender justice and global justice.
And that is why we combine ecological policy with the question of justice.
Justice needs freedom.
We advocate that all people can lead their lives in freedom and self-determination.
Freedom does not mean the freedom of the few and the strong, it
does not mean grabbing as much profit as possible on an unleashed market.
Freedom means emancipation, means equal rights - and freedom applies to everyone.
The legacy of the civil rights movement in the former GDR and the Eastern European states is more relevant today than ever before - 20 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall and the peaceful revolution: the
first sentence of our basic program states that the focus of Green policy is on people with their dignity and freedom.
Here and everywhere in the world.
Today and tomorrow.
A life of self-determination is only possible if we preserve the natural foundations of life.
We do not want a conformist, adapted society, but equal opportunities for realization for all.
Diversity is wealth.
We stand up against all forms of racism and right-wing extremism.
In the 60th year of the Basic Law, we are resisting ever more restrictions on civil rights that make everyone a security risk,
and attempts to divide indivisible human rights according to origin.
We live in the One World.
There is no outside.
Therefore, European and global action must be taken for climate, justice and freedom.
Time to act
The grand coalition has disappointed many people.
Major crises - grand coalition?
What a mistake.
What have the past four years brought?
Standstill and mutual paralysis in the midst of an epochal break.
And when the grand coalition did get something off the ground, it often went in the wrong direction or remained a lazy compromise, because each coalition partner was able to mix something in - whether it suited or not.
The effect was small, the bill for it expensive.
Thus, valuable time was wasted and new security was not created.
It is time for a change and for BÜNDNIS 90/DIE GRÜNEN to take over government responsibility again.
For seven years, we governed our country together with the SPD.
The successes bear the Green signature: Nuclear phase-out and renewable energies, ecological tax reform, consumer protection and new agricultural policy, a new departure in citizenship law, expansion of childcare, registered civil partnership, the Protection Against Violence Act and a high-profile European and foreign policy.
And green successes can still be seen today.
Even the CDU/CSU and SPD did not abolish the eco-tax, but used it to top up our market incentive program for renewables.
And the CDU/CSU, which wanted to abolish the Renewable Energy Sources Act in 2005, is now peddling it.
However, a critical assessment also includes saying that we were not always able to assert ourselves during our time in government and that mistakes were also made.
We have learned from this.
In the past, we have shown time and again how to shape policy from the opposition and translate social alliances into political power.
The tougher opposition is not the louder one.
It is the one with the better concepts.
From lowering social security contributions for low-income earners to a Renewable Heat Act to financial center taxation, other parties are writing us off for their election programs today.
But where they try to translate it into policy, they do so half-heartedly and hesitantly.
The green facade of the other parties quickly peels off when scratched.
Then it becomes clear: The SPD wants to sell new coal-fired power plants as climate protection and the CDU wants to sell nuclear power as "green energy".
It turns out that only where it says green on the outside is green on the inside.
Only where green rules, green becomes reality.
When you vote green, you vote for climate protection.
Ecological policy is economic innovation for more jobs.
We want to create one million jobs and realign
the infrastructures and key industries of automotive, chemicals and mechanical engineering with future-proof products and jobs.
We want the energy transition to renewable energies, efficiency and energy saving.
For this, we need the nuclear phase-out
- and a moratorium against the construction of new coal-fired power plants.
The nuclear phase-out is only assured if the Greens are represented in the next government.
We are continuing the nuclear phase-out without any ifs and buts.
Under the Nuclear Phase-Out Act, up to seven nuclear power plants will be shut down in the coming legislative period.
We want to take old, particularly risky reactors off the grid ahead of schedule.
We protect biodiversity and reject genetic engineering in food and on the field.
When you vote green, you vote for justice.
In a just society, child poverty has no place
and everyone is given the chance to shape their own lives on a secure financial basis, regardless of their parents' background and purse.
Access to education from kindergarten to university is an important prerequisite for this.
We need a permeable society that creates integration through comprehensive participation.
We need tax reform that places a heavier burden on strong shoulders and makes inheritances and large fortunes more available to finance the common good.
We want to raise unemployment benefit II to 420 euros
and introduce a minimum wage.
Instead of two-tier medicine, we want citizen insurance.
We need new rules for the financial markets - globally, at European level and in Germany.
When you vote green, you vote for freedom.
Freedom we mean stands for self-determination,
for civil rights,
for integration
and the empowerment of all to participate,
and for equal opportunities for the sexes.
Without individual and institutional freedom, a society cannot develop and innovative potential lies idle.
We need undisturbed privacy, we need freedom of the press, freedom of science and economic freedom:
only in this way can new ideas develop, innovations spread
and everyone can participate democratically in political decisions.
The march toward a surveillance society must be stopped, as must
a world with uncontrolled data trading.
We are the party of freedom of the Internet.
We want an end to the retention and suspicion of data.
Freedom for consumers is the right to know what is in products and how they are made.
Freedom is the freedom of different ways of life, sexual identities and faith.
Green stands for managed immigration
and humanitarian refugee law.
Climate, justice, freedom - only where all three are combined, the foundation for peace is laid.
For the Greens, a credible peace
and human rights policy.
During our time in government, we rejected involvement in military adventures such as the Iraq war and strengthened civil conflict prevention.
For us, foreign deployments are subject to strict limits, legitimacy under international law and the primacy of civilian crisis management.
We stand for the strengthening of the UN
and global disarmament, especially of nuclear weapons.
We want a change of strategy in Afghanistan toward civilian reconstruction and away from military escalation.
We want to significantly reduce the Bundeswehr in line with its tasks
and abolish conscription.
Those who vote Green prevent the neoliberal turn to black-yellow.
CDU/CSU and FDP want the role backwards.
Old nuclear plants should be allowed to continue running.
New coal-fired power plants are expected to cast the outdated energy structure in concrete for decades to come.
They want to expand the low-wage sector and further dismantle social security.
They want to abolish the separation between external and internal security and make the state of emergency the norm.
Those who vote Green vote to end the grand coalition.
The SPD cannot be relied upon in the grand coalition.
The SPD is blinking red-green, but if necessary it will immediately seek shelter with Mrs. Merkel as a junior partner in a grand coalition.
Four years of formula compromises and gridlock are enough.
The Left Party is using cheap populism to win votes, and it likes to present itself as a fundamental opposition that rules out taking responsibility at the federal level from the outset, while practicing a mousy policy of adjustment in the state governments.
Those who vote Green vote for the Green New Social Contract.
Those who vote Green vote for change for climate, justice, freedom and lay the foundation for new work, real participation and sustainable business.
1. doing business differently - a green new deal for new work and innovation
Man-made climate change is a testament to how irrationally we manage our economies.
The global financial and economic crisis has shown us once and for all that the way our economy is constituted leads to disastrous results.
The crisis is affecting more and more areas.
More and more people are feeling its consequences very directly:
many have already lost their jobs or are afraid of losing them.
Others have lost part of their retirement security, most not because they wanted to realize excessive returns, but because they were badly advised or could not find their way through the financial jungle.
The global crisis is driving companies into bankruptcy and requiring government intervention that previously seemed unimaginable.
Where 24-hour shifts were just being worked, short-time work is now the order of the day.
Banks are now being saved from collapse with billions of taxpayers' money, while even during the economic boom of recent years, the grand coalition haggled over every euro more for the long-term unemployed or for educational institutions.
In this difficult situation, it is a matter of resolutely combating the crisis
and mitigating its consequences for people.
It's about securing jobs
and quickly getting back on a path where the economy regains its footing and people gain new confidence.
What was true before the crisis must now be even more true during the crisis:
Our economy needs a new foundation.
In doing so, we must not impose any prohibitions on our thinking.
If we don't forget that, then there is also an opportunity in this crisis.
The opportunity to accelerate much-needed environmental and social change.
When, if not now?
For us, a green New Social Contract means that the economy, ecology and social justice must no longer be played off against each other.
We want a social and ecological economic order.
After all, it is now also clear that only those who produce ecologically also produce economically sensibly.
Not only because the consequences of climate change and environmental pollution cost national economies and thus taxpayers a lot of money.
There is also a second reason: the world's demand for energy and raw materials is growing daily, while supplies are rapidly dwindling.
There are already serious studies that indicate that the production peak for oil has already been exceeded.
Prices for energy and raw materials will rise dramatically again in the medium and long term.
That is why it is crucial to produce more energy- and resource-efficiently.
Those who manufacture energy-efficient and low-consumption products have the edge in global competition - whether it's automobiles, refrigerators or consumer electronics.
We are at a turning point in industrial history:
Whereas economic growth could previously be increased by extracting more and more oil, gas, coal, uranium and other raw materials, in the future economic success can only be achieved by increasing efficiency, using renewable energies and renewable raw materials.
Setting the Course Now: A Green New Deal
We are countering the crisis with a new departure in economic, financial and social policy - the Green New Deal.
The states operate with sums in the billions - sums that are beyond any imagination.
It is wrong to use so much money merely to patch up the cracks in the old foundations of our economy.
We must resolutely build a new foundation.
Only then will we leave our children and grandchildren not just a gigantic mountain of debt, but also something they can build on.
We must invest in the infrastructures of the future, in a
green economy, in
more education, in a
renewed social balance.
This Green New Deal creates new jobs
and brings economic success today and tomorrow.
In political commentary, the current financial and economic crisis is often compared to the Great Depression of the 1920s and 1930s.
At that time, too, there was a deep slump in the real economy, starting with a financial crash, and unemployment rates skyrocketed - first in the USA, then throughout the world.
The American President Franklin D. Roosevelt succeeded in ushering in a turning point in the USA with the help of a major investment program, financial, economic and social reforms.
The so-called "New Deal" was supposed to "redistribute the cards," give crisis-stricken people a new chance and the economy a new foundation.
Today, too, massive investment is needed to counter the economic downturn, to
impose new rules on the financial markets
and to shape a new balance that overcomes the social divide here and around the world.
Today, too, it is about making a better tomorrow possible with a joint effort.
But unlike then, such a New Deal today can only be a Green New Deal, concluded not to the detriment of the environment but for the benefit of the environment.
With the Green New Deal, we want to achieve a gradual shift in our value base toward a humane and ecological economy: Education, Social and Public Goods, Health and Care, Ecological Services and Products, Culture and Science.
Our future lies in these areas.
This realization has also received international impetus in view of the global crisis.
From Ban Ki-moon to Barack Obama, more and more are calling for a "Green New Deal."
The Green New Deal aims at the future-oriented restructuring of the old industrial society.
It is the economic, industrial and social policy centerpiece of the Green New Social Contract.
Time and again, the question of corporate bailouts by the state arises during the crisis.
When guarantees or takeovers are considered, they must be linked to committing the companies to a sustainable reorientation.
Where companies are threatened with bankruptcy in the short term and markets collapse, we are in favor of intervening in a controlled manner and already beginning with ecological and social restructuring.
The aim of state intervention must be to prevent mass falls into unemployment
, to qualify unemployed or short-time working people
and to promote the development of sustainable products, technologies and services.
The goal of government intervention cannot be to prop up non-viable economic structures.
Industries with the wrong product ranges, overcapacities and unsustainable business models must not be allowed to gobble up financial resources for structurally sound sectors of the economy and must not be maintained at the expense of citizens.
With our Green New Deal, we want to invest in climate,
Justice
and education.
This will create one million jobs.
The expansion of renewable energies, new rail and energy networks, better local public transport, increased energy efficiency and much more - all this brings new work.
In the climate and energy chapter of this program, we show what that means in concrete terms.
Investments in education are second central part of our Green New Deal.
They are a prerequisite for equal opportunities
and a large number of new skilled jobs.
The minds of our children are our most important resource.
Putting additional money only into buildings, as the grand coalition is doing, is too little.
We need more care, better education and more lifelong learning opportunities, as well as well-trained teachers and educators.
In the education chapter, we show what this means for us.
Another focus of the Green New Deal concerns social justice:
instead of promising tax giveaways for the rich now, we want to break the social logjams and give people a new chance.
No more managers getting million-dollar bonuses for quarterly results, even if a short time later the company collapses like a house of cards.
We want justice:
the fair distribution of society's wealth
and the opportunity for every individual to participate.
This also includes immediately raising the Hartz IV standard rates for all adults to an initial 420 euros.
We want to place the standard rates for children and young people on a new calculation basis that takes into account their actual needs and also raise them immediately.
With a statutory minimum wage, we want to ensure that people can live from their work.
In this way, we create more justice
and increase domestic demand, which is also good for the economy.
We want to get more women into living wage jobs.
We Greens want to work hard to ensure that European countries stand together in the crisis.
An economic zone as intertwined as the EU can only overcome the crisis as a whole.
Therefore, it must draw political consequences.
The freedoms of the internal market must be followed by an expansion of markets to stop the deregulation and tax-cutting competition that has taken place in the past.
This will require greater cooperation on economic and stimulus policy, at least in the euro zone, but without driving the EU apart.
This must be committed to ecological and social goals.
The Euro Group must be upgraded in order to set the macroeconomic framework together with the European Central Bank with the participation of the social partners.
In addition, we Greens want the macroeconomic guidelines on monetary and budgetary policy to be discussed by the European Parliament, without prejudice to the rights of national parliaments, and to be subject to parliamentary co-decision.
As is the case with the Fed in the U.S., the central bank's remit must include stable macroeconomic development, including employment, in addition to monetary stability.
The Stability and Growth Pact must provide incentives to save in good economic times,
in return, however, leave greater financial policy leeway to avert a crisis.
The current defacto suspension of the Stability Pact by the EU Commission is therefore correct, but born of necessity.
Ultimately, the Green New Deal is about a new financial market architecture.
We are pushing for international agreements, for tax havens to be dried up and for the gambling den of financial jugglers to be closed down.
This implies that a Green New Deal must be European and globally embedded so that it also contributes to greater international equity.
1 million new jobs
As unemployment grows, the crisis reaches people.
The dramatic economic slump threatens hundreds of thousands of jobs in our country.
Because the economic and financial crisis is accompanied by a structural crisis in the German economy, there is a risk that many of the jobs that are now being eliminated will not automatically be created in the upswing.
The German government's crisis policy is limited to short-sighted economic stimulus programs whose flash in the pan effects do not secure jobs in the long term - such as the scrappage scheme.
Neither in the short nor in the long term does this policy save jobs.
What is needed now is a strategic economic policy that creates the conditions for this structural change and new jobs with a future.
With our Green New Deal, we aim to create one million new jobs over the next four years by bringing forward investments in the future and addressing the environmental and social weaknesses of our economic system.
We are relying on a mix of clear regulatory policy (e.g. CO2 limits),
new financing instruments (e.g. citizens' insurance in health care),
changes in the framework conditions for the labor market (e.g. the progressive model)
and advance state investment (e.g. in education or building renovation).
The debt we are now using to combat the crisis is justified only if it is associated with a clear return on investment for future generations.
This is the case, for example, with investments in climate protection.
Unlike the government's quick-fix stimulus policy, our program is designed for steady investment over a four-year period.
This creates reliability and enables the sustainable creation of at least one million jobs.
400,000 new jobs through ecological modernization:
We GREENS have triggered a job boom in the field of ecological renewal during our time in government since 1998.
More than 1.8 million people are employed in the environmental sector today.
Of these, 280,000 were in the renewable energies sector alone and 160,000 in the organic sector.
After years of black-red braking, we want to accelerate ecological modernization and strengthen this job boom.
Environmental protection is a global growth market.
Today's investments in technologies and jobs are a prerequisite for tomorrow's export successes.
In the areas of renewable energies, building refurbishment, ecological agriculture, sustainable mobility and waste and water management, we are creating more than 400,000 jobs and additionally compensating for job losses due to the structural crisis in vehicle manufacturing.
185,000 new jobs through education investments as investments in the future:
In response to the education crisis and the economic crisis, we now want to eliminate injustices in the education system with massive investments,
increase quality
and build the education system of the future.
In order to provide all parents with a binding, high-quality range of early childhood care services,
expand all-day schools
and recruit more staff at universities, we need 185,000 new educators, specialists and teachers, which we intend to recruit over the next four years.
In part, these positions can be funded through our proposed education soli.
150,000 new jobs by investing in a socially just healthcare system:
One of the most important growth sectors is the healthcare industry, including the nursing sector.
Demographic trends, rising life expectancy and medical advances are leading to a foreseeable increase in demand for healthcare services.
That is why we Greens do not discuss health as a problem, but as an economic and social innovation issue.
Investing in health is not a negative.
On the contrary, if we want the industry to grow, we need more spending.
However, a sustainable jobs boom can only succeed if we achieve sustainable financing of health and long-term care insurance with the citizens' insurance scheme,
if we increase the attractiveness of healthcare and nursing professions
and if we make prevention the third pillar of the healthcare system.
60,000 new jobs in the social labor market:
Despite the current massive problems on the labor market, we are also committed to taking care of those who have been without a chance to return to work for a long time.
Around 400,000 long-term unemployed people are currently permanently cut off from the labor market and at risk of social exclusion.
We want to reintegrate them through long-term subsidized employment subject to social insurance contributions.
In a first step, 60,000 jobs are to be created in the social labor market by 2013.
200,000 new jobs by reducing undeclared work:
Undeclared work is widespread in Germany and hinders the emergence of legal employment.
We want to combat it
and create regular employment by relieving small incomes of social contributions with our progressive model
and by sustainably relieving companies of bureaucracy.
We expect this to create 200,000 new jobs within four years.
Our mission statement: Green market economy
The guiding principle for the Green New Deal is a green market economy with strong social and environmental guard rails.
We do not need neoliberal deregulation, but clear rules to ensure the functioning of the markets.
Rules that reward ecological and social action by market participants.
Green means: ecologically compatible,
economically reasonable,
socially and gender equitable.
Economic crisis, climate crisis, food crisis, rising commodity prices, energy crisis and a growing social divide have their common causes in an unleashing of the markets, where the future is gambled away in the pursuit of short-term returns and social responsibility counts for little.
That is why sustainability must become the compass of economic policy.
This also means that prices must finally tell the ecological truth.
Put an end to rewarding those who pollute the environment.
Good economic policy is not interest policy for business associations, lobby groups and the wealthy, but interest policy for the future.
Policymakers must set the framework for greater energy efficiency, resource conservation, high-level environmental technology and environmental services.
This does not only apply to the classic "green" sectors of the economy.
Companies in the automotive, manufacturing, chemical and mechanical engineering industries will only have a chance in the markets of the coming decades if they embrace the structural change towards a sustainable economy.
Today, the economic future of every branch of industry depends on a resource-conserving production method.
To achieve this, we are relying on various instruments that help the urgently needed common sense to prevail without preventing economic freedom.
Emissions trading - properly implemented - rewards companies that produce in a climate-friendly way because they have to purchase fewer pollution rights, and penalizes production methods that are harmful to the climate.
And with the ecological tax reform, environmentally compatible behavior is rewarded.
Environmentally damaging behavior becomes more expensive.
Freedom in the sense of green market economy does not mean the absence of regulation or the freedom of the strong and the rule of the elbow.
Rather, economic freedom only arises when the abuse of market power is ruled out
and consumers are able to make self-determined choices.
We want to make markets the means to achieve environmental and social goals.
We fight against the dominant market position of one or a few companies,
for fair market access for all market participants,
against superfluous bureaucracy
or nonsensical permanent subsidies, because they prevent competition and innovation.
Internationally, too, we are committed to a just and fair world trade order.
We want social and ecological rules in world trade
and promote access to knowledge and technology for developing countries.
Developing countries should be given the means to protect their nascent industries, agriculture and service sectors from overwhelming competition in trade and investment.
Green market economy takes a look at the economy as a whole.
In addition to for-profit companies, the economic activities of the state itself and the public interest-oriented third sector are also sources of value creation and innovation.
Important public goods and services such as health care or education, mobility, Internet, waste collection or water, must be accessible to all citizens.
Only a strong and reliable state can provide the necessary public goods in high quality or have them provided by the private sector under certain conditions.
Basic services must be provided to all citizens, regardless of their personal ability to pay.
We oppose tax-cutting and competition ideologues in the CDU/CSU and FDP who talk about personal responsibility but mean the night watchman state.
Empty coffers and unilateral competitive constraints are increasing the pressure on municipalities to privatize their services.
Often, this means privatizing profits and socializing losses, because the risk is ultimately borne by the general public.
We Greens stand for strengthening and further developing reliable and high-quality public goods and institutions.
We know how important it is to ensure the political steering capacity of municipalities, transparency and democratic control when it comes to the future of services of general interest.
We support cities and municipalities that want to provide their own services again.
To this end, we want to safeguard the economic activities of municipalities,
promote inter-municipal cooperation
and clarify the areas of protection of services of general interest at European level with a framework directive.
For us, intact public infrastructures
and a functioning welfare state are not only a question of justice, but also a prerequisite and component of successful economic activity.
For example, services for people who need help and support have themselves become an important economic factor that creates demand.
The social sector has grown enormously in recent years, and many business ideas and jobs have been created in the area of social services, such as care.
However, many of these jobs are in low-wage and precarious employment.
This responsible work with people must be better paid and carried out within a framework that is subject to social insurance contributions.
Green industrial policy: Fit for the future through ecological modernization
Only if we manage to implement far-reaching structural changes in our economy will we be able to overcome the current crises.
To achieve this, we must utilize the highly developed technologies, the economic resources and also the industrial potential.
It is about producing differently and differently instead of conserving outdated structures and concepts.
In this way, an efficient and competitive industry with resource-compatible production provides and secures jobs in the long term.
We can state: When the bluesuit turns green, it has a future.
We Greens will not leave industrial policy to the structural conservatives from the CDU/CSU and the Social Democrats, but will actively shape it ourselves.
Green industrial policy sets incentives for modernization,
renews the entire industrial production under energy and material efficiency aspects
and pushes forward future-oriented technologies.
This change does not come by itself.
It is the task of a new, modern industrial policy to initiate and promote this process of change.
Green industrial policy is thus an important component of a strategic economic policy that pushes restructuring, especially in the current economic, resource and climate crisis, and does not stop at the classic industrial sectors.
This enables us to tap into new markets.
This also includes intelligent and unbureaucratic tax incentives for research for smaller companies, where there is a lot of technological know-how and inventive talent.
Good work and fair wages - strengthening equity and demand
We want work that people feel is good and that is fairly paid.
We don't want a "working poor."
The fact that people are forced to work for three euros an hour is undignified and it is cynical to try to justify this form of exploitation by referring to labor productivity.
With a general statutory minimum wage of at least 7.50 euros per hour, we want to ensure that people can make a living from their work.
Higher minimum wages in individual sectors remain unaffected.
A statutory minimum wage is also an important contribution to gender equality, because women in particular are affected by low wages.
The statutory minimum wage is reviewed annually and adjusted if necessary in line with rising costs of living.
A minimum wage commission based on the British model is responsible for the general wage floor
and is also to decide if the collective bargaining parties in the sectors are not strong enough to enforce fair minimum wages.
The commission - consisting of employers, trade unions and academia - develops proposals that are subsequently implemented by the federal government.
In this way, the level of minimum wages does not become a pawn in the game of political majorities.
In this way, we prevent wage dumping, thus laying a foundation for standards in the awarding of public contracts and refocusing competition between companies on quality.
With social business enterprises, we also offer particularly disadvantaged long-term unemployed people the chance of employment at collectively agreed wages.
With our Green progressive model, we want to stagger social security contributions socially and thus relieve low-income earners of high taxes.
Mini and midi jobs will be eliminated in their place.
For all incomes up to 2,000 euros, the contribution rates are to increase slowly and gradually.
Particularly in the case of low-wage earners, it is important that people have more of their gross in their pockets.
And for the low-skilled in particular, high non-wage labor costs are a major obstacle to employment.
Many jobs become attractive to employers and employees in the first place because of lower non-wage labor costs.
That is why they are also a means of combating undeclared work.
Women in particular benefit from our progressive model, as they are more often employed in low-wage and part-time jobs.
Stop displacement of regular work in precarious employment
Temporary employment must not be an instrument used to promote wage dumping and lower other standards.
The conditions for temporary workers must therefore improve.
They must be paid and treated like regular employees from day one.
The legal exception to deviate from the working and wage conditions of the hirer company by collective agreement must be deleted.
We care about the conditions under which people have to work.
Together with the trade unions and companies, we want to create good work, that is, work that does not make people ill, that gives them satisfaction, that spurs them on, that leaves them room for family and private life or further training and voluntary commitment, and that pays them appropriately.
This includes many measures: more continuing education at work,
flexible working time models, for example through the introduction of lifetime working time accounts,
support in reconciling children and work,
or participation in company profits.
In addition, working people must be able to take time off to organize family care.
This also includes ensuring that women receive the same pay as men for work of equal value.
In order to strengthen employees, especially in precarious employment relationships, a right of association action for trade unions is overdue in the world of work.
They can use it, for example, to ensure that minimum wages are enforced.
The trend of falling real wages must be stopped.
The sluggish domestic economy is partly responsible for the economic crisis.
For years, incomes from corporate profits and capital rose rapidly in the upper echelons of society, while real wages stagnated or fell in the middle classes, further impoverishing the poor.
This has permanently weakened domestic demand.
We need assertive employee organizations.
We cannot support a weakening of the autonomy of collective bargaining.
We firmly reject the shifting of wage negotiations to the individual company level.
They weaken the position of employees as a whole
and can lead to wage-cutting competition and distortions of competition.
On the contrary, we want to declare collective agreements to be generally binding to a greater extent, especially in sectors with low collective bargaining coverage.
We also stand for greater employee participation in business assets, because societies with equal distribution of wealth and strong mass purchasing power are more economically stable.
The economic crisis has highlighted the weaknesses of a high dependence on exports in times of crisis and sent a clear signal in favor of strengthening domestic purchasing power.
But after every crisis comes an upswing.
In times of a global upswing, Germany's dependence on exports is transformed into export strength, from which people in this country can then benefit all the more.
We stand for actively shaping labor migration because our economy needs it.
We want the German government to immediately end restrictions on the free movement of workers within the EU.
We also advocate a points system as a flexible control instrument for labor immigration:
Immigrants can apply according to clear criteria that can be set and adjusted by the country of immigration according to its own needs.
With the expansion of the freedom to provide services, labor migration in the European Union continues to increase.
We also want to strengthen the rights of workers who come here temporarily or are sent here by companies to prevent exploitation.
They have a right to information about their legal situation, to advice and support.
The same applies to those who commute between their home and host countries.
Their residence status must not be tied to an employer, nor must the possibility of permanent residence be excluded from the outset.
Close the gambling den of financial jugglers
Casino capitalism has run its course.
It was a cynical game along the lines of "the profits go to the company (and its shareholders), the losses are borne by society".
However, the actions of the financial markets in recent years have been problematic even in non-crisis times.
That is why it is now high time to create an effective regulatory framework for the global economy that puts markets at the service of social and ecological development.
Because we know that we are also dependent on the dynamism and innovative power of functioning markets to meet the challenges of climate change and to combat global poverty.
Global financial markets must be returned to their proper purpose of financing investment, providing liquidity and assuming risk.
The financial resources used now to combat the financial crisis and stabilize the markets are an enormous mortgage for the future.
Because they limit our social and political scope in the future.
Therefore, it must be ensured that the funds also result in a sustainable structural change of the market regulation instruments.
The financial markets must therefore be regulated internationally through a series of concrete measures.
So far, international regulation has resembled a patchwork quilt.
In the future, the principle must apply: all products, all players, all countries must be included in financial market regulation and supervision.
This applies to the hitherto unregulated hedge funds as well as to many highly complex financial products that were traded between individual financial market players in a completely non-transparent manner.
It must not be the case that around 95 percent of financial transactions are conducted outside the stock exchanges, far away from any supervision.
The responsible supervisory authority must also be able to ban particularly risky financial products, such as so-called uncovered short sales.
The individual risk-weighted capital coverage rules need to be supplemented by a simple, general unweighted rule, as risk weighting has proven to be flawed in times of a general speculative bubble.
The capital adequacy requirements must apply to all financial institutions and not just to banks, as has been the case to date.
In general, these safety buffers against payment defaults must be increased.
In addition, accounting according to current market prices is to be supplemented by valuation according to acquisition costs in accordance with the German Commercial Code (HGB).
The comparison makes risks arising from the risk assessment itself and from unrealized book gains transparent.
Consumers should not face hardship as a result of the bank selling their real estate loans.
That is why we want to strengthen the rights of borrowers.
For example, we believe that in future a customer must be informed of the possibility of selling the loan when the contract is concluded
and must be able to exclude this contractually without incurring additional costs.
Even properly serviced loans and the associated land charge as well as the security agreement, i.e. the right to immediate foreclosure, may not be sold in the future without the consent of the parties concerned.
We are declaring war on tax havens.
Germany must become the driving force for joint European action against tax havens.
We also want an automatic exchange of information on capital income.
This will ensure that the international financial market can no longer be abused for tax evasion.
Pressure may need to be exerted on tax havens that resist this international cooperation by imposing restrictions on business transactions.
The EU can only be credible internationally if it first takes effective action against European tax havens.
We want to see the introduction of a European financial turnover tax that would involve the financial sector in financing the common good and curb speculation.
The financial turnover tax further develops the Tobin tax, which was intended exclusively for international transactions between currency areas, and a stock exchange turnover tax, which only included transactions on stock exchanges.
We reject tax privileges for financial products.
We want to examine whether it makes sense to reintroduce the taxation of gains from the sale of shareholdings in companies.
For more stability and reliability at the national level, financial market supervision must become more independent and powerful.
Up to now, the representatives of the financial sector have been sitting in the financial supervisory authority and thus partly control themselves.
We want to put an end to this policy.
All banking operations must be included in the supervision.
Europe needs European financial supervision.
In the case of large cross-border banks and insurance companies, supervision must be on a par with the companies,
and there must be no regulatory dumping in Europe.
We urgently need rules for rating agencies.
The rating agencies are partly responsible for the crisis through their incorrect assessments.
Agencies are subject to conflicts of interest.
They are paid by those whose products they grade.
However, if these ratings are incorrect or improperly created, those who rely on the ratings regularly suffer harm.
In order to avoid conflicts of interest as best as possible, the business model of rating agencies must undergo a change.
Consulting business and valuation must be strictly separated.
We want to put a stop to the excesses in managerial salaries.
The wrongly constructed remuneration systems of the banks lead to bankers taking crazy high risks and having only their short-term return in mind.
The state must create the necessary framework conditions that are long overdue.
We do not want excessive executive pay and fancy compensation to be co-financed by citizens.
That's why we want to limit the business expense deduction for managers' salaries to 500,000 euros per head per year.
Where the public sector has a direct influence on the structure of managerial salaries, it should use this influence to enforce moderate remuneration.
In future, it will be impossible to move directly from the Management Board to the Supervisory Board,
the number of Supervisory Board mandates be limited by law to a maximum of five per person.
We advocate a 50 percent quota for women on supervisory boards, because it has long been proven that heterogeneously composed boards work more effectively and are more effective in their supervisory tasks.
We also want to tighten the civil liability of top managers and establish it in law.
Clear criteria for the rescue of companies
We stand for a solidarity-based response to the global economic crisis.
Those whose jobs are threatened today are not to blame for the crisis.
They pay for the mistakes of others and rightly expect support.
In doing so, however, the state must not squander its resources to secure the status quo.
When the state gets involved in saving jobs, it must - like any other investor - act responsibly and with a long-term focus.
Clear criteria are therefore needed as to when and how the state should intervene.
Maintaining outdated economic structures that are not viable in the future is not a government task.
Therefore, the product range of a company that makes use of state aid must be future-proof or must be converted to future-proof products.
We GREENS also want taxpayers to receive value for money for assuming economic risks and to be able to participate in future increases in value.
That is why we give preference to state participation over loans or guarantees without influence.
After all, anyone who gives money is also responsible for what happens to that money:
It must be ensured that state funds are not misused for excessive management salaries, waste in the executive suites, outflows to foreign subsidiaries or tax evasion.
However, we do not seek permanent state ownership.
Insolvency can be a way to secure employment.
We support concepts of helping people to help themselves.
We therefore want to promote that the participation of employees, if desired by them, is at the center of company rescue.
For us, the following also applies: Maximum transparency in company rescues.
Today, the criteria for decision-making are mostly opaque, but the conditions must be disclosed.
We want to ban party donations from companies that receive any form of state aid.
Last but not least, we now see an opportunity to anchor social and ecological objectives more firmly in state-supported companies.
The crisis must be used to change direction, for example in the areas of energy efficiency, energy conservation and renewable energies, material efficiency and the circular economy, or integrated mobility concepts.
Greening the financial markets
We not only want to make the financial markets stable and fair, they must also become more ecological.
The global financial markets have the potential to become a key lever for greater climate protection if there is sufficient demand for climate-friendly investments from investors and customers.
The goal of green finance policy is to redirect more private capital into environmental-social investment.
We therefore want the sales regulations for all financial services products to be amended in such a way that the ecological dimension of the capital investment must be pointed out in the advisory discussion.
In addition, there is a need for minimum criteria as to what may be called a "sustainable investment".
In this context, we are also calling for a change in non-profit law:
non-profit foundations should have to report on how ecological and social concerns are taken into account when investing their financial assets.
The state, local authorities and public-sector banks must play a pioneering role in sustainability when it comes to financial investments.
Stabilize and reposition the banking sector
It is right to save banks from insolvency now in the crisis and thus prevent a fatal domino effect in the banking world.
But what is outrageous is how this is happening.
Billions are awarded in a completely non-transparent manner.
While every needy unemployed person is examined in detail to determine how much he or she is entitled to receive, the grand coalition is generous with banks and their shareholders.
If the state assumes the risks, then it must also have control rights and participate in future increases in value.
That is why we are relying on temporary (partial) nationalization to overcome the crisis.
We GREENS want maximum transparency on how the catastrophic conditions at the banks could have come about,
and maximum transparency on the bailouts.
The processing of this crisis must also take place extensively in the parliamentary arena.
We also want to ensure, through regular public reporting requirements, that banks are also using government funds to maintain the supply of credit to small and medium-sized enterprises.
We GREENS adhere to the tripartite banking system consisting of cooperative, public and private banks.
Many Landesbanken, although they are not there to do so, have turned the big speculation wheel on the global financial markets.
The state governments are responsible for this misguided development, for nepotism and gaps in control.
Even today, the CDU state premiers are still blocking a sensible consolidation of the state banks and thus burdening their citizens with billions of euros.
We want to put an end to this spook by reorganizing the public banking sector in a way that strengthens the savings banks and ensures that the entire sector is clearly oriented toward the common good.
To this end, we want to reduce the number of state banks, among other things.
New culture of independence
We Greens want to ensure that start-ups, inventors and small and medium-sized businesses find excellent conditions by removing obstacles to start-ups and promoting the social climate for innovation.
Whether it's a children's baking school or a translation service from official German into colloquial language, whether it's an online cereal mixer, a software forge or a wind turbine builder: We need more Daniel Düsentriebs who dare to take the step into self-employment with good ideas.
A female founder with a seemingly crazy business idea, but of which she is convinced, should find support, as should a failed entrepreneur who needs a second chance.
We want to develop patent law in such a way that it promotes rather than inhibits the culture of self-employment.
Patents must be limited to truly new products and ideas.
They must not be misused as a weapon against new entrepreneurs.
That is why we also want a reform of the European patent system at the European level
and its control by the European Parliament.
We want a society in which self-employment is a natural option in working life.
This requires better access to venture capital and a better supply of microcredit.
For us, business start-ups are not a bureaucratic act, but a creative departure that enables innovations and jobs and realizes personal freedom.
We therefore need more and better counseling services for start-ups - especially for the unemployed, migrants and people with disabilities -
and more support and funding for start-ups, especially for those starting from unemployment.
We are placing medium-sized and small companies and the skilled trades at the center of our economic policy.
These companies in particular often achieve their value creation sustainably.
We want to continue to promote this.
Medium-sized companies are also of great importance for the training of young people and thus for the future of our economy.
Reducing bureaucracy
and pilot services are the best program to help small and medium-sized businesses.
This is what we are committed to.
There is a great need for reform in the chambers.
Therefore, this also includes a review of the compulsory membership in the chambers
and a stronger opening of their committees for people with a migration background.
Solidarity economy and creative economy
More and more companies are aligning their actions with the guidelines of social, ecological and economic sustainability.
This opens up new perspectives for the economy.
Social enterprises, citizen solar and wind farms, cooperative initiatives, alternative barter, regional money or trade networks, and civic engagement are steadily gaining in importance.
We want to support the combination of social concerns with entrepreneurial action, such as the open source and free software movements.
In the Green Market Economy, we want to specifically promote and further develop the Solidarity Economy, in which freedom of self-determined action and democracy are combined with social justice.
This includes an institutional anchoring of the promotion of the Solidarity Economy in the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs.
We want to de-bureaucratize the cooperative legal form, a secure legal framework for regional money initiatives.
Discrimination against joint ventures in start-up and funding programs must end.
To this end, we want to launch a program that removes bureaucratic obstacles, provides start-up funding, creates a secure legal framework for regional money initiatives, and ends discrimination against cooperatives in Federal Labor Office programs.
Particularly in the economic crisis, the takeover of a company facing insolvency by its employees is in some cases a suitable instrument for safeguarding jobs on the basis of sustainable economic activity.
Creative and artistic work has long since ceased to take place outside, but rather in the midst of economic structures.
The cultural and creative industries are a significant economic factor.
This is where jobs and added value are created.
With its creative products and projects, the cultural industries make an indispensable contribution to social innovation.
We want to improve the framework conditions, especially for the micro and small enterprises that predominate here, facilitate the granting of microloans and access to loans,
and provide artists with better social security.
The state as demand and owner
300 billion euros are spent annually by the federal, state and local governments on public contracts.
That is 13 percent of the gross domestic product.
As a major contracting authority, the state can have an enormous influence on the sustainable development of our economy if it uses public procurement wisely.
For example, when municipalities not only award their contracts to the bidder with the lowest price, but also consider whether a company produces ecologically, pays according to collective wage agreements, employs people with disabilities, trains young people or practices equality in the company as award criteria.
The cheapest offer is not always the most economical.
And often enough, the community pays the price.
We want the social and sustainability criteria in public procurement law to be legally secure and manageable.
Small and medium-sized enterprises should no longer be disadvantaged.
We also want to reverse the trend toward ever-larger tenders and strengthen local crafts and small businesses precisely by dividing them into many smaller tenders.
In some areas, the state must re-emerge as the owner of economic structures.
The privatization euphoria of the 1990s overshot the mark by far.
Natural monopolies in the area of network infrastructures must remain at least partially owned by the general public or - in the area of electricity networks, for example - be transferred.
The state must better exercise its control rights in the companies in which it has a stake.
As a shareholder, he must also behave responsibly in the face of problems such as surveillance scandals, immature rationalization concepts or bad investments.
It is not enough to appeal to companies.
As a shareholder, the public sector, like any investor, has further opportunities to consciously exert influence and control.
We want to develop a strategy for dealing with shareholdings and
provide training to prepare supervisory board members and participants in annual general meetings for their tasks.
Enforce equality, promote diversity
Women often have the better educational qualifications and yet get the worse jobs.
They rightly wonder why their colleague with the same qualifications earns more.
Or whether the state has provided them with a good education so that they have to stay at home with children for lack of childcare options.
This equality deficit is not only unjust and restricts the right to self-determination, but also does enormous harm to the economy.
The equal participation of women in working life is an important prerequisite for more dynamism on the labor market, employment and innovations.
We need a different corporate culture that makes leadership positions for women a matter for the boss
and aims to reconcile family and career for men and women.
Since women are still exotic exceptions in German executive suites, we are striving for a binding quota of 50 percent women on supervisory boards.
We stand by our calls for an Equality Act for the private sector.
And we remain committed to ending the social scandal of women being paid less for work of equal value.
Diversity in the workforce is a positive factor.
We want to promote a corporate culture that is free of prejudice and fosters "diversity management".
If employees fear discrimination, they lose their motivation.
Many companies and public institutions have long experienced that a diverse workforce is productive.
People with different cultural experiences, young and old, homosexuals and heterosexuals, people with and without disabilities, women and men contribute together to the success.
We know: Technology, tolerance and talent are an economic recipe for success for regions and communities.
In the global competition of the 21st century, supposedly soft location factors are becoming the basis for corporate decisions and must therefore become a central topic of regional economic development.
Financing the future
To finance our investments in education, social justice and a sustainable reorientation of the economy, we need a fundamental restructuring of the state budget.
We want to simplify the tax system, tap additional sources of revenue and reduce spending by eliminating nonsensical government spending and consistently cutting subsidies.
Many people are concerned with the question of how we will cope with the financial burdens resulting from the financial and economic crisis and
who will actually end up footing the bill for the enormous debts that are robbing us and future generations of their room for maneuver.
The necessary policy responses to the economic crisis impose a major financial burden on public budgets.
A New Social Contract demands that these costs not be imposed solely on future generations.
Likewise, it would be wrong to counter-fund these costs through general tax increases.
Instead, a contribution should be made above all by those who profited from financial market capitalism in the times before the crisis and built up large fortunes.
Today, five percent of the population owns 47 percent of the wealth.
We believe it is right to place greater responsibility on strong shoulders to overcome this historic crisis.
That is why we Greens propose introducing a temporary, one-off asset levy under Article 106 of the Basic Law, which would be earmarked to pay off the costs of overcoming the crisis.
This is the sole responsibility of the federal government and was included in the Basic Law specifically to finance extraordinary burdens.
We Greens demanded such a last to finance the costs of reunification.
In our view, those whose incomes and assets have grown at an above-average rate in recent years should also make a greater contribution to the common good.
That is why we want to raise the top income tax rate
and significantly increase inheritance tax revenues.
For us, the inheritance tax is a tax on fairness.
We want to fundamentally reform and modernize inheritance and gift tax.
Our goal is to use large inheritances to finance public tasks to a greater extent than in the past.
In the future, larger estates are to contribute more to inheritance tax revenue, while
small estates will be spared through allowances.
For business assets, we want a significantly higher exemption amount so that small and medium-sized businesses are spared.
We want to put registered civil partnerships on an equal footing with marriage in tax law.
We want only one tax bracket with one rate and adjust the personal allowances accordingly.
The additional tax revenue is to be used by the states for more education and the expansion of childcare.
Our goal is also a socially just reform of the income tax.
We want to raise the top tax rate to 45 percent.
However, this top tax rate is to take effect (through a linear extension of the rate) only at higher incomes than today.
All incomes below the current top tax rate will therefore not be subject to any additional burden.
The increase in the standard rate for unemployment benefit II that we are calling for will result in a significant increase in the basic allowance from the current 8,004 to 8,500 euros, which will provide targeted relief for small incomes.
However, we do not consider additional income tax relief to be socially necessary or justifiable in view of structural deficits and growing debt in public budgets.
Poorer households in Germany in particular already pay no income tax and cannot benefit from relief.
Instead, up to 90 percent is deducted when income is offset against unemployment benefit II.
Low-income earners are heavily burdened by social security contributions.
These are the real problems of the tax and contribution system that we are addressing with our Green Basic Security and Progressive Model.
We find it unacceptable that top private earners can escape taxation by relocating their residence abroad.
Therefore, we seek a solution similar to the United States, whose citizens living abroad are subject to income tax in the United States.
In this model, the taxes already paid abroad are credited against the income tax liability.
Green policy wants to use capital income to finance the community in the same way as wage income and subject it equally to the progressive income tax.
It is not fair that, as with the grand coalition's final withholding tax, income from financial investments is taxed less than earned income.
We want to reverse that.
Effective action against tax havens is a prerequisite for this.
We want to record investment income better in the future.
Measures to this end include the relaxation of special tax banking secrecy
and effective action against tax havens.
Capital gains may no longer be evaded in Europe, and the relevant directives must be amended to this effect.
The Savings Directive must be comprehensively extended with the aim of covering all investment income and as many countries as possible.
In the future, companies are to disclose where and with which subsidiaries they generate their profits and where they pay how much tax.
We also advocate a common European tax base for profit taxes and minimum tax rates on corporate profits.
We want to achieve a thoroughgoing simplification in income tax
and thus also contribute to greater fairness in the tax system.
Many people are not bothered by the fact that they pay taxes, but rather by the fact that the tax return bureaucracy maltreats them with countless forms every year.
We want tax returns to be less work for citizens in the future.
The tax authorities should provide a tax return that has already been largely pre-filled.
Banks should continue to provide their customers with a tax return completion tool.
This will make it easier for small incomes to reclaim overpaid capital gains taxes.
We will ensure that the electronic tax return is made available for all operating systems, in particular also "open source" operating systems.
We propose a uniform flat rate for income-related expenses and operating expenses for all types of income of EUR 2,000 per year.
We want to summarize the seven types of income to a large extent.
The vast majority of time-consuming and cumbersome individual invoices thus become de facto superfluous.
We want to develop spousal splitting, which promotes marriage rather than life with children, into individual taxation.
This largely simplifies the current payroll tax class system.
Tax classes III, IV and V become redundant.
The money saved will go toward expanding child care
and fighting child poverty.
To further finance the expansion of the education infrastructure, we also want to use funds released from the solidarity surcharge in the sense of an education solis.
We want to further develop the complicated family support system into a uniform basic child allowance.
With our retirement savings account, we want to offer citizens a modern and simple subsidy.
Private and company pension plans are brought together under one roof.
The current complicated and confusing rules will become obsolete.
It must be ensured that state support for private pension provision does not degenerate into subsidies for the insurance industry.
The earnings must benefit the savers themselves.
In addition, the existing support is still in need of improvement.
The green retirement savings account concentrates subsidies more strongly than before on low-income and middle-income earners.
With the same overall level of state support, a better contribution can thus be made to preventing poverty in old age.
The contribution guarantee already prevents funds from publicly subsidized private pensions from flowing into the global casino of speculative financial markets.
We want to organize funded pension provision in such a way that it has a stabilizing influence on the financial system, for example by enabling the funds to become involved in financing the SME sector.
We want to fight tax evasion and tax avoidance resolutely.
Tax evasion deprives public budgets of tens of billions of euros in revenue every year.
Anyone who evades taxes is acting criminally and without solidarity against our society and must be prosecuted.
We want more personnel for tax audits, tax investigations and the judiciary, because this also brings money into the state coffers.
In the medium term, we want to end the ineffective coexistence of 16 tax administrations and replace it with a federal tax administration.
This will generate billions in additional revenue
and put an end to the practice of some federal states of pursuing location policy with incomplete tax enforcement.
In the short term, however, responsibility for internationally active corporations and particularly wealthy individuals with activities abroad must be transferred from the state tax offices to a central authority to be created at the federal level, which must be equipped organizationally and technically in such a way that it can once again deal with these taxpayers on an equal footing.
In many countries, such "large taxpayer units" already exist and have significantly increased tax revenues.
We want to close tax loopholes in accordance with the constitution
and introduce a licensing requirement for providers of tax-saving models to this end.
At European and international level, we need further measures to consistently dry up tax havens.
In order to stabilize the revenues of cities and municipalities, we want to make the trade tax more sustainable and fairer by developing it into a municipal business tax.
This tax is intended to broaden the tax base of the previous trade tax by fully including non-profit elements, such as interest on borrowed capital.
Freelancers are also to be included in the trade tax liability.
This avoids demarcation problems that are often economically incomprehensible and creates fair competitive conditions.
An allowance is intended to relieve the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises in particular,
and creditability against income tax is retained.
Rewarding investment in the environment - ecological financial reform instead of climate-killer subsidies
The idea of ecological financial reform is simple:
prices must tell the ecological truth.
Those who produce and consume in an environmentally friendly way should pay less than those who pollute the environment and climate.
To this end, environmentally harmful subsidies must be reduced and environmentally friendly behavior must be rewarded through taxation.
Above all, however, the tax burden must be shifted from the labor factor to the environment factor, from which citizens will benefit directly.
During our time in government, we started with ecological financial reform.
Now we want to continue it, because from the grand coalition there was standstill instead of progress.
Instead of the commuting allowance, we want to introduce a mobility allowance that is paid to all employees regardless of their income.
We want to abolish the company car privilege for large gas guzzlers.
The fact that taxpayers have to fork out billions for company limousines is neither ecological nor social, any more than exempting aviation fuel from tax.
We want to further develop the truck toll as a climate protection instrument and to internalize the external costs of freight transport.
Ecological financial reform also means that in future fuel elements will be treated and taxed in the same way as fossil fuels.
We want to end coal subsidies and eliminate exemptions from the eco-tax.
At the same time, we want to abolish the electricity tax on electricity from renewables.
Emissions trading can only develop its full effect when the certificates are auctioned off in principle and there are no more loopholes for energy-intensive industries.
The fact that CO2 certificates are now being allocated practically free of charge has not only caused massive misaligned incentives, it is also generating billions in additional profits for the energy companies without the companies having to do anything in return.
To put an end to this, we are campaigning for the taxation of these unjustified additional profits (so-called "windfall profits") in a tax-efficient amount.
We want to make the property tax more ecological and thus strengthen the incentives for economical land use.
The public sector must set a good example and invest sustainably, i.e. it should base its financial investments on social, ethical and ecological aspects.
This is intended to give the urgently needed acceleration to the overall societal development towards climate-friendly consumption and production methods.
A public sector capable of action
Targeted investments in the future are only possible with a sustainable and responsible budgetary policy.
Alliance 90/The Greens stand for truth and clarity in budgetary policy.
Just as banks are not allowed to conduct business off the balance sheet, government debt must be transparently readable in the budget.
In times of crisis, the state must take action to stimulate the economy.
Additional debt will have to be taken on for this purpose.
This does not mean, however, that all existing programs and expenditures must be blindly continued at the same time just because they cost money.
Even in a recession, the government must consider which expenditures are nonsensical and ineffective - for example, in the defense or transportation budgets.
Sustainable budgetary policy is consistent with targeted investments in the environment, climate, education and justice.
In these areas, we can achieve a real return on investment for the future.
For us, it is clear that anyone who incurs new debt today needs a clear idea of how they intend to repay it in the future.
In this way, even in times of crisis, a budgetary policy can be implemented in the interests of future generations.
We Greens also want effective and transparent monitoring of economic stimulus policies during the crisis.
For example, for all additional spending programs, we call for a website where all citizens can monitor where their tax dollars are going, who is benefiting, and what is being created.
Only such transparent instruments can reduce the risk that some will enrich themselves at the expense of all during a crisis.
We also want to improve transparency in the awarding of subsidies.
Similar to the European level, we therefore want to publish the recipients of all government spending.
Braking debt in a cyclically sensitive manner
We want a state that actively designs and does not administer lack.
That is why it is important to prevent ever-increasing public debt by means of a flexible debt brake in the Basic Law that breathes with the economy
and to ensure that the urgently needed investments in the future and the consolidation of public budgets go hand in hand.
We want to cap the new borrowing permitted under the debt brake and link it to net investment, for example in education and research.
The sale of public assets must no longer be declared as consolidation.
The aim must be to reduce the debt ratio in an economically acceptable way, because the debt that has been built up in public budgets over decades cannot be reduced within a few years.
In this context, we also believe that a debate is necessary on how the structural deficits in the budget came about.
We Greens are committed to ensuring that reductions in public ownership are treated in the same way as government borrowing; public budgets must not live on credit or on substance.
A binding debt brake for the federal and state governments cannot be introduced without resolving the old debt issue.
The federal government and the federal states must therefore jointly grant aid for old debts to those federal states and municipalities whose interest burdens are significantly higher than the average for the federal states as a whole.
Some of the funds released from the solidarity surcharge are to be used for this purpose.
Beyond reforming federal fiscal relations, we need an honest discussion about the flaws in our federalism.
Preventing tax cuts on credit
Honest politics pours the people pure wine and does not shirk priorities and mathematical truths.
Anyone who, like the FDP and CDU/CSU, cheaply promotes tax cuts as a panacea - in times of crisis as well as in times of recovery - is dubious.
Such policies create and secure private wealth for the few and public poverty from which most people suffer.
It is destroying the public sector's financial room for maneuver and leading us deeper and deeper into a debt spiral.
Investing in the future, investing in jobs, education and sustainable business does not come for free.
For us Greens, it is clear that there will be no tax cuts on credit.
Because today's tax cuts are tomorrow's debt and welfare cuts.
Those who vote GREEN ... - ... create one million new jobs in future-oriented sectors.
- ... vote for a statutory minimum wage.
- ... votes for less taxes for low-wage earners. - ...
rewards environmentally friendly behavior
and ends environmentally harmful subsidies. - ... votes
for a simpler and fairer tax system
- and no tax cuts on credit.
2. the future is renewable - with new energy against nuclear, coal and economic crisis
The grand coalition talks about the climate.
We act.
We were already advocating a switch from nuclear, coal, oil and natural gas to renewables when what mattered to other parties was more growth or fewer taxes.
The consequences of climate change are already being felt today.
Other regions of the world are already suffering massively from heat waves, desertification, hurricanes and floods caused by climate disruption.
And climate change does not stop at our own front door.
Farmers in Brandenburg are threatened by persistent drought, and glaciers are melting in the Alps.
The floods of the century in recent years are unforgettable.
On the North Sea coast, municipalities are developing new plans for higher dikes to protect against stronger storms.
All of this is just a prelude to what is to come if we do not act now.
Climate protection is not a luxury for good times.
It is (super-) vital.
We GREENS stand by the goal of limiting global warming to a minimum in this century without any ifs or buts.
To achieve this, all industrialized countries must reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by well over 80 percent by 2050.
New scientific findings even suggest that up to 95 percent reduction of climate emissions by industrialized countries will be necessary.
By 2020, we want to achieve at least minus 40 percent in Germany relative to 1990.
With a climate protection law, we want to make this target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions binding and monitor the achievement of the target path.
We also want to follow the British example and introduce separate emissions targets ("carbon budgets") for all ministries, with the responsible ministers having to report on compliance.
By 2040, we want to provide 100 percent of Germany's energy from renewable sources; in electricity generation, we want to achieve this target by 2030.
Especially in the economic crisis, we must not put climate protection on the back burner.
At the latest since the report by Nicholas Stern, who calculated the costs of failing to protect the climate, we have known: Climate and environmental protection also pay off in economic terms.
According to serious calculations, the consequences of unchecked climate change could cost us up to 20 percent of global GDP.
Climate protection also costs money, but only a fraction of it.
It is time to seize the opportunity in the crisis and shift our economies to the end of the fossil age.
The federal government has failed all along the line here.
Nothing has remained of the supposed climate chancellor; instead, together with the environment and economics ministers, she has pursued lobby politics for the German auto and energy industries in Brussels.
And in Berlin, it has provided five billion euros in subsidies for car purchases that are not tied to any climate protection requirements.
Instead of incentives for fuel-efficient cars of the future, the automobile companies are being rewarded for their wrong model policy.
An ambitious climate and environmental policy not only reduces costs in the future.
It is already paying off: the environmental industry now employs 1.8 million people.
More than 250,000 people work in the renewable energy sector alone, more than in the coal industry.
In eastern Germany, the solar industry has long since moved from being a niche to a leading industry.
Nowhere in Europe are more photovoltaic components produced.
The energy transition has become a job engine.
Current studies show that environmental technology is becoming the new lead industry with considerable further employment potential.
In climate protection alone, over half a million new jobs are forecast for the coming years.
Climate protection is a key to greater justice, globally and locally.
The weak are always hit first and hardest by the consequences of climate change and the wrong energy policy - whether in developing countries, in New Orleans or in Germany.
That is why our policy of ecological fairness aims to ensure that the weak also and first and foremost benefit.
We want all citizens in Germany to live in thermally insulated and energy-efficient homes, to be able to afford energy-saving household appliances and to have affordable access to environmentally friendly mobility so that they do not lose more and more of their household income due to our dependence on expensive fossil fuels.
Climate protection secures and creates freedom.
We have to protect the climate now, otherwise we will become driven people tomorrow and lose the possibility of a self-determined life.
This is why climate protection should be a constitutional goal.
We GREENS fight for independence from fossil raw materials.
We want to move away from oil, away from coal and uranium.
We want to be able to breathe in cities again
and live free of particulate matter and noise pollution.
We want mobility for everyone instead of being stuck in traffic jams - with intelligent traffic concepts and sustainable mobility.
That is why a new energy policy
and environmental and climate protection are at the heart of a green New Social Contract.
Public investment and the market framework must be geared toward making the transition from the fossil-nuclear to the solar age as quickly as possible.
To preserve our own livelihoods and with a view to future generations, we must protect the climate as
well as biodiversity, air, water and soil.
At the same time, we are laying the foundations for a sustainable economy
and for job growth in important industries of the future.
The Green New Social Contract will finally put an end to playing ecology, economy and social issues off against each other.
With us, what belongs together grows together: climate,
Justice
and freedom.
New energy ...
Why spend money on importing oil, coal and gas when the money could be better invested?
In 2008, we spent the incredible sum of 100 billion euros on the import of oil, coal, gas and uranium.
This money can be better invested.
The sun does not send us a bill.
For us, the New Social Contract means: step by step, switching completely to renewable energies such as wind, water, sun, biomass and geothermal
energy and significantly increasing energy efficiency.
This pays off threefold: It protects the climate,
creates jobs,
strengthens the regional economy and benefits crafts and small and medium-sized businesses.
By 2020, we are aiming for a share of at least 40 percent in electricity production and 30 percent in heat production.
Our success proves us right.
By the end of 2008, we had already achieved more than 15 percent in electricity thanks to the Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG), which we pushed through in 2000.
The EEG has now become a global model for successful energy policy and must be preserved.
We want to facilitate and accelerate the expansion of the networks by improving the conditions for underground cables.
We want a further strong expansion of renewable energies.
We want to remove existing obstacles to construction planning while respecting nature conservation concerns.
Because climate change is happening faster than predicted just a few years ago, we need to do much more.
The next big step must follow.
The boom in electricity must now be followed by a boom in heat.
More and more localities are now converting their energy supply entirely to renewable sources.
They get energy from their farmers, who turn biomass from fields and forests into electricity and heat.
These pioneers are to be followed by many places.
We want a heating law that also stipulates the use of renewable energies in existing buildings.
With its law, which is limited to only a few new buildings, the grand coalition has also fallen short here.
We want an efficient heat supply and, above all, we don't want to waste any more waste heat from industrial processes, but instead make it usable by expanding the heat networks.
We want a commitment to retrofit all buildings to at least 20 percent renewable heat by 2020, because that saves money in the long run.
To make the switch affordable today, we want a comprehensive financial program for energy-efficient building renovation that also offers homeowners direct subsidies.
In addition, we want to facilitate energy-saving services.
We want to make the EU a community for renewable energies (EURENEW), energy saving and energy efficiency.
It is intended to set new priorities and provide the impetus for modern and intelligent power generation and use in the 21st century.
To ensure that the wind from the north and the sun from the south reach homes across the country, it is necessary to renew our power grids and make them smarter.
With a "Grid Integration Master Plan," we want to create an intelligent power grid with optimal integration of renewables
and advance the construction of a Europe-wide high-voltage direct-current (HVDC) grid for transporting electricity from renewables.
We want to anchor new regulations for the promotion of combined-cycle power plants including storage in the EEG and thus create further incentives for the conversion of the grids.
and the expansion of renewable energies.
The energy networks belong in the hands of an independent German grid company with majority state ownership and regulation.
This is the only way to ensure non-discriminatory access for renewable energies.
At the distribution network level, this can best be achieved by municipal utilities with a citizen orientation.
Saving energy is one of the fastest ways to protect the climate
and relieve your wallet from high energy costs.
Our use of energy is characterized by incredible waste.
A light bulb converts only three percent of the energy used into light, houses allow up to 90 percent of the heating energy to escape unused to the outside, and three quarters of the energy in fuels is lost as waste heat in the combustion engine.
There are technical solutions to all these waste problems that accomplish the same thing with almost no loss.
Energy-saving lamps, low-energy houses or electric motors reduce losses so that we can do without coal, oil and gas.
... with nuclear phase-out ...
On September 27, you will also decide on the nuclear phase-out.
CDU/CSU and FDP want a renaissance of nuclear energy.
With us, there is no going back to this dangerous risk technology.
Only Alliance 90/The Greens are the reliable political force for this!
We are continuing the nuclear phase-out without any ifs or buts.
According to the Nuclear Phase-out Act, up to seven nuclear power plants will be shut down in the coming legislative period.
We want to take old, particularly risky reactors off the grid early.
The conversion of our energy supply to more efficiency and renewable energies will succeed all the more quickly the sooner the inflexible, large-scale nuclear power plants are taken off the grid.
It is a lie that nuclear power makes electricity cheaper.
Nor is it true that the phase-out will create an "electricity gap."
The tiresome discussion about lifetime extension is pure power poker of E.ON, RWE, EnBW and Vattenfall.
These four corporations are already making a killing with their depreciated and outdated power plants, while at the same time raising electricity prices.
Every day of extension means cash for them, a million euros a day for each nuclear power plant, but for citizens it means less safety.
The dangers of nuclear power continue unchanged and even new ones have been added:
The danger of military misuse cannot be separated from civilian use.
Anyone with the capability to enrich uranium or reprocess plutonium is in principle capable of producing nuclear weapons.
North Korea, Pakistan, Israel and India have led the way.
We GREENS are committed to a worldwide phase-out of the civilian use of nuclear energy.
Safety problems increase as reactors age.
Especially the oldest reactors are the least protected against terrorist attacks.
If there are any indications of imminent danger from attacks, the other nuclear power plants must also be shut down as quickly as possible.
With us, there will be no lifetime extension.
Due to the unresolved final storage issue for nuclear waste, we want to transfer the operators' operating reserves for the disposal and dismantling of the reactors to a public-law fund.
The nuclear industry's attempt to push through Gorleben as a final repository will fail.
The scandal surrounding the Asse test storage facility, which was filled with nuclear brine, illustrates the risks and unsolved problems of final disposal and the irresponsible actions of the nuclear industry.
The political failures must be clarified in a committee of inquiry.
The Asse was the prototype for Gorleben.
With it and the Morsleben repository, two final repositories in salt have already failed.
We also consider the Gorleben site unsuitable for geological reasons.
BÜNDNIS 90/DIE GRÜNEN want a repository search law for an open-ended public search procedure with comprehensive public participation;
a pre-determination like that at Schacht Konrad must not be repeated.
The concept of non-retrievability should be reconsidered.
By comparing several sites, the most suitable geological location to hold millions of years of radiating nuclear waste must be found.
We want to transfer the operators' operating reserves for the disposal and decommissioning of the reactors to a public-law fund whose resources are invested in accordance with ambitious sustainability standards.
This must also be used to finance the search for a final repository.
We want to introduce a fuel element tax to skim off unjustified profits
and impose nuclear energy costs on the nuclear industry.
The special rights and subsidies for the nuclear industry must finally be abolished.
Limiting liability insurance for nuclear power plants is unacceptable.
In addition to the social and health risk, the population currently also bears 99 percent of the financial risk of a nuclear disaster.
Those who want the phase-out must vote GREEN.
And should switch to a green power provider as soon as possible.
... and without new coal-fired power plants!
The turnaround to a climate-friendly and low-emission energy policy will not succeed with the construction of new coal-fired power plants.
New coal-fired power plants, like an extension of the operating lives of nuclear power plants, block the necessary expansion of renewable energies and highly efficient combined heat and power generation.
It is an expensive waste of energy to the detriment of consumers
and the climate to build new large-scale power plants, which release more than half of the energy uselessly into the environment.
That's why it's wrong for the German government to want to subsidize new climate killers with billions in taxes.
Even the most effective coal-fired power plants today are not suitable for achieving Germany's promised climate targets.
We GREENS stand by the side of the citizens' initiatives and environmental associations who are fighting in many places against the construction of new power plants that are hazardous to health.
We reject the construction of new climate-damaging coal-fired power plants.
CCS technology is a bad check.
We reject the law on CCS technology presented by the grand coalition.
We do not want any CO2 repository experiments at the expense of future generations and future uses.
At present, the relevant authorities have no legal means of preventing the construction of coal-fired power plants on climate protection grounds.
This is a lesson learned from the controversy surrounding the Moorburg power plant.
We want to reform the licensing law for coal-fired power plants so that a high minimum electrical efficiency is required by law for new power plants.
This means that only modern and efficient gas-fired power plants can be built during the transition period.
Heat must remain affordable
Around one third of energy in Germany is consumed in buildings.
We want to launch an energy-saving offensive to reduce energy costs and thus the "second rent".
In old buildings, heat consumption can easily be halved through insulation and efficient heating technology.
Energy-efficient and healthy residential buildings should become the norm in the housing market.
We want a right to energy refurbishment and a fair balance between tenants and landlords.
We want to strictly limit the burdens on tenants from energy-saving measures
and grant them a right to reduce rent if landlords fail to meet their legal obligation to carry out energy-saving renovations.
For landlords, we want a comprehensive financing program for energy-efficient building renovation that also offers direct subsidies.
We will prevent financially overburdened homeowners and renters from being left with unrenovated homes.
As a result of the CDU/CSU and SPD climate package, energy-efficient refurbishment of buildings is only progressing at a snail's pace.
We want to at least double the pace for residential buildings.
We want to promote renewable heat more strongly to reduce dependence on oil and natural gas.
In this way, we create more stable heat prices
and make an important contribution to social justice.
With an energy-saving fund endowed with at least two billion euros a year, we want to help the financially weaker in particular to save electricity and heat and thus reduce energy costs.
We want to finance programs for the energy-efficient refurbishment of residential buildings in neighborhoods with a high proportion of low-income households and for the replacement of expensive and environmentally harmful electric heating systems.
The efficiency of heating systems must be optimized and the use of renewable energies and waste heat must become mandatory.
The green energy efficiency package
There has been a lot of talk about energy efficiency over the last four years - almost nothing has happened.
Electricity consumption is still continuing to rise every year.
One thing is clear: every kilowatt hour saved saves money and protects the climate.
And brings important savings, especially for low-income people.
We will make energy efficiency a focus of our government work.
As long as energy utilities earn money from the fact that more energy is consumed, they have no incentive for their customers to save energy.
We want utilities to become energy service providers that earn through class, not mass.
We will significantly reduce energy consumption through an ambitious energy efficiency law.
We want to improve the framework conditions for environmentally friendly cogeneration and
increase its share of electricity generation to 30 percent by 2020 (quota model).
We Greens are backing a dynamic efficiency standard in which the most energy-efficient household appliances set the standard that all suppliers must meet in the future (top-runner model).
Better energy advice and clear energy consumption labeling and strict specifications for maximum energy consumption should make it easier for consumers to buy economical appliances.
The public sector must become a pioneer in the procurement of energy-saving products and services, thus promoting the penetration of economical appliances on the market.
The information society is now also placing a considerable burden on the environment.
We are therefore focusing on "Green IT".
We want to encourage private households and companies to make their technical infrastructure more ecological.
Sustainable City - Sustainable Region
Our mission statement is the compact European city with a diversity of living, working, culture and recreation in mixed use and development.
We want to strengthen family-friendly and elderly-friendly housing
and upgrade socially disadvantaged urban neighborhoods in particular.
We need sustainable cities and regions whose infrastructures must be adapted to climate change.
This is why integrated municipal climate protection concepts with clear CO2 reduction targets are required.
We want to support this with a federal initiative for a "Green Urban Development Policy".
In order to give local authorities more room for maneuver in climate protection, we want to reform the Building Code and public procurement law in particular, and
thus legally secure requirements for energy standards and the use of renewable energies, among other things.
Free ride for fair and ecological mobility
We need a new culture of mobility.
According to the latest figures, CO2 emissions in the European transport sector have risen by 36 percent since 1990;
in air traffic, they have even doubled.
Noise pollution and air pollution endanger the health of citizens (see also the section Environment and Health).
In cities and on many highways, the car is no longer a symbol of freedom, but rather of standstill and stress.
On the other hand, social participation without a car is hardly possible in many places.
A mobile society does not need new roads, but new ways.
Green transport policy focuses on avoiding unnecessary transport,
shifting traffic to more environmentally friendly means of transport,
and consistently using transport technology that protects the environment and the climate.
We want quality of life that is not only behind the wheel, but also on the sidewalks, bike paths and public transportation.
With our Vision Zero program, we want to make road traffic safer with the goal of reducing the number of traffic fatalities to zero.
We want to achieve true costs in transport:
Environmental and health costs must be charged to those who cause them and not to the general public.
With a holistic federal mobility plan, we want to replace the road-building-fixated federal transport infrastructure plan.
Regional road and rail networks owned by the federal government are to be transferred to the states beforehand.
Green transport policy creates new work for mobility services, transport and vehicle technology.
Global demand for these concepts for the future is strengthening the German economy.
We are committed to green logistics.
We want to tackle the growing avalanche of trucks by introducing effective incentive taxes, following the example of Switzerland.
and curb the shift of freight traffic to rail.
To this end, the truck toll must be further developed and in the future must also take into account external environmental costs and be extended to smaller trucks and the entire road network.
We reject "mega trucks".
In the rail sector, we want to create additional capacity, above all in port hinterland traffic and in combined transport and with more sidings.
We want to promote inland navigation on rivers and canals when the ships adapt to the rivers.
We reject destructive river expansions and the superfluous Fehmarnbelt fixed link.
We are committed to cooperation among seaports based on the division of labor
and to reducing pollution from maritime shipping.
Maritime shipping is to be included in CO2 emissions trading.
One of the most climate and environmentally friendly means of transport over longer distances is and remains rail.
Rail lines are to be further electrified in order to further increase the environmental benefits
and the traction current is gradually being converted to green electricity.
It is our goal to double the share of rail transport within ten years.
In recent years, Deutsche Bahn has withdrawn from many regions in the long-distance sector in order to make the company fit for going public.
Instead, we want a customer-friendly railroad that connects cities and regions with high-quality long-distance trains in a nationwide "Deutschlandtakt".
By introducing the reduced VAT rate for long-distance traffic
and improving passenger rights, we want to make rail travel cheaper and more reliable.
The railroad is there for the people and not for the stock exchange!
With us, the rail infrastructure will remain in public hands in the long term,
is transferred to an independent company
and more strongly regulated by the Federal Network Agency.
Long-distance transport will be a public responsibility in the future.
We are focusing on nationwide capacity expansion
and acceleration of the railroads with better noise protection instead of expensive prestige projects.
We want to direct more federal funding for new roads to rail expansion.
We want to reverse the federal government's cuts in recent years to regional rail and public transportation.
We want to invest an additional two billion euros in more and better rail and bus services.
We will launch a "100 Cities with Climate-Neutral Public Transport" competition, with which we want to expand the environmental advantage of public transport over the car.
To ensure that everyone can be mobile, we want to make public transportation and public transport barrier-free.
We want to expand local bus and rail transportation everywhere to provide a genuine high-quality alternative.
Even in rural regions, freedom of movement and participation in public life must be possible without dependence on one's own car.
Public transport must therefore offer a reliable service there as well, combined with additional services such as citizen and call buses.
School transport must be made safer and more attractive through better funding.
With fair prices and intelligent networking of means of transport, we also contribute to social integration
and aim to meet the needs of young and old alike.
We therefore also want to create the conditions for the introduction of social tickets.
The combined mobility of pedestrian and bicycle traffic, bus and train, cab and car sharing in the city of short distances, which gets by with little car traffic, is our goal.
Streets should once again become places where people meet and connect neighborhoods instead of cutting them up.
We therefore firmly reject new inner-city highways such as the extension of the A 100 in Berlin.
We want to support cities and communities that want to curb car traffic.
To this end, we want to introduce 30 km/h as the standard speed in towns and cities, with exceptions for main roads.
We want to support shared streets ("shared space") with model projects
and the requirements for car sharing on public roads
and for congestion charge models.
We want to breathe life into the national cycling plan and update it.
These include more bicycle-friendly road traffic regulations,
financial incentives for bicycle stations at train stations,
and making it possible to take bicycles on ICE trains.
The huge growth of climate-damaging air travel at cab fares has been made possible primarily by today's massive subsidies for air travel.
The EU's emissions trading scheme for aviation must be designed effectively.
We want to end tax privileges in energy taxation (kerosene tax) and foreign flights (value-added tax)
and introduce an air ticket levy.
Instead of the competing expansion of more and more regional airports, we want a nationwide airport concept.
We reject state subsidies for airport expansion or new construction.
The federal government must set a good example here.
Shuttle flights between Bonn and Berlin alone still produce 20,000 tons of CO2 every year.
Green cars with a future
The German auto industry has actively blocked climate-friendly development.
This is now taking its toll.
After all, the use and growth of the global car fleet can only be achieved in a socially and environmentally responsible manner if consumption and emissions are massively reduced.
The grand coalition has not even managed to include a climate component in the so-called "scrappage bonus", but has also rewarded the purchase of, for example, off-road and sports cars with 2,500 euros.
Only those who are present on the international market with environmentally compatible cars have an economic future and remain competitive.
That is why it is important that the most innovative and efficient cars roll off the production lines in Germany in the future.
If aid is granted to the automotive industry, it must be linked to ecological criteria.
The average CO2 limit is to be lowered to 80 grams per kilometer by 2020
and again significantly lower by 2030.
We want to abolish the privileges for large, fuel-guzzling company limousines in vehicle and company car taxation and clearly favor economical cars.
We want a nationwide speed limit of 120 km/h on freeways
and 80 km/h on country roads, also to end the arms race for the most powerful engines.
Electromobility with additional electricity from renewable energies is nearly climate-neutral, quiet, pollutant-free and solves our dependence on oil.
We want to ensure that at least two million electric vehicles are on Germany's roads by 2020.
To this end, we are launching a market incentive and research program worth 500 million euros
a year, which will be used, among other things, to finance an annually decreasing purchase subsidy for electric vehicles of initially up to 5,000 euros from January 1, 2011 to compensate for the additional costs of batteries, as the USA, China, the UK and France have already decided.
Pioneer in climate protection
Worldwide climate protection can only be achieved with a new global climate agreement.
With political change in the U.S., there is an opportunity for historic change in climate policy.
But Barack Obama will only be able to push through an ambitious climate policy if Europe proves that it takes climate protection seriously and takes on a pioneering role.
And that can only happen if Germany lives up to its responsibility in Europe.
But when it came down to it, the black-red federal government always sacrificed climate protection to lobby interests.
We Greens are committed to accelerating the expansion of renewable energies worldwide
and to effective emissions trading.
CO2 needs a price so that a rethink takes place.
Those who pollute with CO2 have to pay, those who protect the climate can save.
We are therefore in favor of auctioning emission allowances instead of giving them away.
We want climate protection policy to lead to the ecological transformation of our industrial society.
We do not want to allow abatement services to be purchased cheaply and indefinitely outside Germany or Europe via the critical, so-called "flexible mechanisms ".
A new climate agreement must be based on a fair balance between North and South.
The responsibility of industrialized countries for climate change must be
and recognize the human right to development.
Germany as an industrialized country has contributed significantly to climate change over the last 100 years.
We stand by our historic responsibility and support the "Greenhouse Development Rights" approach.
This includes the rich of all countries in reduction efforts, while people living below a certain wealth threshold have the right to sustainable development without a reduction commitment.
We want the industrialized countries not only to consistently reduce their greenhouse gas emissions,
but also to make their intellectual (knowledge transfer) and material know-how for environmentally friendly technology comprehensively available.
We will work to ensure that the billions required for this according to calculations by the UN and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change are made available.
Who votes GREEN, ... - ... promotes renewable energies instead of nuclear, dirty coal and expensive oil.
- ... get the nuclear phase-out and the fastest possible decommissioning of all nuclear reactors.
- ... makes Germany a pioneer in climate protection again, saves energy and uses it more efficiently. - ...
promotes the consistent application of the polluter pays principle through pricing systems for greenhouse gases:
those who produce CO2 pay.
- ... helps to limit the effects of climate change to a tolerable level. - ...
votes for speed limits
and against subsidies for gas guzzlers.
- ... relies on buses, trains, bicycles and makes the car industry green.
3. unblocking - social participation for all
More and more people perceive our society as unjust and blocked.
The stories of social blockages in our society are numerous:
they are about children who dream of becoming lawyers or mechanics, but who experience a school system that destroys rather than promotes their opportunities.
The bitter reality in many families is that poverty and lack of opportunity are passed down through generations.
They are about people who unsuccessfully write dozens of job applications.
Of women who receive less pay despite doing the same work,
or who are blocked from reaching management positions despite good training and performance.
People with a migration background who have long since integrated, but who are everywhere reduced to their origin and discriminated against.
Or of people with disabilities who cannot find suitable employment on the primary labor market.
But also in other respects, the promises of the old social contract, that all people should share in the increasing prosperity,
that with effort it would be possible to rise even from poorer backgrounds,
that those who suffer unemployment or illness can count on the solidarity of society, have become hollow.
Only a minority is benefiting from rising prosperity, while the majority has to make do with falling wages and insecure employment.
The gap between rich and poor has widened faster in Germany than in other countries.
2.5 million children alone are poor and have to live at the level of social welfare.
Millions of people work for wages that are not enough to live on.
Today, many unemployed people have to experience the harassment of ALG II as an attack on their personal dignity.
And for many, the health care system presents itself as one with two waiting rooms, where only insurance in a private health insurance company ensures quick and appropriate treatment.
We reject a development that permanently pushes people to the margins of society and makes them the victims of rigid control measures.
We do not accept that many people do not or only insufficiently participate in education, work, health care and income as well as mobility.
With the Green New Social Contract, we are therefore proposing a new departure in social policy.
In order to break down the barriers in our society, we want better public institutions, schools and daycare centers,
invest in the health and care system.
We want real participation in work, education, health and income for all people.
We want a society that does not give up on anyone.
The goal of our policy is a welfare state in which justice is combined with freedom.
Without justice there is no real chance for a self-determined life for everyone.
That is why we are fighting for more distributive justice and equal opportunities and for a policy of participation that is aimed precisely at those who are quickly forgotten in our society: Disadvantaged children and young people, job-seekers and low-income earners, people with disabilities or in need of care.
This participation must also be adequately secured in material terms.
To this end, we want to renew the welfare state to make it fit for the conditions of the 21st century.
Without freedom, the welfare state becomes a welfare or reformatory.
Nothing testifies to this more than the unculture of sanctioning, which the grand coalition has exacerbated with more and more new regulations.
In order to make people self-determined authors of their own history again, we want to strengthen social civil rights.
We do not want a welfare state that disenfranchises people, but one that enables participation and new opportunities:
we want an enabling welfare state.
Without an active climate policy, neither justice nor freedom can be had.
A switch to renewable energies, government subsidies for thermal insulation and the expansion of public transport will soon prevent many people from being unable to afford access to energy, heat and mobility.
Without environmental fairness, climate protection comes at the expense of low-income groups.
We want to support those who cannot afford an energy-efficient refrigerator or a more fuel-efficient car on their own.
We want to combine energy-saving measures with free energy advice for low-income households.
Social policy today is also European.
Europe is not a project of the economic elites, but must be a social Europe of the citizens.
We Greens want to campaign for a European social pact that formulates minimum standards in terms of labor law and social standards,
and ensure with a European social card that social entitlements are not lost when people take up a job in another country or move.
No one is left behind
Many people face the threat of losing their jobs in the coming months or have already become unemployed.
Others who have been looking for jobs for years are even more marginalized.
Especially in times of crisis, it's about not giving up on anyone.
That's why we want to offer additional qualification and work opportunities, thus opening up new opportunities for everyone.
With a de facto right to training,
additional university places,
the targeted expansion of the continuing education structure for employees and the unemployed,
targeted qualification in future industries with a shortage of skilled workers,
and the expansion of public employment and qualification, we want to open up a new opportunity for everyone.
Training is the be-all and end-all for starting a career.
But far too many young people are denied a good start.
To ensure that all young people get a training place, we want to open up new and flexible routes to recognized vocational training and put an end to nonsensical holding patterns.
With qualifications and further training, we want to open up new opportunities for the unemployed and
at the same time counteract the shortage of skilled workers that is developing in many sectors.
The special target group of our continuing education campaign is low-skilled employees or the unemployed, who are often not reached by educational offerings in Germany or are structurally disadvantaged.
50 percent of all continuing education offerings by the Federal Employment Agency are to be reserved for the low-skilled
and, in turn, 50 percent of these offerings are to lead to a recognized vocational qualification.
We want to qualify and train 100,000 people a year.
Access to gainful employment is indispensable, because gainful employment remains an important key to social participation and integration into social contexts.
Prolonged unemployment isolates people and puts a strain on families and partnerships.
We therefore want to change active labor market policy.
It must not be restrictive, but must allow scope for individual advancement.
Active labor market policy must suit the unemployed - not the other way around.
We want there to be publicly subsidized employment for the long-term unemployed.
We are not giving up our goal of integrating these people into the primary labor market.
However, we accept the special support needs of those affected under the given labor market conditions.
That is why we want to create 400,000 jobs in the social labor market.
There is enough to do in our society: in the area of neighborhood work and community cultural work, in the supplementary support of older people in the household, as assistance and support in daycare centers or schools, but also in areas such as soft tourism and nature conservation.
Therefore, it is always better to finance work instead of unemployment.
To this end, the funds from unemployment benefit II and the share for active measures are to be used to create permanent employment relationships subject to social insurance contributions.
For people who have lived away from regular day structures and the labor market for such a long time that immediate integration into the first or even a second labor market cannot succeed, we need more assistance such as day-structuring offers.
We will pay special attention to people who want to return to the labor market after a longer family phase.
We also want to dismantle the principle of subordination for migrants in the labor market.
No chance of integration without opportunities in the labor market.
More and more people are working outside the normal employment relationship in projects, as (solo) self-employed or frequently switch between self-employment and employment.
Our security systems do not do justice to their flexibility; there can be no talk of a balance between risk-taking and security.
That is why we want to facilitate access to unemployment insurance benefits.
The self-employed should also be able to insure themselves permanently against unemployment and a drop in orders.
Making real participation a reality with public institutions
If we want to overcome the divisions and blockades in our society, then strengthening direct transfer payments such as ALG II or child benefits is only part of the way.
We can learn from the Scandinavian countries in particular that genuine participation in education, work, health and income is only possible with renewed and strengthened public institutions.
Children from low-income households in particular benefit from good daycare centers and all-day schools, where they also receive opportunities for music education or sports.
The long-term unemployed also need strong labor market institutions that place great emphasis on training and individual support.
So we need a sociopolitical infrastructure that makes self-determined development possible for all people.
So if you want to enable real participation, you have to invest in an enabling welfare state that must do more for better schools,
high-quality universal childcare,
publicly supported employment,
modern hospitals or individualized housing and care services.
And it's about more than the structural equipment.
The guiding principle must apply: More of the same is not enough!
Better schools, for example, does not just mean more money for schools, but also more individual support.
A good social infrastructure also requires adequate payment for good social work and often the improvement of current working conditions.
And we want public institutions in which everyone can participate.
We don't want universities that are only affordable for students with rich parents because of tuition fees.
We do not want schools where educational success depends on background and educational poverty is inherited.
We Greens therefore want to improve the quality of public institutions and invest more in them than before.
Investments in public institutions, as the Scandinavian countries show, are not only investments in real participation and the future of our country,
they also create new work - and in areas from which society benefits most.
We want to drive forward the expansion of our education and childcare infrastructure not only by investing in buildings, but also by training the personnel needed for this purpose.
The planned expansion of the infrastructure for under-threes alone will require an additional 100,000 qualified educators by 2013.
However, a significant shortage of skilled workers is also emerging in other professions, such as nursing and healthcare professions.
To eliminate these bottlenecks with qualified personnel, we need to increase the attractiveness and social recognition of these professions
and also improve the financing of training.
In the case of retraining measures, we therefore want to secure funding for all three years of training on a permanent basis.
In nursing and geriatric care, we advocate a training levy in all federal states.
Social infrastructure and services of general interest also include quality housing at reasonable prices.
Without government regulations and financial support, this task cannot be accomplished.
We need an active housing policy
and framework conditions under rental law that ensure affordable housing.
Individual assistance such as housing subsidies must be further developed to support the energy-efficient refurbishment of the housing stock.
And they must be regularly reviewed and adjusted.
City air makes you free - unfortunately, this is no longer true for many urban neighborhoods today.
It is precisely here that unemployment, child poverty and educational poverty accumulate, and it is precisely here that social blockades become apparent.
Green politics is therefore fighting for livable cities, for integrated urban development concepts that counteract further social and ethnic segregation.
To this end, we want to strengthen the local and ethnic economy and
better link and expand urban redevelopment, rehabilitation and social urban development programs.
Strengthen social civil rights
Blockades can only be dissolved with people, not against them.
We want to strengthen the rights of people in public institutions.
This is particularly true of labor market policy.
The balance between demanding and promoting promised in the labor market reforms never materialized; control and bureaucratic harassment dominate over encouragement and motivation to take personal responsibility.
This made the dignity of job seekers highly vulnerable.
The combination of stricter reasonableness and sanction regulations has led to massive pressure being exerted on jobseekers to accept any precarious employment.
We want to move away from the unculture of mistrust and sanctioning.
Unemployed people need fair rules of the game and a right to individual and tailored support that focuses on motivation and encouragement.
It is imperative that the abilities, ideas and wishes of those in need of assistance be taken into account.
This also includes a right of choice in the choice of occupation, in the selection of qualification and further training opportunities or permanent employment, as well as better recognition of civic engagement.
To this end, the rights of the unemployed vis-à-vis the labor administration must be strengthened.
To achieve this, we also need a labor administration that does not act according to a "pattern," but works together with job seekers to find solutions and gives them more of a say.
And this also includes support for start-ups by the unemployed.
As long as the changes to the sanctions regulations we have called for have not been implemented in the practice of the employment agencies, we call for a moratorium on sanctions.
It is part of our understanding of social civil rights that rights of appeal with suspensive effect exist in cases of conflict and that independent advice can be sought.
Ombudsman offices are also needed that can resolve conflicts between the unemployed and job centers quickly and bindingly on site.
The contribution of the social policy competence of the municipalities is decisive for a good support of the recipients of unemployment benefit II and those who live together with them in a community of need.
The black-red coalition is now threatening a return to the separate performance of tasks and expensive and nonsensical duplicate structures.
Future structures, however, must be organized in a decentralized manner.
To this end, we want to achieve a swift reorganization of the job centers by means of a constitutional safeguarding of the working groups and the approved municipal agencies.
But we also want to strengthen the rights of stakeholders in other institutions.
In schools, for example, where we want to give students and their parents more rights of co-determination.
Or in the healthcare system, where we want to introduce a consistent patient orientation.
Patients and self-help groups should not only be given consultation rights, but also co-decision rights.
People with disabilities and people in need of care need more sovereignty and creative power.
The current system does not sufficiently concede this to them.
A good legal position is often countered by a lack of realization of these rights because they are undermined by discrimination and bureaucratic and official blockades.
We want to strengthen legal enforcement for these people
and, in doing so, also further develop the personal budget.
This includes funding for independent budget assistance.
With the budget, people with disabilities and those in need of care can acquire individually necessary services that make sense for them - beyond the rigid benefit requirements of long-term care insurance and integration assistance.
The green basic security
Even those who are without gainful employment or find themselves in an emergency situation for other reasons must be able to lead a life in dignity and self-determination and rely on a poverty-proof livelihood.
We have to admit: The labor market reforms and Unemployment Benefit II for which the SPD and the Greens were jointly responsible have not lived up to this claim.
With currently 351 Euro a participation in socio-cultural life is not possible.
When someone is sent to a third computer course, even though the first two did not open up any chances of placement; when someone is called up for pointless measures to check whether they are available to the labor market, even though it cannot make them an offer; when young people under the age of 25 are forced to move back in with their parents in order to receive full benefits, then the dignity of ALG recipients is being disregarded.
With the green basic security we want to create a basic security that takes the self-determination and dignity of people without work and in other emergency situations seriously.
We want to increase the standard rates for adults immediately to an initial 420 euros.
They must be regularly adjusted to the actual cost of living in a transparent procedure.
In special emergency or life situations, individual services must again be made possible in addition.
The payment of a basic social security benefit should continue to be linked to the willingness to give something back to society.
Basic needs, which are necessary for participation in society, must not be touched by sanctions.
The question of quid pro quo must not be solved by coercion, but by fair rules of the game and positive incentives.
Our goal is a basic security system without sanctions that relies on motivation, help and recognition instead of punishment.
We want to tighten the reasonableness rules for unemployment benefit II.
Often, demands take precedence over support, and the unemployed feel they are being bullied.
In the labor market institutions, we need sufficient numbers of qualified personnel who treat people with respect and at eye level.
Additional earnings are an incentive for social contacts and for accepting low-paid employment.
In addition to the 100 euros that are exempt from offsetting under current legislation, every additional euro earned is to remain with the unemployed up to an amount of 400 euros with at least 50 cents.
We want to abolish the imputation of partner income.
And we want to provide better protection for private pensions.
We want to create simple and unbureaucratic assistance for short periods of unemployment.
In this way, we are targeting people who only need short-term material security and can take care of everything else - the next order, the next job or the new career perspective - on their own.
In the future, we want to integrate a lifetime time account into the Green basic security system, which can be used independently as needed.
Poverty among children has many faces:
poverty of opportunity and lack of development opportunities, but also material poverty.
It is not possible to feed children a healthy diet, clothe them adequately, provide them with school and educational materials and allow them to participate appropriately in joint activities with others on 211 euros a month.
For children and adolescents, we therefore finally need standard rates that do justice to the developmental and educational needs of children and adolescents.
We advocate for a basic child welfare system that supports every child according to his or her individual needs - so that every child, regardless of his or her background, has a future.
In need of care but still in the middle of life
We Greens want to bring care into the center of our society.
Care is part of life, not the "end of the line."
Green care policies do justice to people's individuality and self-determination
and promote alternatives to conventional concepts and facilities.
Care must come to the people.
Since most people do not want to be cared for in traditional large facilities, but in a familiar environment, we want to promote this with flexible living, care, and assistance options.
This includes new forms of housing and care, such as house and apartment communities and living with security of care in a familiar residential neighborhood.
In doing so, we also want to include people with a migration background, lesbians and gays, and single parents to a greater extent.
This also includes a new culture of support, with an individualized care and assistance mix of needs-based and affordable services - from volunteer visiting services to professional care and household-related services.
We want to improve the quality of care through greater transparency
and by involving those affected.
Nurses need more recognition and better opportunities for continuing education and training.
We also want to introduce and further develop the personal budget in care.
We need counseling and support services that are close to home and independent of interests.
Such a network of assistance must be established locally.
For it to last, everyone must work together in the best interests of those in need of care and their caregivers.
We also need to do more for family caregivers.
Family, care and career must be compatible.
That is why we want to introduce a three-month care period with a wage replacement benefit.
The green care period should not only be open to close relatives, but to anyone who organizes the care of relatives or friends or accompanies them when they die.
For care policy to meet these requirements, the funding base for care must be significantly expanded.
That is why we want to develop long-term care insurance into a citizens' insurance scheme.
Solidarity-based health policy and prevention instead of repair store
Health is more than the absence of disease.
Environmental pollution, health risks at the workplace, psychological stress, social disadvantages and discrimination are causes of many diseases.
Therefore, other policies must also work to prevent disease-causing factors.
And we need a change of direction in health policy:
away from the health care system as a mere repair store toward a health care system with more prevention and health promotion.
The earlier a disease is detected and treated, the better.
In preventive health care, the needs and circumstances of the socially disadvantaged must be given special consideration, as they are not reached by many of the conventional prevention and health promotion services.
We want to change that.
We want prevention that reaches people in their everyday lives.
Prevention from the outset must be an important part of daycare centers and schools, families, neighborhoods, working life and old age.
We need an effective prevention law that creates the financial conditions to ensure that the many health promotion services already existing in the municipalities are given a reliable basis and can continue to develop while maintaining good quality.
The social insurance funds, but also the private health insurance funds and the public sector must participate in this financing.
New diagnoses of HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases have increased since 2001.
We want to raise awareness of sexual health through prevention - also beyond metropolitan areas - especially among men who have sex with men and among migrants, for whom little targeted prevention has taken place so far.
In addition, the care and support of chronically ill people close to home must be improved, especially in an aging society.
This includes promoting collaboration among physicians, pharmacists, other health care professionals, and hospitals.
The high barriers between different parts of the health care system, such as between inpatient and outpatient care and rehabilitation and long-term care, are a characteristic of the German health care system and one of the main reasons for its lack of efficiency.
They must be overcome.
Patients must also have a choice between different types of treatment, including recognized alternative treatment methods.
Naturopathic medicine and complementary medicine offerings must be given equal status in health care.
The idea of prevention, patient orientation and competition for quality must be strengthened in the health and care system, but also adequately financed.
That is why we are combining the introduction of citizens' insurance with important structural reforms.
For us, this includes strengthening family doctor-centered care with the family doctor as a pilot and
expanding integrated care.
In doing so, we want to ensure that access to specialist treatment is not blocked by extraneous incentives.
The expenditure of medicines in the health sector is still exorbitantly high.
We want to enforce an effective measure to curb costs by creating a positive list for drugs.
Decisions on new drug approvals must be comprehensible and transparent and must be linked to a cost-benefit assessment.
We must also strengthen the position of patients, those in need of care and caregivers.
Through independent counseling services that guide them through the jungle of the health care system and where they can find advice and help in difficult life situations.
By evaluating and disclosing good and poor quality so that they can make a decision for or against a hospital, residential care facility, nursing service or physician with good reasons.
And through a Patients' Rights Act that systematically and clearly summarizes and further develops the existing regulations.
After all, patients must become the pacemakers in the healthcare system.
But also through greater cost transparency for patients, for example by handing them a statement once a quarter that they can understand.
Causes and effects of illness differ between women and men, as do assessments of illness symptoms and coping with illness.
Gender-equitable health and pharmaceutical research is still in its infancy in Germany.
We Greens also call for a consistent policy in this area that meets the specific needs of women and men.
One for all instead of two-tier medicine: the green citizens' insurance scheme
Those who are poor have a lower life expectancy.
This sentence describes the sad reality of the two-tier health care system in Germany.
In this country, too, health depends on your wallet.
We Greens want to stop the trend towards two-tier medicine with practice fees, co-payments, self-payments and long waiting times for those with statutory health insurance.
Our goal is to further improve health care
and ensure access to medically necessary, high-quality care regardless of income, gender, origin, social situation and place of residence.
We therefore want to abolish practice fees and co-payments for medicines, because they represent major hurdles for poor people and therefore lead to the postponement of necessary treatment in quite a few cases.
One for all instead of fleeing solidarity:
In the health care system, we want to include all people in the solidarity-based financing with the Green citizens' insurance and thus abolish two-tier medicine.
For us, this means that the grand coalition's health fund must be wound up again quickly.
The political setting of a uniform, but not cost-covering contribution rate serves as an entry point to an additional small capitation fee and leads to pressure on health insurers to withhold necessary services from their insured.
More competition between health insurance funds within a uniform national competitive framework
and more quality competition between service providers for the benefit of patients makes sense, but must not be at the expense of healthcare workers.
We want a citizens' insurance system into which everyone pays according to their actual ability to pay and
which guarantees everyone the necessary and appropriate medical care regardless of their wallet.
We want to prevent those with the highest benefits from being able to escape from the solidarity-based pay-as-you-go system into private insurance.
And we want to prevent the health care system from being financed unilaterally by wage income.
Therefore, other types of income such as capital income and income from commercial rentals and leases should also be included in the financing.
To ensure that the inclusion of additional types of income does not place a burden on small and medium-sized income earners in particular, we want to grant exemption limits for the additional types of income and raise the income threshold for assessing contributions.
Turnaround in drug policy - for prevention, help and decriminalization
We want a rational drug policy based on the triad of prevention, assistance and decriminalization.
A state oriented toward the freedom of its citizens may interfere with their rights only if it is necessary and proportionate to protect the fundamental rights of third parties.
Drug policy must simultaneously counter the development of addictions and damage to health through prevention,
protect children and young people,
and help the most severely addicted.
The policy of criminalizing consumers leads to a dead end.
Seriously addicted people need help, not prosecution.
We want to improve therapy and assistance services, taking greater account of gender-specific differences.
Only a coordinated help and counseling system - combined with preventive programs - can help successfully prevent addictions in the long term.
A responsible drug policy must include all legal drugs, such as alcohol and tobacco, as well as illegal drugs and non-substance-related addictions, such as gambling, in equal measure.
The protection of minors must be consistently enforced in all areas, including advertising.
We also want to improve the protection of employees from passive smoking.
As diverse as the motives for drug use are, as diverse is the need for help for those drug users who can no longer make self-determined decisions about their drug use.
This includes the medically controlled dispensing of diamorphine (heroin), substitution therapy and abstinence services, as well as needs-based psychosocial care services and harm reduction measures such as syringe exchange programs, the establishment of drug consumption rooms and the facilitation of substance analysis (drug checking programs).
For soft drugs such as cannabis, we want to enable a legal form of distribution via licensed specialist stores, taking into account the protection of minors,
Further facilitation for the medical use of cannabis
and enforce sensible regulations and limits in the area of cannabis and road traffic.
For a comprehensive reform of old-age security: guaranteed pension - independent security - citizen's insurance
Many people are driven by the fear of being poor in old age.
Be it because they had to work for years at low wages and could not build up sufficient entitlements, be it because they had to go through phases of unemployment again and again, be it because they, like women in particular, raised children or provided care for many years and hardly acquired any pension entitlements for this.
In particular, people with interrupted employment histories, part-time workers and many self-employed persons are insufficiently covered.
Statutory old-age insurance with its pay-as-you-go financing is the core of old-age security and must remain so.
However, we want to further develop the statutory pension insurance system because it already provides inadequate protection against poverty for some groups of people and will guarantee a pension above the basic security level for fewer and fewer people in the future.
We are therefore committed to an old-age security system that is financed sustainably and grants everyone an independent pension, which effectively protects against poverty and does not require additional basic security benefits.
The New Social Contract must ensure that no generation is burdened unilaterally, not current and not future contributors, not current and not future pensioners.
Despite demographic requirements, the pension reforms of recent years have also limited pension contribution payments for the future, but this has only been achieved at the expense of future pensioners.
A gross pension level of 40.8 percent in 2040 would not protect many future pensioners from poverty if they do not manage to raise the additional contributions for a private pension today.
Moreover, any notions that capital market products could play an even greater role in retirement provision in the future have been severely dampened by the financial crisis.
That's why we need to take countermeasures.
The New Social Contract must ensure that pensions take better account of the diversity of biographies and that no one has to fear a life of poverty in old age.
Citizens must be able to rely on the fact that, as long-term members of the statutory pension insurance system, they will not have to rely on basic security benefits in old age, even if they are low-income earners, part-time workers or have interrupted employment histories.
That is why we will increase inadequate entitlements to a minimum level that ensures basic needs for all.
Hidden poverty in old age is still a problem, especially among women.
Therefore, the top-up should also be provided to citizens who are already retired.
We want to protect older people from poverty, including those who have not been able to make additional occupational or private provision, with a guaranteed pension financed by solidarity, which is to be introduced immediately.
The guaranteed pension must be financed from tax revenues.
By financing via taxes, the rich and high-income earners also have to pay for it, as is the case in other countries.
In addition, we want to raise the pension payments for the long-term unemployed back to the previous level in a first step
and align them with the rate for ALGI recipients in the next step, so that significant pension entitlements are also acquired during these periods.
In addition, the long-term unemployed must be subject to a significantly higher level of assets for old-age provision.
Savings in the green retirement savings account are to be exempt from being offset against unemployment benefit II payments.
Women and men should build up their own pension entitlements.
To this end, we want to make splitting compulsory as early as marriage, not just when people reach retirement age.
Month by month, couples' joint entitlements are to be credited half to each of their pension accounts.
This is used to rebuild entitlements.
And: This creates a framework that favors women's gainful employment.
At the same time, the widow's pension or widower's pension is to be gradually reduced and paid in full only to current pensioners and those close to retirement age.
The widow's pension is reduced to the extent that independent pension entitlements have been built up by women.
The realities of life for older people, as well as the realities of the labor market, have changed significantly in recent years and will continue to do so.
Many people can and want to be active even in old age.
In companies, the culture of working with the elderly in Germany still needs to change decisively.
At present, youth mania still prevails on the German labor market.
One in two companies does not employ anyone over 50.
Vocational training, age-appropriate workplaces and health promotion are the order of the day, but are implemented in very few companies.
A longer working life can only be justified if older people also have the chance to work
- we will examine what we can do to ensure that retirement at 67 is not just a pension cut through the back door.
The rejected alternative to longer working lives would be pension cuts or higher pension contributions.
But we need flexible retirement transition options.
It makes a difference whether someone has worked for a long time in construction or at the university.
We want to lower the age limit for a reduction-free pension for reduced earning capacity back to 63.
It should also be possible to draw a partial pension from the age of 60.
This makes it easier for older employees to work fewer hours up to the standard retirement age and continue to build up pension entitlements with the remaining working hours.
As a first step, we want to introduce the guaranteed pension.
In the long term, we want to develop pension insurance into a citizens' insurance for all, into which all adults pay contributions on all incomes, regardless of their employment status.
This will broaden the financing base, close interrupted insurance histories and provide all population groups with old-age provision according to the same rules for all.
To this end, we are examining elements of various models, whether contributory or tax-funded, for the best possible realization.
We want to maintain the proportionate co-financing of the statutory pension scheme by employers.
Self-determination for people with disabilities
One is not disabled, one becomes disabled.
For example, a deaf person could participate in social life much more naturally if many more opportunities to communicate in sign language were available - for example, in banks, stores, and schools.
When people with disabilities are provided with appropriate assistive devices and disadvantage compensation in the workplace, they can participate in the workforce on an equal basis.
Self-determination and full participation through accessibility is our goal.
A self-determined everyday life includes your own four walls.
More and more people with disabilities want to live at home, not in a home.
They should be given a real choice between different types of housing - single living, couple living, living in a shared apartment.
We follow the principle of "outpatient before inpatient".
All people with disabilities belong in the center of society as full and equal citizens.
All areas of life in society must gradually become barrier-free.
In our understanding, accessibility means not only step-free access, but usability for all people with and without disabilities, regardless of the type and degree of their impairment.
We fight against a policy that wants to dictate a life path to disabled people and disenfranchises them.
The basic prerequisite for self-determined participation is the compensation of disadvantages.
The law supporting people with disabilities is confusing and fragmented.
But it is precisely these who need reliable and clear structures and do not want to be sent from one authority to the next.
We want to create the legal prerequisites for a uniform provision of benefits by means of a Participation Benefits Act, which ensures the compensation of disadvantages for people with disabilities on a nationwide basis and without taking income and assets into account.
We are committed to ensuring that the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is implemented comprehensively and as quickly as possible.
Those who vote GREEN ... - ... strengthen participation through high-quality public institutions and ensure that no one is left behind.
- ... increases unemployment benefit II to 420 euros
and votes for the Green basic security.
- ... votes for a citizens' insurance for all instead of two-tier medicine.
- ... votes for a guaranteed pension that effectively prevents poverty in old age.
- ... supports the self-determined participation of people with disabilities.
4. education instead of concrete - better schools, better universities, better training
Access to education is a key equity issue.
Our education system does not provide the best start in life for most children and blocks the development of many young people.
Parents' backgrounds and wallets all too often determine educational opportunities.
In no other country is educational success so dependent on social background as it is here.
Eight percent of all children in a given year leave school without a diploma.
Among young people with an immigrant background, the dropout rate is three times higher.
According to the PISA study, around 20 percent of all 15-year-olds are virtually illiterate.
Many children and young people, especially those with a migrant background, lack even elementary basic skills because they do not receive individual support.
Every second Hauptschule student has still not found a training place one year after leaving school.
And the chances of children from non-academic families ending up in college are many times worse than those of academic children.
We want to break down the barriers and create a permeable society where the world is open to children and young people, with and without disabilities, where they can pursue their interests and choose career paths freely.
We need a Green New Social Contract that creates opportunities and prospects with good education instead of perpetuating educational poverty.
This includes educational institutions where everyone is supported regardless of their background or gender
and where everyone can perform better.
Education made in Germany must become a seal of quality for optimal learning conditions.
We need an education offensive for more equal opportunities in our country.
But education doesn't just take place in schools.
An African proverb says: It takes a whole village to raise a child.
For us, this means that parents, extracurricular institutions, volunteers and companies must empower and support children and young people.
Education should be borderless!
We want Europe-wide mobility in education in order to systematically promote intercultural competencies.
Not only students, but also pupils, trainees and employees should have the chance to live, learn and work in another European country for up to twelve months.
Better education is central to the innovative strength and competitiveness of companies and science.
In order to lay the foundations for future viability, education for us therefore always includes education for sustainable development.
Education is at the same time crucial for prosperity and social security.
Germany therefore needs investment in minds and talent.
At the same time, education is more than knowledge aimed at utilization.
And education also means the education to self-responsibility, ability to act and maturity of the human being.
It is the key to the development of the personality and the critical examination of the world.
Education is also concretized in curiosity and the joy of dealing with other people, in the confrontation with one's own culture as well as in the encounter with foreign cultures or in dealing with nature.
More than elsewhere, "forming" involves space, time, and patience; failure must be included.
Free development is not possible under pressure.
Young people need time to take detours, to be able to ask existential questions about being human and to grapple with the variety of possible answers.
Freedom is part of education.
Fostering the joy of learning and keeping people interested in new challenges throughout their lives is the real mission of all educational institutions.
Independent work and learning by students must be encouraged.
For us, education policy is a fundamental public task.
And education policy is an important task for the entire state.
It was a serious mistake to prohibit the federal government from participating in education policy with the federalism reform I.
That is why we want to lift the absurd ban on cooperation in education.
Better education must once again become a joint task of the federal, state and local governments.
We need cooperative federalism instead of small-scale education policy.
Our society is facing major challenges.
We need scientists who seek answers to these challenges.
The reorganization of the world financial system, climate change, the fight against poverty worldwide, the shaping of the knowledge society and demographic change are just a few of them.
For this, science must be able to think freely and at the same time be aware of its responsibility for a world worth living in, an open society and a fair and sustainable economy.
For us, investments in education are not only those in buildings and equipment, but also in more highly qualified personnel.
The education soli: More for education
Only with a clear priority for education can all this be achieved.
Anyone who is serious about education must spend significantly more on it than has been the case to date.
While in the OECD an average of 6.2 percent of economic power is spent on education, in Germany the figure is only 5.2 percent - this difference alone accounts for 20 billion euros.
Investing in education is part of our Green New Deal.
They create equal opportunities
and hundreds of thousands of new skilled jobs.
We want to convert part of the "Soli" into an education solidarity surcharge, because we need an all-society effort for a fair education system.
In addition, the inheritance tax must be reformed in such a way that this creates additional financial leeway that we can use for higher education spending.
Leave no child behind
Those who want to prevent educational poverty and compensate for unequal opportunities must support children at an early age and focus on the individual child with his or her abilities and interests.
After all, it is precisely in the first few years that important decisions are made.
To achieve this, we finally need a legal entitlement to high-quality and, above all, all-day early childhood care and education for all children from the age of one and
a comprehensive, high-quality range of daycare centers, kindergartens and genuine all-day schools.
The transition from daycare to school must be improved and made smooth.
This requires close cooperation between the two institutions.
Crèches and daycare centers should develop into parent-child centers, where all the support services necessary for children and their parents are available under one roof.
Successful individual support for children also depends on the quality of our daycare centers, which must be continuously improved.
With better staffing, smaller groups, and a higher level of staff training, the quality of individual child-centered support increases.
We Greens want the federal government, the states, the municipalities and the providers of daycare centers to agree on nationwide standards of care and to strive for them together.
This also includes a healthy lunch and good facilities.
Pedagogical work with children is a demanding task.
In perspective, all educators should be educated at university level.
Regular further training must become mandatory,
Gender competence, intercultural competence and respect for social diversity should be part of the training.
High-quality work in the elementary sector must also be reflected in the pay of educators.
In addition, incentives are to be created for men to become active in this occupational field, since the percentage of men in this field is still very low.
It is precisely the early sorting of children into different school types that obstructs developmental opportunities, demotivates and takes away many children's desire to learn at an early age.
With elements such as the "Sitzenbleiben", early selection as well as the awarding of grades instead of differentiated performance evaluation, our school system is currently too focused on exclusion and punishment instead of promoting curiosity and the urge to explore.
We want all children to learn together at least through 9th grade.
Individual support and learning with and from each other, from which all children benefit, are the path to greater achievement and equal opportunity.
We call for a reform of the eight-year Gymnasium, which has been introduced in many places without a concept and with poor preparation.
In addition, we want to give schools the freedom to decide for themselves how to achieve the educational goals they are given.
Rigid curricula, school from above and bureaucratic madness must be a thing of the past.
Interdisciplinary teaching, teams of teachers, educators and social pedagogues who are jointly responsible for the students, and extracurricular activities are simply part of a good school.
So is regular and mandatory in-service and continuing education for teachers.
All children should be able to have healthy and inexpensive lunches at school.
For students from low-income families, the costs of lunch, textbooks, as well as compasses and calculators, travel to school and class trips must be covered.
In perspective, this should apply to all children.
The close connection between social background and educational success particularly cements the exclusion of children and young people with a migration background.
Learning and teaching the German language is therefore a central educational task for kindergartens and elementary schools.
This must be supplemented by the promotion of the first language.
Those who do not know their mother tongue also learn German only with difficulty.
The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities entered into force on January 1, 2009.
We demand a consistent implementation of the Convention through the realization of an inclusive education system in which joint teaching of children and young people with and without disabilities becomes the rule.
Pupils with special educational needs must not be further excluded from mainstream schools, as this deprives them of equal opportunities to participate in education.
Rather, mainstream schools must be designed and modified in such a way that they are fair to all pupils, with and without disabilities.
Pupils with disabilities are entitled to special educational support, including individual assistance.
Implementing the right to education as well
Far too many young people search in vain for an apprenticeship and waste energy and time in pointless holding patterns, the cost of which is estimated at three to six billion euros a year.
We want to restructure and expand the apprenticeship system in such a way that all young people have a real chance to get a good start in their careers, thus implementing the right to training.
To achieve this, career guidance must be given greater importance and be designed in a gender-sensitive way as early as in school.
Production classes are designed to promote high school graduation and transitions to in-company training.
The transition system must be changed so that every step in training can be recognized and credited toward training.
With the "Dual Plus" system, we want to introduce a trial training system that represents a real innovation.
The existing "dual system" is to be expanded to include a third pillar, the inter-company centers.
By providing training in vocational schools, inter-company training facilities and companies according to the dual principle, we create additional and qualified training positions.
We also want to make vocational training more flexible for companies and trainees through modularization and mandatory recognition of partial qualifications.
The chambers of commerce are to recognize degrees from full-time school-based training programs nationwide.
Transitions between dual and full-time school-based training must also be possible.
Through additional instruction, each young person should be able to achieve a specialized baccalaureate during the training period.
Young people with training obstacles and major learning difficulties should be able to extend their training period, and accompanying assistance should help them to achieve their vocational qualification.
The labor market policy offers for young unemployed persons must be bundled and lead primarily in the direction of school graduation and training.
Currently, only 23 percent of companies in Germany provide any training at all.
In those sectors in which training is disproportionately low, the training costs should be better distributed between training and non-training companies through regional or sector-specific mandatory apportionment systems.
The German qualifications framework is to be designed in such a way that it provides for genuine equivalence of vocational and academic training and
ensures permeability between school, work, higher education and continuing education - also across Europe.
Professional qualifications acquired abroad must be recognized more easily in Germany.
Those who do an internship should not be exploited, but should get to know the practice.
An internship is a training relationship and not an employment relationship.
We demand legal minimum standards such as an internship contract,
payment of at least 300 euros per month,
entitlement to vacation,
a time limit
and a "Fair Internship" seal of approval.
For more and better study places
Access to higher education is also a matter of equity.
But instead of opening the doors of the universities wide, the states have actually cut back on study places in recent years
and done too little to combat the drastic underfunding of universities and the often exceedingly poor study conditions.
A glaring shortage of study places, non-transparent selection procedures and completely chaotic admission processes characterize the situation at the beginning of the semester.
We want to create at least 500,000 additional study places over the next five years and thus turn the Higher Education Pact into a "Pact for Students".
The new study places are to be financed in part by a federal-state fund based on the "money follows students" principle.
In addition, we need workable, uniform federal rules for admissions and degrees at universities
and a strong service agency for university admissions to eliminate the existing application and admissions chaos.
In a knowledge society, an academic education is increasingly becoming the starting point for professional success.
This makes it all the more important to also attract young people to study whose families do not have an academic background.
At the same time, we want to make it easier for people who have not completed their A-levels and for those in employment to gain access to the course by introducing standardized admission criteria throughout Germany.
Additional hurdles only do harm here.
Therefore, it remains our goal to abolish all tuition fees or to prevent their introduction.
The importance and quality of teaching must be systematically increased.
That's why we want to establish nationwide centers of expertise for university teaching.
Green two-pillar model - for fairer student financing!
The current BAföG is inadequate and unfair in many respects.
That's why a bold rebuild is needed.
Our goal is to attract more young people from low-income homes to study, in particular.
That's why we want to strengthen state student funding and expand it into a two-pillar model.
In doing so, we combine a uniform base amount, which benefits all students regardless of their parents, with a subsidy for students from low-income homes as a strong social component.
Both pillars are designed as full grants.
Child benefits and child allowances will be transformed in such a way that they no longer flow to the parents, but directly to the students.
The base amount is to be higher than the current child allowance and represents an entry into parent-independent student financing.
With the Green two-pillar model, we attract more young people from poor households and underrepresented groups to study.
At the same time, we improve the ability of all students to finance their living expenses.
The introduction of bachelor's and master's degree programs should make degrees comparable across Europe and students more mobile.
However, implementation in Germany has in many cases achieved the opposite of the hopes associated with it.
We want to change that.
Study conditions must be improved,
The overburdening and overload of work has been reduced,
the overall duration of Bachelor's degree programs is handled more flexibly
and the transfer between universities should also be made easier within Germany.
Stays abroad, internships and civic engagement must also be possible during the bachelor's degree program.
We reject a shortage of supply through rigid transition quotas or high extra fees from the Bachelor to the Master.
Every graduate of a bachelor's degree program should have the opportunity to study a master's degree program.
The various paths to a doctorate must be maintained, and the
support and supervision services for doctoral students must be expanded.
We reject the idea of making the doctoral phase more school-like.
The social dimension of the Bologna Process must be taken seriously.
Students with children in particular - including those from non-EU countries - also need offers and support in order to be able to continue studying or take up a course of study nevertheless.
That's why we stand for on-campus daycare centers, part-time study options, and flexible scheduling.
We are committed to the democratically constituted university, whose committees with equal representation decide on university matters.
Institutions of higher education shall apply the principle of accessibility for persons with disabilities.
This applies to access and to the use of course offerings.
Educate further - get further
We want to make continuing education and lifelong learning possible and attractive for everyone.
Those who have dropped out of school should be given a second chance, the unskilled fitter should be able to catch up on a qualification, and the 50-year-old should be supported in his or her desire to gain qualifications.
The central prerequisite for this is the introduction of an adult BAföG that has no age limits or occupational restrictions.
A mix of grants and loans can be used to catch up on vocational qualifications and finance further training.
In addition, working time accounts are to be used for further training.
It must be possible to take them with you when you change jobs and they must be protected against insolvency.
Individual education savings should be possible for all people in a similar way to home savings
and should receive special state support, especially for low-income earners.
What is also needed is good educational counseling for all, providing information on suitable offerings and financing options,
and special counseling services for small and medium-sized enterprises so that in-company continuing education is expanded.
Research: Thinking tomorrow's world today
Science and politics face the challenge of finding answers to social, ecological and economic questions, also with a view to future generations.
Research means thinking about tomorrow's world today and wanting to understand interrelationships.
We need a high-performance science system with attractive and reliable future prospects for scientists and academics and for research and teaching.
We need scientists who are aware of and committed to their ethical responsibility.
Research results obtained with public funds should also be freely available to the public.
That's why we support open access in the science sector.
The share of funding for research and development must finally reach the three percent of gross domestic product that has been promised for years.
At 2.5 percent, Germany is still far from this target.
We want to continue the Pact for Research and Innovation and consolidate the introduction of full-cost financing for research projects.
We want to strengthen and expand cooperation between universities and the non-university research institutions of the federal and state governments and
involve scientists from the research institutions more closely in teaching at universities.
Universities in Germany have so far been far too closed - to lateral entrants as well as to returnees and researchers from other countries.
Academic careers can hardly be planned, have a risk of long periods of precarious employment and are often difficult to combine with family life.
Science as a profession must become more attractive.
We advocate for a good mix of temporary and permanent positions in the scientific "Mittelbau".
The junior professorship must be expanded.
But it must also be possible to have an academic career alongside a professorship.
We want to ensure that the outflow of scientists turns into international mobility in all directions
and that it is easier to move between science and industry.
Although so many women are academically well educated today, there are relatively few female scientists - also with negative consequences for quality and competitiveness.
Research and institutional funding must be linked to binding gender equality goals.
and gender perspectives become a natural part of research questions.
We see the fact that there are still far fewer female professors than male professors as a mandate for the consistent advancement of women - also and especially at the top of universities.
Consistently increasing the proportion of teachers with intercultural competence - especially migrant women - is also a green goal.
Basic research in all scientific disciplines is the central basis for innovation and progress.
It forms the breeding ground for social reflection and for successful application-oriented research.
Basic research must therefore remain an essential pillar of public research funding.
For us, the focus of public research funding is on the basic funding of research institutions and on competitive program funding.
However, we also believe that tax incentives for research and development by small and medium-sized enterprises and start-ups make sense under certain conditions.
Venture capital is to be supported more strongly than in the past in order to facilitate the spin-off of innovative companies.
Curiosity and responsibility
Curiosity has always been a central driving force of research.
Curiosity needs freedom, but responsibility sets limits to this.
Freedom of research is a valuable asset that must be protected and preserved.
Without research, we will not be able to master the challenges we face.
For us, however, human dignity and human rights always take precedence over research and exploitation interests.
It is not only in medicine, the life sciences and biotechnology that the responsible treatment of people is essential.
The protection of the environment and animals also makes it necessary to draw boundaries for research.
Alternatives to animal testing must be consistently applied, and
we want to increase research into alternative methods.
We want to strengthen peace and conflict research and
reduce research for military purposes as much as possible.
Responsible research opens up to society and takes its objections and fears seriously.
Inter- and transdisciplinary research helps to consider the social and ecological consequences of new technologies and processes from the outset, in line with the precautionary principle.
Risk research and technology assessment should become an integral part of research.
Critically guided research is better research.
Those who vote GREEN ... - ... vote for the education solidarity fund to finance better education.
- ... supports all-day schools for all. -
... votes against tuition fees
and for fair financing of living expenses for students.
- ... creates 500,000 additional study places
and improves the quality of teaching and studying. - ...
brings more women to professorships
and makes science an attractive profession.
5. a new togetherness - from good childhood to dignified old age
We need to rethink what holds our society together, what unites old and young.
Part of a green New Social Contract must therefore also be a different relationship between the generations.
The aim is to design social security systems, especially pensions, in such a way that the elderly can rely on them and the young are not overburdened.
But the new contract between generations, as we think of it, is more than that.
It stands for a society in which children feel welcome and young people feel accepted, in which
families can live well,
and in which older people can actively contribute their experience and knowledge, but are also well cared for in the event of care.
And it stands for a society of cultural diversity,
that still leaves the next generation room for maneuver,
social
and democratic institutions
and not at the expense of future generations.
That is why we want to anchor the goal of intergenerational justice in the Basic Law.
Young and old in particular experience our society today as a blocked one.
Children do not receive the support they need because there are insufficient, high-quality childcare options for them.
Young people are sent home from school with the label "not ready for training".
People who take care of others - young children as well as the elderly or those in need of care - are left alone with this task.
Older people fear that they are no longer needed.
We want to break down these blockades
A new contract between the generations must be built on justice.
Developmental opportunities for children are highly unevenly distributed from birth.
However, children have a right to develop independently of the opportunities their families can give them.
For us, it is a question of justice to open and expand daycare centers and schools and to change them in such a way that unequal starting chances are balanced out here
and to do everything to ensure that access to sports, music and culture depends on the interests of the children and not on the purse of the parents.
We will not accept that living with children means a risk of poverty
and that a quarter of all children in Germany live in poverty
- and in the same way, poverty in old age must be prevented now.
The New Social Contract relies on people being free to decide how they want to live.
For us, family is everywhere where people take responsibility for each other in a binding way, and especially where there are children: in marriages with and without a marriage certificate, in patchwork and rainbow families, with single parents, with adoptive or foster parents.
And even when people are old, they should still be able to live self-determined lives.
Promotion and education from the beginning
Every child has a right to the best possible support.
That is why we advocate a legal right to high-quality and, above all, all-day education, care and upbringing for all children from the age of one.
Young parents need to be sure that they will be able to combine life with their child and a career after the parental allowance period.
We cannot afford to do without many mothers and also fathers in their working lives simply because there are not enough flexible and qualified childcare options.
We need a quality offensive for our day care centers.
In these early years, the course is set for the children's later lives.
With better staffing, smaller groups and a higher level of staff training, the quality of individual child-related support increases.
We Greens want the federal government, federal states, local authorities and daycare providers to agree on nationwide childcare standards and work together to achieve them.
This also includes healthy lunches and good facilities, as well as better pay for staff.
Parents must be able to rely on the fact that their children are in good hands there.
We want to ensure that the qualification and further training of childminders is standardized throughout Germany.
It's all about the beginning - expanding early support services
Every day, parents do everything they can to raise their children to be independent and responsible individuals.
A remarkable achievement.
Occasional situations of excessive demands and helplessness are quite normal.
In addition, there are also parents who are fundamentally overwhelmed and have difficulties with the upbringing of their children.
For these parents, we need targeted support.
We want successful concepts such as parenting letters, birth welcoming programs, family midwives, parent-child centers, district mothers or special support services such as for parents of crying children to be expanded nationwide and receive significantly more support.
Early support without access barriers
Everyone benefits from a good educational and support landscape:
children from a favorable family environment gain additional advantages, while a good daycare center helps children from difficult backgrounds to compensate for disadvantages at an early stage.
On the one hand, access to this support must be possible regardless of whether both parents are employed.
Second, parental contributions must be graduated according to income and gradually reduced.
We want the exemption from contributions for day care for children.
As a first step, one year of care should be free of charge for every child.
In addition, the childcare allowance planned for 2013 must not be introduced.
This is because the very children who urgently need support and encouragement are kept away from daycare centers and kindergartens because the parents receive money for taking care of them at home.
Single parents, who are at a great disadvantage in the labor market, benefit particularly from the improved reconciliation of work and family life.
But they are also under greater strain in everyday life.
This is why single-parent families in particular need a good network of unbureaucratic social services,
flexible childcare options
and health services tailored to them.
With the help of good infrastructure and material support, we want to improve the living situation of single parents.
Combat and prevent child poverty
Child poverty has many faces:
Poverty of opportunity, educational poverty, lack of development opportunities, but of course also material poverty.
Anyone who grows up in such poverty has bad cards with us.
The risks of leaving school without a diploma, becoming repeatedly unemployed and possibly being poor in old age are high.
In order to break through such poverty careers, many things must be interlinked:
good daycare and schools are needed,
important infrastructure for children such as swimming pools and libraries must not be allowed to close,
parents must be supported in their competencies
and, last but not least, families must be provided with an income that meets their needs.
You cannot feed children healthily and enable them to develop in a way that is appropriate for them with 211 euros.
For this reason, we finally need standard rates for children and young people that cover their actual needs.
But it is not only children whose parents receive unemployment benefit II who experience what it means to have little money.
Therefore, marriage and family support must be fundamentally revised.
We propose an independent and unconditional basic child benefit for all children.
It is to include the socio-cultural subsistence minimum and allowances for education and care, unless these services are provided free of charge by the public sector.
Parents must pay tax on this basic child allowance.
The regulations on the taxation of income from the basic child allowance must take family size into account, as must questions of maintenance.
This benefit supports all children, regardless of whether or not their parents are married or single parents.
To finance this, we want to abolish the marital splitting system within the limits of constitutional possibilities.
This brings more justice for all.
Single parents, low-income families, and families with multiple children benefit significantly.
However, certain middle-class families who are supposedly not at risk of poverty are also protected by the income-based basic child allowance.
Families with high incomes, on the other hand, are left with less on the bottom line compared to today.
With such an income-oriented basic child allowance, we are completely reorganizing the family and marriage support system and turning it upside down.
New fathers the country has
A family-friendly society must take the needs of children, mothers and fathers seriously.
There are more and more fathers who want to be there for their children.
Our society needs to adapt to this much better.
This includes, quite centrally, a work culture and flexible working time models that make it possible for both women and men to combine a life with children and a successful career.
We want to further develop the parental allowance.
With the current design, parents with no or low income are placed in a worse position compared to the previous child-raising allowance.
That is why we want to introduce a needs-based basic amount for low-income earners and students.
Single parents and same-sex partnerships must not be disadvantaged.
Two months of paternity leave do not make for equality.
The aim is to share parental leave equally.
Recognize and promote diversity of family forms
For us Greens, family is where there are children or where people take on long-term responsibility for each other.
In our society there are many different forms of cohesion and living together even without kinship relations.
We want to recognize and appropriately support this diversity of family forms.
Every child must have the same rights and coverage.
Eliminate disadvantages in family support
Families with children are currently taxed fundamentally differently depending on whether the parents are married, single parents or living in a registered civil partnership.
We want to eliminate this unequal treatment.
We want equal tax and social policy treatment for all ways of life with children.
Recognize realities
The current family and child law does not cover the diversity or variability of the many forms of families.
Patchwork families, in which children grow up with more than two adult caregivers, or same-sex rainbow families have so far been largely ignored.
Recognize desire to have children - Establish equal rights
Many couples without a marriage certificate, life partners and single people wish to have children and also consider medically assisted reproduction for this purpose.
All of these target groups are to be treated equally when it comes to covering the costs of treatment incurred.
Previous health care reforms have created a social imbalance because low-income earners can no longer afford the high cost of treatment.
In the future, the cost of a limited number of treatments would be covered by taxes, like other family-related benefits.
In addition, we want to finally open up adoption law to joint adoptions by registered civil partnerships and to permanent non-marital partnerships.
The kids are alright
Children and young people have independent rights.
They have a right to an upbringing free of violence, a right to education and care, and they have a right to play.
They need the loving care of their parents, but at the same time they are entitled to support and funding from the state.
To ensure that there is no doubt about this, we want to include independent children's rights in the basic rights catalog of our constitution
- as a strong mandate to politicians to set priorities in favor of children.
We want children to know that they have rights.
That is why the topic of children's rights should be increasingly included in school textbooks and in the public relations work of the German government.
Young people are more dependent on free space beyond their own homes than anyone else.
But young people are unpopular in public spaces: they make noise, they attract attention.
We think: Children's noise is music of the future and young life belongs in the middle of society, in the middle of village and city.
We want to promote the diversity of youth cultures, also because diverse cultural offerings are the best protection against right-wing extremist simplicity.
And we need strong youth welfare and committed youth associations that can continue to offer a wide range of services and provide targeted support for disadvantaged young people.
Public and independent youth welfare organizations must be equipped in such a way that they can responsibly perform their diverse tasks, especially in the area of child protection.
Youth Volunteer Services are important entry points into a committed biography, provide orientation in an important phase of life, and impart social, ecological, and cultural skills.
That's why we want to more than double the number of youth volunteer positions and further improve their quality.
For a new togetherness
Our society is changing.
We are becoming fewer, older and more colorful.
Society is shrinking, and the proportion of people with an immigrant background is increasing.
In view of demographic change, some people paint the horror of a "war of the generations.
We reject debates about envy and blaming individual generations.
Instead, young and old can only solve the coming problems together.
Properly organized and adequately supported, young and old, women and men can benefit and learn much more from each other: in companies, when the wealth of experience and ideas of some are combined with the willingness to take risks and the creativity of others, in new intergenerational forms of living, or when old and young get involved in volunteer agencies.
We need a new alliance of young and old.
We want to promote the coexistence of different generations.
To this end, it is important to promote the necessary infrastructure in the neighborhoods and to build up small social networks.
People need to be involved in the design of residential neighborhoods and districts.
Self-initiative, creativity and thus self-determination of the people living there must be encouraged and supported.
This is another reason why the participation of residents in the design of residential neighborhoods is necessary.
Even in a shrinking, aging society, we want to live socially and in solidarity.
East and west, urban and rural, growth regions and sparsely populated areas with out-migrating populations cannot be lumped together.
Cities and municipalities are the central location for public services, and it is here that demographic and social change are directly reflected.
That is why they need our support.
We focus on new forms of cooperation and organization and the development of joint strategies.
Self-determined in old age
More and more people are already able to lead active and self-determined lives into old age.
And at the same time, there are older people who have the impression that they are no longer in demand anywhere, that no one is listening.
Aging in the 21st century is multifaceted and requires differentiated and flexible responses.
Central to us is the desire for self-determination, the realization of which must not be linked to a certain age or state of health.
Elderly people and those in need of care want other forms of housing and living than the classic home.
What they want are services that take into account their needs for individuality, familiarity and domesticity.
We want differentiated offerings for older people that are geared to many different life situations.
For us, this includes living together across generations as well as new forms of housing and care such as house or housing estate communities, which are more likely to meet the individual needs of older people than traditional large-scale facilities.
We want a civil society that does not dispense with the expertise of older people and supports their commitment.
We need elderly-friendly communities with well-developed and truly barrier-free public transport, cultural offerings and an accessible healthcare infrastructure.
For older migrants, we want to offer support - where necessary - that addresses their particular circumstances.
In an elderly-friendly society, older people must not be excluded from mobility by a lack of staff and other access barriers.
If social participation is increasingly ensured via new media, then we must also support the media competence of older people.
Everyday barriers also arise from a lack of elderly-friendliness in many products.
This starts with barely legible package inserts and does not end with the difficult operability of many device groups.
An active consumer protection policy must bring the legitimate interests of the elderly more clearly to bear.
We want to protect people from poverty in old age and therefore introduce a guaranteed pension for those who have worked all their lives or have been available to the labor market, which is higher than the basic income support.
However, aging also means that you can become needy or ill.
If people need the help and support of others on a permanent basis, however, this must not lead to heteronomy.
The need for individuality and self-determination does not end at a certain age limit, but must be fulfilled throughout life.
We therefore advocate housing, care and assistance options that meet these needs and enable all people, no matter how old and how needy they may be, to participate in social life.
Elderly people want to be able to make their own decisions about their lives even when they are in need of care and very old
and often live as long as possible in their own home, in neighborly or communally organized forms of living or in shared care homes.
Care that is close to people and high-quality outpatient and inpatient services are the prerequisite for this.
In particular, this includes living wages,
low entry thresholds
and uniform quality standards for nursing education.
Most people die in institutions such as nursing homes and hospitals, although the majority of people would prefer to spend the last part of their lives in the company of familiar people.
Against this backdrop, the hospice movement must be supported through the further establishment and expansion of hospice facilities close to home.
Hospice care for the seriously ill and dying must be directed at people of all faiths and world views.
The professionalism of hospices must be strengthened in order to ensure that the end of life and death of seriously ill people is dignified and close to their loved ones.
This also includes the further promotion of palliative medicine.
The legal basis for dying with dignity, in particular through greater legal certainty in the establishment and validity of living wills, must be created by law.
However, we do not leave the families alone with this demanding and burdensome task, precisely because this would be to the detriment of women.
To ensure that caring for others does not collide with gainful employment, we Greens have proposed a three-month caregiver leave similar to parental leave for all those who organize the care of relatives or friends or accompany them when they die.
Whoever votes GREEN, ... - ... gets good kindergartens in sufficient numbers for every child.
- ... fights and prevents child poverty.
- ... anchors the rights of children and young people in the Basic Law.
- ... promotes the coexistence of people and not the marriage certificate.
- ... wants to live in a self-determined and dignified manner even in old age.
6. consumers in power - freedom of information and security
Brave new world of goods.
But who can still find their way through the fine print?
Who doesn't feel like they're being ripped off more and more often?
Energy monopolies are cashing in on electricity rates.
The advertising terror on the phone is annoying.
GMO-free nutrition or climate-friendly shopping becomes a search game for critical consumers.
We often don't even know what is really in the products and under what conditions they are produced.
We Greens have put consumer policy right at the top of the agenda and created a real consumer ministry for the first time in the Federal Republic.
With a food law from the field to the table
and our state organic seal, consumer confidence was regained after the BSE crisis.
But since the grand coalition has been in power, not much has happened.
It has achieved neither an effective consumer information law nor protection rights for customer data or effective protection against rotten meat and genetically modified food.
This standstill is not only bad for people, it is also no incentive for sustainable economic processes.
A new relationship between producers and consumers is an important component of the green New Social Contract.
Smart consumer behavior is an important component in solving the problems.
Sometimes a critical look is enough to discover the better alternatives such as green electricity, organic potatoes or LED energy-saving lamps.
Consumers can vote every day at the counter and exercise their buying power.
In other cases, however, we must first create necessary rights to information, protection, and choice.
Green consumer policy is a policy of justice.
In a confusing world, consumers do not always see eye-to-eye with providers.
As an individual, you feel powerless, for example, when electricity prices rise again for no reason and flimsy reasons are invoked.
Here, consumer power must be organized and their representation of interests expanded.
We want to better protect people against rip-offs, the loss of their savings, and misguided advice.
Almost one in ten private households is over-indebted.
When people no longer have a checking account, their economic participation is blocked.
Banks must face up to their social responsibility here.
And a consumer policy for more justice also includes ensuring that production does not take place under undignified, exploitative or health-endangering conditions or by means of child labor.
The consumption of fair trade products from coffee to toys ensures global solidarity.
Green consumer policy is European.
Day after day, European policy intervenes in consumers' everyday lives.
Instead of using the Council of Ministers to push through the interests of the chemical and agricultural industries, as the German government does, we want to ensure in Brussels that fruit and vegetables are pesticide-free
and that economic consumer interests are systematically taken into account in energy issues, passenger rights or consumer goods such as toys.
One positive example is the reduction in roaming charges enforced by the EU.
Green consumer policy is a policy of freedom.
Only those who have the choice between alternatives can live self-determined lives.
Our world thus becomes more colorful and livable.
Market failures, market power or monopolies, on the other hand, restrict consumers' freedom of action.
That's why we oppose genetically modified food on our plates,
dictated terms of use on the Internet,
and pretextual trade secrets.
Green consumer policy serves climate protection.
For us, good living is related to a sustainable lifestyle.
Those who reject the cruel mass farming of animals
and buy seasonal organic food do something good for themselves and also ensure a better environment
and secure jobs in the region.
If the shopping basket is used even more strategically in the future, greedy gas guzzlers and energy-wasting climate killers will become fewer and fewer in households.
This will not work without legal requirements, because voluntary commitments, for example by the automotive industry to reduce CO2 emissions, have been broken too often in the past.
Above all, better labeling - indicating, for example, the resource consumption of the products - and ecologically and socially fair prices will allow every wallet to switch to sustainable products.
Know what's inside
We demand a comprehensive right to information for consumers.
We reject the grand coalition's Consumer Information Act as a labeling fraud.
Consumer-relevant information on products must become mandatory.
We want a sustainability seal that makes the environmental and social impacts of a product, such as climate damage, clearly visible.
We want an active and effective consumer education policy with expanded educational and advisory services offered by consumer associations.
The federal and state governments must develop a joint financing concept for consumer work here.
We propose a separate foundation for this purpose.
Strong consumer rights
We want to close gaps in consumer law.
The grand coalition has produced nothing but paper tigers here.
We call for the possibility of class action so that consumers can join together as class plaintiffs in court and enforce their good right quickly and easily.
Passengers need adequate rights in the event of delays of 30 minutes or more.
And anyone who is taken by surprise on the phone by unauthorized advertising calls must be effectively protected from contracts that are being foisted on them.
For this purpose, we want to introduce a written confirmation.
Data protection law must be fundamentally overhauled to make it more consumer-friendly.
We want to address the changes in the healthcare market, which are increasingly turning patients into customers and doctors into sellers of over-the-counter healthcare services, with a Patients' Rights Act.
For us, consumer protection takes precedence over economic interests.
Unsafe products have so far been insufficiently controlled.
Here we need better equipment for the control authorities and an anonymous hotline for employees so that light can be shed on the problem.
Protecting consumers from financial sharks
The financial market crisis clearly shows that we need more consumer protection in financial transactions.
Those who expect people to actively provide for themselves must also support the assertion of their interests.
Many people have lost their retirement security because they were given bad advice.
A business and commission policy at banks and savings banks that also puts the sellers of financial products under such pressure that good and objective advice falls by the wayside must be ended.
We want to make the financial markets fair and equitable again through clear, cross-border rules.
Those who make private provision for old age should not suffer under commission-driven financial jugglers or fraudulent investment models.
And you don't have to study business administration to take out a Riester pension with a clear conscience.
We want to create comparability and reliability with a mandatory consumer label for all financial products that makes security, returns, maturities, and ethical and ecological criteria visible at a glance.
New types of financial products are to be risk-assessed by the state supervisory authority with a kind of instruction leaflet and, if there are concerns, subjected to an approval procedure.
Trust needs control.
A so-called financial market watchdog is to monitor the market, educate consumers and settle disputes under the tried and tested umbrella of the consumer centers.
We want to give borrowers, such as homeowners or entrepreneurs, the best possible protection when banks resell their loans.
A financial education program, provider-independent advice and a financial precaution check are designed to protect consumers from debt traps.
We are committed to ensuring that everyone has a right to a checking account.
The range of consumer and debt counseling services urgently needs to be expanded.
And the debt relief procedure (personal insolvency) for individuals should be shortened to three years.
Fair energy prices
Four major corporations in the German electricity and gas market are exploiting their monopoly-like market power for extortionate price gouging and excessive record profits.
They are being shielded by the SPD and CDU/CSU.
We are fighting for fair energy prices and more competition on the energy markets.
One step in this direction is the transfer of energy networks from corporate ownership to a publicly controlled network company.
We want to create a market watchdog that enforces consumer interests against energy companies, politicians and regulators.
Other goals include climate-friendly and social tariff models and making it easier to switch to green electricity.
In addition, a certain stability period is to apply to price formation.
Hourly changing prices, for example for gasoline at gas stations, are anti-competitive bait-and-switch offers.
Healthy food - No gene food on our plates
We GREENS are committed to more transparent food labeling.
With us GREENS, eating should be fun again!
Consumer education must be better funded.
Nutrition knowledge must be taught, especially in school.
School kitchens, as well as canteens and dining halls, must be prompted and encouraged to offer healthy food, Fairtrade and organic products.
We have already tested this in many model projects.
The result: healthy nutrition and tight budgets are compatible, quality is possible, often even cost-neutral!
Like the majority of consumers, we GREENS reject genetic engineering on our plates.
We stand shoulder to shoulder with farmers, beekeepers and consumers who are proclaiming GMO-free regions in many places and opposing the cultivation of genetically modified crops.
Agro-genetic engineering creates problems, not solutions, neither here nor in developing countries.
It promotes monocultures worldwide, endangers the environment, GMO-free production and jobs.
It threatens consumers' freedom of choice to opt for GMO-free and also organic food.
Genetic engineering makes farmers even more dependent on a few global corporations.
Monsanto must not become the Microsoft of agriculture.
We therefore advocate a ban on GM crops that endanger people, the environment and GM-free production.
We advocate for a global ban on "terminator technology," which kills the ability of seeds to germinate.
We want to label genetic modifications more clearly and distinctly.
The main gateway for agro-genetic engineering is genetically modified feed.
All consumers must therefore know whether the meat, milk or cheese comes from animals fed with GM soy or GM corn.
Clear labeling facilitates the choice when purchasing and promotes a GMO-free feed market.
We need an independent assessment of agro-genetic engineering, and to this end the socio-economic risks must also be better researched and included.
The links between national and European testing and approval authorities and the agro-genetic engineering lobby must be disclosed and eliminated.
Biopatents lead to monopoly claims of a few corporations on plants and animals,
to dependencies of farmers and
block innovative breeding progress.
We are therefore campaigning for a correction of the EU Biopatent Directive
and for an amendment to the German Patent Act.
To ensure that patents on plants, animals and biological breeding processes cannot continue to be granted.
For a long time, the Greens have wanted to see quality instead of quantity on display and not rotten or poisoned meat on the table.
Pesticides that are hazardous to health have no place in food, and we want to enforce this consistently.
We stand for finally taking into account multiple exposures to different pesticide residues when setting upper limits in food and feed.
We want the federal government to take a more active role nationally and internationally in protecting citizens from pesticides.
We want to make the knowledge about healthy nutrition generally known, because each and every second person already suffers from malnutrition and overeating.
The fat, sugar and salt content of foodstuffs should therefore be made clearly visible by means of traffic light labeling in the colors green-yellow-red.
In schools and kindergartens, a common healthy meal should become a matter of course.
Whoever votes Green ... - ... strengthens the rights of consumers.
- ... chooses food and fields without genetic engineering.
- ... not only want to know what's on the table, but also what's in it.
- ... votes for better protection against the black sheep of the financial and energy industries.
- ... votes for a sustainability seal - against child labor, environmental sourness and exploitation.
7. intact environment - preserving what sustains us
In the past, nature and natural resources were treated far too carelessly.
Areas continue to be sealed, water bodies, air and soil polluted with numerous harmful substances and systematically overfertilized.
Every day, 150 animal and plant species become extinct worldwide, according to serious estimates.
Environmental protection is a question of justice.
Noise pollution is on the rise, hitting people who can't afford quiet places to live.
In numerous foods, chemical residues are found even above the permitted levels, even substances that have long been banned.
Not to mention the cocktail of environmental toxins that affect us without the connections being researched or even known.
The number of children who have allergies, skin and bronchial diseases is growing.
But the reckless treatment of nature is also having an impact worldwide.
Many fishermen are losing their livelihoods due to industrial overfishing and marine pollution.
The poor regions of the world have been promised a green revolution in the fields, but all that has been delivered is new dependencies on international seed corporations and chemical companies.
Fifteen percent of the world's population waste more than half of its raw materials.
They are warming the global climate, exporting their waste, polluting oceans and the atmosphere.
Worse, waste and pollution have become synonymous with prosperity.
In this way, the livelihoods of future generations are destroyed.
The protection of nature and biodiversity,
as well as the sustainable and equitable use of natural resources, are important components of our New Social Contract.
An intact environment is the basis of life for us and our children.
The prosperity of some must no longer be at the expense of others and future generations.
We Greens see our great task in helping an ecological viewpoint as a whole to achieve a breakthrough.
This must include the justice dimension from the outset.
We will not allow the ecological wheel to be turned back or brought to a standstill under the heading of sustainable development.
We need a different resource policy.
Less dependence on finite resources creates new freedoms.
Rivers, air and soils must no longer be released for waste as a free resource.
Land sealing and noise pollution must be reduced to a minimum.
Precious resources can be conserved through simple measures.
We want to move toward a true circular economy that consistently avoids waste and recycles materials.
Whether in active noise abatement, electromagnetic radiation and mobile communications, or in chemicals policy,
we are committed to precautionary and child-friendly limits,
innovative and sustainable products,
and greater transparency and citizen participation.
Environment and health
Nowadays, every second European suffers from an allergy.
Pollutants in the environment make sensitive people sick
and are a latent threat to our children.
Pesticides in food and textiles, chemical pollution in everyday objects, electrosmog in living spaces, particulate matter from plants and motor vehicles, traffic noise - the accumulation of pollutants and environmental pollution makes it almost impossible to establish a demonstrable connection between clinical pictures and triggers.
Green environmental policy prioritizes health care.
Healthy soil, clean water and air are prerequisites for us all to live healthy lives.
Healthy living, protection from environmental toxins, harmful radiation and noise are for us a question of quality of life
and a central question of justice, because everyone is entitled to a healthy and intact environment, to healthy food and products free of harmful substances.
GREEN's goal is to minimize radiation exposure as much as possible in the public interest.
This includes lowering the limit values, shared use of the network, basic wired supply and better protection for children, young people and those sensitive to electricity.
We want citizens to have a say in the siting of mobile communications transmitters.
As a rule, power lines should be laid in the ground.
We want to enforce protection against particulate matter across the board and, in particular, extend emissions protection legislation to existing roads.
New permits for large combustion plants must take into account existing air pollution.
The loads from small combustion plants must be based on the state of the art.
Protection from severe lung disease should not be a matter of where you live or how much money you have.
The resource environment is unequally distributed.
It is people with low incomes who are most affected by emissions.
They tend to live along busy roads, have less access to green spaces and clean air.
This is where we need to focus on improving air quality,
the reduction of noise emissions
and access to open spaces.
We call for comprehensive programs and the introduction and establishment of binding noise limits to reduce noise.
This includes the establishment and extension of night flight bans
as well as better active and passive noise protection on railroad lines
and roads and whisper asphalt on roads.
Significant gaps also remain in chemical safety.
It is essential that the technical expertise of the national authorities
and research.
We stand by our position: The EU chemicals regulation REACH must be improved so that clear labeling of chemicals in everyday life
and more funding for research into the effects of environmental medicine will finally become a reality and the replacement of particularly hazardous substances will become mandatory.
Protection of nature and biodiversity
Did you know that the sparrow, the tree frog and the arnica are already on the Red List of threatened species?
We fight for the effective protection of nature and biodiversity.
After all, it is the biological diversity of animals, plants and habitats that makes our planet unique.
But it is also an indispensable condition of our life, because it provides us with clean air, promotes the fertility of our soils, provides the basis of our nutrition and naturally regulates our water balance and our climate.
In doing so, we take a comprehensive approach.
The protection must be comprehensive - in the protected areas and on the used land.
Therefore, biodiversity is not only a matter for conservationists, but also for farmers and urban and transport planners, for example.
The national biodiversity strategy must be strengthened with binding timetables and action plans as
well as sanction options
and additional financial resources.
The foreseeable failure to achieve the goal of halting the dramatic loss of species in Europe by 2010 is the result of a failed biodiversity policy by the grand coalition:
when it comes down to it, symbolic politics rule and the effective protection of nature has to take a back seat.
We want to put biodiversity conservation back at the top of the agenda.
What is needed is a goal-oriented networking of research, science and politics at all levels of action.
We want to promote interdisciplinary biodiversity research more strongly
and create a uniform biodiversity monitoring system.
We want to safeguard existing protected areas for threatened nature and endangered species and create new ones.
The biotope network system adopted under the red-green government must finally be implemented.
and safeguard the national natural heritage.
Analogous to the federal traffic route plan, we demand a federal wildlife route plan that counteracts the fragmentation of habitats for wildlife, for example by building green bridges.
We will not allow a weakening of the European network of protected areas Natura 2000.
On the contrary, adequate and permanent European co-financing must be ensured.
The Federal Government has not fulfilled the special responsibility that Germany has for the protection of the beech forests and the North and Baltic Seas.
We want to change that.
But we also want to live up to our international responsibility:
Stopping global deforestation helps the climate and biodiversity,
but can also help overcome poverty in developing and emerging countries.
The primeval forest protection law that we have been calling for for a long time must finally come.
Biodiversity protection must be integrated into the national and international climate protection process.
A viable financing system with high ecological and social standards must be created for international forest protection.
For us, the equal inclusion and consideration of the interests of indigenous peoples as
well as justice and human rights aspects are non-negotiable.
The preservation of biodiversity and sustainable use of the oceans is one of the central challenges of global nature and species conservation.
We need networked marine protected areas with high standards of protection, and the high levels of pollutant and nutrient inputs from land must be consistently minimized.
We advocate for an end to overfishing and discarding of bycatch.
At the European level, we want to end the EU's exploitation of fish stocks off the coast of West Africa.
Healthy soil - Clean water
Every day, an area of 113 hectares or 161 soccer fields is newly sealed in Germany.
We GREENS want to limit land consumption to 30 hectares per day by 2020
and stop it altogether in the long term.
Although the 30-hectare target was adopted with the national sustainability strategy as early as 2002, effective instruments are still lacking today.
We want to get at the subsidies and false incentives that encourage more and more urban sprawl and sealing.
Instead, we want to make land recycling and conversion of existing land more attractive
and introduce land monitoring.
Demographic change is an opportunity to stop land consumption.
Unsealing is also a matter of clean drinking water and a functioning water cycle.
We GREENS want to protect soils.
Germany must stand up for high standards of soil protection in the EU instead of preventing them.
We want Germany to finally meet the requirements of the EU Water Framework Directive quickly.
Pollutant inputs, such as those caused by the high salt load of the Werra and Weser rivers, must be reduced.
Flood protection means giving rivers more space and creating near-natural floodplain areas across the countries.
For better flood protection, construction planning must adapt to river floodplains, not the other way around.
We want such damaging construction projects as the construction of the Danube and the Elbe as well as the Saale Canal to finally be stopped.
Water is not a common commodity, but an inherited good that must be protected, defended and treated accordingly.
We do not want to privatize the water supply, but rather facilitate the remunicipalization of environment-related services of general interest.
Implementing the state goal of animal protection
The state objective of animal protection must be consistently implemented in animal protection law.
In agriculture, we GREENS are committed to the species-appropriate husbandry of all farm animals.
We want to create the framework conditions for this, including through reforms and strict application of emissions, building and planning law to prevent industrial factory farms.
Thus, any caging of laying hens must be banned without exception, as well as all torture breeding.
There must be no exception to the obligation to eliminate pain in all interventions on animals that involve pain - not even for slaughter.
Animal transports must be limited in time.
Animal and species protection must also be significantly strengthened in fisheries.
As part of a sustainability label, we want animal welfare labeling for all food products to give consumers the opportunity to make a conscious choice in favor of products from animal-friendly husbandry.
Animal testing should only take place where there is no alternative to protect human, environmental and animal health.
Non-animal replacement methods need to be better researched and put into practice more quickly.
As a start to the phase-out, we are calling for an annual reduction of ten percent in animal testing in Germany.
We demand a right of action for animal protection organizations
and a federal commissioner for animal protection.
Organic farming for healthy food and climate protection
Agricultural policy is policy for the future, because the way in which land is managed is a decisive key to solving the major challenges of our time:
World nutrition,
Climate change
and species extinction.
We GREENS oppose the chemical and genetic industrialization of agriculture and
the neoliberalization of agricultural markets in favor of multinational corporations.
Because that's what consumers are left with,
Farmers,
Workplaces
and the environment fall by the wayside.
The green agricultural turnaround was a paradigm shift in agricultural policy.
We have promoted organic farming, regional marketing, species-appropriate animal husbandry and agri-environmental measures
- sustainable agriculture that is compatible with water conservation, the
preservation of biodiversity
and soil quality,
but also creates value in rural regions.
Instead of pursuing this path, the grand coalition in Brussels has only ever fought to preserve the vested interests of large landowners and agribusiness.
Demand for and sales of organic food have been growing at double-digit rates for years, but the misguided subsidy policy of the black-red government has meant that hardly any new farms in Germany are converting to organic production.
That has to change again.
In future, agricultural subsidies should only be granted if environmental and climate services are provided.
and jobs are created.
We are also committed to strengthening GMO-free regions.
Good food needs fair prices - so that farmers here and elsewhere can live off what they produce.
We support dairy farmers and the German Dairy Farmers' Association in their fight for a fair milk price.
Producers need a legal framework to flexibly adapt their production to market needs, rather than new barn construction subsidies.
Overproduction in industrialized countries destroys economic values and regional economic cycles worldwide.
That is why we advocate the immediate elimination of all export subsidies.
Our goal is integrated rural development that enables equal living conditions and good economic, social and cultural participation in the countryside as well as in the city.
Young people need free space, because they are the guarantor that rural society will continue to develop.
Rural areas must offer prospects for the future - so that they do not become deserted and turn into inanimate agricultural steppes.
We are committed to sustainable rural economic structures that create and maintain jobs in the countryside.
Under GREEN government participation, new opportunities were opened up for farmers in the use of biomass
and regional economic cycles were established.
The grand coalition has destroyed these cycles again by forcing the blending of agrofuels.
The major oil companies have taken the reins.
They import palm oil and ethanol without regard to social and environmental standards.
Empty plates, full tanks - we don't want that.
Part of global justice is that we do not fill up with agrofuel for which people starve and rainforests are cut down.
The same applies to the import of animal feed, which is the basis for factory farming and excessive meat consumption in Germany.
Any use of biomass must ensure that cultivation, processing and transport are carried out in accordance with clear, strict and verifiable climate, environmental and social standards.
We want to use primarily biogenic waste and agricultural by-products to generate energy.
For sustainable tourism development
"Travel" must be more in harmony with our natural and social environment than it has been in the past.
Especially in structurally weak rural regions, tourism offers employment and growth opportunities.
The promotion of the public sector in the field of tourism must be subject to the obligatory concept of sustainability.
Public money for environmentally destructive investments - for example, for snow cannons - may no longer flow today.
Above all, we want to emphasize the "regionality" or "distinctiveness" of a landscape as a tourism opportunity.
In addition to the uniqueness of the landscape, the development of infrastructure, accessibility and accessibility are important criteria for strengthening tourism, especially in an aging society.
We would like to particularly emphasize the national parks, which, in addition to their original value for nature conservation,
offer positive regional effects for the tourism economy in rural areas.
We want tourism policy to be more sustainable and, above all, more transparent.
This includes consumer information about the social and environmental impact of a trip.
The choice of transport for the journey is of particular importance.
A destination is characterized by an intact environment,
Cultural attractiveness
and quality services on site to your vacation destination!
Resource-conserving management
One answer to resource scarcity and rising raw material prices is the regional circular economy.
We GREENS are against disposable products and an attitude that only has the short-term benefit in mind and not the sustainable one.
The dual system, the green dot, has not proven itself and should be abolished.
By introducing a resource levy, we want to move away from waste policies and toward policies that initiate resource-conserving economic activity, promote durable products and support regional economic cycles.
We reject the construction of additional waste incineration plants.
By changing the permitting law, we want to prevent oversupply and
thus put an end to unnecessary waste of resources and "waste tourism."
The less petroleum is used, the less the burden on nature, climate and health.
For this reason, the chemical industry in particular must use less petroleum and more renewable raw materials and move toward environmentally and climate-friendly production.
We want to promote such innovations by providing support for market launch and by creating a legal and tax framework.
Our goal is to make the chemical and plastics industries independent of oil in the long term.
A modern environmental law
Many tools are needed to preserve the environment and nature, from incentives and environmental education to labels and certificates to a new ecological financial policy and clear regulatory law.
Water, air, soil, waste and nature conservation aspects must be taken into account in permits.
Of central importance, therefore, is integrated and transparent environmental legislation in an environmental code that contains the entire set of instruments for sustainable and effective environmental, climate and biodiversity protection.
An amended mining law and a climate protection law are also to be integrated here.
Uniform, nationwide requirements reduce bureaucracy
and are also good for business.
This uniform environmental code has therefore been demanded by environmental associations and the business community for years.
It is a symbol of the failure of the grand coalition in environmental policy that this project has fallen victim to party bickering between the CDU and CSU.
We Greens will make a new attempt for a modern and unbureaucratic environmental law.
Whoever votes GREEN, ... - ... chooses biodiversity and an intact environment.
- ... protects water, soil and air.
- ... ensures that organic and ecological farming continue to boom.
- ... votes for species-appropriate animal husbandry and animal welfare.
- ... votes for modern environmental law - effective and unbureaucratic.
8. advocate for civil rights - defend the rule of law, promote integration
In 2009, we look back on 60 years of the Basic Law, 20 years of peaceful revolution in the GDR and 90 years of women's suffrage.
60 years ago, despite immense international threats, the mothers and fathers of the Basic Law adopted the most liberal constitution Germany has ever seen.
For them, freedom and civil rights were the guarantee for the successful development of the young democracy.
Individual, private freedom without state surveillance and control is the prerequisite for social security, economic prosperity, political participation, social creativity and cultural diversity.
We need all of this to keep up in a globalized world.
But today we are witnessing a dismantling of civil rights and liberties on a massive scale.
In the Schäuble system, everyone is increasingly a security risk for the state:
everyone's telecommunications connection data is stored in advance.
Extensive airline passenger data is collected and delivered to the U.S., today for flights to the U.S. and tomorrow for flights to the EU.
The Minister of the Interior wants to use the highway toll data for tracing purposes.
A nationwide civil registry is on his wish list,
as is a central fingerprint file of all citizens.
Fingerprints are already mandatory in passports, but still voluntary in ID cards.
Schäuble and those who support this policy treat their citizens as if they were all a risk or possible lawbreakers.
More than ever, therefore, civil rights need an unflinching and combative advocate.
We GREENS defend the free constitutional state.
In this way, we are taking the only promising path in matters of safety.
This is because the threat posed by terrorist networks cannot be effectively countered by centralized and untargeted mass surveillance.
On the contrary, the proven federal security architecture based on the rule of law is being endangered and weakened by the increasing merging of police and intelligence services.
The existing anti-terrorism file with unrestricted access is like a joint filing cabinet of police and intelligence services; now a jointly operated wiretapping center is being built in Cologne.
We clearly reject this policy of a permanent state of emergency.
We reject the deployment of the Bundeswehr within Germany.
Armored personnel carriers on the streets, as at the G8 summit in Heiligendamm, and Tornados flying low over demonstrators, that must never be repeated.
The Federal Constitutional Court has declared the Aviation Security Act unconstitutional.
Passenger planes must not be shot down if innocent lives are to be sacrificed in the process.
Nor does the war on terror legitimize any human rights discount
- no softening of the absolute ban on torture,
no undermining of rule-of-law standards in criminal law or criminal procedure.
Those who sacrifice freedom in the name of security end up losing both.
The Green New Social Contract focuses on integration and a culture of recognition.
For young migrants in particular, we want to clear away the blockades and open the way to good education and good work.
Mrs. Merkel has integration summits staged with much fanfare.
At the same time, however, naturalization numbers are plummeting as the grand coalition has erected new hurdles on the path to a German passport.
That's two-faced.
In contrast, we want integration through social participation
and a policy of equal rights.
A humane refugee policy respects the fundamental right to asylum and does not undermine it.
Discrimination is poison for the social climate.
We GREENS stand for the recognition of diversity,
for respect and equality of every human being.
This is a question of justice.
No one has the right to restrict the freedom of others in the name of a religion or belief.
Freedom is the freedom of different lifestyles, sexual identities or beliefs.
Freedom is concretized in the fundamental rights of our constitution
and in the human rights enshrined in international law.
We therefore also want to engage in critical dialogue with the institutions concerned to ensure that existing discrimination is combated jointly.
Discrimination contrary to general labor law must be eliminated.
There are still problems in some areas because of the protection of tendencies.
We want to find solutions for this.
No state peep show
Man has a right to be left alone by the state, the Federal Constitutional Court has said.
The core area of private life is nobody's business.
It must remain untouchable.
Therefore, we say "no" to state spying via video spying in the home.
We say "No" to the retention of telecommunications data of all citizens
and "No" to online searches, which enable the secret exploration of private computers.
We are in favor of a restrictive approach to RFID chips (Radio Frequency Identification: identification using electromagnetic waves).
We reject the increasingly extensive camera surveillance in public areas of life.
Surveillance-free communication with lawyers and doctors must remain guaranteed, as must the
right of journalists to protect their sources with impunity.
Many of the changes of the past four years have one thing in common: bit by bit, important achievements of our constitutional state are being dismantled.
We do not want an overbearing federal security agency.
In the meantime, however, the CDU/CSU and SPD have tasked the Federal Criminal Police Office with intelligence operations.
Initially, there was no provision at all for the Bundestag to monitor the intelligence services.
Now, control is to be shifted to the Parliamentary Control Committee, which meets in secret.
It is palpable that the entire work of the Federal Criminal Police Office (BKA) is thus only to be discussed there and removed from effective control by all members of parliament.
Anyone known to a suspect can be comprehensively monitored without even being informed after the fact.
The BKA law needs to be completely rewritten.
The testing of "nude scanners" at our airports went too far even for Interior Minister Schäuble.
He and Justice Minister Zypries are responsible for an airline passenger data agreement with the U.S. that even provides for the disclosure of information on sexual preferences or union membership.
That's incredible.
As if union membership or sexuality were something criminal.
We refuse to ratify this agreement
and will do everything in our power to ensure that similar agreements with other states do not come into being in the first place.
Traffic monitoring and crime fighting should not be conflated.
Gray areas must be outlined as clearly as possible and eliminated as far as possible.
We strongly oppose disproportionate data retention.
My data belongs to me
Data protection is a civil right, just like the protection of personality or postal and telecommunications secrecy.
That is why data protection should be included in the Basic Law, to make it visible and binding for everyone.
Because "my data belongs to me" and not to the department store, the mobile phone operator and certainly not to the state.
The state is encroaching on our data protection rights
and neglecting our protection against attacks in the non-public domain.
The long list of recent data protection scandals reveals huge gaps in protecting us from misuse of our personal data.
Data has also become a valuable economic asset.
They are not only collected and traded legally, but illegally on a huge scale.
Personal data on almost all citizens, including account numbers and consumer habits, is now in circulation and available on a thriving black market.
The right to informational self-determination over our data has become a farce
and illegal data trading have become a new form of white-collar crime.
Scoring agencies may not infer an individual's creditworthiness from geographic or demographic indicia.
In addition to a significant increase in the personnel capacities of data protection officers,
greater restrictions on data trading, and
also more controls, a comprehensive reform of data protection law is more than overdue.
The spy scandals at Deutsche Telekom and Deutsche Bahn AG, the video surveillance of Lidl right into the most intimate areas of employees, show the urgent need for a comprehensive employee data protection law
and the strengthening of company data protection officers.
Instead of more and more surveillance, we want to strengthen freedom of information.
We will create more transparency
and comprehensively expand the federal Freedom of Information Act.
But we also call for a fundamental improvement in government data protection efforts.
Time and again, data scandals also occur at public authorities.
Residents' registration data suddenly appears on the Internet, computers with sensitive data of citizens are stolen and thus fall into the hands of criminals.
We want to enable citizens to assert their rights as data protectors on their own behalf in the event of data misuse.
They should be able to defend themselves jointly in court, supported by associations, in the event of violations of data protection law.
As with the violation of personal rights, we want a claim for damages for data misuse.
Anyone who collects data and works with it must prove that it is handled in a strictly protected manner.
Companies must protect their customers' data in the same way they protect their trade secrets today.
In the future, violations of data privacy should no longer be trivial offenses.
The fears of civil rights activists and many physicians that the health card will open the door to data misuse must be taken very seriously.
The central storage of such extensive data carries an extremely high risk.
Therefore, the health card may only be introduced if an extensive risk analysis has been carried out.
The voluntary nature of participation
and the sovereignty over personal data must be guaranteed.
More than ten million weapons are privately owned in Germany.
We need to disarm.
We want to live in a civil society in which the principle applies: public spaces and private homes are gun-free.
As a matter of principle, we do not want firearms in the private home.
Sporting weapons belong in sports clubs.
Large caliber weapons may no longer be licensed for shooting sports.
Illegal weapons must also be taken out of circulation, and we need special incentives for this.
Integration through social participation
With the Green New Social Contract, we want to advance integration
and democratically shape the multicultural reality.
We want to break down blockades and open doors - also in upper floors and management functions.
For us, integration is the process of living within a valid legal framework,
with equal social opportunities
and cultural self-determination.
Society must promote social advancement for immigrants
and enable equal opportunities in all areas of life, especially in the world of work and education.
Earlier linguistic integration of all children is a key task here.
The state, society and the economy still far too often ignore the diverse skills and potential of migrants.
How much they lose in the process is clearly shown by the many success stories that also have to be told - and these are not just the TV presenter of Iraqi origin, the professional soccer player from Poland and the first German party chairman with Turkish roots, but in particular the esteemed Iranian colleague at work.
The labor market is a key to integration.
We are committed to increasing the political participation of migrants.
This includes local voting rights for non-EU citizens, in line with the time limits applicable to EU citizens.
The success or failure of integration policy is decided on the ground.
That is why we want to give local authorities more legal, political and financial instruments to promote integration.
Integration requires equal rights.
But integration is not a one-way street.
Integration means a challenge for everyone.
A willingness to engage in dialogue and change is necessary on all sides.
One thing is clear: the acceptance of fundamental rights,
of democracy
and the freedom of others, there is no cultural discount.
We want to make naturalization in Germany easier - also by making dual citizenship generally possible and by lowering the fees for naturalization.
Young Germans who also hold the passport of another state must be allowed to keep their German citizenship, even if they do not want to give up their other citizenship after their 23rd birthday.
The option obligation pushed through by the FDP must go.
We want to facilitate family reunification again.
According to a law passed by the grand coalition, spouses or partners must already acquire sufficient German language skills abroad.
This is supposed to protect against forced marriage.
In fact, however, the immigration from individual nations and population strata is specifically limited.
Language skills are essential for integration, but they can be acquired much better here in Germany.
People - mostly women - with lower social status are disadvantaged by the high cost of the courses.
We want to roll back these restrictions.
The protection of marriage and family and the right to freedom of movement must not apply only to a privileged few.
The victims of forced marriage need much more rights:
We want to provide those affected with protection under residence law
and the right to return to Germany.
Integration and recognition begin with the unconditional equality of EU citizens from the new EU member states.
We want to remove the obstacles to free movement that still exist here.
Stand up against right-wing extremism
The fight against right-wing extremism, ableism, anti-Semitism, racism and homophobia is also a fight for our democracy.
The number of right-wing extremist and racist crimes, especially acts of violence, is increasing at an alarming rate.
Entire regions have become zones of fear, where people with different skin color, different language, disabilities, or even different hairstyles can no longer move around safely.
Again and again, brutal assaults by right-wing radicals shake up the public, but hundreds of other acts of violence a year are mentioned at most in a marginal note in the newspapers.
And brown ideas are also widespread in the middle of society.
We as a society can no longer accept this!
We must create a social climate that removes the ground from right-wing extremism.
We must outlaw right-wing extremist propaganda and all forms of racism and anti-Semitism and
use all constitutional means to prevent them.
A central point here is information about the crimes of the Nazi era - in schools, the media, through memorials such as the former concentration camps, the Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe and other memorials for Sinti and Roma, euthanasia victims and homosexuals.
We need to make right-wing extremist structures transparent
and remove their financial breeding ground.
We need attractive democratic networks that make counter-offers.
Civil society initiatives against right-wing extremism activate democratic forces, provide expert advice, help victims and publicly promote more diversity, openness and tolerance.
People who do this - often volunteer - work deserve all our respect.
But for their work, they also need solid and lasting financial support.
Finally, the fight against right-wing extremism also includes resolutely standing up for equal treatment and against discrimination.
We need mobile victim counseling teams throughout the country to prevent victims of right-wing extremist crimes from withdrawing from public life out of fear.
The police and judiciary must be sensitized to right-wing extremist structures
and exhaust all legal possibilities to make it more difficult for right-wing extremists to operate.
Even if it is not a panacea against right-wing extremism, we want to examine a new NPD ban procedure.
Equalize Islam - Integrate Islam
Today, Islam is the second largest religious group in Germany.
With the immigration of recent decades came not only workers, but also millions of believers who do not belong to the Christian churches or the Jewish religion.
The Basic Law also guarantees them equal individual and collective religious freedom within the framework of the free democratic basic order.
Of course, Muslim religious communities are also allowed to build representative mosques.
We GREENS will always actively defend this right against attacks from the right on religious freedom.
We resolutely oppose Islamophobia.
In terms of integration policy, the training of Islamic clergy and religious teachers in Germany is necessary.
So far, however, this has required recognized religious communities.
The federal and state governments must finally reach a binding agreement with Muslim organizations on how to arrive at one or more recognized Muslim religious communities within the current religious constitutional law.
Many building blocks of equality for Islam can already be implemented at the state level and in the municipalities:
from the establishment of Islamic cemeteries to pastoral care in hospitals and prisons - some of which has already been realized today.
Integration of Islam is more than formal equality.
Nor is it enough to set up a German Islam Conference that achieves no binding results whatsoever.
We expect all religious organizations that seek deeper cooperation with the state to work for the realization of human rights.
We already see Islamic organizations as part of German civil society
and combine our support for equal rights with expectations of social responsibility on the part of the associations and clubs.
We expect them to actively stand up for the religious freedom of non-Muslims,
for the freedom to change religion
and for full rights of self-determination for women.
Anyone who pressures a woman or girl to wear or not wear a headscarf or certain clothing is violating her right to self-determination.
Integration also includes actively opposing anti-Semitism
and condemning discrimination and violence against homosexuals.
We also support forces within all religious communities that are dedicated to this cause.
We Greens resolutely oppose Islamic extremism.
Terror and propaganda not only threaten life in a free society, they also contribute to the buildup of mistrust and prejudice between Muslims and non-Muslims.
Protection for persecuted refugees
Terrible tragedies are taking place on Europe's southern coasts.
Every year, men, women and children drown, starve or die of thirst miserably trying to cross the Mediterranean or the Atlantic to Europe in unseaworthy boats.
Numerous reports speak of a rigid practice of turning away and pushing back even on the high seas - including with German participation.
This is done within the framework of the EU border management agency FRONTEX
and without any real parliamentary control.
It is inhumane that Europe reacts to people seeking protection with a policy of closure that has already caused thousands of deaths at the EU's external borders.
We want to change that.
We want a shaped immigration policy
and a human rights-oriented asylum and refugee policy.
We want an EU that protects people wherever necessary, not turns them away.
That is why we reject the sealing off of the EU's external borders.
Although hardly any refugees reach us anymore, the grand coalition has further tightened the isolation.
Germany is thus not living up to its humanitarian responsibility in the world.
The right of asylum must be there for all people who need its protection.
To complement the existing asylum system, we want to set up a resettlement program - a matter of course for our Scandinavian neighbors.
We stand for a refugee policy based on the Geneva Refugee Convention and the European Convention on Human Rights.
By their standards, the treatment of asylum seekers in our country is often not humane.
Refugees must not be deported to countries where human rights are systematically violated and there is a threat to life, limb and freedom.
Nor can states be considered safe third countries if they do not guarantee full protection under the Geneva Refugee Convention.
During the asylum process, refugees are assigned to a specific reception facility.
In principle, they are not allowed to leave the assigned place.
This residency requirement violates the right to freedom of movement.
It should be abolished,
as well as inhumane collective accommodations called "exit centers"
and the airport procedure, in which asylum-seeking people are already detained at the airport.
The high number of revocation proceedings against positive asylum decisions by the Federal Office for Refugees and Migration (BAMF) is a humanitarian and integration policy scandal.
This is unique in Europe in this form.
We advocate for the comprehensive implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in our country
and the withdrawal of German reservations, which have a particularly negative impact on refugee children.
The Federal Republic still deports children and young people who know no other home than Germany.
We want to put an end to this scandal.
We want a generous right of residence for people who have been living here for many years and who have so far only been tolerated.
This is the only way to finally give them a secure perspective for the future.
The right to stay regulation adopted by the grand coalition does not do justice to this because it contains too many grounds for exclusion as well as petty bureaucratic conditions that cannot be met by most tolerated persons.
The third-country rule is inhumane.
We advocate a right to asylum in the Basic Law that is worthy of its name.
The Asylum Seekers Benefits Act with its inhumane provisions must go.
Its special regulations place refugees below the socio-cultural subsistence level.
We therefore support the EU Commission's proposal to improve the minimum social standards for asylum seekers and also to grant them the right to work more quickly.
We are committed to ensuring that people without the right of residence have access to basic and emergency medical care
and that their children can attend kindergartens and schools without hindrance.
To achieve this, the obligation of public bodies to report to the foreigners authorities must be eliminated.
We want to enable ways to legalize residence.
People who have done nothing more than seek refuge in Germany are in custody pending deportation.
We are committed to ending this inhumane situation.
Until then, we demand at least compliance with human rights standards, no detention of persons in particular need of protection, separation of criminal detention and civil detention, and limitation of detention pending deportation to as short a period as possible, but no more than six months.
The United Nations Refugee Agency estimates that some 25 million people are currently on the run as a result of environmental disasters in their own countries because they have lost their livelihoods.
As the effects of ongoing climate change become more pronounced, this number will increase dramatically.
Equal rights for lesbians, gays and transgender people
Lesbians, gays and transgender people live more freely in Germany today than ever before.
With the Civil Partnership Act, we have succeeded in creating a small cultural revolution for acceptance.
Nevertheless, homophobic slogans are still part of everyday life in soccer stadiums, in some music scenes and especially in schoolyards, and there are increasing reports of anti-homosexual violence.
We need a National Action Plan against Homophobia and Transphobia, involving all social groups including religious communities.
Gay and lesbian self-help, social and civil rights work must be encouraged.
Our central concern here is to strengthen anti-violence, anti-discrimination and counseling work.
We want to legally rehabilitate and compensate the victims of anti-homosexual criminal legislation in Germany.
In the equality article of our constitution, it must finally be added that no one may be discriminated against because of sexual identity.
Gay and transgender rights are a matter of democracy
and human rights.
This is also why we are fighting for full equality for same-sex civil partnerships
and humane transsexual rights.
We call for the opening of marriage to lesbian and gay couples, including adoption rights.
Similarly, the option of artificial insemination must be open to civil partners, unmarried people and single people
Rainbow families, i.e. same-sex families with children, must not be disadvantaged.
German human rights policy must take a clear position towards countries that trample on the human rights of gays, lesbians and transgender people.
This applies to Tehran just as it does to Jamaica, Moscow and the Vatican City State.
Especially in view of the past persecution of homosexuals in our country, Germany has a special responsibility to protect and support gay and lesbian human rights defenders worldwide, for example through a foundation.
Against discrimination
Our society is characterized by a diversity of lifestyles:
In order to enable diversity and guarantee human rights, no one may be discriminated against on the basis of gender, ethnic origin, religion or belief, racialized attributions, disability, age or sexual identity.
We have largely enforced this ban on discrimination politically for the world of work, business and everyday life.
Both the CDU/CSU and the FDP are still fighting against this today - in Germany and at the European level.
They see freedom primarily as elbow room and believe that the market will already ensure equality.
The grand coalition is also blocking a comprehensive and strong European anti-discrimination policy in Brussels.
We want to break up this irresponsible anti-human rights policy.
Public grants and contracts must be linked to compliance with the prohibition of discrimination.
We will kiss the Federal Anti-Discrimination Agency awake from its slumber.
We mean the freedom to be different without fear and to
have equal opportunities and rights.
We stand for a policy of diversity and for a clear edge against discrimination.
Human rights for transsexual and intersexual people must also be fully guaranteed.
Intersex people born with ambiguous sex characteristics should not be subjected to medically unnecessary gender reassignment surgeries.
That's why we advocate allowing gender ambiguity and call for people who don't want to live as female or male to be able to register under a third gender.
We GREENS are committed to the equality of national minorities.
Therefore, we demand equal financial support for cultural and educational institutions of the Sinti and Roma as well as the Sorbian, Danish and Frisian minorities.
We want the protection of the four national minorities in Germany to be guaranteed by the Basic Law.
Against the restriction of the freedom of assembly
As GREENS, we also fight for our political demands on the streets.
But it is precisely at demonstrations that one is confronted again and again with the repression of an escalating security state.
For us, civil rights must also be enforced on the streets.
We call for a change of course in the strategy of the police and the ministries of the interior.
We also call for higher requirements for police use of film cameras against demonstrators.
Even without "imminent danger," demonstrations are regularly filmed without it being clear what happens to the footage.
In addition, all police officers must wear their service numbers on their backs in a clearly recognizable manner.
Only in this way is it possible for those affected by violations of fundamental rights to take action against the police officers responsible
and to demand legal protection in court.
In order to be able to sustainably evaluate police strategies, we advocate for an independent institution that follows up on police operations.
Citizen justice
You can't buy it, but it doesn't come for free: an independent judiciary that is close to its citizens and works quickly and effectively.
Citizens must have the certainty of being able to obtain justice in a reasonable amount of time, regardless of their pocketbook.
This has its price.
We strongly oppose a cash-strapped judicial policy
and reject the idea of cutting legal aid and counseling assistance.
Social courts must remain free of charge as a matter of principle.
We want to strengthen the possibility of out-of-court settlements, for example through mediation.
Judicial independence is a guarantor of a judiciary based on the rule of law.
We will participate in the discussion within the judiciary about stronger self-governance.
We reject a merger of social and administrative courts without proof of benefit.
We want to reform the election of judges to the Federal Constitutional Court.
It is not acceptable that CDU/CSU and SPD negotiate the composition of the Federal Constitutional Court among themselves and practically without parliament.
We need more transparency in the election of judges to federal courts
and the active promotion of women.
We want to reform the punishment system.
Even if it is uncomfortable to sometimes stand up to a mood whipped up by mass media:
we stand by the principle of resocialization.
Criminal acts belong punished, but the community is better served by returning offenders to society than by simply locking them away.
In many cases, there are smarter solutions than incarceration.
It should be possible to replace particularly short prison sentences with community service.
But the best approach to preventing crime is prevention in the social environment.
Therefore, we finally need a national prevention strategy that takes social and economic aspects into account and possibly makes repression superfluous there.
We want to strengthen victim assistance institutions
and further improve compensation for victims of violent crime.
For adolescents and youth, we insist on the primacy of education over punishment.
We want to expand the possibilities of juvenile criminal law
and oppose all attempts to treat delinquent adolescents and young people as adults.
A criminal law based on the rule of law can do without key witnesses.
We want to restrict the proliferation of preventive detention to the most serious cases.
There are always people who are wrongly convicted.
Even if this injustice is cleared up, these people have to sue for reparations - as far as this is possible at all - sometimes laboriously.
We Greens demand a central contact point for the victims of these miscarriages of justice
and clear rules on how these people can be helped and under which circumstances financial reparations are to be made.
We want to significantly increase prison compensation for those wrongfully imprisoned.
Freedom must always be worth that to us.
For a citizens' rights-based EU justice and home affairs policy
Freedom, security and justice can no longer be guaranteed in a national context alone.
The prosecution of serious transnational crime or international terrorism requires close cooperation with European partner countries and beyond.
The balance between freedom and security must also be right in European justice and home affairs policy.
Unfortunately, this is not always the case - the grand coalition bears a considerable share of the responsibility for this.
German European policy must defend people's individual rights.
This also includes strengthening data protection at the European level
and the EU Data Protection Supervisor.
Further expansion of police and judicial cooperation
must go hand in hand with binding guarantees to protect civil rights.
Who votes GREEN, ... - ... putsan end to secret computer research
and data retention.
- ... bring data protection into the Basic Law. - ...
facilitates naturalization,
strengthens integration
and protects refugees.
- ... does not play civil rights off against internal security. -
... shows the red card to all forms of discrimination
and strengthens the rights of gays and lesbians. ...
9. dare democracy - no output without input
Democracy has become quiet in our country.
At best, it is discussed when voter turnout has dropped again or right-wing radicalism continues to rise.
Instead, everyone is calling for more efficiency, more competence, more quality.
But without the commitment and voice of those affected, there can be no good results.
Without democracy there is neither justice nor freedom.
Without good input, there is no good output.
60 years after the adoption of the Basic Law and 20 years after the peaceful revolution in East Germany, we therefore say: We want to dare more democracy again.
There can be no Green New Social Contract without a renewal of our democracy.
The political space is changing rapidly.
Political responsibility is often difficult to assign.
Changing levels of political decision-making due to European integration, globalization and economic dissolution, as well as numerous other factors, are contributing to the transformation of our democratic practice:
The role of the media has changed, the five-party system is a thing of the past, experts and commissions define what is supposedly beneficial to the common good.
Lobbyists from interest-driven think tanks are gaining an ever greater influence on legislation.
More and more people doubt that their voice matters at all.
All of this calls for new responses to strengthen democracy.
With the New Social Contract, we therefore want to reflect with you on the future of our democracy.
We want to use our minds and our passion to develop new ideas and viable approaches here.
Democracy needs a new institutional policy aimed at participation, voice and transparency.
Public institutions concern us all!
And it needs a new Republicanism.
Democracy in action needs civic involvement, social movements and constructive debate about the common good.
Our party - BÜNDNIS 90/DIE GRÜNEN - has developed out of the extra-parliamentary movements.
Today, as in the past, we see ourselves as part of the anti-nuclear and ecological movement, the women's movement, the movement critical of globalization, the peace movement and the civil rights movement.
Today, as then, democracy needs strong extra-parliamentary voices to set the political system in motion,
and many committed people to enrich the quality of our life together.
This is all the more urgent at the international level, where the regulatory power of the traditional parties is still too limited.
The co-determination of social movements and non-governmental organizations in European and international organizations is therefore of great importance.
We GREENS want more openness in decision-making at the international level in order to put the important regulations for global problems on a democratic ground.
Democracy needs civic engagement
Precisely because our party grew out of movements and carries within it the idea of interference, initiative and commitment, we know the importance of civic engagement.
Civic engagement must be an integral part of our society and is not a substitute for government tasks.
We see commitment as both a necessity and an opportunity for society as well as for the individual.
Engagement means social and cultural participation and personal development for each and every one of us.
For the future of our community, commitment means creativity and solidarity.
We want to strengthen this commitment and ensure that it receives the necessary support.
We want to encourage people who volunteer and work for free, and make it easier for those who do not.
We need reliable framework conditions, little bureaucracy, institutions that open up, recognition and competent local points of contact.
Therefore, we will work to secure infrastructure facilities.
A vibrant civil society needs the interference, creativity and participation of many people, young and old, that is what distinguishes it.
For us, daring to be more democratic means making gender democracy a reality.
In the Bundestag, the proportion of women is just 32 percent, but in the local and state parliaments it is considerably lower.
The green women's quota is a success story - and yet much remains to be done.
Daring to be more democratic means taking multicultural diversity into account.
Democracy needs mutual recognition of diversity
as well as the common recognition of freedom,
Democracy
and the rule of law.
A democracy is strong when women and men are equally represented in its parliaments.
We will work to create the basis for this, analogous to the French Parity Act, so that more women are represented in parliaments.
We need a renewal of democracy at the various levels - from the community to Europe.
And we need a renewal of our democracy in the different places of society - in school, in university, in working life or in health care.
Revival of the commune
In the municipalities, citizens shape their lives together locally.
This is where democracy and politics are experienced most intensively.
Local politics affects people directly on their doorstep.
Municipalities are thus important nuclei of democratic society
and civic engagement.
We want to encourage local authorities to play this role proactively.
If the right to a kindergarten place is decided at the federal level, it must be implemented in the municipalities.
The municipalities have to bear the consequences of an education policy that does not provide equal opportunities.
The municipalities have to bear the consequences of a wrong mobility policy.
On the other hand, the municipalities also have the ideas and the people to tackle all these problems locally.
However, you must have the legal means to do so.
Where federal and state competencies are directly affected, we rely on an extended right of co-determination for the municipalities.
We want to create a constitutional right for local authorities to be heard in legislative processes.
This should make it possible to bring the expertise of the municipalities from the execution of the laws into the legislative process and in this way contribute to legislation that is closer to the citizens.
In the course of the federalism reform, we want to expand local self-government and strengthen its protection against state intervention.
Democracy in the community needs the voice of all.
Non-EU citizens should therefore also be given the right to vote in local elections.
The municipalities also need a solid financial basis to be able to fulfill their tasks.
The gap between rich and poor communities is widening.
In order for cities and municipalities to be able to provide their services - from water supply to educational and cultural facilities - to all citizens at a high level of quality, they must be guaranteed a minimum level of financial resources in the constitution.
We want to help cities and communities have a greater say in federal and state legislation.
We advocate the right of local authorities to be consulted at federal level.
To ensure that the costs of new legislation are not passed on to the municipalities by the federal and state governments - as has happened in the past - we want to make sure that whoever orders the services also pays for them.
The federal government must be given the opportunity to transfer tasks to the municipalities and to provide them directly with the financial resources they require.
We are retaining the trade tax and want to develop it into a municipal business tax.
All local businesses should contribute to the financing of municipal tasks.
In the future, property tax must be levied on the basis of updated standard land values and according to land use.
Municipalities should not only participate in the care of the long-term unemployed, but also be able to carry it out on their own.
Democratically constituted regions
Whether it's working, living, shopping or organizing health care, garbage collection or local transport - our living environment is becoming increasingly organized on a regional basis.
Old conflicts, such as inter-municipal competition, commercial settlements and burden-sharing between core cities and their surrounding areas, persist.
In many places, the possibilities for solving problems transcend old county boundaries.
They have become regional.
We therefore need democratically legitimized institutions that organize and represent these diversely interwoven living and economic spaces;
that counter the enormous challenges of demographic development, economic structural and climate change, and economic competition between regions with a coordinated strategy.
In addition to strengthening the municipalities, the regional principle must now come to the fore.
This requires democratically constituted regions that can cope with the supra-local tasks involved and with which the citizens can identify.
Strong and transparent parliamentarism
Democracy needs strong and transparent parliaments.
We therefore want to strengthen the legislative branch - both with regard to an executive branch that is becoming increasingly independent and with regard to a judiciary that is making more and more decisions.
Parliaments are the democratic places where the important social issues are to be decided within the framework of the Constitution.
We oppose the relegation of these questions to expert commissions as well as the relegation of responsibility to the Federal Constitutional Court.
We Greens also want to prevent the creeping transfer of parliamentary tasks to the executive branch.
Like the USA, we want a parliament that can control the government with its own budget figures ("budget office").
We advocate the confirmation of supervisory board representatives of the state in parliament.
Expert opinions must be published quickly.
International negotiations must become a topic in parliament in advance.
An extension of the legislative period can only be considered if, at the same time, citizens' decision-making rights are strengthened through direct democratic elements.
In order to strengthen parliaments, the work of lobbyists must be controlled and made transparent.
Citizens must be better able to understand which associations and companies have influenced a law, whether at national or European level.
We demand waiting periods for ministers and state secretaries moving to the private sector if there is a conflict of interest between their old and new jobs.
The involvement of lobbyists in ministries must be stopped, and
a mandatory lobbyist register should make transparent who is lobbying for whom and how much money is involved.
Corruption destroys democratic structures.
We want to consistently criminalize bribery and corruptibility of members of parliament.
Germany must finally ratify the UN Convention against Corruption.
The best remedy against corruption is transparency.
What is needed is a nationwide corruption register of companies that have attracted attention through white-collar crime.
We need effective protection for whistle-blowers who inform the public about abuses in companies and public authorities.
Laws understandable for all
Laws today often contain so many exceptions and individual regulations that they are hardly understandable and manageable anymore.
The concrete consequence of this, for example in social legislation, is that many citizens have to work their way through pages and pages of application forms and no longer understand the decision from the office.
For democratic debate, however, it is essential that interested citizens are able to understand how certain decisions in parliament will later play out in reality.
Parliaments should therefore pay more attention to clarity of the law and clarity in legislation.
The claim to cover every conceivable individual case with its own provision must also be abandoned.
Open parties
Parties are important venues for democracy and the articulation of political opinions.
This is the decisive factor in determining who represents the citizens in the parliaments.
Here, cross-thematic political concepts are formulated that bundle world views and interests.
Populist resentment against parliaments and parties is dangerous for our democracy.
This makes it all the more problematic that the parties are losing trust and binding power.
In the parties, tens of thousands of committed people do important work for our democracy.
Nevertheless, it is up to the parties to open up and make room for new people with new ideas.
We GREENS want a party culture that invites women and men to participate and debate instead of closing itself off.
In this context, in view of demographic change and its far-reaching consequences, it is absolutely essential to also specifically motivate people with a migration background to participate in party politics.
We Greens are committed to a party culture that is open to lateral entrants and also allows for project-based, time-limited cooperation, making it attractive to young people in particular.
Strengthen direct democracy
Voting alone is not enough.
Democracy's procedures must do justice to voters' differentiated political attitudes.
Important decisions require broad social discussion and legitimation.
We want citizens to be able to decide on important federal policy issues between elections by means of popular initiative, popular petition and referendum - while guaranteeing fundamental rights and the protection of minorities - even if it costs money to implement them.
We support mandatory referendums on amendments to the Basic Law and on the ratification of new EU treaties.
European democracy
Common European decisions increasingly determine our lives.
That is why we need more democracy in Europe.
We therefore advocate the Treaty of Lisbon, which makes the EU's decision-making structures more transparent
and the role of both the European Parliament
and national parliaments in European policy.
The European Parliament needs its own right of legislative initiative
and expanded budgetary powers.
Particularly important to us are the legally binding nature of the Charter of Fundamental Rights
and the European citizens' initiative, with which one million EU citizens can oblige the EU Commission to submit a draft law.
Democracy in Europe needs a strong European public sphere
and a lively exchange across borders, with shared media and cross-border debates.
Many young people are already showing us how it's done.
And Europe needs strong democratic institutions.
That is why we want to further strengthen the European Parliament vis-à-vis the Commission and the Council of Ministers - they should be equal legislators in foreign and security policy,
in social policy,
in budgetary and tax policy.
The Bundestag must finally be able to fully play its central role in monitoring and helping to shape the Council's legislation.
The black-red coalition has so far refused to put all its cards on the table as agreed.
As at the federal level, appropriate transparency rules and barriers to lobbying must also be created in Europe.
Expert groups advising the EU Commission must be composed in a transparent and balanced manner.
We also need intensive efforts in building common European parties, associations and social movements.
To breathe life into European citizenship, we are fighting to ensure that EU citizens who have lived in another EU state for more than five years have the right to vote in all elections there.
We want all people living in Europe to participate in European policy through European citizens' petitions, referendums and EU-wide referendums.
They should not only decide on the composition of parliament every five years, but actually have a say in politics.
And we want the Charter of Fundamental Rights to finally become legally binding.
A voice for youth
We want to whet young people's appetites for democracy and not scare them off with sham participation.
We want to empower young people through strong youth representation at all political levels.
and the right to vote from the age of 16.
All relevant studies in recent years have come to the conclusion that young people are by no means disaffected with politics and passive, but are very much interested in political events.
In this situation, it is important to offer young people alternative forms of political activity.
That is why we are particularly committed to spaces and projects that are organized by young people in a self-determined way.
Youth associations make an important contribution to this.
Where young people are heard and understood, youth participation is an entry point for further political activity and the best foundation for our democracy.
Participation in school and university
Schools and universities are important places where democracy can be tested.
Learning through democracy only takes place in a school that is stimulating, experimental, and error-friendly.
It is a contradiction if the teacher considers the learners to be immature and at the same time demands independence and own judgment.
This achieves the opposite: a lack of independence, insufficient self-confidence and orientation towards predefined solutions.
Learners need "alone time" in forums such as class councils or school conferences and participatory, project-based forms of learning.
The democratic school is characterized by openness and plurality.
It promotes an inquiry-based attitude toward learning and exploratory discovery and invention.
We want to initiate a critical debate about the role of churches and religious communities in the education system.
What is started in school must be continued and pushed in college.
We are committed to a democratically constituted university and co-determination by students, employees and professors.
Co-determination in labor and business
We also need more say and co-determination in business and labor.
We want to strengthen employee co-determination in companies.
The formation of works councils and trade union organizations are important prerequisites for this.
In the future, the employee side should be legally strengthened in decisions on major corporate restructuring - such as sales of relevant company shares or outsourcing.
Works councils must be given a mandatory right of co-determination in the reconciliation of interests and must be able to co-determine the deployment of temporary workers.
In the future, parity co-determination will apply to all companies with 1,000 or more employees.
Third-party co-determination is to be introduced for 200 to 1,000 employees.
We want to concretize the "corporate interest" in stock corporation law.
In this way, management boards and supervisory boards are to be obliged to gear their actions not only to "shareholder value" but also to the interests of employees and the common good.
Co-determination must also be guaranteed in companies with a European legal form.
We will therefore work to ensure that national codetermination rules and their further development are not jeopardized by the conversion of companies with a formerly national legal form into companies with a European legal form.
We also want to achieve more economic democracy by giving employees a greater share in the productive capital of companies.
At the same time, we want to strengthen the participation rights of shareholders - especially small shareholders - in companies that are listed on the stock exchange.
Those who vote Green ... - ... vote for strong municipalities. - ...
strengthens parliaments
and creates more transparency in politics.
- ... votes more often: with referendums and plebiscites. - ...
lowers the voting age to 16
and introduces the right to vote in local elections for migrants.
- ... strengthens works councils - also in the event of company takeovers and relocations.
10: Something New in the East - Prospects for the Old and New Länder
Twenty years after the peaceful revolution and the fall of the Wall, the eastern German states are hardly recognizable.
An enormous structural change has turned many things upside down there.
A lot was demanded of the people in the process.
Many have managed this admirably and have proven themselves in transition.
This can justifiably fill people with pride and is an expression of the enormous change.
And it is a mandate for solidarity in the future.
This is an important part of the New Social Contract we are proposing.
Twenty years after the peaceful revolution, BÜNDNIS 90/DIE GRÜNEN as a civic-minded party want to remember the courage and courageousness of the people who pushed through the peaceful revolution with their protest.
It was the peaceful struggle that the people of the GDR waged for their democratic rights that contributed decisively to the fall of the Honecker regime, the tearing down of the walls in Europe, and the end of the Cold War era.
Then as now, it is the human being with his dignity and his striving for freedom to which our policy is committed.
Democracy in action is a core value.
But we know that democracy must be defended day after day - in the East and in the West.
Twenty years after unification, there is still a lot to be done.
Many young people in the East, especially highly qualified women, see no opportunities for themselves, feel social blockades and emigrate.
Due to a lack of prospects, the region is losing creativity, growth and employment.
Reconstruction East" cannot be done as a replica West.
What is needed are innovative concepts and convincing mission statements.
East Germany's opportunities lie in independent development and the development of its own energies and potential.
Challenges facing Germany as a whole, such as demographic development and globalization, are encountering regional peculiarities in eastern Germany and are becoming particularly acute.
A goal-oriented and differentiated approach is therefore required.
In this respect, regions in western Germany undergoing structural change can learn from those in eastern Germany.
This is because there are areas in which these federal states have better starting conditions for mastering new challenges than the western German states.
In early childhood education, for example, 95 percent of all preschool-age children attend full-day kindergarten.
Our goal is to establish the East as a center of education, but this will require increased investment and improved framework conditions to encourage people to seize their opportunities here.
Economic development that works
Unfortunately, the Solidarity Pact still primarily considers construction and fixed-asset investments to be real "investments," so that five times more money flows into transportation infrastructure and traditional economic development than into education, innovation, research and development.
We want to use the funds from the solidarity pact primarily for research and education.
Because instead of building ten kilometers of highway, you could also finance a Fraunhofer Institute.
We want to convert the investment allowance into an innovation allowance.
There are many topics for a green future fund financed in this way: Sustainable energy concepts, the creative industries, the needs of the elderly, immigration or tourism.
And also medical care in rural areas,
the nationwide infrastructure in the area of early childhood education,
the after-school care centers
or innovative solutions for municipal services of general interest in a shrinking society are important starting points for economic creativity.
We associate urban redevelopment above all with creating a higher quality of life and living, because we want to strengthen the inner cities, preserve old buildings and promote diverse forms of living in urban redevelopment areas.
To implement good ideas, we rely on microloans.
It is particularly important to us: applicants should not waste their energy and time trying to adapt their ideas to funding guidelines and force them into a technocratic administrative logic.
Management must adapt, not creativity.
Expanding energy and environmental technologies
Very large economic development potentials for the new federal states lie in the future fields, some of which are still young and research-intensive.
In the field of energy and environmental technology, for example, eastern Germany has already established itself as a leading location.
70,000 jobs have been created, and the trend is upward.
Electricity generation from the sun, wind and water already covers 50 percent of demand in many regions.
Our goal is to develop eastern Germany's energy supply to be 100 percent renewable in the medium term.
This creates tens of thousands of jobs. Lignite-fired power generation and new opencast mines, on the other hand, have proven to be an economic brake.
New open-pit mines are destroying landscapes, wiping out villages and driving people from their homes.
We therefore want to phase out lignite production in the medium term.
Sustainable agriculture
Traditionally, the east is characterized by a disproportionate share of the agricultural and food industry.
Here, the industrialization of agriculture and animal husbandry is being driven forward particularly intensively with fewer and fewer employees.
At the same time, the cultivation of genetically modified plants has so far taken place almost exclusively in eastern Germany.
We focus on economically and ecologically sustainable production: climate-friendly, environmentally friendly and employment-intensive.
And we want eastern Germany to become GMO-free.
Organic farming has a special role to play.
We focus on agriculture in harmony with nature.
We want to boost the supply and demand for GMO-free, regionally and organically produced quality products and promote them better.
We want better and more reliable framework conditions for the promotion of organic farming
and a significant increase in conversion and retention premiums.
Through special support programs, we want to ensure that a higher proportion of the value added by processing takes place in the region.
This creates jobs in agriculture
and in small and medium-sized processing companies.
Prospects for young people
We want to strengthen the east as a place to live and work in such a way that young people can see their future here and lead a life with an income to live on.
It should be attractive for them to come back if they have been away, or even to move east anew.
The right to a qualified school-leaving certificate
and training, we want to ensure this through a nationwide network of production schools in which vocational training is combined with employment-oriented production.
This is because too many young people in eastern Germany fail to make the transition from school to training.
They are often forced into months and years of waiting in the transition system.
This is a scandalous waste of talent and life time that we want to put an end to.
Strengthening East German universities
Study conditions at some eastern German universities and universities of applied sciences are above average.
We want to build on this strength so that more first-year students take the opportunity to study in the East.
Innovative study programs, good supervision ratios and attractive locations are important building blocks here.
We want to decouple the number of study places from regional demand and thus also reward the eastern German universities for their above-average educational performance.
For us, brains are the capital and education is the locational advantage of the East par excellence.
We want to develop better family-friendly study programs and academic conditions, for example by offering a comprehensive range of part-time study places and university-owned daycare centers.
However, the eastern German universities and colleges are also important regional stability factors, innovation centers, creative forges and thus important drivers of sustainable economic development in eastern Germany.
Equal treatment in old age
In the case of pensions, there must be no unequal valuation of lifetime achievements between East and West.
The revaluation of earning points in the East is therefore justified.
The above-average level of long-term unemployment and significantly lower per capita income in eastern Germany will mean that eastern pensions will be lower than western pensions in the future.
We do not want to and cannot resign ourselves to this.
That is why we provide for an upward revaluation of compensation for low-wage earners.
For us, this is an important step in the fight against poverty among the elderly.
Preserving authentic places of remembrance
Along the former inner-German border exists today a habitat for animals and plants that have become rare.
This Green Belt is an authentic place of remembrance of the division of Germany.
We want to keep it as such, especially for those born after 1989.
The border installations - wire fences, ditches, watchtowers and self-propelled guns - must remain tangible in their enormity and accessible to the public.
We will support museums and memorial sites and the associations that support them in their work and their efforts to professionalize, also in order to prevent a transfiguration of the time of the SED dictatorship.
Honor nature conservation and take advantage of near-natural development opportunities
Eastern Germany is rich in natural areas that are still intact.
With their many large-scale protected areas, for example more than half of all German national parks, the eastern German states make an above-average contribution to nature and species conservation.
With over 90 percent of the areas of the national natural heritage, the eastern German states assume great responsibility for safeguarding ecologically valuable areas.
We want these services to be adequately rewarded financially, thus creating incentives to significantly strengthen nature conservation.
The protection of nature is also an important impulse for the slowly developing nature-based tourism in the rural regions of eastern Germany.
This development must be strengthened instead of being jeopardized by bad investments such as the Bombodrom in the Kyritz-Ruppiner Heide or the continuation of the A 14 between Magdeburg and Schwerin.
Those who vote GREEN ... - ... vote for a self-confident democratic culture.
- ... makes the East attractive for young people.
- ... backs renewable energies and organic farming instead of lignite and genetic engineering.
- ... makes the East a center of innovation and not an extended workbench.
- ... votes for a uniform and fair pension system in East and West.
11. half the power - gender equality
Equality remains an unfulfilled promise.
Little has happened here in the last four years, and gender equality policy has been a blank spot in the grand coalition's policies.
Whether it is the level of wages, career opportunities or the double burden of family and career,
these blockades must be overcome in order to get things moving again in gender relations.
The Green New Social Contract is based on a new solidarity between the sexes.
We want to say goodbye to the model of the single breadwinner, who has to support the family with his salary, as well as to that of the part-time additional earner, who cannot secure her own existence.
We want women and men to treat each other as equals, to
have equal opportunities and rights
, and for sexism in everyday life to finally be a thing of the past.
Equality between women and men is a key justice issue for us.
This requires the right institutional framework, legislation in family, labor and tax law that promotes equality, and secure social systems.
Women's policy is a separate policy area that should not be equated with family policy.
Equitable family policies have a huge impact on gender equality.
A young generation of women has confidently claimed feminism for itself.
For despite the successes of the women's movement, much remains to be done and some achievements must be fought for again and again.
This applies to equality in the labor market as well as in private life.
Young women want to have a career and children without becoming financially dependent - whether on their husband, partner or the state.
We need a feminism for the new age that is solidarity-based and intergenerational.
Allies in this can be a new generation of men, raised with working mothers and well-educated sisters, who have already experienced equality in everyday life.
The old social contract was also based on the fact that "women at the hearth" largely left the world of work, politics and power to men.
He made a big difference out of a small difference.
The work program towards a gender-equal society is extensive and demands something from all of us.
The departure from the supposed security of a traditional gender order, however, also entails more choices and thus more freedom and self-determination for all.
Equality in the labor market
In many areas of the labor market, traditional gender roles tenaciously persist.
To change that, we also have to start in many places.
Typical female occupations are still lower paid, and the proportion of mothers in full-time jobs is falling.
The "glass ceiling" is still intact and impermeable, and the proportion of women in management positions is hardly increasing.
And despite all the family rhetoric of the grand coalition: there are few mothers in management positions.
The working hours of mothers are decreasing, those of fathers are increasing.
Reconciling children and work remains an unresolved problem that falls predominantly on women, but increasingly affects men as well.
We cannot and will not afford this injustice or this waste of resources any longer.
We need an equality law for the private sector, with personnel development plans and clear targets for recruitment, qualification and assessment.
The design of the measures is to be handled flexibly according to sectors and company sizes.
Public contracts are to be awarded preferentially to companies that take equality seriously.
And we are committed to ensuring that at least 50 percent of supervisory board members are women.
The Norwegian example shows that such a quota works.
To support this concern, a central database of potential female supervisory board members is to be set up and further developed, in which interested women can voluntarily register.
We are also committed to ensuring that more women are represented on company boards
, and we want to attract more women as entrepreneurs.
When it comes to choosing an apprenticeship, university place and career, we want to support young women and young men in increasingly trying out new paths.
Then there would also be less shortage of skilled workers.
In order to make the potential of young migrant women visible, we advocate strengthening migrant women's networks, increasing the proportion of migrant women in the public sector, and facilitating the recognition of professional qualifications that were not acquired in Germany.
We want all women, regardless of whether they are entitled to unemployment benefit II or not, to be able to benefit from active labor market policies again.
Precisely because the starting conditions for women and men in the labor market are different, women need gender-sensitive counseling and support.
Independent existence
We are aiming for a significant increase in the female employment rate, but not through mini-jobs and precarious employment, as has been the case to date.
Because that only creates new problems like poverty of women in old age.
We need a restructuring of social insurance and the tax system, in which partner-derived entitlements are prospectively abolished in favor of individual coverage.
This includes, for example, a citizens' health insurance scheme that provides coverage regardless of marital status.
Existing negative incentives to work, such as spousal splitting, tax classes III and V, the subsidization of mini-jobs, or the free co-insurance of spouses, are to be abolished in the future.
We want to abolish the partner-dependent calculation of benefits in the case of long-term unemployment.
An independent livelihood is essential for a self-determined life.
The new alimony law requires divorced persons to quickly find their own gainful employment.
However, if this is not accompanied by further changes as quickly as possible, such as the expansion of childcare, the flexibilization of working hours and the assumption of responsibility by fathers, women will be the losers of this reform.
Worth 22 percent less?
In hardly any other of the 27 EU countries is the wage gap between women and men as high as it is here in Germany.
On average, women get 22 percent less.
This has many causes: the high part-time rate of women - mostly for family reasons, the traditional lower valuation of typical "women's jobs" and direct discrimination - less pay for the same work.
More and more often, women are complaining about this.
It is important to have a genuine right of action for associations in the anti-discrimination law so that women do not have to sue companies alone.
And in addition to the collective bargaining parties, the state must also finally make its contribution by revising the classification criteria of the public sector so that we can reduce this de facto injustice between the sexes as quickly as possible.
Protection from violence
Violence against women and girls continues to be a major social problem.
With the Red-Green Protection Against Violence Act, many can better assert their rights, but counseling centers and women's shelters remain necessary.
In order to truly protect threatened women in a women's shelter, their actual whereabouts must be kept secret.
Therefore, we demand an amendment to the registration law that allows women to be registered only at the mailing address of a women's shelter.
For many migrant women in particular, they are important shelters.
High quality standards and the long-term securing of funding are necessary for this.
Some of the states are withdrawing from funding women's shelters.
This must become a compulsory state task, and the federal government, together with the states, must offer effective protection and support to women and children affected by violence.
In Germany, too, many girls who come here as a result of flight or migration are affected by genital mutilation.
We want the explicit inclusion of this human rights violation in the penal code and a comprehensive information campaign.
To combat trafficking in women and forced prostitution, we want to empower victims.
Only if we support them, offer them witness protection, a permanent right to stay, protection and perspectives, will they be willing to testify against the perpetrators.
In most cases, victims' testimonies are the most important basis for being able to prosecute and convict perpetrators.
The profits from trafficking in women and human beings must be confiscated and used to benefit the victims.
We also want to hold clients of forced prostitutes criminally responsible.
In the case of legal prostitution, we will work to advance the implementation of the Prostitution Act in the federal states
and to significantly increase counseling and exit services.
In particular, we advocate for minimum labor standards in prostitution
and the abolition of landlord privilege.
Body and self-determination
Media and advertising exert so much pressure on many people, especially with their "slim is beautiful" mantra, that they become ill.
Eating disorders characterize the everyday lives of many girls and often leave behind lasting physical and psychological damage.
Young men have also long been caught up in the physical standardization craze.
But beauty exists in all sizes.
We want a relaxed and self-determined approach to one's own body, appearance and age.
Self-determination in dealing with one's own body also means that every woman can decide for or against pregnancy.
For conflict situations, we want a wide range of voluntary counseling services to be open to her.
We reject mandatory counseling as
well as criminalization and prosecution of abortions.
Improved sex education and a partnership-based approach to contraceptives are just as important
as easy access to the morning-after pill.
It must be available without a prescription, as required by the WHO.
We want to strengthen the self-determination of women also during pregnancy, birth and the time after.
Key elements of this are: Counseling, care by an equal team of midwife and doctor, the expansion of breastfeeding-friendly clinics, and a significant reduction in unwanted cesarean sections.
Women in Politics - Politics for Women
Women in Germany have had the right to vote for 90 years.
In the Bundestag, however, the proportion of women is only 32 percent, and in local and state parliaments it is still considerably lower.
We advocate for supportive and legally binding measures to promote equal gender representation at all political levels.
By consistently applying gender mainstreaming and gender budgeting, we can act more gender-equitably and effectively.
The country needs new men
Gender policy also includes the concerns of boys and men.
Meanwhile, more and more men are also recognizing the negative effects of traditional gender roles.
For example, in order to clearly define the manifestations of violence perpetrated against men, solid research on this topic is needed.
Equal opportunities and role diversity bring benefits for both genders.
In both their professional and private lives, many men want new paths and opportunities for development.
We want research and policy to focus more on the changing role models of boys, men and fathers.
In the education debate, boys, especially those from educationally disadvantaged backgrounds or with an immigrant background, quickly receive the label "loser."
Gender-sensitive offers and positive role models are already necessary in kindergarten.
That is why, for example, we want to significantly increase the proportion of men among educational staff in daycare centers and elementary schools.
Whoever votes GREEN, ... - ... chooses feminism for the new age.
- ... choose equal pay for work of equal value.
- ... brings more women into executive boards, supervisory boards and politics.
- ... chooses an independent social security for women.
- ... puts an end to the body-related standardization mania.
12. caution culture! - Creativity as a stumbling block
Reorienting the New Social Contract is also a cultural task.
Culture and art are an important part of life - questioning and creating meaning; whether active or in the audience, whether as a hip-hopper, punk or opera fan, as a theatergoer or film lover.
Culture and art give us a new view of things, of the world.
Art and culture can be found in museums, theaters or cinemas and also in lifestyles and lifestyles, in sub- and youth cultures, in architecture, fashion, food and much more.
Culture and art need freedom.
They are peculiar and stubborn creatures.
They must be protected from state paternalism and economic appropriation.
Cultural diversity, artistic freedom, and access to cultural education are central prerequisites for freedom and self-determination.
They must not be appropriated, certainly not by institutional politics or economic interests.
Viewpoints and experiences are experimentally changed and reassembled.
In this respect, culture and art are highly political and provide important impulses for the development of political thought and action and for the self-understanding of a society.
They must not be subject to any restriction.
Especially in times of social upheaval, such as the global economic and financial crisis since 2008, we need the ideas, messages and perceptual aids of culture and art, as well as cultural and creative professionals who tell us that there are other ways than the ones we know.
In this way, creativity can produce new foundations for social, ecological and economic renewal.
GREEN politics therefore sees culture and art not in the "service of the existing", but also as a "stone of impetus", as forces of social change and necessary transformation.
The question of our future links culture and sustainability.
Because the question of how we live and how we want to live is above all also a question of culture, the change to an ecologically responsible way of life is also a question of art, culture, creativity and cultural policy.
For all these reasons, strengthening cultural spaces is so important individually and socially.
Maintaining and creating the cultural infrastructure of youth centers, studios, rehearsal spaces, municipal theaters, performance and exhibition venues is an important goal of a strategy of public institutions and public space - whether state-run, through the promotion of private, self-organized initiatives or sociocultural centers.
We also want to achieve this with investments that can then permanently maintain and finance the cultural infrastructure.
We are committed to opening up cultural institutions
and also encourage volunteers to assist in bringing art and culture to all sectors of society.
We stand by the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of Cultural Diversity
and continue to uphold the conviction that culture is far more than an economic good.
Cultural diversity is a source of creative renewal and a resource for the future.
It is necessary to financially strengthen the municipalities in the performance of their cultural tasks as
well as to promote artistic initiatives.
Anchoring culture as a state objective in the Basic Law will help strengthen culture at all levels.
Public institutions such as the Federal Cultural Foundation and the Capital Cultural Fund show that funding and support can also be provided to numerous artistic players beyond the major cultural institutions.
We want to expand this further.
Barrier-free access for all to culture and art is therefore necessary.
The participation in cultural life of people with and without disabilities should become the standard without structural or communicative barriers.
Culture for city and country
Culture is quality of life.
In large cities as well as in rural areas, public cultural institutions are under threat.
Youth centers, cinemas and cultural initiatives have been closed or are on the brink of closure.
Germany's cultural infrastructure is already crumbling on all fronts, and not just in terms of structural substance.
At the same time, the decay is slow, insidious and usually also quite silent.
We are committed to a vibrant culture and to ensuring that no region is left behind culturally in the wake of demographic change.
The balance between the different cultures, offerings and institutions must be more clearly balanced.
We counter the increasing desolation of the inner cities with the idea of an urban culture that focuses on public spaces, diversity and encounters.
Villages and rural areas must not become zones of cultural wasteland.
Young people in particular must not be marginalized, but need public spaces for their creativity.
In view of rising right-wing radicalism and increasing violence among young people, the provision and greater financial support of cultural offerings means necessary social prevention and is thus a sustainable investment.
Sustainable urban policy depends heavily on the development of local creative potential.
A tolerant, diverse climate in which different cultural impulses enrich each other makes a city or region attractive.
In cities, the promotion of creative industries has often proven to be an important driver of urban development.
We GREENS want a city in which inner-city living, imaginative conversions of existing buildings, historic preservation, the reclaiming of brownfield sites, the design of public spaces, and building cultural qualities come to the fore.
However, this also includes the promotion of creative micro-enterprises.
The goal must be to increase the quality of life for people and to
enable creative people to live a self-determined life.
We all benefit from this.
Creative urban policy is not tied to city sizes and does not have to be focused on large cities or even metropolitan regions.
Focusing more attention on cultural practitioners
Creative artists in Germany need an appropriate tax and legal framework.
Their social situation must be improved
and young artists are promoted in a variety of ways.
We want to create more social security for a wide variety of jobs and employment relationships in culture - whether in the cultural sector, in the creative industries, for the self-employed or dependent employees, whether for permanent employment or internships.
When introducing the citizens' insurance, we want to preserve the principles of the artists' social insurance.
Culture for all
Art and culture must be accessible to all members of our society - regardless of social status, cultural background or any disability.
Barriers are many.
For some it is the high entrance fees or charges, for others insurmountable thresholds, low-contrast labels, incomprehensible language in the descriptions and more.
We want to raise awareness of these problems and are committed to removing barriers wherever possible in the arts and cultural sector.
Cultural education
Cultural education is an essential task of cultural and educational policy.
Every person, regardless of age, has the right to develop an independent personality.
Every child also has a right to cultural education.
Children and young people must be given the chance to feel and use their creative abilities and in this way gain self-esteem and recognition.
In this context, intercultural cultural work is of particular importance for living together in a multicultural society.
Culture can open up access to other worlds.
Culture enables a change of perspective and thus promotes understanding for the different and the unknown.
In a globalized world, cultural knowledge and cultural competence are urgently needed.
It is through cultural education that living together under the common umbrella of "Germany," "Europe" or "the world" becomes comprehensively possible.
We advocate strengthening aesthetic subjects and cultural offerings in schools.
Cultural facilities in non-school settings - from libraries to rehearsal spaces - should be open to all.
That's why we want to invest in infrastructure here and make cultural participation attractive.
Keeping the culture of remembrance alive
The memory of history will only stay alive if we keep it alive.
Germany's responsibility for the crimes of National Socialism must be reflected in a diverse culture of remembrance.
This is all the more important because soon there will be no survivors and contemporary witnesses of National Socialism to tell of their experience.
We Greens are therefore in favor of more support for civil society initiatives alongside concentration camp memorials as places of learning,
and of making school lessons more innovative.
Only in this way can the baton of remembrance be passed on to future generations.
The history of the GDR as a state of injustice must also be further reappraised.
The Stasi Records Authority is an indispensable institution for this purpose.
Dealing with life in the GDR must become part of school education in both East and West Germany.
Our cultural heritage is a place for reflection as well as a testimony to the constant change we need.
Foreign cultural policy
Cultural policy is peace policy.
Foreign cultural policy and international cultural exchange are among the most important instruments for international understanding.
Foreign cultural policy should therefore be strengthened, especially the non-governmental intermediary organizations such as the Goethe-Institut and the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD).
The intensification of international cultural exchange is just as necessary
as the stronger dovetailing of foreign and domestic cultural policy.
We see cultural understanding as the key to a Europe that is growing together
and to the necessary "dialogue of cultures" worldwide.
We therefore believe it is necessary for Germany to become more involved in the European Union's cultural policy clarification and decision-making processes.
Diverse media landscape
Access to information and knowledge is more important than ever for all of us.
The media make a decisive contribution to the transfer of information and knowledge.
We GREENS are committed to a diverse media landscape in which everyone can participate.
For us, this is the basis of a living democracy.
This includes the independence and diversity of the media, the strengthening of citizen media, open channels and blogs, and Internet broadband access for all.
Whether television, radio, search engines, blogs or other Internet content: Diversity of opinion and independence must always take precedence over opinion power and monopolies.
Freedom of the press must also apply to blogs and forums.
Opinion power must be measured against the realities of media consumption, and television has long since ceased to be the only decisive factor.
Through high-quality public broadcasting that is and remains politically independent, we want to guarantee basic media services for everyone - including via the Internet.
In addition to distribution via the Internet, the digitization of broadcasting also plays a special role.
The digital transmission path allows more services and more diverse programs to be offered on the available frequency spectrum.
Public broadcasting must continue to participate appropriately in technical innovations in the future, as well as play an active role in their development and implementation.
We want transparent ownership in the media.
We are concerned to see how the diverse newspaper landscape in Germany is coming under increasing economic pressure.
Our democracy cannot afford a market failure in this sector.
Especially in times of economic crisis, we therefore want to help ensure that the "fourth estate" does not increasingly come under the hammer.
Sports, games and excitement for a moving society
Culture also means sports culture.
Being able to win and lose together and playing sports in community are - besides the importance of sports for health prevention - important experiences in all age groups that strengthen activity and togetherness.
Access to swimming pools and other sports facilities should not be determined by one's wallet.
We need a new offensive in the construction and remodeling of sports facilities,
and we need more sports opportunities in a play- and exercise-friendly environment.
We want to promote voluntary work in sport.
Sport builds bridges and creates connections worldwide.
We demand a "clean", doping-free and fair top-class sport.
Racism and homophobia have no place in the stadium.
Together with associations, clubs, stadium operators and fans, we show hate the red card.
Those who vote Green ... - ... votes for a cultural policy that gets things moving.
- ... promotes the cultural strengthening of cities and regions.
- ... creates better tax and legal conditions for creative artists.
- ... strengthens cultural education for children and young people.
- ... ensures a diverse media landscape in which everyone can participate.
13. digital is better - For a free internet
Blogging, tweeting, podcasting or simply surfing (around) - whether it's buying books or browsing travel offers, looking for a job or trying to find the partner for life: We are in the midst of the digital and networked age with its diverse innovative offerings and a tremendous increase in individual freedom of communication and information.
We Greens want to use this digital potential in a new social contract:
We are concerned with fair access opportunities for all people in this world.
The right to free access to the Internet is a crucial participation issue of the 21st century.
Those without access are quickly left behind.
Uninterrupted broadband coverage is an essential component of public services of general interest.
We also want a system of public WLAN access points.
At the same time, the goal must be to minimize radiation exposure.
That is what we are fighting for.
We want to overcome the digital divide in our society, both in Germany and worldwide.
The green digital world is sustainable.
There must be just as little environmental and health damage in the production of cell phones and PCs or new coal-fired power plants for data centers
like electronic waste that is shipped halfway around the world and ends up in landfills as "development aid".
We focus on sustainable IT and communication solutions instead of short life cycles and an oversized increase in performance, memory and pixels.
The production of electronics must follow the principles of sustainability
and take place under humane conditions.
The absence of pollutants, recyclability and low power consumption must be promoted as quality features of modern electronics in all areas of application.
We want to promote open formats, licenses such as Creative Commons and Free Software, in order to design content, software and technology in such a way that they can be used extensively by as many people as possible.
The Internet is often the last refuge of freedom in the dictatorships of our time and the only gateway to free communication.
We GREENS want a free Internet culture.
But this is being threatened more and more often.
State institutions and many companies want to restrict the Internet, take away its freedom.
We strictly reject the filtering of data traffic as well as mass and unfounded storage orgies, such as data retention.
We reject the current proposals for the introduction of Internet blocking lists and the creation of a comprehensive blocking infrastructure, as they are irresponsible in terms of the rule of law and technology.
The Internet is not a lawless space.
Therefore, the prosecution of crimes on the Internet must be intensified.
This requires, above all, better technical equipment for the authorities and an increase in the number of specialists.
We want investigators for whom the Internet is not a foreign word, but who pursue crimes quickly and effectively.
In the case of criminal offenses such as the dissemination of child pornography or National Socialist propaganda on the Internet, we are fighting for tougher prosecution of the perpetrators
- above all through better international cooperation between states, for example through comparable legislation or the same standards.
Content such as child pornography must be deleted from the network as soon as it is known.
We want a neutral medium that is neither controlled nor filtered by corporations or states.
That is what we are fighting for.
The net never forgets
Personal preferences, sexual orientation or private backgrounds - all this is information that is increasingly circulating on the net.
This sensitive data must be protected from misuse.
We advocate strong data protection in the digital age
and strengthening media literacy.
This is the only way to make everyone aware of what data should be made freely available on the Internet.
The principle "My data belongs to me" must always apply.
We want to shorten storage periods to a minimum
and establish the right to comprehensive data information, especially on the Internet, so that it can be clarified at any time which data is stored where.
This includes the fact that one must also be allowed to move anonymously on the Internet without leaving traces everywhere.
We believe in self-determination for citizens on the Internet.
This must be promoted through targeted free educational offers for adults and with an information offensive in the media itself.
Clever and smart for the network
The state has a special responsibility in teaching media literacy.
Children and young people in particular need to be taught how to deal honestly with the Internet and new media right from the start:
Dangers must be explained, data protection must be explained, and the appropriate use of new and especially free media must be taught.
However, support must not stop with school graduation - many adults also need support so that they can use the new communication options of the digital age in a self-determined way.
Freedom at all levels
We support the use of Open Source, Free Software, Free Radio Networks, Open Formats and innovative licenses.
They need to find their way into educational institutions and public administration to a greater extent than before because they are more cost-effective, more energy-efficient and fundamentally safer.
In the field of science, we support open access.
Research results obtained with public funds should also be freely accessible to the public.
The same applies to public knowledge that lies dormant in authorities and archives.
This must be made freely accessible through open licenses.
Wherever public administration commits to standards, preference must be given to open and patent-free standards, where available.
The same applies to the file formats of all documents published by the administration.
In particular, we want to support the potential for economic development that the digitization of our lives holds.
Open business models, such as the free software industry, offer future-proof jobs and create sustainable innovations.
Here, it is important to support such models at universities and in public institutions by training qualified personnel and making intensive use of the offers.
Our digitized world also offers completely new opportunities for new ventures.
Creativity drives the digital economy, which consists primarily of medium-sized companies.
Be it developers of computer games, operators of Internet portals or bloggers who want to turn their vocation into a profession.
We need a national strategy for the creative and digital industries
and expanded standards regarding the inclusion of new professional groups in the artists' social security system.
Because even in the digital age, there is a need for real social security.
A future-proof regulation of copyright law has a decisive influence on the future of new business models.
Currently, the media industry, above all, is spreading an ideology that criminalizes unlicensed use as "piracy" and "robbery".
However, in the fight against Internet piracy, citizens' privacy is increasingly being compromised
- as is free access to knowledge and cultural works.
Mass persecution,
the use of digital rights management
and the penalization of private digital copies.
We want to put an end to such tinkering with copyright law in recent years.
As with patent law, we advocate fundamental reforms of existing copyright legislation in Germany and the EU, as well as of the overarching institutions and treaties.
We are pushing in a direction that primarily benefits citizens, artists, researchers, schools, and universities, not the media and device industries or publishing giants.
We recognize the need for remuneration for the creation of intellectual works.
Flat-rate remuneration models therefore represent the future for a fair balance of interests in the digital space.
The core elements are free digital private copying
and a fair solution for copyright on the Internet.
This solution must first and foremost compensate artists appropriately
and not criminalize users across the board when they download content.
The introduction of a cultural flat rate, which enables the non-commercial use of digital cultural assets, can be a right way to achieve this.
The Internet must not become a safety net
With the steady increase in Internet users, the number of black sheep on the Net is rising.
The Internet must not become the new catch-net of scammers for ignorant consumers.
We want assertive consumer rights in the digital space as well.
It must be easy and clear to see where the free Internet world ends and paid offers begin.
Anyone who buys something online must have the same rights as if they were shopping in the store around the corner.
This starts with warranty and revocation rights and continues with
the storage and processing of personal data.
The same applies to social networks.
We reject any obligation to transfer rights to one's own image, text or video across the board, just as we reject any watering down of data protection.
Dare digital democracy
More transparency and far-reaching opportunities for participation - the Internet offers enormous opportunities to breathe fresh air into our democracy.
Direct dialog is made possible, political processes can be accompanied transparently by all.
In order to participate in our social life, access to the Internet has become an integral part.
It must therefore be open to all citizens.
We want an e-democracy that is more than being able to download a government form or chat with members of the Bundestag.
We want to de-bureaucratize administrative processes via the Internet and make them more vivid.
We want to test new forms of direct participation via the Internet, as long as security and annonymizability are ensured in the process.
But this requires clear implementation of the right to freedom of information
- and consistent promotion of media literacy right from the start.
An Internet without barriers
For people with disabilities, the network offers a particularly large number of opportunities.
Unfortunately, as in real life, they often encounter barriers there.
We want to reduce these and also enable disabled people to participate equally on the Internet.
Public sector websites must finally be made comprehensively accessible, and the Barrier-Free Information Technology Ordinance (BiTV) must finally be implemented comprehensively.
But we also promote the barrier-free design of private-sector Internet offerings.
Those who vote GREEN ... - ... vote for a free Internet - without filters and mass surveillance.
- ... puts an end to criminalization and persecution through blanket remuneration systems.
- ... creates real consumer rights for the virtual world.
- ... promotes sustainable IT technology, free software and innovative licenses.
- ... wants nationwide broadband expansion without monopolies.
14. one world. One vision. Our European and Global Responsibility
Sometimes we forget: we all live in the One World, even if we grow up in different worlds.
Short-sighted interest politics and unfair economic relations divide the world into losers and winners.
A Green New Social Contract commits us to help bridge this divide.
We in the industrialized countries must stop living at the expense of the world's poor.
For the first time in human history, one billion people are chronically malnourished.
Whether climate change or competition for the resources fish, timber or land, whether financial crisis or hunger, whether disintegrating states or armament, none of these global risks does not concern us.
None of these risks and the dangers they pose can be managed by one country alone.
Peace and security, justice and climate protection can only be achieved together in our interconnected world.
The New Social Contract must be a global one.
It relies on cooperation, dialogue and a fair balance of interests: between rich and poor, between North and South.
A cooperative multilateralism understood in this way requires strong institutions within the framework of the United Nations.
There is much to be done to ensure that all regions have the
chance to develop and that every person has the opportunity to live a self-determined life, free from fear and hardship and with the freedom to live in dignity.
We want to promote good governance internationally and strengthen democratic civil society.
We want to put international cooperation on a new footing in which everyone can flourish.
The voices of the poor in particular should be heard.
Conflicts should be resolved in a civil manner and prevention instead of escalation should determine action.
To make globalization fair, we need more cooperation, more civil society exchange, more globally agreeable political, ecological and economic rules, and better and more effective institutions.
Poverty reduction, conservation of natural resources, climate protection and a new energy policy must become key projects of global cooperation.
This creates security.
Global justice can only succeed if the world's wealthy are willing to change their lifestyles.
Access to the scarce resources of our planet must be regulated and shared fairly.
This is precisely why the Green New Social Contract advocates a sustainable lifestyle that protects nature,
enables all people to participate in economic life in a self-determined and humane way,
and at the same time creates new economic dynamism in industrialized and developing countries in the process of transformation.
On the way to a better world, a united Europe is and remains fundamental.
To achieve more climate protection, more justice, more freedom, more human rights and more peace, we must renew the idea of Europe and strengthen the EU.
For global climate protection, it is crucial that European countries move forward together and with ambitious targets.
Peace
and human rights need a Europe that intervenes in world politics and is credibly committed to the enforcement of human rights.
A fair globalization needs a European Union that moves closer together without closing itself off.
Europe's institutional crisis should not tempt us to bury our heads in the sand, but to come up with new ideas and new strength.
The Lisbon Treaty, with its institutional reforms such as the creation of a foreign minister, also strengthens the EU's ability to act in foreign policy.
We need a strong, democratic EU - for a better world.
That is why we remain committed to the goal of a genuine constitution for Europe.
Europe creates peace
We are fighting for a strong European Union as a global player,
which leads the way in human rights,
a pioneer in climate protection
and in the implementation of the development goals of the United Nations
and stands up for peace in the world.
We therefore support the development of a genuine common European foreign and security policy, committed to the UN Charter and
represented by a European foreign minister, as envisaged in the Lisbon Treaty.
The EU needs to better coordinate its multiple instruments.
Development efforts must not be thwarted by a misguided European trade policy.
Part of any EU policy must be the promotion of human rights and the rule of law.
One of the most successful peace policy instruments of the European Union is the enlargement policy.
It has played a key role in helping many countries move toward stable democracies.
We GREENS support the accession negotiations with Croatia and Turkey.
Turkey's path to the EU is a contribution to stability and peace in the region
and to Turkey's democratization.
The EU has a special responsibility for the Western Balkans.
We Greens want to bring these states closer to the EU, that means visa-free travel and that means building economic and environmental partnerships.
It is also in our interest that our neighbors can develop further.
To this end, the EU has created the European Neighborhood Policy, which we Greens want to further expand.
Within the framework of closer cooperation and equal partnership, we want a neighborhood policy that promotes sustainable economic, social, democratic and ecological development in neighboring countries.
The European Union must become the pioneer of cooperative multilateralism.
That is why we want to develop the EU into an effective civilian power that puts its strength at the service of the United Nations and makes an important contribution to crisis prevention and collective peacekeeping.
Institutional reforms are necessary to achieve this.
We need balanced capabilities for collective peacekeeping.
We accept the further expansion of military capabilities at the European level only
if this is accompanied by limitation and successive reduction of national capabilities.
Civilian crisis prevention instruments in particular need to be strengthened.
To this end, we want to establish a European Peace Agency and a European Civil Peace Corps - and a European Civil Peace Service that promotes peacebuilding from "below".
Climate protection and global justice
Climate destruction can only be stopped if the industrialized countries assume their responsibility.
The consequences of climate change are already hitting developing countries, which have contributed the least, the hardest.
In Africa alone, 250 million people are expected to suffer from water shortages by 2020.
We are committed to a "Kyoto Plus" agreement:
a binding global climate regime under international law that ensures the halving of global greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.
To achieve this, the industrialized countries must lead the way and reduce their emissions by at least 80 percent.
But for developing countries to have a fair chance at sustainable growth, climate policy and the right to development must be reconciled in the specific reduction targets.
Here, globally organized emissions trading is a suitable instrument.
The transfer of knowledge and technology in renewable energies and energy efficiency to developing and emerging countries is crucial and must be promoted more strongly.
Even the poorest countries must have access to these technologies.
Investments by the World Bank and individual countries should no longer be used to promote fossil fuels, but rather to expand renewable energies.
We must also not leave the developing countries alone with the costs of adapting to climate change.
The industrialized countries must assume responsibility here as the main polluters.
We stand for an activating climate partnership.
But if we really want to prevent dangerous climate change, we also need to think about restructuring our societies - it's not enough to just carry on as before.
We want to initiate an inclusive and comprehensive debate in Germany about how we can do our part: responsibly and in solidarity.
The hunger for resources of industrialized and emerging countries is partly responsible for the conflicts on our globe.
The equitable regulation of access to energy and the use of natural resources - most especially sufficient clean water - is a contribution to active peace policy,
as is our policy of replacing finite raw materials with renewable ones wherever possible.
Many people, especially in resource-rich countries of the South, suffer from the struggle for scarce raw materials.
Resource wealth always turns out to be a resource curse.
Trade in raw materials must not be at the expense of human rights.
The extraction of raw materials must be tied to the rule of law, good governance and human rights in the exporting countries.
To combat corruption in the raw materials sector, we support binding international transparency and control initiatives.
Fair world trade
A just world trade order is a central building block of the New Social Contract.
The agenda of the World Trade Organization (WTO) must no longer focus unilaterally on trade liberalization.
Instead, we want to anchor recognized environmental, social and labor standards instead of calling them into question through the WTO.
We are working within the UN to ensure that trade, climate, environmental and development policies are better coordinated.
The right to food is a human right that must also be enforced through binding rules of world trade.
Climate change and the financial crisis have dramatically exacerbated world hunger.
The EU's agricultural policy is partly responsible for this.
To this day, it pursues a policy of export subsidies for food.
Dumping prices are ruining agriculture in many less developed countries
and making them dependent on imports in the long term - with serious consequences for rural development.
As an EU member, Germany plays an important role in shaping this agricultural policy.
We are committed to ending trade-distorting EU agricultural subsidies, especially export refunds, as soon as possible.
Developing countries must be given the right to protect themselves against agricultural imports.
In addition, we want to provide greater support for sustainable rural development - above all for small farmers - as part of development cooperation.
Health is a human right.
People in developing countries must have access to affordable essential medicines.
This must not be hindered by excessive patent protection.
We therefore advocate a renegotiation of the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property (TRIPS Agreement).
Developing countries need much more leeway, especially in the production of food and essential medicines.
More investment is needed in the development of medicines for HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, as well as other neglected diseases.
Developed countries must stop further weakening health systems in developing countries through the targeted poaching of health workers.
Greater commitment is also needed to strengthen health systems and support health workers in poorer countries.
Especially in view of the financial crisis, the financial markets must not be deregulated within the framework of the WTO services agreement GATS.
Free trade agreements that undermine the sustainable development of developing countries' emerging industries and agriculture must not be imposed on developing countries.
For example, the EU's free trade agreements (EPAs) with African, Caribbean and Pacific countries, which are supported by the German government, do not meet development needs.
International agreements that stabilize prices for agricultural products and raw materials at fair levels are crucial to the economic success of developing countries.
An ecologically solidary world trade order, such as the one we are striving for, is the opposite of the "right of the strongest".
Fair trade
and quality labels at the highest level to protect people
and the environment are the goal of GREEN policy.
Environmental agreements such as the Convention on Biological Diversity must have unrestricted priority over trade rules.
Transnational corporations, banks, investment companies and pension funds must also bear responsibility and adhere to binding human rights standards.
and environmental standards.
We are committed to reforming foreign trade policy to make it more ecological and development-friendly.
We want more transparency, the safeguarding of high international environmental standards
and better protection of human rights when issuing export credit guarantees (Hermes guarantees).
Strengthen development cooperation. Reform the world financial system.
We want to implement the UN Millennium Development Goals as quickly as possible and continue to fight to at least halve poverty and hunger in the world by 2015.
To this end, the OECD countries must finally commit 0.7 percent of their gross national product to development cooperation by 2015 - as agreed back in 1970 - and intensify their partnership with Africa in particular.
We want to introduce innovative financing instruments such as the financial turnover tax and the air ticket levy.
We want to expand both bilateral and multilateral development cooperation under the leadership of an independent development ministry,
Make more efficient
and focus more strongly on the needs of the most vulnerable population groups in the partner countries.
Greater efforts are needed, particularly in the areas of climate and environmental protection, rural development, civil conflict prevention and the development of social security systems.
The merger of state-run implementing organizations into a federally owned development agency must finally be tackled.
In order to strengthen the ownership of partner countries, budget support is to gain in importance in development cooperation.
It must be linked to binding agreements that include a human rights agenda.
Partner countries need more support in building transparent and democratically legitimized state institutions, also in order to increasingly generate their own financial revenues through functioning tax systems.
In addition to government development cooperation, we want to provide greater support for non-governmental organizations and church-based aid organizations.
Humanitarian aid must be geared to the needs of people affected by crises and natural disasters and dovetailed more closely with development cooperation.
For fair globalization, we need better institutions.
The exclusive club of the G8 is not suitable for a fair balance of interests.
While the G20 is more representative, it continues to exclude many countries from the decision-making process.
We therefore welcome initiatives that work to ensure that all parts of the world participate adequately in a global governance system.
These include the upgrading of the United Nations Economic and Social Council
and the proposals of the Stiglitz Commission appointed by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank urgently need to be democratized.
In the long term, all central institutions of global coordination and regulation must be brought under the umbrella of the United Nations.
Global economic imbalances must be dealt with and counteracted more effectively.
This can only be done through a global process of macroeconomic coordination
and a reform of the international monetary system.
The IMF has acted as an arsonist in the past and subsequently refused to help put out the fire.
If it is not to completely lose its raison d'être, it must become a firefighter in the global financial system.
In the long term, the IMF must be transformed into an international lender of last resort.
Debt relief initiatives are essential for an economic restart in the poorest countries.
and the cancellation of illegitimate debts is essential.
We also advocate the creation of an international insolvency law for over-indebted states.
Reform and strengthen the United Nations
For GREEN foreign policy, the United Nations is the central frame of reference for an international order.
Only there are all regions and almost all states and peoples represented.
This gives the UN a high degree of legitimacy, even if too much power politics still dominates day-to-day business.
We are committed to a global society in which the strength of the law, not the law of the strongest, reigns supreme.
To achieve this, the UN must be reformed.
We need a fairer composition of the Security Council
and want to abolish the veto possibilities, which only lead to a few powers being able to push through their particular interests and block important decisions in the process.
We advocate a joint European seat on the Security Council.
The outlawing of war by international law
and the peace commandment of our Basic Law are achievements of civilization which the Greens defend.
That is why we want to expand the United Nations' capabilities for civil crisis prevention and collective peacekeeping.
To this end, Germany and the EU must strengthen both the UN and regional organizations, especially the OSCE, institutionally, in terms of personnel and financially.
NATO remains relevant as a parenthesis of transatlantic security cooperation, but it is here that political reforms are essential to transform NATO in the medium term into a cooperative security architecture based on the principle of peace and shared security.
We reject the expansion of NATO into a world police force.
Responsibility to protect human rights
There must be no discount for human rights violations, either because of economic, political or alleged religious interests.
We strictly reject double standards.
Human rights apply to all people, everywhere and at all times.
They are indivisible.
We resolutely oppose any questioning of this.
Millions of people around the world struggle daily to survive, against oppression, exploitation, war, hunger and devastation.
We can't come to terms with that.
We want to fight the causes of fear, need, lack of freedom and violence and not stop at the symptoms.
That is why all our policies are aligned with human rights.
In particular, we oppose torture, the death penalty, arbitrary detention, racism, enslavement, sexual exploitation, and discrimination based on ethnicity, gender, or sexual orientation.
GREEN human rights policy is not exhausted in the important commitment to individual persecutees, but relies on dialogue and pushes for structural improvements to realize human rights worldwide.
There must be no closing of ranks with authoritarian regimes.
To ensure that human rights are actually enforced and monitored, the international human rights institutions of the UN, the Council of Europe, the EU and the OSCE must be strengthened.
The International Criminal Court is a milestone in the fight against impunity for human rights crimes.
We want to further strengthen it and are committed to expanding the facts it can negotiate.
Further development of international law in global dialogue is necessary, such as through the "Responsibility to Protect" adopted at the 2005 World Summit.
We must develop concepts for effective protection mechanisms under international law:
Where a state cannot or will not protect its citizens from genocide or the most serious human rights violations, the UN has a responsibility and is the only one legitimized to decide on the design of a mandate and the means.
The responsibility to protect is first and foremost a responsibility to prevent and
knows neither an automatism for humanitarian intervention nor a carte blanche for war.
Sanctions are bound by rules that are binding under international law.
Priority for civil
The priority of civil crisis prevention is in line with our responsibility for peace and security in the world.
A life of freedom and justice is not possible without security.
But the military cannot create peace itself; at best, it can open up and keep open the scope for political conflict resolution.
Instead of just extinguishing fires in the short term, it is necessary to identify and address causes of violence at an early stage.
Above all, this means examining our own national policies to see to what extent they fuel conflict.
Whether civilian or in uniform, all those who risk life and health in crisis operations should be well trained and equipped, comprehensively insured and provided with medical and psychological care.
GREENS want to shape peace and seize opportunities for peace.
We want to translate the precept of nonviolence into practical policy and, to this end, massively expand civil crisis prevention.
Today, civil conflict transformation is more important than ever for stabilizing crisis regions.
But the grand coalition is making no effort to improve crisis prevention capabilities.
There is considerable pent-up demand in the civilian and police sectors.
Without the necessary resources, better structures, more personnel and a rapidly deployable pool of experts for police, judicial and administrative development, the endlessness of military operations is inevitable.
We want to reduce the backlog in the civilian sector,
implement and further develop the "Civilian Crisis Prevention" action plan
and facilitate the deployment of civilian specialists with a civilian secondment law.
The promotion of local peace-ready forces and regional organizations is a key to pacification processes.
Ongoing dialogue with independent peace research, international and German non-governmental organizations and peace groups facilitates the early detection and de-escalation of conflicts and sharpens the view of own deficits.
Another element that should not be underestimated in the development of civil society forces is easier and affordable visa issuance - especially for younger people.
International exchange and the experience of functioning democracy can mean important impulses for social opening in the countries of origin.
In this way, we want to put an end to the two-faced policy pursued by the major parties of wanting to support civil societies in authoritarian states on the one hand and making it more difficult for them to exchange with partner organizations in Germany on the other.
Without gender justice there is no peace
We attach high priority to the participation of women in peace processes.
Women around the world contribute significantly to the prevention of violent conflict and to conflict resolution,
they are key actors in reconstruction
and have a central role in reconciliation work.
However, women are also the main victims of violent conflicts.
In wars like Congo or Darfur, women and girls are systematically subjected to mass rape.
Sexualized violence is used as a weapon of war.
Peace cannot be made without involving women at all levels and in all issues of crisis prevention and conflict management.
UN Resolutions 1325 and 1820 on promoting women's participation, strengthening their rights and protecting women from the many forms of violence must therefore be consistently enforced.
Infrastructure development for the care of traumatized women must be consistently pursued.
We are committed to implementing gender-sensitive approaches in foreign, development and security policy.
We want to institutionalize a national action plan and monitoring bodies at national and international level to shape a gender-responsive foreign and security policy.
We urgently need an upgrade of the UN Women's Rights Convention Committee and its instruments.
Tight limits and clear rules for foreign deployments
The use of military force, regardless of the objective, is always a great evil and must be avoided if at all possible.
In the past, it has not been easy for us Greens to acknowledge that there are situations in which the use of military force may be necessary to contain violence and to secure peace collectively.
We have had long and intensive discussions about this in our party, learned from experience with military missions, and struggled over the conditions under which a foreign deployment of the Bundeswehr can be responsible.
The use of armed forces can only be justified if it is legal under international law as a last resort within the framework of the UN Charter, promising in terms of the overall approach, and responsible in terms of the risks involved.
Public justifications and actual motivations must match.
Every foreign deployment must have a mandate under international law and parliamentary approval, clear rules of engagement, and be embedded in a political conflict resolution and peacebuilding process.
Policy objectives must be clearly defined, realistic and verifiable.
Foreign deployments serve to support policy and must not become a substitute for policy.
They are not meant to impose a specific social system.
The actions of soldiers on missions abroad must be unconditionally bound to fundamental and human rights.
We want to expand and strengthen parliamentary oversight for deployments.
In view of the neglect of the civilian dimension of crisis engagements, we want the necessary civilian tasks and capabilities to be included in decisions on Bundestag mandates for missions abroad.
For missions requiring secrecy, the Bundestag needs better oversight rights.
The military bases of foreign armed forces may only be used in accordance with international law.
New Strategies for Afghanistan
We Greens stand by our responsibility for Afghanistan and for a commitment that focuses on rebuilding the country.
However, the current strategy with the dominance of military solutions leads to a dead end and not to more, but to less security.
A "war on terror" understood in military terms cannot be won.
It is not only the Obama administration in the USA that has a duty to initiate a change of strategy in Afghanistan.
This must now also be driven forward by the German government.
Operation Enduring Freedom and counterproductive military action must end immediately.
Instead, the protection of the population must have top priority
and the spiral of violence can be interrupted.
What is needed is a common, concerted strategy and better coordination among the international community.
Priority must be given to civilian responses.
Particularly when it comes to building up the police and judiciary, Germany must finally do more as part of the EU missions so that the people in Afghanistan are also able to provide for their own security.
That is why we Greens continue to make our approval of the ISAF mandate conditional on a serious change in strategy.
The increasingly risky Bundeswehr mission can only continue to be justified if the change of course is vigorously implemented.
The window of opportunity for such a change in strategy is not unlimited.
Mere mandate extensions with unclear political objectives contradict the seriousness of the situation.
That is why it is clear to us Greens that the opportunity for a new departure in Afghanistan policy must be seized now.
A self-sustaining development must be achieved in Afghanistan that will allow the gradual withdrawal of international troops.
Volunteer Army in the Service of the United Nations
The Bundeswehr must become more European and UN-capable.
We want to reduce the size of the Bundeswehr to 200,000 soldiers,
abolish compulsory military
service, transform civilian service
and expand voluntary services.
In the Bundeswehr, we want to introduce a voluntary military short service of twelve to 24 months, open to both men and women.
The Bundeswehr is to become a volunteer army commissioned by parliament.
Their core mission in international operations is to stabilize and protect so as not to have to fight.
We reject military adventures such as the war in Iraq, resource wars and domestic deployments of the German armed forces.
The Bundeswehr must contribute to budget consolidation, arms control and disarmament and
immediately abandon sites such as the "Bombodrom " near Wittstock.
Air-to-ground training areas such as Nordhorn Range and Siegenburg are also expendable.
The Bundeswehr is still spending billions of euros on armaments projects that are based on Cold War threat scenarios and a national industrial policy favoring German arms companies.
We want to put an end to this waste of money.
The Bundeswehr's equipment must be geared to its actual task in stabilization missions in the service of the UN.
Renewal of the transatlantic alliance The election of U.S. President Barack Obama opens up the prospect of a
Renewal of the transatlantic alliance at the political and civil society level.
Europe and the United States can only find answers to the global challenges of the present and the future together - and embedded in strengthened multilateral institutions.
The GREENS want the positive impetus of the Obama administration for a policy of global disarmament,
a change of strategy in Afghanistan
and take up the dialog with Iran
and within a renewed transatlantic alliance.
In particular, we want to seize the opportunities for a transatlantic partnership for climate protection.
Overcoming the disarmament crisis - abolishing nuclear weapons
Barack Obama's Prague speech opens up a new opportunity for a policy of global disarmament.
We want to make Germany and Europe the driving force in disarmament and arms control.
Instead of rearmament and confrontation, we need confidence-building measures and the ratification and further development of the Adapted Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe (ACFE).
Highly armed alliances are fundamentally problematic;
armaments are always seen as a potential threat from outside and provoke counterarmaments.
Germany has the world's sixth-largest arms budget and is the third-largest arms exporter.
We want to enforce a human rights-oriented, restrictive arms export policy with more transparency, complete recording, publication and verification of the end-use as
well as parliamentary control.
In order to make it easier than before to prevent arms deliveries to crisis regions, we want to abolish export guarantees for arms exports and the authorization requirement for the export of military equipment
, as well as introduce unanimity in the Federal Security Council and a right of objection for the Bundestag.
Small arms are weapons of mass destruction of our time.
It is precisely these that pose one of the greatest threats to people in crisis areas.
The trade in them must be effectively curbed and better controlled.
This is also why we support an international arms trade treaty
and compliance with and tightening of the EU Code of Conduct on Arms Exports.
The ban on cluster munitions and landmines is to apply worldwide.
We are committed to ensuring that the clearance of explosive remnants of war
and victim support should be expanded and accelerated.
Uranium weapons have an indiscriminate effect and primarily affect the civilian population.
That is why we want to comprehensively outlaw uranium munitions.
We are currently at a crossroads that will determine whether long overdue nuclear disarmament steps will be taken or whether we will experience a new arms buildup with unforeseen consequences.
Without a determined nuclear disarmament initiative, the world will be a very dangerous place in the future with 20 to 30 nuclear weapon states.
The numerous considerations to bring the nuclear fuel cycle under international control are a step in the right direction and must be pursued.
We want the nuclear weapons remaining in Germany and Europe to be finally withdrawn and nuclear sharing to be ended.
Our goal is to denuclearize NATO's strategy.
The nuclear weapons states in particular must fulfill all their obligations under the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT).
and comply with the agreed steps towards nuclear disarmament.
Germany and Europe must also advance the nuclear disarmament process with unilateral disarmament steps
and contribute to the success of the 2010 Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference.
We urge the conclusion of a convention to ban all nuclear weapons.
Our vision is and remains a world without nuclear weapons.
Whoever votes GREEN ... - ... votes for a strong voice for human rights,
development policy
and fair globalization.
- ... votes for the priority of civil conflict management.
- ... fights for global disarmament,
a world free of nuclear weapons
and the complete ban on cluster munitions.
- ... votes for the abolition of compulsory military service.
- ... strengthens the civilian power Europe in a UN capable of action.
Closing words
Dear voter, we hope we could convince you with our program.
Do you have any further questions?
Talk to our candidates for the Bundestag on site.
Find out about the election on our website at www.gruene.de.
Please do not hesitate to contact us for further information.
Use your vote to help lay the groundwork for a Green New Social Contract.
The financial crisis has only brought it home that we have to manage and work differently - socially and ecologically.
Climate, work, justice and freedom - these are the central orientations for us.
They give direction to GREEN policies and profile to our proposals.
Vote GREEN!
Preferably with both votes - but especially with the more important second vote.
SECOND VOTE GREEN!
On September 27, lay the foundation for a green New Social Contract.
Help us to learn from the crisis and use it as an opportunity for renewal
- for new work,
Sustainable management
and genuine participation.
The time is ripe!
