Green works!
Our election program
2002 - 2006
Preamble
BÜNDNIS 90/DIE GRÜNEN are the party of ecological modernization,
social and economic renewal
and social democratization.
We stand for an active and preventive peace policy that takes into account the international context.
We are the party of European democracy.
We want to make globalization socially just and environmentally compatible.
We have brought a lot of movement to our country since our founding.
We have ecological responsibility
and anchored the idea of sustainability in society.
Our society is more open to the world,
our democracy is more vibrant
and civil rights have been strengthened.
Equality between women and men has seen significant progress because of us.
We assumed responsibility when we joined the government in 1998
and were able to clear the reform backlog of the Kohl government in many areas:
Nuclear phase-out,
Energy transition and
Climate protection,
Entry into the New Agriculture,
Strengthening consumer rights,
the new citizenship law,
the law on part-time work,
the Equal Opportunities Act for people with disabilities,
the international strengthening of human rights,
the Protection against Violence Act,
registered partnerships for gays and lesbians,
Budget consolidation,
Child benefit increase
and pension reform.
BÜNDNIS 90/ DIE GRÜNEN have been the reform engine of the last four years.
We combine ecology,
self-determination,
expanded justice
and living democracy.
We advocate non-violence with the same intensity
and human rights.
In their interrelation, these basic values form the core of the Alliance Green understanding of politics.
The value of ecology obliges us to sustainably preserve the natural foundations of life.
We work for a society in which people have a concrete chance to shape their own lives - in self-determination, free from paternalism.
As a party committed to the value of justice, we fight for the social rights of the weakest and a fair distribution of social goods.
Our notion of expanded justice, however, goes beyond traditional distributional policies.
Green politics also stands for participation in work, education and democracy,
for generational justice, for
gender justice and
for international justice.
As a party committed to democracy, we advocate strong civil rights,
a democratic Europe
and the strengthening of parliaments.
In the next federal election, you will decide the basic direction of German politics.
A "German Leitkultur" of the Union
with a traditional understanding of the roles of men and women
We counter this with an attitude of intergenerational and gender equality.
We need a policy that does justice to the diversity of lifestyles.
We want an active reform policy in favor of life with children.
We oppose Stoiber's policy of exclusion with the vision of a cosmopolitan and multicultural democracy.
Alliance 90/The Greens stand for integration.
We counter the FDP's neoliberal discrimination against the socially disadvantaged with socially just policies.
We want to solve social issues together.
ALLIANCE 90/THE GREENS stand for a policy of ecological, social and democratic renewal.
8 for 8: You have the choice
On September 22, 2002, you will decide whether ecological and social modernization policies will continue in Germany.
We want to achieve more than 8 percent of the vote and thus determine the direction of modernization in Germany in a green way.
8 points are at the center of our policy for the next legislative period: § Get out of nuclear power and away from oil with energy from the sun and wind
§ Healthy Food - More Consumer Protection and New Agriculture -
§ Strengthening children - basic child security against child poverty, §
better child care,
§ as well as education that enables self-determination §
More jobs
§ - ecological management, §
reform of social security systems §
and new labor market policies §
Shaping the immigration country - §
promoting integration
§ and securing citizens' rights §
Half the power for women §
Shaping globalization fairly - setting ecological and social rules worldwide §
More co-determination for citizens - strengthening European democracy
The 2002 federal election will not be decided between SPD and CDU.
None of the major parties will govern our country alone.
We stand for social and ecological policies to continue and not black regression or yellow recklessness to rule our country.
Green is fighting to ensure that renewal rather than grand coalition gridlock shapes our country.
Green fights for justice to prevail instead of neoliberal elbow politics.
Those who vote for the structurally conservative PDS are in fact strengthening Stoiber and thus weakening ecological and social modernization policies; this cannot be done with Alliance Green.
We are fighting for a significant strengthening of the green weight
and want to continue the successful red-green policy.
With a policy of ecological, social and democratic renewal, we in the coalition have given modernization a direction
Only your votes for the GREENS protect our country from the CDU/CSU and FDP.
You have the choice.
1. ecological modernization
BÜNDNIS 90/DIE GRÜNEN are the party of ecology.
Since our founding in 1980, we have worked with the ecology movement to anchor environmental thinking in society.
Through the red-green government since 1998, we have decisively advanced ecological modernization: We have taken effective measures to protect the climate.
The nuclear phase-out and the exemplary promotion of renewable energies worldwide open the way to the solar age.
The new agriculture ensures healthy and safe food.
The new Nature Conservancy Act ends 20 years of gridlock at the federal level.
Ecology is one of our core values.
We are guided by the guiding principle of sustainable development as defined by the United Nations at the Earth Summit in Rio in 1992.
ALLIANCE 90/THE GREENS think economic, social and ecological concerns together.
A policy that regards environmental protection as a secondary priority is not only ecologically wrong, but also economically and socially short-sighted.
Our policy of sustainability prevents international conflicts over the resources of our earth.
There is a lot to do.
We consistently defend the interests of the environment and the right of future generations to a world worth living in against other interests.
Only with a broad ecological movement and a strong ecological party is Germany fit for the future:
Without our policy, there is no strategy away from oil, coal and nuclear, towards the sun and energy conservation.
Only with us is there a way to a new agriculture
and to consistent animal protection.
We can only preserve our environment by making lasting changes to today's industrial societies.
Ecological modernization and economic common sense are compatible, because environmental protection creates additional and permanently secure jobs.
On September 22, 2002, you decide: Either there is a relapse into the old policy of ecological blindness.
Or you strengthen a consistent policy of ecological modernization with Alliance 90/The Greens.
1.1 Liveable environment
Environmental protection and nature conservation are at the heart of a responsible policy for a better quality of life, intergenerational justice and the preservation of our natural resources.
Sustainable development in our country requires efforts in all policy areas.
In the coming years, we intend to systematically implement and further develop the national sustainability strategy drawn up by the German government at our initiative.
This requires clear indicators and verifiable targets in all fields of action:
The consumption of natural resources must be reduced.
We want to facilitate environmentally friendly behavior through better information, environmental audits and economic incentives for greater ecological efficiency.
Protecting the climate: Away from oil, coal and nuclear to sun and wind
Climate protection is the greatest environmental challenge of our time - and at the same time a great opportunity for innovation and jobs.
Environmentally friendly technologies that protect our climate are urgently needed.
Those who promote environmentally friendly technologies and energies on a national level are also ahead in exports.
In this way, we want to further promote the creation of new jobs through climate protection.
For the challenge remains: the current share of climate gases in the atmosphere is already causing serious climate change.
The rise in temperature is measurable, sea levels are rising, deserts are spreading, and storms and floods are increasing in number and severity worldwide.
At the same time, conflicts over raw materials, especially oil and natural gas, continue to intensify as resources become scarcer.
The worldwide introduction of renewable energies, resource-saving and efficiency-increasing technologies is thus also one of the most important strategies for a peaceful and globally just world.
Decisive action is needed nationally and internationally.
Alliance 90/The Greens stand for the continued implementation and further development of the national climate protection target of a 25 percent reduction in CO2 emissions by 2005 compared with 1990 levels.
Within the framework of the EU, Germany has committed itself to reducing its emissions of all relevant greenhouse gases by 21 percent by 2012.
We are now only a full 2.3 percent away from this target.
Our goal by 2010 is therefore to reduce all greenhouse gases by at least one third.
In addition, climate protection needs further intensive efforts.
We will therefore continue to develop the national climate protection program and, together with environmentally sound energy, transport, waste and agricultural policies, lay the foundation for further reducing the gases that cause the greenhouse effect.
Significant reductions in climate-damaging emissions are needed for the next Kyoto Protocol commitment.
We will work to ensure that the industrialized countries in particular, but also the emerging economies, make their contribution.
Germany and the European Union must set a good example with ambitious targets and effective instruments.
The rapid introduction of emissions trading plays an important role in this.
The goal must be for Europe to reduce its emissions by 20 percent by 2020.
We want to reduce CO2 emissions in Germany by 40 percent by 2020 compared with 1990 levels.
Only with a policy that systematically makes us independent of coal and oil and phases out nuclear power will we achieve these climate protection goals.
Our alternative is: energy saving, energy efficiency and renewable energies.
Anyone who wants to effectively protect our livelihoods must not only talk about climate protection, but also act.
We want to continue and further develop the course towards a solar energy supply, an ecological transport policy and ecological financial reform that we have started in this legislative period and accelerate the pace.
Environment creates work
Ecology creates economic dynamism and jobs.
The energy transition is the prime example of what we mean by ecological modernization.
Instead of continuing existing, environmentally harmful structures, we are focusing on innovative, environmentally friendly technologies.
This makes economic sense because it ensures international competitive advantages for the companies.
This is social because it creates hundreds of thousands of new and sustainable jobs.
This makes ecological sense because we are preserving our natural basis of life.
We want to continue to occupy the ecological pioneer markets and establish ecological products on the market.
That's how we're in the black with green ideas.
A country for the sun: phasing out nuclear energy - entering the solar age
With the first Green government participation in the federal government, we initiated the energy turnaround.
The course has been set for phasing out nuclear energy and entering the solar age.
The Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG) and various support programs have triggered a boom in renewable energies, thousands of new jobs have been created, and Germany is now the world champion in wind power utilization.
The Energy Saving Ordinance and the program to promote the modernization of old buildings tap into the high savings potential in residential construction.
The Combined Heat and Power (CHP) Act promotes efficiency.
Clear legal regulations and financial incentives are intended to ensure that industry and commerce use energy efficiently and sparingly.
Energy-saving household appliances and innovative building technologies are also to be promoted, as are energy savings in small and medium-sized enterprises and the skilled trades.
Research into renewable energies and energy conservation must also be stepped up.
A new challenge lies ahead: half of the power plant capacity will have to be replaced in the next 10 - 15 years.
Only with us will there be a further offensive for the future: We will improve and further develop the energy policy instruments - such as the Energy Feed-In Act, the Combined Heat and Power Act and the Energy Saving Ordinance - with expertise and commitment.
The first offshore wind farms are to be connected to the grid in the next legislative period.
All renewable energies, solar, wind, water, biomass and geothermal energy are to be promoted.
This also includes the production of fuels from biomass.
And we want the market breakthrough for the fuel cell.
An ecological European policy needs a balanced future-oriented energy policy.
The traditional subsidy mechanisms via ECSC [European Coal and Steel Community] for coal and EURATOM [European Atomic Energy Community] for nuclear must be dismantled and replaced by mechanisms to promote renewable energies and efficient energy consumption.
An export offensive for renewable energies is intended to give these young industries a new foothold.
Together with cogeneration, this strengthens a decentralized energy supply.
A smooth transition from the nuclear and fossil age to the solar age thus becomes possible.
In the process, the small players win; farmers become energy farmers, and the added value remains in the regions.
CDU/CSU and FDP want to reverse the nuclear phase-out that has been initiated.
Only with the support of Alliance 90/The Greens will the phase-out of nuclear power be accelerated within the legal framework and the first power plants be shut down as of 2003.
Only with the Greens will there be a phase-out of reprocessing in 2005.
Only with us the stop of inner-German nuclear transports to Ahaus and Gorleben will be implemented.
We need a responsible national disposal concept for the existing nuclear waste.
For us, the focus is on finding a new, relatively best repository in deep geological formations.
We firmly reject the creation of facts such as the commissioning of the Konrad mine or a resumption of explorations in Gorleben before such a procedure has been completed.
For decommissioning procedures of repositories, we demand comprehensive public participation and disclosure of all safety-relevant technical documents.
In the next legislative period, we will initiate this search on the basis of scientific safety criteria and in a process that is transparent from the outset.
We reject postponing the nuclear waste problem to other countries and to future generations.
For the nuclear industry's waste management provisions, we want a regulation that ensures that they are available for the intended tasks.
BÜNDNIS 90/DIE GRÜNEN as well as the environmental and anti-nuclear movement have always pointed out that nuclear power plants and interim storage facilities are inadequately secured against aircraft crashes.
After the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the scenario of a plane crashing into a nuclear power plant can no longer be dismissed as a negligible residual risk.
Alliance 90/The Greens propose shutting down older or unsafe nuclear power plants sooner than planned.
And only with Alliance 90/The Greens is it possible to implement the nuclear phase-out in a coherent manner, including in the area of foreign trade promotion.
Developing cities and regions sustainably
We want to shape the development of our cities and regions in an ecological and sustainable way.
We want to strengthen cities and regions as vital places to live and do business
and curb land consumption.
Internal development has priority over external development.
In the next legislative period, we will take further steps to ensure that housing remains affordable
and the quality of life in cities and settlement areas is improved.
Cities must once again become more attractive and child-friendly places to live in order to counteract the urban exodus of young families.
With the reform of the owner-occupied housing allowance, we want to significantly improve the situation for home ownership in existing housing estates
differentiate the promotion of new construction regionally
and increasingly promote new housing cooperatives.
The upcoming amendment to planning law and the reform of property tax must provide incentives to use land sparingly
and mobilize building potential in existing settlements.
Brownfields and recycling areas should be prioritized for use.
That's why we're advocating for a federal policy initiative to curb land use.
We advocate the strengthening of the regions and independent regional financial and planning sovereignty.
In this way, environmentally compatible transport development plans and settlement and open space developments oriented to the goals of the region are to be promoted.
We want to actively shape the necessary structural change in eastern Germany.
We took the initiative in 2002 with the "Urban Redevelopment East" program.
We want to further develop this program in close cooperation with the eastern German states, the municipalities and the housing industry.
However, the social and economic problems and incipient vacancies in some western German cities and regions also call for new concepts for urban redevelopment.
The quality of housing and the living environment must be improved in many neighborhoods and settlements - for children as well as for the aging urban society.
This includes pollution-free housing, attractive green and open spaces, less noise and accident hazards, better schools, play and sports facilities, and services close to home.
When planning housing and the living environment, changing family relationships and household forms must be taken into account
, as must the way families and women live and work.
Housing and urban development subsidies and the federal-state "Socially Integrative City" program launched by the Red-Green government are to be continued at a high level.
Labor market, economic, social, cultural, housing and urban development policies must be brought together across departments.
Traffic turnaround: Green wave for bus and rail
We want to make the mobility needs of women, men and children environmentally and passenger friendly.
Many people depend on mobility for their jobs and do not want to forego the freedoms of an efficient transport system in their private lives.
At the same time, transport will have to make a decisive contribution to resource and climate protection.
We are focusing on a combination of traffic avoidance, shifting traffic from the roads to buses, trains and bicycles, as well as less polluting drives for cars and their intelligent use in car sharing.
Mobility needs a variety of offerings - from shopping around the corner to smooth transitions between modes of transportation.
That is why we advocate strengthening the environmental alliance of rail, public transport, cabs, bicycles and pedestrians.
We want to exploit the potential of streetcars and light rail systems as a cost-effective and highly efficient means of transport.
Greater road safety is also an important prerequisite for a child-friendly society.
With the equalization of federal funding for road and rail construction, we have taken an important step toward equal opportunities for the railroads.
We will continue to pursue this course with vigor.
The overall rule for the use of funds in the transport sector must be: Renovation of existing facilities or expansion takes precedence over new construction.
The protection of the environment, especially the few remaining unfragmented natural areas, must be a central criterion in all decisions, including cross-border/European projects.
With this in mind, we want to align the Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan,
strengthen the railways
and expand citizen participation.
Subsidies of any kind for large-scale projects must not lead to distortions of competition for ecologically sensible modes of transport.
Rail travel must become cheaper.
That is why we want to halve the value-added tax rate for long-distance transport, just as we do for local transport.
This lowers the fare and brings more traffic onto the railways.
We expect Deutsche Bahn to ensure that the new priorities we have pushed through in favor of rail are reflected in greater customer-friendliness and a commitment to maintaining the railroads in the region as well.
The railroad must not see itself only as a transportation system that connects major cities.
Connecting the region matters - for both passenger and freight traffic.
We want to give the railroads steam and change the structure in such a way that genuine competition is also possible on the railroads.
By introducing truck tolls, we want to encourage the shift of freight transport to rail and relieve the burden on the roads.
With the decision to carefully expand the Danube, we have shown that it is possible to shift freight traffic to inland waterways in harmony with the environment.
We want to continue on this path along the Elbe and Havel rivers, among others.
The principle is to adapt the ships to the specific transport needs and to the ecology of the rivers and not vice versa.
In the next legislative period, we also want to strengthen environmentally friendly modes of transport and the intelligent interconnection of different modes of transport.
In road transport, we want to enforce stricter emissions standards, especially for diesel, and reduce noise pollution on roads and railways.
For diesel cars, as for trucks, the particulate filter must become the rule.
We want to further expand the progress made in air pollution control and in reducing fleet consumption, for example by enforcing sulfur-free fuel.
This includes an action program to promote the three-liter car, natural gas-powered vehicles, the new fuel cell technology and solar hydrogen.
With the implementation of the "Bicycle Master Plan" developed in this legislative period, we will significantly strengthen the position of the bicycle as a means of transport.
Our goal is to double the share of bicycle traffic by 2010.
Children need priority: traffic rules and planning must be based on their needs.
Speed limits on highways, federal and state roads, and 30 km/h zones in residential areas make a significant contribution to reducing accident figures and emissions.
By amending the Highway Code, we want to give inline skaters independent rights.
Walking, which is important for health, should be promoted through safe, attractive pedestrian routes.
To combat noise at roads, railways and airports, we want effective aviation and traffic noise laws that reflect the findings of noise impact research.
We want night flight bans for airports.
We advocate for increased noise abatement programs on both roadways and vehicles.
In the medium and long term, we want to shift most domestic air traffic to environmentally compatible means of transport.
We expect publicly funded transport on road and rail to see noise reduction as its obligation by using the technology available today, even before new legal measures are introduced.
We are committed to ensuring that ambitious noise and exhaust gas standards are mandatory when invitations to tender are issued for transport services.
Air traffic, which continues to grow rapidly, is increasingly becoming one of the biggest global climate burdens.
We want to change course ecologically by improving rail services, intelligent cooperation between airports, the possibilities of global information networking and the promotion of environmentally compatible tourism.
Ecological financial reform: enforcing the social-ecological market economy
If we want to secure the future of our children, we need to green our market economy.
That is why we are sticking to the chosen path of ecological-social modernization of our tax and contribution system.
These include, firstly, a fairer tax system that relieves the burden on small and medium incomes and companies in particular, and lower non-wage labor costs.
Secondly, we want to retain the eco-tax, develop it further and embed it in an ecological financial reform.
By further developing the idea of taxing natural resources, we want to make the most of the potential for saving raw materials and thus protecting the environment.
Despite all hostility, it is right to burden the environmental factor and relieve the labor factor.
The principle of taxing energy to reduce non-wage labor costs and incentivize energy-saving investments is well recognized.
We want kilowatt hours, not people, to be unemployed.
The eco-tax has already created over 100,000 new jobs, relieved the pension fund by 14 billion euros or 1.5 contribution points in 2002 alone, and is making an important contribution to climate protection by reducing CO2 emissions by 7 million tons per year.
The first steering effects can already be seen: public transport and rail are reporting increases, fuel consumption and road traffic volume are declining, and demand for efficiency technologies and fuel-efficient cars has increased significantly.
We want to further improve the steering effect of the eco-tax.
We want to completely exempt renewable energies as well as buses and trains from the eco-tax.
We will review and gradually dismantle the existing exceptions.
We also want the manufacturing industry to make its contribution to the more economical use of energy through suitable measures, such as the introduction of energy management or energy analysis.
When deciding on further increases from 2004, we will take into account social compatibility, in particular for people without earned income, and the level of energy prices then applicable.
In the next legislative period, we will continue to adhere to the revenue neutrality of the eco-tax: every euro collected will flow back through lower non-wage labor costs, the compensation of social hardship or the promotion of environmentally friendly behavior.
Alongside the eco-tax, the reduction of environmentally harmful subsidies forms the second pillar of an ecological financial reform.
The German tax and financial system contains a plethora of ecologically harmful and perverse subsidies and regulations.
For example, the current design of the distance allowance encourages urban sprawl and the separation of home and work.
Removing or restructuring environmentally harmful subsidies can make an important contribution to linking sustainable financial and environmental policy.
This includes the abolition of tax exemption for aviation fuel at EU level.
We want to phase out coal subsidies by 2010 at the latest and open up prospects for sustainable jobs in the regions affected.
Colliery closures must be adapted to this phase-out scenario.
Environmental and social damage must be minimized during permitting and mining.
We want to strengthen the rights of those affected by mining by law.
We want to redirect subsidies in agriculture towards near-natural production and species-appropriate animal husbandry.
Through ecological financial reform, we want to create financial scope for the expansion of ecological investments, in particular for a local transport offensive for rural areas, a brownfield redevelopment fund to mobilize inner-city brownfield sites, and an old building renovation program to reduce heating energy consumption.
Nature and landscape conservation
In order to further promote the protection of nature and the countryside and to safeguard biodiversity in the long term, we will work with our parliamentary groups to breathe life into the new Federal Nature Conservation Act.
We will safeguard and, if necessary, expand the federal government's large-scale nature conservation projects.
We will increasingly promote nature-based tourism, because it helps to safeguard valuable natural potential
and strengthens regional economic development.
We want to ensure adequate habitats for all native species.
The rapid realization of a large-scale biotope network is an important step in this direction.
Special species protection programs are to be set up for particularly endangered species.
By developing concrete control instruments, we aim to reduce land consumption, in line with the German government's sustainability strategy.
Farmers' commitment to nature and landscape conservation must be more rewarding.
For biodiversity, native crop varieties and livestock breeds adapted to different site conditions also represent a valuable heritage that must be preserved.
To this end, we want to support innovative projects of cooperation between nature conservation and agriculture in and outside protected areas.
With a concrete action program, we want to come an important step closer to the goal of reducing landscape consumption from the current 129 ha/day to 30 ha/day by 2020, and thus by 75%.
One of the decisive factors here will be whether it is possible to ensure that inner-city development is given priority over greenfield construction in the future.
In this context, we want to create tax incentives for the cleanup of contaminated sites and the subsequent construction use of inner-city brownfields.
To safeguard the national natural heritage in the new federal states, we have created significant opportunities for the acquisition of land by the states and associations.
The task now is to take advantage of this.
A federal nature foundation or increased involvement of the Deutsche Bundesstiftung Umwelt (DBU) could play a decisive role in this.
We want to transfer the DBU's responsibility from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of the Environment.
In the dispute about former military used areas like in the Kyritz - Ruppiner Heide (Land Brandenburg )we stand on the side of the people and nature and are committed to the preservation of irretrievable natural riches through sustainable civilian use, e.g. soft tourism.
Through targeted public relations work and environmental education, we want to increase the acceptance of nature conservation measures among the population.
Nature conservation does not stop at borders.
We want to drive forward the implementation of the European network of protected areas Natura 2000 and international nature conservation agreements, and breathe life into the Biodiversity Convention.
Hunting law must be modernized to meet the requirements of species, animal and nature conservation.
We want to preserve and restore our rivers and floodplains as clean water sources and natural habitats, for recreation, and as flood retention areas.
The oceans, in their biodiversity and ecological function, are a unique natural heritage.
We therefore advocate comprehensive international marine protection.
What is needed are large-scale protected areas to preserve fish populations
and an international ban on particularly harmful fishing practices.
We want a clean and safe North Sea and Baltic Sea, so the discharge of hazardous substances there must be brought to zero as quickly as possible;
safety standards for ships must be tightened significantly.
Protect the forests
The forest has an outstanding ecological function for our quality of life, biodiversity and climate protection.
With a consistent policy of air pollution control, a different agricultural and transport policy, the still threatening forest dieback must be stopped.
We want to help the international forestry certificate FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) achieve a breakthrough in Germany, as it takes equal account of ecological, economic and social criteria.
We want to reduce harmful emissions,
conserve our forests
and preserve the last virgin forests.
The cultivation of feed for our intensive livestock farming leads to the destruction of tropical forests.
Millions of hectares are being cleared and much of it is being used for the cultivation of genetically modified organisms.
We are at a crossroads here internationally in terms of how we want to organize our livelihoods.
The New Agriculture that we want to implement in our country thus contributes to the protection of tropical forests.
Minimize electrosmog
We take concerns about possible damage from electrosmog seriously.
We therefore welcome the fact that research in this area has been intensified.
The exposure of the population must be continuously monitored.
We will ensure that the voluntary commitment concluded is implemented by the industry: A measurement register of radiation immission is to be created that shows the actual total exposure.
We stand for transparency and binding citizen participation in the construction of new plants.
Through a label for low-radiation cell phones and other measures, we want to try to achieve lower radiation intensity in end devices.
We advocate lowering the limits for electromagnetic radiation from mobile communications and are guided by precautionary environmental and health protection.
This is especially true around schools and hospitals.
In the case of so-called low-frequency radiation associated with power lines, additional protective measures must be taken.
Promote circular economy - avoid waste
In our waste policy, we focus on prevention and better recycling.
Products and production processes must be redesigned in such a way that they meet the guiding principles of a sustainable economy: health and environmentally friendly, durable and easy to repair.
At the end of their useful life, environmentally harmful products such as cars or electronic devices are to be taken back by producers and recycled.
We want to reform production processes in line with the principles of production-integrated environmental protection and resource conservation.
In order to increase the reusable rate for beverage containers again, we will introduce a can deposit from 2003.
With the can deposit, we are also supporting the economic interests of medium-sized businesses
and safeguarding regional jobs.
With the revision of the Technical Instructions on Municipal Waste (TA Siedlungsabfall), the raising of standards for mechanical-biological treatment plants and the Waste Disposal Ordinance, we succeeded in introducing ecologically important improvements in the field of waste management during the past legislative period.
We want to significantly reduce the landfilling of waste overall.
We aim to further reduce the volume of non-recyclable waste by specifically promoting low-waste technologies and recycling-friendly products.
The disposal of the residual materials that nevertheless arise, especially waste requiring special monitoring, will require stricter regulation in the future.
In the coming years, we intend to take more initiatives to further curb the undesirable trends toward mere sham recycling of waste that can be observed both nationally and at the EU level, and at the same time to enforce the highest possible quality recycling of waste.
In this context, we are also striving to amend the Sewage Sludge Ordinance.
European and international environmental policy
When the EU expands, we want to make sure that the accession countries do not become ecological dumping regions.
Germany should make its political, administrative and technological capabilities available to help ensure that EU standards are quickly achieved in air and water pollution control, for example.
In the last four years, the red-green coalition was primarily concerned with clearing away legislative legacies from the previous government.
Whether in nature conservation or EIA - numerous EU environmental directives had to be implemented retrospectively in order to escape impending EU penalties.
Over the next four years, we want to ensure that Germany once again becomes the engine and pioneer of European environmental policy.
In the international context, environmental policy must increasingly deal with the consequences of globalization.
That is why we need an institutionalized advocate for global justice in the field of environmental protection and ecology who can also stand up to the World Trade Organization.
Our perspective is to develop the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) into a world environmental organization.
This also requires the development of international financing instruments.
The use of global commons by aviation and shipping cannot be without charge to users.
We want to align export and foreign trade promotion more closely with the principle of sustainability, for example through Hermes guarantees.
Its entire set of instruments must be reviewed and reformed under environmental, social and human rights criteria.
Transparency must be ensured in the award procedure by informing parliament and the public at an early stage.
Environmental protection must not be an instrument for the economic and social exclusion of poor countries.
1.2 Effective Consumer Protection, Healthy Food, New Agriculture
We stand for a modern consumer policy:
We want to enforce consumers' rights: the right to safety, the right to information, the right to freedom of choice and the right to be heard.
In this way, we are strengthening consumers in the social market economy.
Politics with the shopping basket
Consumer policy is always global policy.
Production, processing and consumption are often far apart because of the international flow of goods, the international division of labor and incorrect subsidies.
It is therefore important to ensure that consumers' rights are enforced across borders.
At the same time, it is important to ensure that consumers have freedom of choice about the nature of a product.
For example, they need to know whether they are buying goods made with child labor, and in the case of financial services, about the use and effects of the money invested for their service, as well as the cultivation or breeding process.
Consumers should be free to decide whether they want to assume social and environmental responsibility.
Consumers need to know where, how and with what environmental risk the electricity they pay for is produced.
For this reason, Alliance90/The Greens advocate a Europe-wide legal regulation on electricity labeling.
The content and manufacture of products must be transparent and clearly labeled.
Strengthening consumer rights: Knowing what's in it
With the Consumer Information Act, we have opened the door to information for consumers about the nature and manufacture of goods.
With the drafting of this law, we have heralded the end of the secrecy philosophy of the authorities.
We want this obligation to provide information to be extended to the economy and to apply to all goods and also all services.
From food to sportswear, from teddy bears to furniture, consumers need to know what's inside and how products are made.
Consumer policy is a cross-cutting task that affects all departments of a modern government.
Pensions, healthcare and care must also be aligned with consumers.
We also want better services for consumers in telecommunications, gas, water and electricity supply, rail and local public transport.
We want to strengthen consumers' institutions and the state framework for enforcing their rights.
This applies in particular to Stiftung Warentest and independent consumer advice.
The new agriculture: healthy, safe and tasty food
Consumers want to know what's coming to their table.
We want precautionary health consumer protection that guarantees people consume safe food.
Chemicals, genetic engineering and antibiotics do not belong in food.
Our special attention belongs to the children.
Because healthy eating and knowledge about it is important for their physical development and awareness, we started with nutrition campaigns for the youngest children in daycare centers.
This is where we will continue.
People's health comes before economic interests.
We have initiated the turnaround in agricultural policy.
After years in which quantity took precedence over quality in agricultural policy, one food scandal followed the next and animals were not treated as living creatures but all too often as commodities, "class instead of mass" now applies.
This is good for consumers,
but it is also good for the many farmers whose livelihoods were threatened by the BSE crisis, even though they did not do anything wrong themselves
We want to continue to consistently reorganize our livelihood, the production of our food.
In doing so, we are guided by the model of an ecologically, socially and economically sustainable production method.
Organic farming has a pioneering role to play here.
That is why we want to strengthen it further.
We want 20 percent organic farming in ten years.
The newly introduced organic seal allows consumers to make a conscious choice.
We also want to improve the prospects of conventional agriculture, align it ever more closely with the goals of near-natural farming and species-appropriate animal husbandry, and strengthen it in the competitive arena.
We oppose the creeping introduction of genetic engineering into food and the release of genetically modified crops.
Genetic modification is not necessary in agriculture and food, but it poses an incalculable risk to humans and the environment.
For us, the freedom of choice of farmers and.
Consumers first
It must continue to be possible to produce and buy GMO-free food in the future.
We demand clear labeling of genetically modified food and feed and of genetically modified seeds throughout Europe.
Distance and liability regulations are intended to protect neighbors and nature from the effects of genetically modified organisms and to make those responsible for any damage liable.
Strengthen rural areas
Healthy food does not exist against farmers, but only with them.
Agriculture is more than the production of the "means of living".
We want to strengthen multifunctional agriculture, because farmers today are also energy farmers and service providers.
They provide recreation for people, they maintain the cultural landscape and thus perform a great service to society.
For this, they must also be remunerated by it.
We want to strengthen rural agriculture and prevent "cleared" landscapes.
Infrastructure in rural areas must be improved.
We want to expand employment opportunities there, especially for women and young people.
We want to keep value creation in the regions.
For the New Agricultural Policy, the following applies always and worldwide: Regional is first choice!
In the next legislative period, we will continue and expand the approach of the "Regions Active" competition.
Regional marketing and organic farming secure and create jobs.
Reform agricultural subsidies
To implement the new agriculture, preserve our diverse cultural landscape and promote rural areas, we need a realignment of agricultural subsidies.
We will work to achieve this both in the so-called joint task of the federal and state governments and in the EU's Common Agricultural Policy.
Only in this way can we simultaneously improve the protection of our soil, our water and our animals,
as well as achieve consumer-friendly production
that secures income and jobs in agriculture.
In the context of the EU's eastward enlargement, we must give the accession countries a new perspective: greater promotion of regional processing and marketing, environmentally friendly and animal-friendly production, renewable energies and renewable raw materials, and rural tourism under the second pillar of Agenda 2000. In
this way, all of them can adapt to sustainable agriculture and the requirements of the WTO in an enlarged EU.
Protect animals
We want agriculture that goes hand in hand with environmental protection, nature conservation and animal welfare.
The new state objective of animal protection in the Basic Law must be used consistently in all relevant areas to improve animal protection.
Following the decision to abolish the caging of laying hens, we are committed to comparable improvements in animal husbandry for all other farmed animals, including in the EU.
Our goal remains the abolition of EU subsidies of animal transports for slaughter and the limitation of animal transports to a maximum of four hours.
We want to exhaust all possibilities to reduce animal testing.
This includes, among other things, the amendment of laws requiring animal testing and the release of already developed non-animal test methods.
When it comes to pet ownership, we are committed to ensuring that animals are housed and cared for in a manner appropriate to their species.
The oceans are largely fished dry, and the stocks of some species are particularly endangered.
We want a fishing industry that is focused on sustainability.
Yet our policy is explicitly to protect marine mammals.
This is a global task.
We also want an eco-label in the fisheries sector.
We want to further reduce the discharge of hazardous substances into the oceans.
The new agriculture: fighting world hunger
We also want to anchor ecological and social criteria internationally at the World Trade Organization.
We want to abolish export subsidies and systematically dismantle Europe's isolation of agricultural products from so-called developing countries without degrading them to cultivation areas for transnational companies.
It is unacceptable that 70 percent of the more than 800 million hungry people live in rural areas, which are primarily responsible for food production.
In these countries, too, we want to strengthen rural agriculture and give top priority to securing food for their own populations.
Above all, we want to build democratic structures,
the right of access to food and water,
on land
and high-quality seeds without dependence on large corporations.
2. social and economic renewal
ALLIANCE 90/THE GREENS are the party of social justice and economic renewal.
Even when we were in opposition, we were the pioneers in the central fields of social and economic policy.
By joining the federal government, we were well prepared to begin overdue reforms.
We have made a start in easing the burden on children and parents by increasing child benefits - including for children on social assistance.
We have turned the corner toward reducing the mountain of debt.
We have initiated the tax reform
and private households
and medium-sized companies.
We have made the interests of our children strong in the pension reform
and, in the process, made a start on independent old-age provision for women.
And with the continuation of the Solidarity Pact, we have created the financial basis for continuing the reconstruction of the eastern states.
With the introduction of the eco-tax, we have begun the first steps toward an ecological financial reform in which the costs for the factor environment (natural resources) are charged and the factor labor is relieved.
Justice is one of our core values.
We stand for a fair distribution of society's goods, and this especially requires taking sides with the socially weak.
Our idea of justice goes further than that of the other parties.
We also stand for participatory justice, generational justice, gender justice and international justice.
Intergenerational justice includes leaving an intact environment for the generations after us and minimizing the use of natural resources.
There is a lot to do.
We will consistently pursue ecological financial reform.
We will significantly improve the living situation of children and their parents, as there is a great need to catch up here.
Effectively combating unemployment is our top priority
and we will continue to insist on fair reform of the labor market.
We want to see the introduction of a basic social security system that prevents people from slipping into poverty and exclusion.
Budget consolidation remains a permanent task for a party committed to intergenerational justice.
On September 22, 2002, you will decide: The cold policy of the neoliberal elbow as well as the reform refusal of black-red structural conservatives will be opposed by our policy of social and economic renewal.
In the next legislative period, we want to improve the situation of children
and get more people into work through our policies.
2.1 More Jobs, Social Security,
Economic renewal
Here we have not yet been able to achieve all that we set out to do in 1998.
We want to expand opportunities for personal initiative,
encourage the unemployed, and
at the same time establish sustainable forms of social security.
The linchpin of an effective fight against unemployment is that the economic framework conditions are further improved.
That is why we stand for budget consolidation,
tax relief for small and medium-sized enterprises, a
reduction in non-wage labor costs
and the expansion of education and research.
In order to guarantee this in the long term, a state capable of acting is also necessary in the future.
That is why saving is not an end in itself for us.
An increase in public funding for research, development and ecological innovations,
Education
and qualification
and reducing the financial difficulties of local authorities are key elements of a policy for more employment.
Environment creates work
Ecology creates economic dynamism and jobs.
The Renewable Energy Act and the eco-tax have created over 200,000 new jobs in the last four years.
In total, there are already over 1.3 million eco-jobs in Germany.
In solar and wind energy, we have triggered a boom that has attracted worldwide attention.
We will continue to follow this path.
We want to continue to occupy the pioneering ecological markets and establish ecological products on the market.
To this end, we will further develop the eco-tax into an ecological financial reform that.
Intensify research funding
and raise ecological standards
Reduction of unemployment
The most pressing economic policy problem is reducing unemployment.
At the heart of a reform policy based on solidarity must be an orientation toward the goal of a new type of full employment that enables everyone to participate in gainful employment that secures their livelihood and other socially meaningful activities.
A society based on solidarity cannot be built on mass unemployment.
Reforms in the labor market are needed to combat unemployment.
We want to build bridges to the primary labor market: Targeted wage cost subsidies and a temporary starter allowance for the long-term unemployed are possible ways of doing this.
Instead of subsidizing the low-wage sector across the board, we want to structure social security contributions in such a way that the part-time wall artificially erected in Germany is overcome.
We want to expand individual integration plans with jobseekers based on the concept of support and challenge.
We reject a tightening of sanctions.
It is also necessary to establish transfer companies in the event of staff reductions and to apply job rotation, job sharing and lifetime working time accounts in practice.
Job creation schemes and other measures of active labor market policy remain necessary, especially in eastern Germany.
Particularly for the reintegration of the long-term unemployed, but also of other groups disadvantaged in the labor market, publicly subsidized employment is indispensable for social policy reasons.
Measures for reintegration into the primary labor market should be interlinked with measures for improved qualification, and publicly supported employment should be linked with other social goals such as ecological management and the promotion of social services.
Our priority is a flexible and socially acceptable working time policy that opens up greater individual choice and enables a broader distribution of gainful employment.
We have significantly improved the framework conditions through the Part-Time Work Act.
We want to promote the reduction of overtime and overtime compensation via working time accounts to enable qualification phases, so-called "sabbatical periods," child-rearing work or long recreational breaks.
We also consider the introduction of tariff funds for job sharing based on the model of the metal industry in Lower Saxony to be a sensible step.
We want to promote part-time work by converting partial retirement into a five-year, age-independent subsidy entitlement for all and improving the retirement security of part-time employees overall.
In this way, reductions in working hours for child-rearing, care work, qualification or recovery phases can be planned individually and freely in working life.
To get the unemployed into work more quickly and thus reduce the proportion of long-term unemployed, we need a new employment service that can respond effectively and quickly to the needs of the unemployed and companies.
More intensive support for job seekers during contact and interviews can achieve high levels of success in placing them in regular employment.
This requires a corresponding change in the way employment offices work, and the service character of employment services must be strengthened.
A sustainable reduction in mass unemployment is inconceivable without a fair redistribution and redistribution of work in society - especially between men and women.
The organizational and time structures of gainful employment must be redefined in such a way that they ensure the compatibility of family and career for women and men alike.
A "new normal employment relationship" must therefore be based on the rule that employees have to cope with family work in addition to gainful employment and the life entitlement to regular time off work.
Part-time employment must become more financially attractive.
Especially in the area of household-related services, undeclared work must be reduced and new potential must be tapped.
As a further employment-promoting element, we want to achieve downstream taxation of all social security contributions and also examine the introduction of dynamic, graduated social security contributions to reduce the disproportionate overall burden on small incomes.
Qualification and further training are essential means of getting the unemployed back into work and preventing workers from becoming unemployed in advance.
The structural change we support requires an improvement in the skills structure.
We want to counter this by promoting the qualification of those now employed and unemployed and orienting education to this structural change that is taking place.
Young people without a school-leaving certificate or without a training place need special support.
The successful measures in the JUMP program will be continued and, if necessary, supplemented by pay-as-you-go incentives and subsidies.
We want to design training courses as building blocks that can be put together in different ways.
We want to develop targeted assistance.
Other models, such as production schools based on the Danish model, are to be tested.
We also need to involve youth services in the creation of training and qualification opportunities.
At the same time, we want to ensure greater quality and equality of opportunity in schools with a new education reform and eliminate existing deficits so that significantly more young people achieve good qualifications.
The quality of job-related continuing education must be improved.
We advocate for learning opportunities in the workplace and learning bridges into the labor market.
Employers also have a responsibility here.
For publicly funded measures, we call for new demand-driven financing elements.
Initial training is to be redesigned, lifelong learning is to be strengthened, and degrees are to be adapted to further training steps and the merging Europe.
Self-determined life in old age
Older people are needed with their experience in working life.
Instead of a policy of early retirement, a culture of working in old age with long-term and smooth transitions into retirement must be developed.
We therefore want to promote partial retirement in the future only if it is not used to force older employees into retirement or to rationalize away jobs.
Part of participating in social and cultural life is living a self-determined life.
We want to support older people in the transfer of knowledge and in the use of new media.
It is important to promote a differentiated range of housing and assistance services geared to different life situations.
This also includes intergenerational coexistence between old and young.
The concerns of older people of foreign origin must be included.
Introduce basic social security
The introduction of a basic social security system is one of our key reform projects for the next four years.
Social assistance, conceived as a subordinate assistance benefit, no longer meets today's requirements for basic social security.
To combat the poverty that still prevails today, a package of measures is needed that consists of improving the material situation of those receiving assistance as well as activating offers that counteract their social exclusion.
This includes the introduction of a means-tested basic income support that actually prevents poverty.
Benefits must be adjusted to the increased cost of living and reassessed according to a fixed system (statistical model).
This must also take into account what people need to participate in cultural and political life.
Today's changed world of work requires an increasing willingness to be flexible and mobile - but this can only be expected of people if they are protected from poverty and socially secure at the same time.
The introduction of a means-tested basic benefit ensures that people can receive unbureaucratic assistance in the event of poverty, unemployment, other emergencies, or when switching between different forms of work and further education.
Basic benefits combine unemployment assistance and social assistance.
We do not want to convert unemployment assistance into social assistance, but rather a new benefit system.
Unemployment benefit recipients should not be placed in a worse position than before.
The conditions for receiving basic benefits are to be brought into line with those for unemployment assistance.
Saved financial reserves for old-age provision and privately used residential property may not be counted toward basic security benefits.
Basic benefits are largely paid on a flat-rate basis.
This is a contribution to more legal certainty and transparency.
Citizens can find out about their entitlements quickly and easily, and they can and must take responsibility for their own spending decisions.
The offices are relieved of bureaucratic tasks.
This allows them to focus on advising citizens and become equal partners in a local association of networks and service providers.
Regional differences in general living requirements, such as housing costs, are taken into account.
The basic benefit is tax-financed and will relieve the financial burden on municipalities.
All eligible persons receive social protection without discrimination.
Their access to the labor market is improved.
All jobseekers become eligible to participate in active labor market policy measures.
Individual integration plans are drawn up for them - ensuring that assistance is provided in finding suitable activities.
Activation of aid recipients with a sustainable effect can only be created through qualified and individual offers, not by threatening to withdraw the material basis.
Those who are dependent on support due to handicaps or their age receive an increased basic security amount.
A basic child benefit ensures that parents and single parents with low earnings do not fall below the poverty line.
Your personal scope - not least on the labor market - is thus increased.
A prerequisite for anti-poverty policies and sustainable social and economic renewal is continuous social, poverty and wealth reporting.
Transparency instead of corruption
Alliance 90/The Greens stand for sustainable anti-corruption policy.
The best protection and most effective prevention against corruption and the risk of corruption are transparency, publicity and consultation in cases of conflict.
We advocate freedom of information laws at the state, federal and EU levels that give citizens the widest possible access to records.
Detection must be supported.
Corruption must not be subject to any legal protection of secrecy, and perpetrators
must not go unpunished.
Companies, political parties and administrations need anti-corruption guidelines for their actions.
Implementation deficits that already exist with regard to existing transparency rules must be regularly investigated and eliminated by parliamentary bodies.
In past practice, the transfer of public-sector services to companies with (apparently) private legal status has made political control more difficult and thus increased the risk of corruption in politics.
Disinterest in exercising shareholder rights has paved the way for cronyism and inadequate control.
We want to extend democratic control and transparency to these companies as well, which is why new legal regulations must be created.
We want to review the existing regulations of public procurement law to determine the extent to which they should be supplemented by rules on so-called integrity pacts.
Relieving the burden on private households and small and medium-sized enterprises
For us, fairness and transparency are at the heart of tax policy.
Our tax reforms have provided lasting relief for private households and SMEs.
We want to consistently continue along this path.
By 2005, we will have reduced the entry tax rate from 25.9 in 1998 to 15 percent.
Since individual performance must be taken into account in the tax system, we do not believe that a further reduction in the top tax rate beyond what has been decided is necessary.
We want to further reduce tax concessions and in this way simplify tax law.
Simplification of the tax system is a prerequisite for greater equity.
And we want to further increase the basic tax-free allowance for the subsistence minimum to 7,664 euros, also to reduce undeclared work.
We want to give families priority in tax law as well.
We want to finally achieve our goal of a uniform child benefit for all.
In this way, we can constitutionally make child-related allowances superfluous.
This would finally achieve our goal that every child should be of equal value to the state.
We want to make further progress in the fight against tax evasion.
In addition to combating VAT fraud, we also want to curb tax evasion on capital income and across borders.
One focus of our tax policy will be on better enforcement of tax law.
For tax evasion represents a gigantic perverse redistribution program: from honest to dishonest, but also from poor to rich.
It thus profoundly contradicts our understanding of justice and the rule of law; in the operational sphere, it distorts competition.
We want more fairness in wealth taxation.
The conditions must be created for a wealth tax that conforms to the constitution.
We want to participate in this.
How this can be done must be worked out with the countries.
We want to correct the different treatment of the various types of assets objected to by the Federal Constitutional Court by reforming inheritance and gift tax.
And we want to develop the eco-tax into an ecological financial reform.
In the next legislative period, we will continue to adhere to the revenue neutrality of ecological financial reform.
Every euro collected flows back to the citizens through lower non-wage labor costs, compensation for social hardship or by promoting environmentally conscious behavior.
Promoting small and medium-sized enterprises - strengthening the culture of self-employment
Small and medium-sized enterprises and craft businesses combine creativity and reason, initiative and responsibility.
They create 70 percent of the jobs and 80 percent of the apprenticeships.
We want to reduce bureaucratic obstacles for SMEs,
ensure fair competitive conditions
and strengthen the culture of self-employment.
In the skilled trades, the master craftsman's examination must no longer be a mandatory prerequisite for self-employment and starting a business.
We want to make the taxation of small and medium-sized companies fair in relation to large companies.
That is why we want to tax the capital gains of corporations again in the future in a way that benefits local authorities in particular.
This includes the debureaucratization of 325-euro jobs.
The existing regulation burdens small and medium-sized enterprises
and causes disproportionately high administrative costs for social security funds, health insurance funds and tax offices.
We also believe that shorter approval procedures and uniform deadlines in the tax system are necessary.
This includes a socially responsible reform of store closing hours.
Sunday belongs to recreation and leisure.
The willingness of start-ups to take risks must be matched by offers of a second chance in the event of failure.
Current funding practices need to be more specific to the demand of female start-ups.
We want to improve SMEs' vital access to loans and equity capital.
To this end, we will develop new instruments at the federal development banks to make it more attractive again for banks to grant small and micro loans.
We want a lively equity and venture capital market by creating more transparency and trust on the capital markets.
and through attractive tax conditions
Doing business in the knowledge society
In the knowledge society, new jobs are created primarily in research, information processing, communications and knowledge-based services.
Human capabilities become the most important factor of production.
Decentralized and networked structures are becoming characteristic - even within large companies.
This creates new opportunities for self-determined work and more employment - but also risks and greater pressure for people.
We therefore want to invest more in research and education and
adapt social security systems to the new conditions.
The category of "intellectual property" must be redefined in the information society.
We want to promote the potential of free software.
We want to ensure low Internet access prices through competition in telecommunications and by strengthening the telecommunications regulatory authority.
Strengthen employee participation
To make ownership of productive assets in Germany fairer, we want to promote employee participation in company capital more strongly.
Creating a fair competitive framework
Alliance 90/The Greens have always actively supported the transformation of former monopoly markets such as telecommunications, electricity and gas, postal services and public transport.
Competition is more innovative and efficient than monopolies and thus benefits the consumer.
But to enable a high level of competition, the state must ensure fair competitive conditions.
New and small players need non-discriminatory access to have a chance.
Since the former state-owned monopoly companies mostly still hold dominant positions in the markets, we want to create efficient competition authorities with the ability to impose directly applicable conditions on the companies.
In the rail and energy supply sectors, we want to unbundle network operation and the range of services offered.
We want to use competition to enforce the least environmentally harmful and most socially sensible solution.
But competition must not lead to the dismantling of social and ecological standards.
Therefore, obstacles to the consideration of ecological and social standards in the awarding of public contracts must be removed at the European and national level.
In the wake of globalization and liberalization, the number of mergers has increased sharply in recent years.
This concentration process threatens to stifle competition.
We want to counter the globally merging corporations with globally cooperating competition authorities as effective control bodies.
We support the EU Commission in its concern to improve cooperation among national antitrust authorities.
In the future, the approval of mergers that have not been approved by the Cartel Office will only be possible with the consent of the Bundestag.
Reduce non-wage labor costs - further develop social insurance
If you want new investment in jobs in Germany, you have to ensure that the high non-wage labor costs fall.
This is also a prerequisite for effectively combating undeclared work.
We are sticking to the goal of reducing social security contributions to below 40 percent overall through structural reforms of the social security systems, especially in the area of health insurance and unemployment insurance.
Through the eco-tax, we have already reduced non-wage pension costs by 1.5 percentage points.
We want to develop social insurance schemes into citizens' insurance schemes.
This is a step towards fairness in contributions and a reduction in non-wage labor costs.
This includes the inclusion of the self-employed and civil servants, the increase in the assessment thresholds, and 2. social and economic renewal the inclusion of income from non-employment - for example, from renting, leasing, or capital income.
We want to enforce appropriate equal tax treatment of retirement income while at the same time taking into account the different characteristics of the various pension systems.
Our goal is the complete tax exemption of social security
For the vast majority of pensioners, this change demanded by the Federal Constitutional Court will not lead to any deterioration.
Solidarity-based healthcare policy for the future
We will make use of the existing efficiency reserves for the care of patients.
For a prevention-oriented health care system: Environmental pollution, health risks at the workplace and through leisure behavior and malnutrition, psychosocial stress, social disadvantages and discrimination represent disease triggers that are difficult to influence individually.
Sustainable health policy therefore needs to be embedded in an overall health-promoting policy.
Today's health care system is one-sidedly curative.
We will strengthen health promotion, prevention as well as rehabilitation.
The prevention services provided by health insurance companies and other stakeholders must be expanded and dovetailed,
occupational health and safety and preventive occupational health and safety can be improved.
One focus will be preventive programs in early childhood and health education in kindergartens and schools.
In medical research, new priorities are to be set in terms of prevention.
We want people with pollutant-related diseases to have better conditions in their professional and private lives.
The therapy of environment- and pollutant-related diseases must be given an adequate place in medical care.
For a solidarity-based healthcare system: Alliance 90/The Greens reject the path to two-tier medicine.
A future-oriented health care system guarantees high-quality medical and health care for all citizens regardless of income, social status and place of residence.
Access to health-related services based on the current principle of benefits in kind must be open to all people living in Germany.
With the Greens, a division into basic and supplementary benefits cannot be made.
We want to further develop existing care structures,
close gaps in care
and reorganize self-administration.
We are committed to ensuring that the financially strong participate in the solidarity-based health insurance system.
Demographic developments are also changing people's income situation.
Income from gainful employment will become less important.
With the start of the next legislative period, options for including other types of income such as interest, rent, and speculative gains, as well as the impact on contribution rates, will be examined and options for successive implementation will be developed.
The circle of insured persons must be broadened.
In the medium term, the solidarity-based health insurance system is to become a genuine citizens' insurance system in which everyone is insured.
Priority social tasks, which were previously borne by the statutory health insurance (SHI), are to be secured through tax financing.
For a patient-oriented healthcare system: Greens advocate for empowered patients.
We will strengthen existing approaches to self-organization and self-help.
The rights of patients should be further developed and summarized in a protective law.
If necessary, independent institutionalized advice must be provided to facilitate recourse to applicable law.
A health test foundation - analogous to Stiftung Warentest - can make the range of products on the healthcare market transparent and comparable.
The services provided and their payment must be transparent, commensurate with the service and comprehensible to patients.
An Institute for Quality Assurance in Health Care is to coordinate the quality management activities of all service providers on a statutory basis.
We reject transparent patients.
Integrated care is the rule for us: we want to achieve patient-centered, integrated, collaborative and inter-professional offerings.
Qualified family physicians are to play a central role in this.
The services offered should be geared more closely to the needs of specific target groups.
Inpatient and outpatient care close to home must be ensured.
In addition, we will promote health centers (according to World Health Organization WHO) and outpatient regional care in the sense of polyclinics.
Comprehensive community psychiatric care in the sense of the Psychiatry Enquete is to be implemented.
We want to significantly strengthen talking medicine.
The core of health care is personal interaction "person to person."
The non-physician health professions must be upgraded through greater autonomy in terms of both content and funding.
This includes full legal protection for out-of-hospital obstetric care.
We are committed to ensuring that sensible services in special therapy directions are also financed on a solidarity basis.
We aim to adopt European guidelines for psychotherapeutic procedures.
The pharmaceutical market must be more vigorously purged of agents with questionable efficacy.
The positive list must finally be put into effect.
We want to improve medication safety for children and adolescents.
Further develop disability law
The reform of disability law begun with the new rehabilitation law must be continued.
The aim is to enshrine a right to personal assistance and a benefit law for people with disabilities that removes integration assistance from the restrictions of social assistance.
Securing self-determination and basic rights in care Conditions for dignified care are securing self-determination and basic rights as well as the primacy of rehabilitation in the sense of promoting existing individual resources.
We must counter violence against people in need of care and the violation of human rights in care.
It is also necessary to orient the offers of care to the individual needs of people in need of care.
In addition, we must decisively improve the working conditions in professional, voluntary and family care and
eliminate the existing shortage of care and personnel.
The aim is to create a common integrated nursing career profile with appropriate nursing training.
We want to develop a uniform nationwide staffing system for inpatient care that is based on the quality requirements expected by society.
The funding base for long-term care, especially long-term care insurance, must be significantly expanded,
and problems due to different responsibilities for long-term care and supplementary assistance services must be eliminated.
This includes better coverage of home health care under Section 37 of the 5th Social Security Code.
The benefits catalog of long-term care insurance must be improved on the basis of a holistic concept of long-term care.
This also includes taking into account the additional care needs of people suffering from dementia.
Treatment care services are generally covered by the health insurance funds.
Maintaining the skilled worker quota will ensure the quality of nursing care in the future as well;
collective wage agreements must remain an irrevocable part of remuneration negotiations.
We advocate for the establishment of an "Enquete of Homes."
The goal is to put the home system to the test
and to further develop individual person-centered forms of care.
Consolidate budget and invest in the future
We stand for intergenerational justice.
That is why we reject blank checks on the future and end the debt mania.
Expenditures and revenues must be brought into balance at all levels of government.
Fiscal consolidation is the basis for lasting monetary stability, low interest rates and favorable macroeconomic conditions.
Only a decisive course of budget consolidation will give us room to invest in the future
like ecology,
Education
or childcare.
For us, intergenerational justice and sustainable economic policy mean leaving the next generation neither a mountain of debt nor dilapidated schools and inadequate social infrastructure.
Strengthening the municipalities
We want to secure the future viability of our cities and shape the sustainable development of municipalities.
Municipalities are the communities in which politics is practiced and shaped by citizens.
They provide indispensable services for citizens
and provide the necessary infrastructure.
We want to strengthen the financial power of the municipalities and put it on a broad and solid basis;
we want to strengthen the bond between local business and the municipality.
That is why we want to implement a viable trade tax reform as an essential element of municipal finance reform in consensus with all stakeholders.
Unfair unequal treatment between urban and rural residents must be ruled out.
We firmly reject federal and state relief at the expense of municipalities.
The municipal share of income tax should no longer be distributed exclusively according to the place of residence principle, but should also benefit the place of work in part.
We want to make the property tax, an important municipal tax, more ecological.
Reorganize the finances
In order to open up scope for reform projects - such as easing the burden on municipalities, basic social security or a new children's policy - we need a reorganization of the federal financial distribution.
We want to review the overall distribution of tasks and finances between the federal, state and local governments.
The federal government must also not impose any further costs on the municipalities in the course of new tasks.
This principle must be anchored in the reform of the financial constitution.
Fair tax competition in Europe and worldwide
The EU internal market needs fair competitive conditions and no tax dumping.
With regard to direct taxes, we are committed to the harmonization of minimum tax rates.
and a uniform assessment basis for corporation tax.
The uniform taxation of interest in Europe must finally become a reality.
We are also striving for European regulations on eco and energy taxes.
Tax policy issues must no longer be blocked by the unanimity principle.
We want to dry up tax havens.
We are striving to harmonize tax policy at international level
and the opportunities for tax evasion
and the race for tax cuts between countries.
What has been successful in Germany in terms of ecological-social modernization should also guide international German government action.
We want renewable energies
and promote SMEs more strongly
and create more transparency in decisions on export guarantees and warranties by informing parliament and the public at an early stage.
The World Bank standards must be adhered to in guarantee decisions,
and there must be a binding audit of human rights violations and
debt impact
. This must also apply to all lending abroad by the state-owned Landesbanken and the Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau.
Internationally, we are working to standardize these criteria within the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).
2.2 Child friendly country
ALLIANCE 90/THE GREENS are committed to improving the living conditions of children and their parents.
A responsible policy for children requires us to think about tomorrow today.
Policy for children is a task that can only succeed if all policy areas work together.
Child policy is a cross-cutting task.
We stand for generational justice
and a child-friendly country.
We want to continue the active reform policy in favor of children and their parents and give it new impetus.
Children have rights
Alliance 90/The Greens see children as full members of our society.
Children should be involved in decisions that affect them in an age-appropriate manner, regardless of their background.
Where this is exceptionally not possible, their concerns must be taken into account.
Disabled children have the right to integration.
All children benefit from growing up in diversity and difference.
We will not allow any form of discrimination, neither in education nor in social interaction.
This concerns in particular the right of the child to mother and father.
Especially for illegitimate children and children after separation and divorce, concepts must be developed to ensure continuous contact with the separated parent.
Children have the right to grow up in an intact environment today and tomorrow.
This includes climate protection as well as the
orientation of pollutant limits to the concerns of children,
research into the causes of children's illnesses caused by environmental toxins as
well as play streets and 30 km/h speed limits in residential areas.
We want a country where children have open spaces to play, make noise and run around without parents having to fear lawsuits for noise pollution.
Above all, children have a right to a childhood and adolescence free of violence.
We therefore want to consistently develop the right to a non-violent upbringing
and significantly improve the protection of children from sources of influence of violence such as war toys or depictions of violence in early evening TV programs.
Plurality of life plans: It all depends on the children
Women and men are free to decide whether they want to live alone or in partnership, with or without children.
We are not concerned with the priority of one way of life over others.
Just as the state may not impose requirements on individual life choices in this area, the
decision to live with children may not be associated with disadvantages or become a risk of poverty.
Our policy applies to all children, regardless of the living arrangements in which they grow up.
Single parents and their children in particular need more support from the state and society.
We want to support parents by providing services geared to their needs, for example in health promotion or conflict management.
Improve compatibility of children and work -
Expanding childcare across the board
The regional disparity in childcare provision in Germany is no longer acceptable.
Despite regional differences, especially between western and eastern Germany, much remains to be done overall.
In this context, the old Länder can also learn a lot from the experience of the new Länder with regard to the comprehensive supply structure in the childcare sector.
Parents' desire for childcare options for their children doesn't start at age three and doesn't suddenly stop at age six.
The first few years after giving birth are often decisive for the future career prospects of women in particular.
We want parental leave to be better shared between parents.
One instrument we want to examine in the next legislative period is the Swedish model of paying wage replacement benefits to parents and tying them to the division of parental leave between women and men.
Within the next six years, we will enforce the demand-based expansion of childcare services for all children aged 0-14.
As a step in this direction, in the next legislative period we want to see a noticeable expansion between the ages of 0 and 3, the
reliable provision of lunch in kindergartens and daycare centers,
and the comprehensive introduction of all-day programs at schools.
We want to strengthen the right of parents to freely choose whether to have their child cared for by a state or free service, a church facility or a parent initiative, or to care for the child themselves.
The individual care of children, especially under the age of 3, by child minders as a supplementary offer is also an important building block for the reconciliation of family and work.
We advocate for a minimum qualification for childminders
and for the inclusion of childminders in the public education and care system.
We want to ensure that attendance at daycare centers is free of charge.
Because of the importance of preschool education, we want to take the first step of making attendance at kindergartens and daycare centers tuition-free for a core period of five to six hours from the age of 5.
We strive to ensure that the special needs of single parents are taken into account in tax law in a way that is consistent with the constitution.
We also want the tax deductibility of childcare costs from the first euro.
Better reconciliation of children and work cannot be had for free.
The improvements we are proposing will cost five billion euros a year.
We believe that our children and the living situation of their parents must be worth that much to us.
The changes we seek must not be financed at the expense of the states and municipalities.
Upgrading childcare, taking the educational mandate seriously
The tasks of educators in our country have long since gone far beyond care.
Kindergartens and daycare centers now have a dual mandate - they are educational and developmental centers for children and service providers for parents.
It is precisely because of the growing importance of pre-school education that we want to enhance the status of the nursery teacher profession.
We are therefore striving to ensure that educators are also trained at universities of applied sciences in the future.
Appropriate training and continuing education measures are to be offered for the educators.
The responsible work must also be reflected in better pay.
School as a place to live - drawing conclusions from the PISA study
Children want to learn.
For us, maintaining and promoting the joy of learning is the mission of all educational institutions.
Primary and secondary schools do a worse job of preparing our children for life and work than in other countries.
Our schools need a new learning culture.
This includes reforming teacher education.
They are designed to provide children and young people with a variety of learning experiences, stimulation and social contact.
So far, too little attention has been paid to unequal starting conditions, such as the social background or educational level of the parents.
Equal opportunities in access to education thus remain unrealized.
This applies to a large extent to children from migrant families and significantly complicates their integration.
As international comparisons show, individual support for both low-performing and high-performing students is better achieved in a joint learning group than by separating children too early.
It is essential to bring individualized student support to the forefront of instructional practice.
This naturally includes the integration of children with disabilities.
But a new learning culture cannot grow without reforming teacher education and training.
Fighting child poverty - creating a basic child allowance
Child poverty is a scandal.
BÜNDNIS 90/DIE GRÜNEN will fight child poverty in the Federal Republic in the next legislative period.
To this end, we will support those who are most disadvantaged: children from low-income families.
Our model of a basic child allowance results in a supplement to the child allowance for these families and increases the child allowance by up to €100.
Our proposals for offsetting transfer income against earned income will strengthen incentives to take up gainful employment.
More than 4 million children would benefit from the basic child allowance.
We want to finance the costs of 2.5 billion euros by systematically reducing the spousal tax credit in the upper income bracket.
Bundle services for children, introduce children's fund
Living with children is supported in a variety of ways by a confusing array of government agencies.
We want to bundle these services and combine them in a children's fund (KiKa).
As part of the reorganization of the federal financial equalization system, the children's fund is to be located at the municipal level without imposing greater burdens on the cities and municipalities in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
Parents no longer have to go through a time-consuming hurdle race before receiving government assistance.
Our country needs a children's summit
Many of the proposed measures touch on the responsibilities of state and local governments.
Nevertheless, the federal government must not shirk its responsibility, including its financial responsibility.
Effective promotion of life with children requires a joint effort by all three levels of government, business and society.
We need an action plan to promote living with children.
The federal, state and local governments, employers and trade unions, and the social groups active in this area are to agree on this plan at a children's summit in the next legislative period under the leadership of the federal government.
When the federal government defines new tasks, for example in childcare, it must help local and state governments finance them accordingly.
2.3 Good Education, Responsible Research, Vibrant Culture
Education and research are the crucial foundations for access to the knowledge society and the active social, political and economic participation of every individual.
The focus is on people with their individual interests and abilities.
Since 1998, we have therefore initiated a turnaround in education policy after years of educational cutbacks.
Federal spending on education and research was increased by 15.5 percent despite budget consolidation.
The newly regulated BAföG again enables more people to take up studies.
By introducing the junior professorship, the amendment to the Framework Act for Higher Education creates the prerequisites for modern and internationally compatible universities
and facilitates lateral entry to a professorship.
In the next legislative period, we will do more to promote the autonomy of educational institutions while at the same time ensuring state quality control
and expanding counseling services.
Launching a new education reform
We stand for participation in education for all.
This includes taking into account differences in educational access between girls and boys or women and men.
Our aim is to support people in achieving their educational goals and thus reduce the drop-out rate at the same time.
We want to improve the quality of education for learners
and at the same time remove barriers to access in order to contribute to equal opportunities.
We see competition among educational institutions as one means of achieving this.
However, this must not be a competition that perpetuates unequal starting opportunities instead of compensating for them.
Instead of going back to early selection and closing off educational access, we are focusing on more individual support,
on teachers who can show their strengths,
and on greater diversity in educational institutions.
To achieve this, they need more autonomy in terms of content, personnel and finances,
more support for teachers in the form of qualification and further training,
and a reliable financial framework.
For us, autonomy for educational institutions is always linked to the demand for participatory self-governance internally and transparency externally.
Internal self-governance includes the participation of teachers and learners and, where appropriate, the participation of societal stakeholders.
Transparency is an important basis for ensuring that government quality assurance for education remains possible.
All educational institutions should meet clearly defined quality standards that are transparent to all, for example by means of a quality seal.
Evaluations of educational institutions should become standard without degenerating into a mere comparison of alleged performance indicators.
Only the triad of autonomy, participation and transparency about the structure and educational success of educational institutions creates the basis for continuously improving our education system.
The more diverse the educational offering becomes, the greater the demand for objective advice.
Here we see an important government task.
Educational guidance must actively approach people and not be limited to providing information.
The previous structures for improving our education system - especially the Conference of Ministers of Education and Cultural Affairs - have not sufficiently fulfilled their responsibility.
Federalism also serves the competition for the best solution.
Where it leads to a blame game between the states or gridlock at the expense of our children, the federal government has an obligation.
While respecting the cultural sovereignty of the states, we advocate a stronger moderating role for the federal government in matters of preschool and school education.
Lifelong learning
Learning no longer takes place in a clearly defined period of life, but is an ongoing process.
The importance of continuing education in later stages of life is growing.
This affects the structure of the education system.
Access to the education system must be opened at all levels and transitions between sub-sectors must be simplified.
In the area of continuing education and lifelong learning, too, we are committed to ensuring that people can participate regardless of their financial situation or social background.
We will continue to expand the possibility of switching between different educational offerings or between phases of gainful employment and continuing education.
Lifelong learning does not only take place in educational institutions.
We want to do justice to the growing importance of distance learning.
School and cultural diversity
The division into "nationals" and "foreigners" is institutionalized in laws, and it shapes society and its institutions.
Schools and educational institutions are no exception - according to one of the alarming findings of the PISA study, which once again impressively demonstrated the connection between educational opportunities and the background of young people.
Young people from socially disadvantaged backgrounds perform worst and apparently have the hardest time at school.
This is particularly true for young people with an immigrant background.
Non-German youths continue to be disproportionately represented at Hauptschulen and severely underrepresented at Realschulen and Gymnasien.
Improve the quality of universities
In the knowledge society, universities must become a central place.
Associated with this, society's demands for 2. social and economic renewal are growing higher education institutions.
In addition to providing initial education, universities are also becoming institutions of continuing education and training for society.
In a broad-based process, universities and society must come to an understanding about the tasks that will be assigned to universities in the future and how these tasks can be guaranteed.
We will initiate this process and actively engage in it.
The goal must be to achieve a new higher education reform
and to make universities more attractive, especially for students from "educationally disadvantaged backgrounds".
Changes in study preferences and living conditions must be taken into account in a study reform,
as well as the continued safeguarding of creative and flexible academic learning.
Building blocks for this include opening up university access
and more flexibly tailored study programs,
as well as greater support for tutor and mentor programs
and projects for independent learning and research.
With performance-related pay for professors, we are now finally rewarding commitment to teaching financially.
We are committed to expanding the number of women's studies courses offered.
In addition, women's and gender studies must be integrated as a permanent component of study and teaching.
Feminist critique of science makes the category of gender the object of scientific work and thus makes an important contribution to the reflection of social relations.
In order to introduce creative research approaches into science, we are striving to establish a women's university in Germany that is innovative and internationally oriented.
The mobility of learners and researchers must be supported and must not be allowed to fail due to bureaucratic or financial hurdles.
Domestic education must be given a strong international perspective,
and international degree programs will continue to be promoted.
We will work to make Germany a more attractive place to study for foreign students and researchers.
To this end, the provisions of labor and immigration law must be opened up further.
and qualifications obtained abroad are recognized.
Science as a profession
We want to provide better support for people who decide to pursue a career in science.
For this reason, too, universities must not refrain from opening up opportunities for independent scientific work already during the course of studies and from expanding the scope of study that has existed up to now.
Better support for doctoral students is particularly important to us.
A separate collective agreement for academics - which should also cover student assistants - could take better account of the specific requirements of higher education and research institutions.
We reject rigid regulations.
We want to evaluate and further improve the effects of the new career paths created in the amendment to the Framework Act for Higher Education, such as the junior professorship.
The promotion of future young scientists must not be at the expense of current young scientists.
Germany is at the bottom of the league when it comes to the proportion of female university lecturers.
We want more women to choose careers in science.
That's why we want family-friendly universities.
Combining study and scientific research with a life with children should no longer be hindered by inadequate childcare options.
The upcoming generation change at universities and research institutions must be used to significantly increase the proportion of women in scientific leadership positions.
Promoting democracy and engagement
We want universities to be places of lively discussion and engaged exchange with society, not purely learning and research factories.
That is why we are in favor of initiatives to make universities more open to their surroundings.
We consider the constituted student body important as a way to articulate and incorporate student interests within the university.
More money for education and research
We will further increase funding for education and research.
In doing so, we want the rights of education participants to be stronger.
The resources used should follow more closely the people and their choices for the educational program in question.
We do not want tuition fees to have a social selection effect.
We reject this.
In particular, studies up to the first degree must remain tuition-free.
We also remain committed to a fundamental reform of the BAföG.
Modern student financing must include even more parent-independent components, take into account the reality of students' lives today and reach broad sections of the population.
We want to link funding for education and research institutions more closely to target agreements.
Active research policy for people and the environment
Research lays important foundations for tomorrow's world and is an indispensable building block for sustainable policies.
In addition to application-oriented research, we also attach great importance to basic research at universities.
Our research policy aims to exploit the opportunities offered by new technology, but also addresses its risks.
Not everything that is technically feasible may be done.
A responsible civil society must consciously decide which technologies it wants to use and which risks it wants to accept.
We will therefore advocate further strengthening of technology assessment.
Technology assessment must be guided by the guiding principle of sustainability, which weighs ecological, social and economic criteria against each other.
Without the link with the humanities and social sciences, engineering and the natural sciences run the risk of researching past the needs of people and the environment.
An independent funding structure is to be established for practice-oriented interdisciplinary research in which human and natural/technical sciences cooperate.
Feminist critique of science makes the category of gender the subject of scientific work and thus makes an important contribution to the reflection of social conditions.
That is why we want women's studies and women's research to be permanently anchored in universities and science.
In medical research, the diversity of therapeutic approaches must be safeguarded.
Genetic engineering approaches are one of several possibilities here.
We want to allocate more money to research into the management of disease, especially chronic disease, and preventive health research.
Because of the potential far-reaching effects of genetic engineering or modern biomedicine, limits must be set.
We reject extraneous research on incapacitated persons as well as consumptive embryo research, human cloning including therapeutic cloning, and mandatory genetic testing because they threaten human dignity.
Despite significant improvements since 1998, there is still a need to catch up in the areas of environmental, women's and peace research.
In view of unsolved environmental problems,
the still unrealized equality between men and women
and the new peace policy challenges, we want to set priorities here.
The need for a further thematic reorientation toward sustainability also applies in particular to the large-scale research institutions, whose previous focus on nuclear or fusion research must be ended.
We see further research policy priorities in new materials, nanotechnology, renewable energies and energy conservation, ecological agriculture, user-oriented information and communication technologies, innovations for the service society, and research into "life in old age".
Culture is the lifeblood of society
For Alliance 90/The Greens, artistic expression is an indispensable foundation of social life.
Visual arts, theater, film, music, dance and literature animate expression and communication of an open society.
We are therefore continuing to work to ensure that artists in Germany enjoy good framework conditions, that
young artists are promoted,
and that tax and legal provisions are improved.
We stand for securing and promoting free spaces for art and creativity.
Culture and art come from the people, not from the state.
We want to give everyone access to art and culture.
We want to provide special support for private commitment.
Democratic cultural policy is based on the equality of diverse cultural needs of the different population groups in Germany
as well as the equal value of traditional, "classical" cultural institutions and innovative art forms, especially the artistic avant-garde and free socio-cultural projects.
The state has the task of providing space for cultural and artistic concerns in society and creating framework conditions in which art and culture can develop freely.
This includes, in particular, responsibility for the cultural education of children and young people.
The German theater and orchestra landscape also deserves special attention from the state and civil society.
We also support the introduction of the voluntary year in historic preservation and the voluntary cultural year.
The lively and diverse cultural landscape is impressive evidence of the success of German cultural federalism.
In order to do justice to its growing importance, we therefore want to upgrade the federal government's cultural policy in explicit recognition of the cultural sovereignty of the states and anchor culture as a joint task in the Basic Law.
BÜNDNIS 90/DIE GRÜNEN are in favor of a concise and competent performance of cultural tasks at the federal level and advocate the creation of a federal ministry of culture
In the interests of greater transparency and efficiency, we want to redefine the cultural policy competencies of the federal and state governments
and decisively improve cooperation between the federal and state governments and municipalities.
We advocate the continuation and expansion of existing foundations jointly funded by the federal and state governments.
Our history is a place for debate and learning.
We need to know where we are coming from in order to know where we are going.
We therefore stand by our responsibility for the consequences of the National Socialist regime of injustice, which must be reflected upon again and again in an actively shaped culture of remembrance.
This also applies to dealing with the GDR's past.
Preserving the cultural heritage in the diversity of its memorials, museums, memorial sites, archives and architectural testimonies is therefore a central goal of our cultural policy.
Cultural policy in East and West Germany faces a special task as a result of the unification of the two German states.
It confronts the experiences of artistic promotion and cultural work in the GDR and the FRG and especially the safeguarding of the cultural infrastructure in the East German states.
ALLIANCE 90/THE GREENS want to strengthen the active encounter of the cultures of the world.
We therefore support the aggressive expansion of Goethe-Instituts and Inter-Nationes as well as the intensification of international cultural exchange.
We see cultural understanding as a key not only to a Europe that is growing together.
For a tolerant and peaceful coexistence also in Germany, our focus is on the dialogue of cultures and the promotion of art and culture of the migrants living here.
2.4 Self-confident East Germany
Over the next four years, we want to continue to drive forward the process of growing together into an all-German country based on solidarity.
We are committed to a self-confident eastern Germany.
We focus on justice for the whole of Germany - and therefore want to further reduce the social gap between East and West.
We are focusing on more jobs for eastern Germany - and therefore want to improve the economic and social infrastructure.
We are committed to a democratic eastern Germany - and therefore want to strengthen trust in democracy
and promote civic engagement.
We are committed to a sustainable Germany as a whole - and therefore want to promote science and future technologies.
We are focusing on young people in both East and West Germany - and therefore want to invest in education and training.
State and society must be measured by the fact that responsibility is shared by East and West Germans right up to their management levels.
Learning from the East
East Germany has every reason to be confident.
The citizens' movement made a significant contribution to the peaceful revolution in 1989.
Many people in East Germany took advantage of their opportunities after the fall of the Berlin Wall and German unification.
Over the past 12 years, they have demonstrated their willingness to change and their openness to new solutions.
Much has been achieved through personal initiative and solidarity-based support.
For an All-Germany in Solidarity
With the continuation of the Solidarity Pact, we have created the financial basis for the reconstruction of the East until 2020.
This was the most important change of course for eastern Germany in a long time.
Now it is important to use the subsidies more for the development of industrial and economic cores.
Because what's good for the Thuringian Forest doesn't have to be good for the Mecklenburg Lake District.
We therefore want to gear funding more closely to the different regions.
Regional peculiarities will have to be taken into account more in the future.
In addition, we want to improve the dovetailing of European and German funding instruments.
While respecting the autonomy of collective bargaining, we call on the collective bargaining parties to agree on fixed timetables for bringing eastern and western rates into line, as has already been done in some areas of collective bargaining.
Jobs for eastern Germany
Eastern Germany needs an offensive against unemployment.
We want to improve conditions in eastern Germany - because only then will new jobs be created.
We need to strengthen the infrastructure in eastern Germany.
An overall more attractive social infrastructure helps to stop the outward migration, which has been on the rise again in recent years.
This applies not only to transport routes and telecommunications.
This applies above all to social infrastructure such as education and science, childcare, schools, sports and youth facilities, cultural and leisure activities.
Job creation measures and structural adjustment measures remain necessary labor market policy measures in eastern Germany that need to be critically examined - especially where the social infrastructure is not sufficiently in place.
Only on the initiative of the state the jobs will not be created.
We therefore want to step up our support for eastern German entrepreneurship.
We devote particular attention to the problem of the still relatively low equity cover of entrepreneurs in the new federal states.
Supporting the eastern German housing industry
With the special depreciation allowances of the Kohl government, apartments, offices and commercial areas were built past the need.
This, together with the population decline, has resulted in more than 1 million vacant apartments, which pose a major economic threat to eastern German housing companies.
With the reform of the Old Debt Assistance Act and the "Urban Redevelopment East" program, we have laid the foundation for a successful solution to the vacancy problem and for upgrading the cities for the period up to 2009.
We are committed to further improving the Urban Redevelopment East program,
as well as for further relief for the housing industry with regard to old debts,
for a property tax waiver in the event of permanent vacancy
and for the exemption from real estate transfer tax in the case of vacancy-related company takeovers and mergers.
Improve medical care
Health care in the new federal states urgently needs to be improved.
Underfunding of health care providers contributes to an increasing shortage of physicians in outpatient and rural settings, but also in clinical settings.
Model regions that build on the pre-turnaround experience of dovetailing outpatient and inpatient care can be exemplary for health reform.
Leveraging the booming environmental sector for eastern Germany
Ecological ideas make it possible to stay in the black.
Hundreds of thousands of new jobs have been created in the renewable energy sector in recent years.
There is an innovative market here that is far from having reached its limits.
Eastern Germany can become a pioneer in ecological future technologies and pioneer markets.
This is where we want to invest, promote and support in a very targeted manner.
Under the motto "Ideas and knowledge create jobs and markets," we want to create a new instrument of subsidy policy by introducing an innovation allowance.
The aim is to promote inventions and innovations and to create incentives for the implementation of research and development work.
Research and education focus on eastern Germany
We want to invest in eastern German universities and research - because innovative products and services create jobs.
Where there is a dense network of research and science, new companies settle and create jobs.
We want to strengthen technology transfer from universities and research institutes to companies.
We want to promote innovative company start-ups and expansions.
In this way, regions can be created in which networked learning, research and production take place.
The networking of innovation centers is an important step towards strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises.
The deficit of research centers of large companies in eastern Germany is also to be counteracted.
A perspective for youth
We want to improve the prospects of young people.
Whether young people leave their homes in eastern Germany after their often inter-company vocational training also depends on their quality of life and their prospects.
We want to strengthen and expand cultural offerings for young women and men,
improve political education
, and promote open youth work and youth social work.
That is why we are planning the competition "The youth comes and stays".
Here, innovative and creative youth projects as well as examples for the design of the living and residential environment of young people are to be awarded.
This strengthens self-esteem and the bond to one's own region.
For tolerance and democratic coexistence
We resolutely oppose right-wing extremism, racism and anti-Semitism - in East and West.
We will not tolerate the existence of "nationally liberated zones."
Violence against anything "foreign" is an attack on human dignity
and democracy.
We are firmly committed to the protection of minorities,
tolerance
and democratic coexistence,
and support civic engagement.
We will therefore continue programs aimed at strengthening civil society in eastern Germany, such as CIVITAS, and expand them even more clearly in line with eastern German conditions.
Opportunities of the Eastern Enlargement
We want to exploit the advantages of eastern Germany in a Europe that is growing together:
Eastern Germany is developing into a connecting region in the center of Europe.
We want to shape this development in a way that is social and based on solidarity.
And we want to exploit the cultural and economic opportunities that this offers for eastern Germany.
In particular, we want to create incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises to set up joint companies together with partners in the future new EU member states.
3. social democratization
ALLIANCE 90/THE GREENS are the party of freedom and civil rights.
Since our foundation, we have done a lot for the democratic opening of society, and.
the rights of minorities
the self-determination of people is achieved
Our roots lie in the commitment of the democracy and civil rights movements in East and West.
The civil rights activists of BÜNDNIS 90 made a significant contribution to overcoming the SED dictatorship and to a vibrant democracy in East Germany.
Whereas the other parties only ever spell modernization in economic terms, we have pushed ahead with social modernization over the past four years:
The new citizenship law, the
registered civil partnership and
improved protection against domestic violence are just a few examples.
Self-determination and.
Democracy is one of our core values
Equal rights,
the plurality of lifestyles,
Minority protection
and respect for human rights determine our actions.
There is much to do: We want to expand democratic participation rights
and close the equity gap between women and men.
We shape immigration,
protect the right of asylum
and promote integration.
We extend the right to informational self-determination
and maintain the balance between freedom and
security.
We oppose all forms of right-wing extremism, racism and anti-Semitism.
On September 22, 2002, you will decide:
We will oppose our draft of a multicultural, cosmopolitan, living democracy to the conservative idea of a German Leitkultur and the neoliberal arbitrariness of values.
BÜNDNIS 90/DIE GRÜNEN stand for social awakening.
3.1 Living democracy
Democracy thrives on interference and social engagement.
We want a major democracy package for Germany by shaping the country of immigration,
expand civil rights,
Eliminate discrimination
and the balance of freedom
and safety.
Shaping Germany as a country of immigration
Germany is a country of immigration.
We need immigration for economic and demographic reasons.
Moreover, migration offers the opportunity for the expansion and cultural enrichment of our society.
The mistakes of the old "guest worker policy" must not be repeated.
We want an integration offensive.
Foreigners living here permanently must have equal access to social and political life.
Migrant women require special support for this purpose.
Integration policy is a cross-sectional task and costs money.
But every euro is an investment in the future of our society.
Language competence is a prerequisite for success in school and work as well as for social recognition.
The federal government's language support programs for migrants and ethnic German repatriates must be standardized and further developed.
The goal must be to open offers to all migrants and refugees and to differentiate according to different levels of education.
Intercultural education in kindergartens and schools must become the rule - for the benefit of all children.
Integration always takes place through the work process.
The public sector should therefore play a pioneering role in the training and recruitment of immigrants.
We want to continue the citizenship reform, introduce the possibility of the so-called dual passport for the first generation of immigrants and further facilitate the naturalization of children.
Labor migration must not be played off against refugee protection based on human rights.
The right to asylum is an inalienable human right.
We are the guarantors of the fundamental right to asylum in our constitution and will
continue to work to ensure that both German and European refugee policy is based on the full and comprehensive implementation of the Geneva Refugee Convention.
Recognition of gender-based persecution, non-governmental persecution, and persecution based on sexual identity is a requirement of the Geneva Refugee Convention.
We advocate for an old-case regulation for refugees with many years of residence that is characterized by tolerance and humanity.
Roma, Sinti and Ashkali should be recognized by the European Union as a European people.
For us, refugee policy means, on the one hand, eliminating the causes of flight and,
on the other hand, granting people on the run protection in our country in accordance with human rights and the rule of law.
Fair, effective, and expeditious asylum procedures are in the interest of both asylum seekers and the authorities.
That is why we want to further improve asylum recognition procedures.
Comprehensive and independent counseling services must be established before asylum applications are filed.
We want to abolish the airport procedure and
avoid detention pending deportation as far as possible.
Refugees must also have access to jobs that match their qualifications.
We want to overcome the discrepancy between social assistance and benefits under the Asylum Seekers' Benefits Act by providing basic social security.
The accommodation of asylum seekers in collective housing and the principle of benefits in kind are inhumane in the long term, which is why we want to abolish them.
The punishability of violating the residency requirement is to be dropped.
People who have grown up in Germany, have their center of life here and have committed crimes here must not be deported because this would punish them twice.
We want to avoid that.
Illegalized people must no longer be denied elementary rights such as medical care and school attendance for their children.
We consider the proposal from the Catholic Church to legalize illegals ("sans papiers") in a one-time act worthy of support.
In order to close the protection gap for underage, unaccompanied refugees, we want the federal government to withdraw its reservations to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child.
Expanding civil rights and democracy
A modern, active civil society must involve citizens everywhere in political decision-making.
We are advocating for a law that would require parties to include significantly more women on their electoral lists than is the case today.
This should be taken into account in state party funding.
We want to expand direct participation by introducing popular initiatives, referendums and plebiscites at the federal level.
Fundamental rights and minority protection must be explicitly guaranteed by the voting procedures.
We want to push through a lowering of the voting age to 16;
furthermore, we are committed to a constitutional amendment that grants all immigrants with the right of settlement the right to vote and stand for election in the municipalities.
For a vibrant democratic society, it is indispensable that everyone can demonstrate freely and protest publicly.
The right to demonstrate has its limits where people are denied the right to exist or human dignity.
But we continue to reject the establishment of demonstration-free zones.
We want to lift the general ban on hooding.
We want to strengthen citizens' rights in the right of petition.
We want to make greater use of forms of electronic democracy in elections, votes and petitions.
We have given the Voluntary Social Year (FSJ) and the Voluntary Ecological Year (FÖJ) a legal framework.
We will continue to promote civic engagement and want to implement a "Volunteers Act" that distinguishes voluntary activity from gainful employment and ensures that it receives the necessary recognition.
We want to strengthen and expand the cultural offerings for young women and men,
Improve political education
and promote open youth work, youth social work and work with children and youth associations.
We want self-determined structures in society that do not stop at communication, art, science and youth culture.
We want transparent and cooperating state structures and to further modernize the administration.
Building and planning law must be oriented toward the common good and protect the rights of individuals.
The preferential treatment of project sponsors through traffic route acceleration and investment priority laws must be balanced out by strengthening the participation rights of those affected by planning in the planning process and in judicial review proceedings.
The right of recognized nature conservation associations to take legal action is a first step towards the creation of democratic planning law.
Civil rights are the foundation of democracy.
The rights of individuals as persons or as part of a minority in society must be defended against disproportionate interference by governmental and private entities.
We want to strengthen citizens' rights in Europe as well.
We are working to ensure that the Charter of Fundamental Rights finally becomes legally binding and part of a European constitution.
The growing competences of the EU in the area of justice and home affairs policy must not lead to democratic
and civil rights standards suffer as a result.
Furthermore, we want more parliamentary and judicial control for Europol.
The Bundestag must also be given more influence over European processes.
The right to informational self-determination is a fundamental right that must keep pace with the rapid developments in the information society.
By introducing a right of information and revocation when data is collected, we want to create more transparency and strengthen protection on the Internet - for example, when collecting customer data.
The right of citizens to know to whom and for what purpose their data is being disclosed must be expanded.
The creation of a one-stop shop is intended to ensure that every person has simplified access to all data stored and forwarded about them by government agencies.
A law to protect employees' data is needed to counter the increasing surveillance in the world of work.
The possibilities of genetic testing also place new demands on data protection.
A genetic testing law must set forth the rules for allowing genetic testing outside of identity determination.
In addition to establishing standards of information and the right not to know, the access of third parties such as employers or insurers to genetic data must above all be excluded by law.
Privacy and security in cyberspace
We have always rejected the big eavesdropping attack.
That is why we want to push back on actual application and significantly expand the reporting requirements of the state authorities.
Germany has the highest number of phone taps in the world.
Telephone surveillance must be reduced to a necessary minimum.
Their arrangement must be tied to higher legal hurdles.
We stand for a democratic further development of cyberspace.
Democracy and
civil rights must not stop at cyberspace.
We recognize the importance of freedom of information as a central prerequisite for a free and, as far as possible, well-informed democratic public.
For the performance of a democratic constitutional state, it is necessary to maintain a communication structure that is as open as possible.
That is why we reject centralized blocking of websites.
These are technically and democratically difficult to control and harbor more potential dangers than benefits for our democracy.
We will not be swayed by populist solutions that suggest a supposed protection of minors.
Instead, we focus on media competence and self-control.
We take potential threats to civilian data networks from hacker attacks and the dangers of virtual warfare seriously.
Alliance 90/The Greens are committed to the peaceful use of cyberspace.
Similar to nuclear weapons, there must be an internationally agreed moratorium on the development of cyber weapons and cyber war concepts for cyberspace.
In the medium term, we want to achieve an international convention on the peaceful use of cyberspace.
Against hacker attacks, we don't want surveillance in cyberspace, but more IT security.
To this end, we demand product liability for the manufacturers and variety of operating systems and software.
By promoting open-source systems, especially in administration, we also want to break through monopolistic tendencies and
enable everyone to share in the benefits of new technologies.
That is why we also reject software patents, which are intended to create market barriers in one of the key industries of the 21st century at the expense of the vast majority.
New drug policy
We want to continue on the path to a new drug policy.
The previous drug policy of general criminal prosecution of users has failed and must be ended.
An uncontrolled black market only exacerbates the problems.
Those who have problems with drug use need help, not punishment.
That is why we rely on a good, target group-specific and low-threshold support system that is oriented to the needs of those affected and supports self-help structures.
Good and comprehensive educational work continues to be necessary here.
This also includes offers for chemical ingredient analysis (drugchecking) of illegal drugs such as ecstasy tablets in order to curb the risks of the uncontrolled drug black market.
Risk minimization and a conscious approach to all drugs - including alcohol and tobacco - are key.
There must also be an end to the fact that mere possession of cannabis without any connection to road traffic can cost a driver's license.
We advocate for the legalization of soft drugs like hashish and marijuana.
Advertising of legal drugs of all kinds must be restricted.
Eliminate discrimination
No one may be discriminated against because of gender, ethnic origin, religion, disability, age or sexual identity.
That is why we want a comprehensive anti-discrimination law that will help those affected to defend themselves against discrimination in everyday life by means of civil law.
We want to strengthen and promote self-determined structures in the fields of consulting, communication, art, science and youth culture.
We Alliance Greens stand up for freedom of faith and conscience.
We want to engage in a dialogue with the churches about the position of employees at church welfare institutions.
Here we strive for the validity of the general labor, social and collective agreement.
We want to improve the legal status of non-marital cohabiting couples.
Rights and obligations should come into a fair relationship.
Following the successful enforcement of the Equality of Persons with Disabilities Act, we want to further anchor the principle of accessibility in everyday life.
Further reforms are needed, for example in the law on legal capacity or telecommunications.
Sexual assault law must effectively protect people with disabilities from sexual assault.
Transsexual and intersexual people must be enabled to determine their own way of life.
That is why we want to reform the transsexual law.
Equal rights for gays and lesbians
We advance the equality of gays and lesbians
and guarantee that what has been achieved is not only defended but expanded.
In a second round, we want to further enrich the registered civil partnership through the supplementary law, e.g. with regard to survivors' benefits and tax law.
It is in the best interests of the child to end the legal and financial discrimination against same-sex partnerships with children.
This also includes opening up adoption rights to registered partnerships.
We are committed to the historical reappraisal of homosexual persecution.
To compensate for the crushing without compensation of the gay and lesbian civil rights movement of the Weimar Republic, we want a federal foundation that would support international efforts to promote the human rights of lesbians and gays and historical commemoration work.
We want a memorial for the persecuted homosexuals in the center of Berlin.
Combating right-wing extremism decisively
We will consistently fight and prosecute right-wing extremism, racism and anti-Semitism.
This also applies to right-wing extremist organizations and parties.
Here, too, we rely on the triad of prevention, intervention and repression.
We want to create a social climate that removes the ground from right-wing extremism and outlaws racism and anti-Semitism.
We want to continue to provide financial support for victim counseling centers, the Alliance for Democracy and Tolerance, and the development and networking of associations for civil society engagement against xenophobia.
Educating young people to tolerance and democracy is not only the task of the family, but also the duty of the state.
That is why we will advocate for appropriate programs within the scope of the federal government's responsibility.
This includes, in particular, increased consideration of this target group in the conception of memorial sites and exhibitions under the responsibility of the federal government.
Freedom and security
Ensuring public safety, especially protection against violence, is one of the most important tasks of the rule of law.
Public safety is a condition for people to develop without fear.
This is crucial for the quality of life.
The preservation and expansion of the rule of law in the Federal Republic of Germany is the goal of our security and domestic policy.
In order to guarantee individual liberties, state powers of intervention may only be used moderately and proportionately.
Quality of life is inconceivable without the feeling of security.
We need a triad of prevention, intervention and repression.
Our crime policy focuses on prevention, rapid investigation, appropriate prosecution, victim protection, rehabilitation and guaranteeing due process of law.
Prevention means better schools, better education.
and more social security
The fight against the inhospitability of our cities and an integrative municipal policy is an important contribution to the prevention of everyday crime.
We want to fundamentally reform sanctions law.
Prisons are sometimes filled with people who cannot pay their fines.
In these cases and for short prison sentences, community service should be an alternative.
A fixed percentage of fines is to benefit victim assistance agencies.
Victims' claims must take precedence over the enforcement of fines.
In juvenile criminal law, we defend the idea of education and the age of criminal responsibility of 14.
We want to reform the criminal process without limiting legal remedies.
We want to significantly strengthen the protection and rights of victims in criminal proceedings - minor victims must always be guaranteed legal assistance.
The purchase and carrying of weapons must be placed under effective controls.
Combating economic and political corruption is crucial to the stability of democracy.
Fight corruption
Politics must not be for sale in our country either.
Fighting corruption is crucial for restoring trust in politics and for the stability of democracy.
As early as the 1980s, the Greens made a significant contribution to making party financing fairer and more transparent through two successful lawsuits before the Federal Constitutional Court and their work in the Flick investigative committee.
By participating in the investigation of the CDU/CSU and SPD donations and corruption scandals, the Investigative Committee Act and the new Political Parties Act, we have continued the work and created a good basis for ensuring that violations of the law do not remain without consequence.
But education must continue.
The parties' finances must be transparent.
Members of parliament must publicly disclose committee activities for companies and paid consulting and expert activities.
But it's not just those who take advantage that need to be cracked down on - so do those who bribe with millions.
We want to make the corruption register effective.
Companies involved in corruption may no longer receive public contracts.
Procurement procedures must be transparent.
For bribery of members of a state or federal government, the Attorney General must become centrally responsible.
Against money laundering and illegal financial machinations, we rely on the relaxation of banking secrecy
and on a European approach that respects fundamental rights and freedoms in order to effectively counter cross-border organized crime.
International terrorism poses new challenges to the rule of law and the security of its citizens.
However, freedom rights and security measures must not be brought into conflict with each other.
We will continue to evaluate the laws that have been passed as part of the security packages against terrorism to see whether they are effective, proportionate to the balance of security.
and freedom
Liberalize political criminal law - reform secret services
According to these principles, we will also review and roll back the so-called terrorism laws of the 1970s and 1980s, such as those on contact blocking, segregation in detention centers, and restriction of defense rights.
We want to continue to enforce the principle of time limits and quality control in accordance with the rule of law, which we enforced in the security packages.
Secret services are always a problem for an open democratic society.
The history of the German intelligence services is also a history of scandals.
Time and again, they have also been abused or used politically, from the Klaus Traube affair to the spying on Greens for election campaign purposes to participation in right-wing extremist actions.
We want to review the intelligence agencies through an independent intelligence structure commission - their costs and their harms and benefits to policy.
Tasks, powers and structure must be redefined and sensibly delimited with regard to the state competencies.
We want to limit, at least step by step, the use of uncontrollable undercover agents and wiretaps, i.e. intelligence assets.
Affected parties must be given access to their files after the processes have been completed.
Journalists and researchers must be given access to the documents after a period of time, taking into account the protection of personal rights.
The work of parliamentary oversight bodies must be made more open and democratic.
An intelligence commissioner is to be appointed by the Bundestag.
By opening them up in this way, we want to transform the offices into democratically controlled instruments for providing information and advice to politicians and the public.
By clarifying the Stasi Records Act, we want to ensure that the historical and political reappraisal of the GDR dictatorship can continue while safeguarding personal rights.
3.2 Half the power to women
Today, women claim leadership positions in politics and business as a matter of course.
Our women's policy has played an important role in this.
But still our society is far from granting women half the power.
Half the power for women, but that also means half the responsibility for men.
But even men who want to fulfill this responsibility still encounter numerous obstacles.
We have come very close to our goal in our party through the women's quota and are taking a pioneering role for society.
We want to close the equity gap between women and men.
This concerns, for example, the demand for equal pay for work of equal value for women and men and
, in particular, participation in decision-making and positions of power.
In order to drive forward the necessary democratic modernization of our society, we are counting on an offensive paradigm shift from a women-only policy to a gender-equitable policy that also takes men into account and holds them accountable.
With the Protection Against Violence Act, we have sent a clear signal: Domestic violence will no longer be considered a private matter
and it guarantees that it is no longer the victims but the perpetrators who have to leave the shared home.
We have improved the right of residence for foreign wives,
and through the Prostitution Act we have improved the position of prostitutes vis-à-vis clients and put an end to double standards at the expense of women.
The new federal child-rearing benefit law brings advantages to both men and women in organizing everyday family life.
We stand for a society that encourages women and men and gives them the chance to realize their own life plans.
Equal opportunities and career
Women still have fewer job and career opportunities than men, even though they are often better qualified.
To overcome this, we also need women-friendly structures in companies that recognize the specific qualifications and demands of women and include them in personnel planning.
In addition, it is mostly women who have to cope with a career setback following child-rearing periods.
Patriarchal structures and social prejudices hinder women in their professional careers.
But men also need a change in work structures when they take on responsibility for children or people in need of care.
The Civil Service Equality Act opened up new entry and advancement opportunities for women.
We also emphatically call for an equality law for the private sector.
The voluntary commitment of the business associations will not catapult Germany from the bottom of the European league in the proportion of women in management positions to the top.
We need binding requirements for the hiring and promotion of women,
equal pay for work of equal value,
quotas for apprenticeships,
and opportunities for women and men to reconcile work and family life.
We advocate setting clear qualification requirements for job appointments that do not discriminate against women.
Linking the awarding of public contracts to the actual advancement of women in a company creates additional incentives to accelerate the internal process of professional equality.
We want to encourage young women to enter sustainable and, above all, viable professions.
In science and research, women are underrepresented in all positions despite having better degrees.
However, we do not want to do without this potential of well-educated women.
We therefore advocate the mandatory enforcement of a quota system.
All personnel decisions must also be reviewed to determine whether they contribute to this goal.
Women's equal participation in the sciences means more than just social justice.
Women's advancement and women's studies are closely linked.
Women and health
Discrimination against women does not stop at health care.
There is a lack of continuous reporting on the health situation of girls and women.
This insufficient data leads to missing or wrong medication and inappropriate treatment methods.
Gender-specific aspects must also be taken into account in education and training for health professions.
Sexualized and structural violence are also a cause of illness.
We need more money in women's health research
and more women in critical positions.
Breast cancer has reached the status of a widespread disease.
To improve early detection, we will improve the standards for mammograms and design them according to European guidelines.
This includes regular quality control of the equipment, high qualification and specialization of the medical staff, and evaluation of the screening assessment by two specialists.
The treatment of breast cancer should only be carried out by certified breast centers that can stand up to international comparison and work on an interdisciplinary basis.
For quality assurance, outpatient and inpatient treatment must be closely interlinked.
We also call for a comprehensive, population-based cancer registry
and options for alternative screening.
Woman's right to self-determination
We stand up for women's right to self-determination.
This includes the right to decide for or against pregnancy in a self-determined manner and without external pressure.
Not the criminal prosecution of abortion, but voluntary, qualified and open-ended counseling is suitable to support women in their decision in case of conflict.
We continue to call for the abolition of § 218 StGB.
The improvement in the framework conditions for living with children that we have called for is also an important aid for many women in deciding whether or not to become pregnant.
We advocate that qualified, personal counseling and assistance services remain guaranteed on a voluntary basis.
Reproductive Medicine
ALLIANCE 90/THE GREENS are critical companions who want to give modernization in the field of reproductive medicine and genetic engineering a direction oriented towards human dignity, civil rights and the diversity of human life.
The dignity of the human being is inviolable.
We advocate that the high level of protection provided by the Embryo Protection Act be maintained.
Preimplantation diagnostics must remain prohibited.
The possibilities of prenatal diagnostics hold new opportunities for women, but also dangers.
Through qualified, open-ended counseling, women must be enabled to decide for themselves whether and which diagnostics to use.
The prohibition of discrimination guaranteed by the Basic Law must also be implemented in consultations related to prenatal diagnostics.
Gender equality as a cross-sectional task
Women's policy is cross-cutting policy.
To achieve gender equity, new strategies and new alliances are needed to complement targeted measures to promote women.
Gender mainstreaming is the process that consistently measures all measures and political as well as economic decisions by whether they lead to more gender equality and thus to more democracy.
We are committed to accelerating and strengthening the implementation of gender mainstreaming as a method of reviewing gender inequalities in all areas
and to ensuring that the federal government reports regularly on measures taken.
Even when public money is spent, the gender balance must be taken into account.
To do this, it must be known whether and how investments or cuts in specific areas affect men and women.
Only in this way can targeted measures be taken to promote women.
We advocate that budgetary and fiscal policies be committed to the goal of gender equity.
Further education and training measures remain indispensable, especially in administration and ministries.
A "gender audit" in the public sector is intended to serve as a model for what criteria apply in the promotion of women and families and how gender mainstreaming can be organized as a process.
As with the "eco-audit", the aim is to motivate the business community to participate voluntarily, not least for promotional reasons of location quality.
Women's rights are human rights
We are committed to ensuring that women's rights are respected worldwide.
Trafficking in women and girls has become a thriving business internationally.
In the Federal Republic, too, large profits are being made through this new form of slavery.
Witnesses who have the courage to testify against the perpetrators need a secure right of residence in Germany.
In order to effectively protect women and girls in our country as well, forced marriage and forced labor, like human trafficking, must be banned.
We advocate for the explicit global outlawing of genital mutilation of girls and women.
We want to gear the entire range of foreign and foreign trade policy instruments toward preventing human rights violations against women.
In development cooperation, too, women-specific concerns must take center stage alongside ecological and social standards.
Also and especially in the context of globalization, it is necessary to examine budgetary and spending policies of states and international institutions for their impact on women and men.
This is the only way to develop gender-responsive and sustainable strategies for a country's development.
The instrument of gender budgeting must be incorporated into the reform of the International Monetary Fund so that its policies are not oriented solely to balance of payments, interest rates and monetary stability.
4. fair globalization and european democracy
ALLIANCE 90/THE GREENS are the party of fair globalization
and European democracy.
Giving globalization a just form,
Resolving conflicts without violence
and crises in accordance with the rules of international law,
contribute to the worldwide enforcement of human rights,
make Europe safe and stable and
transatlantic relations with critical solidarity
and with the aim of military disarmament - these are our goals,
to which we have already come a good deal closer.
With the debt relief initiative for the poorest countries, we have given many countries breathing room again.
The agreements on climate protection and the global ban on the twelve most toxic substances were a step toward greater global environmental sustainability.
We have initiated the debate on a European constitution.
With the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the Constitutional Convention, the basis for a civil rights and democratic foundation for the European Union has been laid.
In Macedonia, early and united intervention by the international community, led by the EU and supported by NATO and the OSCE, succeeded in preventing an imminent civil war.
To strengthen the policy of prevention, the crisis prevention dimension of development cooperation was reinforced, the Civil Peace Service was promoted, the qualification of experts for international peace missions was taken up, and the German Foundation for Peace Research was established.
For the first time, the Stability Pact opened up a truly peaceful perspective for Southeastern Europe and pointed the way toward the European Union.
The Federal Republic is playing a leading role in the reconstruction of Afghanistan and the containment of the 22-year chaos of war.
We have helped the new Africa initiative "New Partnership for Africa's Development" (NePAD) gain the necessary German and international support to enable Africa to better overcome its crises.
The situation reports that are decisive for asylum procedures were revised
and restrictive arms export guidelines were adopted.
Globalization presents our society and international politics with completely new challenges.
We do not want globalization to divide the world and exacerbate the problems of poverty, inequality, environmental degradation and warlike conflicts.
The European Union is an important key to solving these tasks.
European integration has given Western Europe a long period of peace.
Now that the division of the continent has been overcome, it opens up the possibility of lasting peaceful coexistence throughout Europe.
With the admission of the Central and Eastern European democracies to the European Union, the process toward greater democracy, the rule of law and a social market economy in Europe will take another important step in the coming years.
But we are still far from a stable peace order.
Regional and intrastate wars, privatized violence, and international terrorism threaten international security and world peace.
We have agreed to Bundeswehr missions without abandoning the goal of nonviolence.
Our priority is clear: We want to civilize international relations
and are prioritizing the expansion of crisis prevention
and the strengthening and democratization of the United Nations.
Ecology, ,
Self-determination
Democracy
and justice also apply to us internationally.
Human rights
and non-violence follow from our fundamental values.
That is why we are guided by the basic principles of civilization and demilitarization of international politics.
and the goal of a global economic order based on ecological solidarity.
There is a lot to do.
In the next few years, far-reaching decisions will have to be made for European and international politics.
We want the rapid expansion of the EU.
We want a democratized Europe
and a strong European Union.
That is why we need the European Constitution.
We want to develop international institutions in such a way that they become the vehicles and engines of equitable and ecological development.
You decide on September 22, 2002:
We want a policy of global justice,
the universality and indivisibility of human rights
and lasting peace.
We oppose the other parties' ideas of renationalization or unrestrained globalization.
4.1 Just globalization
Globalization can open up opportunities for all.
But economic globalization, which is geared to growth and profit, mainly benefits multinational corporations and global players.
The majority of humanity has not yet benefited from it.
Today, however, international politics must promote the cooperative solution of global issues by the world society.
The line between rich and poor is increasingly drawn between the winners and losers of economic globalization.
This applies to states and regions,
but also to the different opportunities for men and women.
The three richest people in the world have more wealth than the combined gross domestic product of the 49 poorest countries.
The income gap between the richest fifth of the world's population and the poorest fifth was 74 to 1 in 1997.
We want to change that.
Globalization is not to blame for everything.
But globalization that is not ecologically and socially responsible contributes decisively to ever-increasing hunger and environmental destruction, racism and violence, the oppression of women and the exploitation of children.
Therefore, resistance against this globalization is right and necessary.
Only a fair globalization reduces poverty,
secures ecological resources
and creates more security.
We need a broader understanding of security.
Those who want to permanently defeat international terrorism must improve people's livelihoods, seriously conduct the "dialogue of civilizations" and build a just world economic order.
We also advocate in parliament and government for the anchoring of social, ecological and human rights criteria in the global economy.
But as part of a movement that grew out of concern for the worldwide environmental and social consequences of globalization, we also support non-violent extra-parliamentary advocacy for the just balancing of everyone's interests, environmental conservation and social justice.
We are countering the primacy of economics with the primacy of politics in order to take advantage of the opportunities offered by globalization.
Primacy of politics means setting limits to the economic actions of globally operating companies.
The right to adequate food, clean water and intact environmental conditions must not be subordinated to profit-making.
Women are more marginalized under today's conditions of globalization.
New forms of oppression are emerging.
This is one of the reasons why we are committed to strengthening their social position throughout the world.
Ecological modernization and international environmental policy
The destruction of the natural basis of life endangers people and nature and creates poverty.
The protection of forests and water and the fight against desertification have been given a significant role in German development cooperation and must be further expanded.
Internationally, environmental policy has to deal more and more with globalization.
That is why we also want to strengthen the UN Environment Programme (UNEP).
International environmental and climate policy goes beyond the Kyoto Protocol.
Further steps are needed to reduce climate-damaging emissions.
On the way to the energy transition and climate protection, red-green has introduced necessary reforms both in the national framework and in development cooperation.
We want to continue that.
We say yes to renewable energies
and to the orientation of export and foreign trade promotion towards future technologies,
ecological and social standards.
We say no to German participation in economically, ecologically and socially questionable projects.
Fair world trade and agricultural turnaround
We need to make world trade fair so that people in developing countries also have a chance to participate.
Development requires granting export opportunities to poorer countries.
That is why we are committed to expanding market access for developing countries,
for the reduction of ecologically and socially harmful subsidies,
the protection of biodiversity
and improved access to essential medicines worldwide.
Above all, export subsidies from the industrialized countries must be reduced.
In the agricultural sector alone, seven times more subsidies have been granted to date than the funds used for development cooperation as a whole.
With the agricultural turnaround, we want to reduce export subsidies for surpluses from industrial agricultural factories and significantly reduce quotas and subsidies for products that are better grown in the South (cotton, sugar).
We want to end the unfair competition of the North against the farmers in the South.
The agreements on world trade (World Trade Organization WTO) must include environmental protection,
Consumer protection,
Food security
and the development of rural areas should be given greater consideration.
Pursue international development goals -
More political participation for the South
We are committed to the United Nations Development Goals, in particular the goal of halving extreme poverty and hunger in the world by 2015.
We strongly advocate the swift implementation of the German government's "Action Program 2015," which sets out concrete steps and measures to this end.
In addition to reform efforts in the developing countries, this will require additional funds from the public budgets of the industrialized countries.
That is why we want the Federal Republic to increase the funds for development cooperation to 0.7 percent of the gross national product as quickly as possible within the framework of concrete time schedules.
We propose to levy user charges on the use of international airspace and the world's oceans in order to finance the protection of natural resources.
We want Germany to take an initiative in Europe to introduce the Tobin tax and other suitable instruments to regulate the international financial markets and limit currency speculation.
The proceeds of the Tobin tax are to be used, among other things, for measures to combat poverty.
and the preservation of the environment.
We want to dry up tax havens.
We need international institutions in which industrialized and developing countries are equally represented.
That is why we advocate reform of the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the World Trade Organization.
The International Monetary Fund must expand crisis prevention
and review its programs for their social and environmental impact.
The World Trade Organization must improve the participation of all states
and open up to civil society actors.
Within the WTO, the negotiating power and assertiveness of the poorer developing countries must be strengthened.
We want the concerns of developing countries to be adequately addressed in the next round of WTO negotiations.
But developing countries must also make their own efforts.
Democracy, the rule of law, human rights and a functioning economic order are important foundations for self-sustaining development.
Development needs debt relief
The German government has played a pioneering role in debt relief for the poorest developing countries.
Our goal is to continue this policy and give other developing countries a new chance through sustainable debt relief.
Freed-up funds must be used for poverty reduction.
However, there are other countries whose development is hindered by unsustainable debt levels.
We call for the introduction of a transparent and fair procedure to clean up sovereign over-indebtedness (international insolvency law).
In this way, we want to anchor a procedure based on the rule of law at the international level, in which the burdens are shared appropriately between debtors and creditors and the countries have the opportunity to make a fresh economic start.
Protecting human rights - promoting democracy and peace
Development cooperation is active peace policy.
Respect for human rights is the basis of our development policy activities.
Ensuring political freedom rights is just as important to us as economic, social and cultural human rights.
Development cooperation promotes women's rights,
fights against exploitative child labor,
and advocates for the rights of ethnic or religious minorities.
We want to increase our financial and political support for "Fair Trade" and "Clean Clothes" campaigns that ensure fair pay and decent working conditions for local producers.
In many developing countries, we have witnessed democratic awakenings in recent years.
We want to support people in taking their fate into their own hands.
This can be done by decentralizing political decision-making processes and strengthening local self-government.
Green policy advocates a new culture of international cooperation characterized by openness to the world, respect and dialogue based on partnership.
Strengthen development cooperation
Development policy as an international structural policy is successful when it is understood as a cross-cutting political task.
Development policy goals such as poverty reduction and the protection of natural resources must also be given priority in economic policy, environmental policy and foreign trade policy.
We want to continue the reforms of development policy institutions that have already begun in order to improve the effectiveness of international cooperation.
The keywords are: concentration of the federal government on its steering function,
increased organizational bundling of financial and technical cooperation,
increased use of instruments that promote the creativity and ownership of the partners.
We attach particular importance to educational work
and the development policy work of cities and communities.
We want to advance municipal Agenda 21 initiatives and increase the importance of municipal development cooperation.
Alliance 90/The Greens are committed to strengthening the development policy work of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and therefore to breaking new ground in NGO funding.
4.2 European democracy
The Europe we are striving for together with our European sister parties is the Europe of democracy
and solidarity,
a socially just and
ecological policy both internally and externally,
a European Union that benefits people inside and outside its borders.
It plays an active role in shaping globalization in social and ecological terms.
It sets standards for others.
It has already done so in the negotiations to preserve climate protection.
The European Union is the most far-reaching approach to date for a joint responsibility of states that surrender parts of their own sovereignty in exchange for new, European room for maneuver.
However, the transfer of competencies must not lead to a loss of democratic participation and control.
Germany must not reduce its European policy to national interests.
We want a policy of smart inclusion and self-restraint.
Deepening European integration
For us, European integration is the framework in which the Federal Republic of Germany, together with its European neighbors, can contribute most effectively to shaping a European and international peace order.
Our core concern is the democratization of the EU.
To ensure that women and men can advance the democratization of Europe on an equal footing, we are committed, on the one hand, to eliminating all forms of discrimination against women through a coordinated equality policy
and, on the other, to ensuring that party laws strengthen the political representation of women at all levels.
Enforceable fundamental rights,.
as well as greater transparency and a greater opportunity for citizens to have an impact,
a clear allocation of responsibilities in the EU
Further development of the European social model are the central objectives for us
We will work to ensure that the Convention, which has been working since the beginning of the year, presents a draft constitution that follows these principles.
The EU must ensure full parliamentary accountability.
The EU Parliament is to be strengthened, among other things by the right to elect the President of the Commission.
The constitution is to be submitted to the citizens in a Europe-wide referendum.
We must seize this opportunity for a democratic renewal of the European integration process.
We welcome the International Declaration of Language Rights submitted by the International PEN Club to UNESCO in 1996.
We want regional and national languages to continue to be cultivated within the EU.
Drive expansion
Europe will not become permanently stable without overcoming its division.
However, a united Europe not only secures peace in Europe,
but also offers economic and cultural perspectives for the present and future members of the European Union as well as all states in the region.
We are committed to the careful but speedy conclusion of the enlargement negotiations and to the rapid ratification of the accession treaties.
The first new member states are to participate as members in the 2004 European elections.
We maintain the integration perspective for Turkey.
As soon as it has met the human rights, minority rights and democratic criteria, accession negotiations should begin.
Irrespective of enlargement, the development and deepening of the close neighborhood with Russia remains,
Ukraine and other countries is an important task for the European Union and also for the Federal Republic of Germany.
We do not want the formation of joint intervention forces to lead to the creation of a new military superpower, the European Union.
European Foreign and Security Policy
The development of European foreign, security and defense policy is necessary to strengthen the role of the European Union in promoting common security and just peace in the world.
In the face of new arms surges, Europe as a civilian power must at the same time become a pioneer in arms control and disarmament and
, as a matter of priority, expand its capabilities for non-military crisis management.
We prioritize civil conflict management tools.
In the interests of better democratic control and the ability to act, a stronger role for the European Parliament and the Commission is needed in all areas of foreign and security policy.
Stabilize Southeastern Europe
Southeastern Europe has been the crisis region of Europe since the upheaval of 1989.
In no other region of the world is Germany involved in conflict prevention and crisis management in the medium term.
The perspective of European integration has increasingly become a factor of order in Southeastern Europe.
The continuation of the Stability Pact for Southeastern Europe is an important element in making cross-border cooperation in the region the basis of its political and economic integration.
4.3 Lasting peace
Preventing wars, containing violence and promoting peace is and remains at the core of our policy.
That's why we want prevention to be a priority.
We are committed to the "culture of prevention" called for by Kofi Annan
and the "dialog of cultures".
This includes efforts to help ease regional conflicts, such as those in the Near and Middle East.
This includes strengthening national and international civil conflict management capabilities and catching up with their military counterparts.
Adequate early warning and analysis capacities require better staffing of the Federal Foreign Office
and growing support for peace research.
If UN and OSCE peace missions are to be effective, they need more qualified and readily available specialist personnel.
The key task of international police missions can no longer be accomplished without additional qualified personnel at the federal and state levels.
In order to promote social understanding processes in crisis regions not only selectively, but on a broad scale, specialists and projects of the Civil Peace Service and other social actors must be multiplied in the coming years.
The systematic development of infrastructure for civil conflict transformation needs an action plan, steadily growing peace investments and also regional training centers (e.g. peace academies).
Strengthen the United Nations
In our view, the United Nations is the main framework for global governance with human rights at its core.
That is why we want to strengthen the UN as the most important international institution for solving global problems and conflicts.
We want to further develop international law within the framework of the United Nations Charter.
This includes reform of the UN sanctions regime.
The Security Council must be reformed.
Adequate representation of states must also be ensured in the Security Council.
The ability of the United Nations and its individual organizations to act must be promoted.
In view of the increase in conflicts, the demands on the UN have become much more complex.
We will therefore strongly advocate the expansion of regional security cooperation approaches in the OSCE and in non-European regions in order to strengthen conflict prevention capabilities and instruments in the crisis regions themselves.
We support all efforts that lead to the International Criminal Court becoming an independent and effective global jurisdiction.
Reform the Bundeswehr - end compulsory military service
The Bundeswehr's task is to contribute to the containment and prevention of violence in the service of common security and to ensure security against external military threats within the framework of the Alliance.
Bundeswehr deployments must be decided on the basis of clear and narrow criteria.
This includes a clear mandate from the United Nations.
We reject military interventions in favor of power interests.
The Bundestag must examine and decide on each individual case.
We reject a "posting law".
We will work to bind such decisions to a 2/3 majority of the Bundestag through a constitutional amendment.
The Bundeswehr must be able to make limited but high-quality contributions to strengthening the United Nations' objectives and capabilities in the context of international peacekeeping.
Particularly in light of the attacks of September 11, 2001, this calls for further development of the previous reform of the Bundeswehr.
We want a downsized, modern Bundeswehr with a maximum of 200,000 soldiers
and the abolition of compulsory military service.
With its proposal, the Weizsäcker Commission has made a constructive contribution to the debate on Bundeswehr reform.
Compulsory military service can no longer be legitimized in terms of security policy and is blocking a financially viable reform of the Bundeswehr.
We are in favor of adapting Innere Führung and the mission statement of the "citizen in uniform" to the new tasks of the Bundeswehr and the needs of a volunteer army, so that integration into society and democratic control continue to be guaranteed.
Our goal is to significantly reduce military potential in our country.
We want to gradually increase the financial resources for promoting development cooperation,
peace and conflict research,
diverse dialog initiatives,
the training of police forces for international peace missions
and the Civil Peace Service.
Sufficient legal framework conditions must also be created for Civil Peace Service deployment for mediation and reconciliation work in crisis areas.
The Federal Republic must say goodbye to civilian service, but not to social services.
We want to reduce dependence on community service and create permanent jobs in the social services sector.
We want to preserve the financial resources now spent on civilian service in order to gradually convert these positions into regular jobs
and promote the voluntary commitment of young people.
Drive disarmament
We oppose a new arms race.
We want to see an active disarmament policy that builds on the successes already achieved and enshrined in treaties and formulates responses to new or newly identified threats.
These range from the control and destruction of conventional small arms and landmines to the destruction of weapons of mass destruction and the drastic reduction of nuclear potential.
We want to make the treaties on the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the Chemical Weapons Convention, the Biological Weapons Convention and the regime of non-proliferation of carrier weapons technology more effective and strengthen them.
We want to further limit arms exports
and make decision-making procedures transparent.
We advocate for a regular report on arms impact assessment.
Disarmament and Bundeswehr structural reform also require concepts for the civilian conversion of previous military facilities; adequate resources must be made available for this purpose at all levels.
