Germany.
But normal.
Program of the Alternative for Germany for the election to the 20th German Bundestag
Democracy and the rule of law 12
The people are the sovereign 12
Referendums based on the Swiss model 12
Ensuring the separation of powers 14
Depoliticization of the judiciary 15
Reform constitutional protection 15
Separation of office and mandate and the fight against office patronage 16
Limiting the power of the parties 16
Free list election and free mandate 17
Reduction in the size of parliaments 18
Professional politicians: limit terms of office 18
Curbing lobbying 18
Freedom and responsibility 19
Performance instead of quota - freedom instead of discrimination 19
Protecting personal freedom from digital assaults 20
Protect whistleblowers 20
Civil liberties legal order 21
EU and Europe 26
A Europe of Fatherlands 26
Return of the European Union to a Confederation of Sovereign States 27
Taxes and finances 32
No EU taxes 32
For a tax system with few tax types and understandable systematics 32
Abolition of taxes on assets 33
We want to become a country of apartment owners 34
Elementary tax justice instead of nominal value principle and unequal treatment of tax citizens 35
Adapt taxation to the digital age: Introduction of a digital tax 37
Economy: For a "Blue Deal" 40
Economic and Innovation Policy for Germany 40
Relieving the burden on SMEs 41
Suspend politically induced burdens 41
Technology leadership with "Blue Deal" 41
Social market economy instead of socialist "industrial policy" 43
The euro has failed 48
Germany must leave the declining euro system 48
No borrowing by the EU, aid loans only at national level 49
End additional inflation through excessive Corona measures 50
End ECB zero interest rate policy 50
Prosperity and social peace in Europe through the reintroduction of national currencies 53
Preservation of cash: Cash is freedom and protection against expropriation and total surveillance 54
End Target 2 risk 55
National investments 56
Hedge against the euro crisis, reform monetary system, German state gold completely back to Germany 56
Foreign and defense policy 60
Germany's foreign policy must be aligned with German interests 60
The Relationship with Major States in Changing Geopolitics 62
Restoration of Germany's military capability 64
Development Policy: Stability as a Security and Economic Interest 66
Germany must build on its economic strengths 68
Germany's foreign cultural and educational policy 69
4 Table of contents Table of contents 5
Internal security 74
Decisively combating left-wing violence 74
Effectively combating crime against foreigners 75
Enforcement abroad 76
Juvenile criminal law 76
Strengthen federal police - border protection is a national task 76
Police reform 77
Improve tracing capabilities 78
Combating organized crime 78
Improve citizen safety 79
Improve criminal justice 79
Islam 82
Migration, asylum and integration: Acting humanely and rationally - protecting Germany 88
End asylum abuse 88
The unsolvable follow-up problems 89
Close asylum paradise Germany 90
Deportation and return 92
Saving lives and achieving social justice 94
Help on the spot instead of death on the way to Europe 95
Regulate immigration nationally again 95
Qualified immigration 96
Integration 97
German citizenship is a precious commodity 99
Family policy 102
Strengthening and promoting families 102
Causes of the demographic catastrophe 103
Maintaining the performance of families 104
Support families 105
Family-friendly Germany 106
Keep children in families - child removal only in exceptions 107
Welcome culture for children 108
Mitigate separation consequences 110
Responsible childcare 111
Gender is a biological fact 112
Labor and social policy 116
Limit immigration of EU foreigners into our social systems 116
Defending National Legislative Sovereignty in Social Law 116
No disbursements of social benefits to foreign accounts 117
Preventing wage dumping in temporary employment 117
Maintain minimum wage 117
Appreciating working life - making unemployment benefit I fair 118
Unemployment insurance reform 118
Activating basic security - work that pays 119
Strengthen financial control of undeclared work 119
Reform and simplify labor law 120
Targeted measures against housing and homelessness 120
More jobs with fair pay for severely disabled people 120
Improvements for people with disabilities in hospitals 121
The AfD's pension concept 124
Future-proofing pensions 124
Freedom at retirement 125
Preventing poverty in old age 125
Abolition of politicians' pensions 126
Reduction of civil servant status to original sovereign tasks 126
Establish equity in burdens between families and the childless 127
Eliminate inequities in the transition of eastern pensions 128
No double taxation, raise tax allowance 128
Strengthen pay-as-you-go pension 129
Appreciate military service in terms of pension policy 129
6 Table of contents Table of contents 7
Health policy 132
An end to disproportionate Corona measures 132
Vaccination must remain voluntary 133
Establishment of a parliamentary Corona investigation committee 133
Hospitals and clinics need planning security and individually adequate funding 134
Service-oriented outpatient care by ending budgeting 135
Restore and secure medical care in rural areas 136
Reduce bureaucracy in access to therapeutic products and aids 137
Fund short-term care places in hospitals 137
Ending the nursing shortage 137
Right of way for home care 138
Simplification and better clarity in social long-term care and statutory health insurance 139
Making drug supply reliable 139
Organ donation, euthanasia 140
Cannabis only in medicine 140
Avoiding and consistently countering antibiotic resistance 141
Preserving the profession of alternative medicine 141
Requirements for foreign personnel in the health care sector 142
Establish patient sovereignty over their data 142
Fundamentally reform the WHO 143
Education, science and research 146
The courage to perform instead of the academization mania 146
Maintaining a multi-tier school system 146
Strengthening vocational training: Master craftsman instead of master 147
Digitization is not an end in itself 147
No ideologically motivated inclusion: Preserve special schools 148
Education and migration 148
Restoring the neutrality of the school 149
Competence orientation devalues education 149
Teaching German cultural heritage in the classroom 149
No denominational Islamic instruction in German schools 150
No Koran lessons by anti-constitutional mosque associations 150
No Confucius Institutes at Public Educational Institutions 151
Bologna has failed: reintroduce Diplom and Magister 151
Strengthening the autonomy of universities, preserving freedom of research and teaching 151
No money for "gender studies," no gender quotas 152
Culture 156
German Leitkultur instead of "Multiculturalism" 156
Cultural promotion 157
Customs and commemoration 158
Media 162
Redesigning Public Service Broadcasting 162
"Cancel Culture" fight 162
Freedom of Expression Instead of Virtue Terror 163
Building, living, renting 166
Home ownership promotion 167
More housing subsidies instead of social housing 168
Climate, energy, technology and digitization 172
Responding positively to climate change 172
Core demands on climate policy 173
To welcome technical progress 173
Energy - No to the "Green Deal" 174
Digitization must serve us humans 178
Data protection and data security 180
Infrastructure is the basis for the further expansion of digitization 181
Digitization of public administration 182
Digital sovereignty 182
8 Table of contents 9
Transport policy 183
Protect motorized private transport 183
Relieve congestion on federal highways - shift transit traffic to rail and waterways 184
Strengthening air traffic as an economic factor 185
Maintaining the German automotive industry as a leading industry 185
Develop urban and rural areas on an equal footing 186
Landscape as part of regional identity 187
Infrastructure 188
Strengthening municipalities - ensuring fulfillment of mandatory tasks 188
Accelerating the expansion of digital infrastructures 188
Finally complete Nord Stream 2 189
Agriculture, environmental and consumer protection 192
Renationalize EU agricultural policy 193
Valuing green professions 193
Focus on family farms 194
Orient fertilization to the needs of the plant 194
Further develop animal welfare, husbandry and transport 195
Improve protection of native ecosystems 196
Implementing contemporary wildlife management 196
Protecting and preserving our forests 197
Promote healthy food from local production 198
Expanding transparency in consumer protection 198
Leave water supply in public hands 199
Restrict expansion of renewable energies 199
Index 202
Democracy and the rule of law
The people are the sovereign
With their refugee, European and Corona policies, government politicians at the federal and state levels have in many cases violated the principles of German statehood, law and the constitution.
At the same time, the representatives of the established parties have allowed themselves to be deprived of the parliamentary prerogative guaranteed by the Basic Law for all important decisions in the state without resistance.
The German government is not fulfilling its duty to counter treaty violations and self-empowerment by EU institutions.
Individual unlawful and unconstitutional measures have been overturned by courageous judges in hundreds of rulings.
In our country, however, a political class has emerged whose primary interest is its power, status and material well-being.
This puts the social and cultural future of our people, the strength of our economy and thus our prosperity at risk and puts multiculturalism, diversity, globalization and supposed gender justice above all else.
It holds the levers of state power, political education and informational and media influence over the population.
That is why we consider direct democracy to be an indispensable means of putting a stop to the authoritarian and sometimes totalitarian behavior of government politicians.
Referendums based on the Swiss model
The AfD is calling for referendums based on the Swiss model for Germany as well.
Unrestricted popular sovereignty, in its nearly 200 years of proven and optimized design, has ensured the federal state's continued leadership in prosperity, peace and freedom.
Through referendums, we want to stem the tide of often nonsensical bills and force parliaments to work carefully.
We want to put a stop to inappropriate decisions by members of parliament on their own behalf.
These include, for example, parliamentary allowances, parliamentary group and party financing, and the financing of "party-affiliated" foundations.
The reneging of the established parties regarding the Euro and the ever further centralization of the EU threaten the future of our country (as well as the generations to come).
We want to put an end to this fatal policy.
For the AfD, the introduction of referendums based on the Swiss model is a non-negotiable part of any coalition agreement and includes the following elements in particular:
The Basic Law may not be amended and no significant international treaty may be concluded without the consent of the people.
We want to give the people the right to keep an eye on their representatives and to amend or reject laws passed by Parliament.
The people are to be given the opportunity to introduce legislative initiatives and pass them by popular vote.
There shall be no thematic restrictions beyond Article 79 (3) of the Basic Law.
The quality of the citizens' decision must be ensured by a distinct and autonomous process of will formation, by information obligations and rights, and by a broad social debate.
Parliaments should also be given the opportunity to initiate a referendum.
As the only party represented in the Bundestag, we consider the German people to be just as responsible as the Swiss.
Contrary to claims to the contrary, citizens are more far-sighted, peaceful and public-spirited than professional politicians when it comes to deciding the fate of the nation.
This is the lesson of reunification, of the rejection of the "EU Constitutional Treaty" by the French and Dutch people, and of the United Kingdom's decision to leave the European Union.
We no longer trust governments and parliaments to find viable solutions to currency crises, migration, Islamization or the energy transition.
The people as sovereign must be the bearers of such fateful decisions in direct co-determination.
Ensure the separation of powers
Over the years, numerous laws and political practice have jeopardized the separation of powers in Germany as a core element of the rule of law
and led to excessive state power:
Former politicians on judges' chairs, members of parliament who are also chancellors, prime ministers or ministers and to that extent control themselves, and party-political networks created by forbidden, unconstitutional patronage of office can no longer be tolerated.
Public offices are to be awarded exclusively on the basis of "suitability, ability and professional performance" (Article 33 (2) of the Basic Law).
Depoliticization of the judiciary
The AfD wants to end the influence of political parties on the appointment of judges and prosecutors.
We also want to change the practice of the public prosecutor's office being bound by instructions and reporting to the Minister of Justice in individual cases.
The independence of the third estate must be expanded through self-administration of the judiciary, as is already the case in many other European countries.
We therefore support the model proposal of the German Judges' Association to establish a Judicial Election Committee and a Judicial Council.
In particular, the constitutional courts and audit offices must be protected from partisan political influence.
Reform constitutional protection
The officially organized "protection of the constitution" must be put to the test as quickly as possible and reformed in such a way that it can no longer be misused as a party-political instrument against political opponents in the future.
Separation of office and mandate and the fight against office patronage
Chancellors, prime ministers and ministers may no longer be members of parliament at the same time.
The institution of parliamentary state secretaries must be abolished.
This also applies to the institute of "political officials" in the state administration - from ministerial directors to police chiefs.
The employees of the public administration shall perform their service independently and loyally.
Civil servant and judge positions are to be filled exclusively on the basis of qualifications.
The "party book economy" must be ended.
Principles of professional suitability and professional qualification must also apply to the state's top cabinet personnel.
Party political careers cannot compensate for professional deficits.
Limit the power of the parties
The parties are to participate in the political system (Article 21, Paragraph 1 of the Basic Law),
but not to dominate it.
The omnipotence of the parties and their "exploitation of the state" endanger our democracy.
This political instrumentalization of the state is also the cause of widespread disenchantment with politics.
The loyalty of deputies must be to the citizens and the state, not to party executives.
In addition to official party funding, which now amounts to around EUR 194 million annually, the parties have obtained additional funding.
Of particular note is the funding of so-called political foundations, which alone receive 600 million euros annually from the federal budget.
Furthermore, we consider the "employee allowance" of 22,436 euros per month to which each member of the Bundestag is entitled to be excessive.
Whether scientifically qualified personnel or party soldiers are employed in every case may be questioned.
The AfD wants to reorganize and significantly limit all state funding for political parties and
abolish state funding for party foundations altogether.
Contrary to current practice, all party funding should be subject to unrestricted control by the audit offices.
A restrictive and corruption-avoiding reorganization of donation regulations is also essential.
Furthermore, parties should finally be prohibited from holding stakes in companies, especially media companies.
Free list election and free mandate
Over time, Germany's political class has increasingly exploited and adapted electoral law and procedures to minimize the influence of the people on candidate selection.
Voters are currently presented with rigid party ballot lists to tick off.
Via the "safe list places", the party executive committees de facto determine the composition of parliament.
By making the electoral system more democratic, the AfD wants to give voters back the decision on the composition of the parliaments.
That is why we advocate "free list voting", with the possibility of cumulating, panashing and deleting candidates.
Reduction of the size of parliaments
With its 709 members, Germany has one of the largest parliaments in the world.
The electoral law amendment pushed through by the CDU/CSU and SPD in October 2020 does not comply with the reform of the election to the Bundestag called for by the Federal Constitutional Court.
With about 2,500 members of parliament at the federal and state levels and the associated administrative apparatus, Germany has oversized parliaments.
We are aiming to reduce the size of the Bundestag by about half.
Professional politicians: limiting the length of mandates and terms of office
The unbroken tendency toward professional politicking has fostered the monopolization of power and steadily widened the unmistakable gap between voters and the elected.
Nepotism, felt, structures that promote corruption and lobbying are the result.
In order to realize our ideal of the citizen deputy, we call for limiting the term of office for deputies to four and the term of office for the chancellor to two legislative terms.
Political idealism, not parliamentary pay, should be the motivation for running for office.
Curb lobbying
We want members of the Bundestag to devote their full working capacity to parliamentary work.
The mandate must not suffer from paid secondary employment.
The excessive lobbying in Brussels and Berlin must be curbed.
We want to significantly tighten the regulations regarding parliamentarians' sideline activities in order to prevent bribery.
We have already imposed appropriate rules on our own deputies via our Articles of Association.
Furthermore, we advocate a lobbyist law with concrete rights, duties and sanctions for elected officials and lobbyists that corresponds to exemplary regulations in other democracies.
Freedom and responsibility
Freedom and responsibility are at the heart of our view of humanity.
We assume that each individual is capable and willing to shape his or her life in freedom and responsibility
and to manage his affairs and those of his family.
We reject coercion and indoctrination by the state or social groups.
Performance instead of quota - freedom instead of discrimination
The equality of men and women guaranteed by the Basic Law has nothing to do with the equality and egalitarianism propagated by the party cartel.
The AfD rejects any kind of quotas.
They are anti-performance, unfair, and unconstitutionally discriminatory against those who do not benefit from the quota.
Protecting personal freedom from digital assault
Encroachments on the private sphere by monopolistic, data-driven large corporations, government agencies and intelligence services in some cases clearly exceed the freedoms guaranteed by the Basic Law.
We want to counteract this threat to our freedom,
give citizens back their informational self-determination
and strengthen it constitutionally.
Protect whistleblowers
The EU directive on whistleblower protection is inadequate.
We demand a uniform German law with comprehensible clear rules as well as a corresponding adjustment of the civil service law.
Important components of such a law are internal whistleblower channels
and alternative external reporting options to an independent, autonomous authority
, as well as the full protection of whistleblowers against reprisals, including confidentiality guaranteed by law.
Totalitarian tendencies have reached a level that threatens democracy in Germany as well.
The unconstitutional opening of the border and the massive restrictions on fundamental rights in the name of the Corona crisis were the high points so far in the daily breach of law and the constitution by government politicians.
The mainstream media have abandoned their elementary task as the fourth estate
and exchanged critical, objective reporting for government adulation.
This often leaves only alternative media and whistleblowers to expose and disclose governmental injustice.
For this reason, anonymous whistleblowers are indispensable for uncovering corruption, abuse of power and other crimes in politics, administration, business and civil society organizations.
Civil and free legal order
The principles of equality before the law
and civil freedom of contract are among the great civilizational achievements of Europe.
For the vast majority of human history, it was unquestioned normality that people were unequal by birth or status and limited in their legal self-determination, even to the extreme of lawlessness in the form of serfdom or slavery.
It was the Christian and humanist culture of the European peoples that brought forth the aforementioned principles and realized them in a process that lasted for centuries.
In recent decades, there has been an alarming shift away from these fundamental European values.
This regression in civilization must be countered.
Article 3 of the Basic Law states: Men and women have equal rights.
The state promotes the actual implementation of equal rights for women and men and works towards the elimination of existing disadvantages.
No one may be disadvantaged or favored because of their gender."
These sentences have a clear and good meaning.
The right not to be discriminated against by the state on the basis of one's gender is an individual human right.
It belongs to every human being in the same way.
Some jurists argue incorrectly that Article 3 of the Basic Law allows the state to favor or disadvantage individuals "by proxy" for their respective genders in order to "equalize" the genders presented as collectives.
However, in a free state governed by the rule of law, it can never be a legitimate goal of state action to impose an equally arbitrary "gender quota" in arbitrarily defined areas of society.
Similarly, legally mandated unequal treatment cannot be a means of achieving equality.
Laws that prescribe this are unconstitutional and must be rejected.
The AfD will campaign for its repeal in the German Bundestag.
The Alternative for Germany advocates the preservation or restoration of civil self-determination in civil law transactions.
That is why we reject so-called 'anti-discrimination laws'.
The central value of a liberal civil law system is the freedom to conclude contracts, i.e. the freedom of each individual to decide for himself whether or not to enter into legal relations with another citizen.
Under the influence of the European Union, this fundamental principle of private autonomy is being destroyed step by step in German legislation.
In a free basic order, the state is subject to the duty of equal treatment in its actions toward the citizen, but the citizen himself is free to shape his private legal relationships.
Abolishing this separation between state and society damages the liberal nature of the legal order and opens the door to an ultimately totalitarian order of rule.
The AfD will campaign in the German Bundestag against this development and for the preservation of a liberal private legal system.
EU and Europe
A Europe of Fatherlands
The AfD stands for the freedom and self-determination of European nations.
We are committed to a Europe of fatherlands as a community of sovereign states cooperating in all those areas that can be better shaped together.
This includes, in particular, free trade with fair competition.
We consider a state-like European Union, as envisaged by the established parties, to be counterproductive in terms of a prosperous and peaceful Europe.
Self-responsible nation states shaped by vibrant democracies cannot be replaced by supranational institutions.
A group of neighboring states can very well cooperate constructively and peacefully on the basis of international law.
The attempt, however, to form a single state from the current 27 or even more states, each with its own language, culture and historical experience, is bound to fail.
Such an entity has neither a state people nor the
necessary minimum of cultural identity,
which are necessary prerequisites for successful states.
We want to preserve the sovereign, democratic nation-state.
Only there can popular sovereignty be lived,
the mother and heart of democracy.
Return of the European Union to a confederation of sovereign states
A union of European states will only have a future if it succeeds in countering the ever faster turning wheel of de-democratization.
and centralization into the spokes,
before today's EU perishes of its own accord through the perversion of its founding idea.
The idea of a single currency for countries with completely different economic development, which is unusual in economic history, has failed.
This was a political wishful thinking that could not be reconciled with economic laws.
With the introduction of the so-called "Corona Reconstruction Pact," the transfer union was taken to a new dimension.
This transfer union not only contradicts the European treaties and the promises of German politicians,
but will result in the decline of all European economies and conflicts between states.
The EU has shown a comparable failure in the migration crisis that has lasted for years.
Crisis management in the Corona crisis was also disastrous.
The EU is driving the misguided developments in climate and energy policy through unimaginably costly legislation and subsidy packages.
The long-term calamity of these debt and redistribution escapades will hit the German taxpayer first and foremost.
The vehemence with which the European Union has pushed ahead with its transformation into a planned economy superstate in recent years has made us realize that our fundamental reform approaches cannot be realized in this EU.
We consider it necessary for Germany to leave the European Union and to establish a new European economic and interest community.
Taxes and finances
No EU taxes
The right to levy taxes must remain entirely within the national competence of the member states of the European Union.
Tax revenues determine national budgets.
Budgetary sovereignty represents Parliament's central means of control over government action.
The introduction of several taxes in the legislative and revenue sovereignty of the EU, as demanded by the EU Commission in connection with the "Recovery Fund", must therefore be prevented.
For a tax system with few tax types and understandable systematics
The tax reform concept of former constitutional judge Kirchhoff is a good example of a major reform.
In line with this, by concentrating on the two major types of tax (sales tax and income tax), property tax, trade tax and a number of other smaller consumption taxes at the federal level could be eliminated without replacement.
For example, the energy tax, the sparkling wine tax and the coffee tax.
At the state level, the beer tax should be eliminated, and at the local level, the amusement tax, liquor license tax, hunting and fishing tax, and second home tax should be eliminated.
What they all have in common is that they are administratively burdensome and low in revenue.
They do not make a significant contribution to government financing.
Abolition of taxes on assets
The situation is similar with the so-called substance taxes.
These include the aforementioned property tax, which is linked to house and land ownership, the wealth tax, and the inheritance and gift tax.
Given the current tax revenue of around 800 billion euros per year for the state as a whole, their share is in the low single digits.
Moreover, the wealth tax was declared unconstitutional as early as 1995.
Property tax is regulated under the legislative jurisdiction of the federal government.
Their revenue flows exclusively to the municipalities.
It was also declared unconstitutional because of the valuation problems of land and building assets.
Its tax system reason for levying is unclear, which is why its raison d'être and constitutionality are highly disputed among legal scholars.
If it is in fact a second wealth tax, as there is much to suggest, it is also confiscatory and should therefore be abolished.
Their revenue represents about 10% of the total tax revenue of municipalities.
As a substitute revenue for the municipalities, the AfD seeks a change in the distribution key of the major tax types in favor of the municipalities.
In principle, the AfD's goal is to significantly reduce the tax and contribution burden in Germany (according to the OECD, this is only surpassed worldwide by Belgium!) The aim
is to stop the massive migration of German companies and skilled workers abroad that has taken place in recent years
and to make Germany attractive again as a business location for investment.
Measured on a global scale, Germany's economic structure is extremely strongly characterized by medium-sized companies.
They employ the relatively largest number of employees, train by far the most apprentices, and in many cases exist over several generations.
In the case of the transfer of companies by inheritance, especially within the family, the larger the assets, the more drastically the substance of the company was affected by inheritance tax, with the consequence of destroying functioning companies.
Cross-generational value preservation for the benefit of us all has been hindered for decades by socialist notions of equality and class-struggle feelings of envy.
The AfD opposes this.
Inheritances are first of all matters between testators and heirs.
There is no acceptable reason to make tax cases out of bereavement cases.
The AfD therefore calls for the abolition of the inheritance tax.
We want to become a country of apartment owners
The acquisition of land and residential property is subject to real estate transfer tax.
It is measured as a percentage of the purchase costs and thus makes it more difficult for broad sections of the population to acquire property,
who predominantly strive to acquire residential property as the goal of a self-determined life.
At less than 50%, Germany is the country with the lowest rate of home ownership in Europe.
We want to change that and make it easier to purchase residential property, among other things by abolishing the real estate transfer tax on the purchase of real estate for owner-occupation.
Decades ago, there was already a one-time real estate transfer tax exemption for the acquisition of owner-occupied residential property under certain conditions.
Elementary tax justice instead of nominal value principle and unequal treatment of tax citizens
Since there is almost always some inflation of money, it was and is an act of gross injustice to leave the progressive table burden on income and the bases of assessment, which are largely determined by allowances, exemption limits, lump sums and flat rates, nominally constant over long periods ("cold progression").
With inflation at 2% per year, tax-free allowances melt away by more than 20% of their originally legislatively intended monetary value within 10 years.
The same applies to the disproportionate increase in the tax burden in the case of merely nominal income growth as a result of fixing the tax scale.
Since the 18th legislative period of the Bundestag, individual laws have been passed to adjust the child allowance and the basic allowance to inflation, and in the meantime the table amounts have also been raised.
In the decade before that, however, this did not happen, with the result that in Germany, in stark contrast to Switzerland, for example, people with slightly above-average incomes are already partly burdened with the top tax rate.
It is an imperative of elementary justice to provide automatic legislative dynamization for both phenomena.
This was therefore also repeatedly demanded by the AfD parliamentary group in the form of a motion.
Equally elementary, tax justice will be violated if the solidarity surcharge, which was introduced to finance the reconstruction of the East, is not also abolished after these transfer payments have been discontinued.
Authoritative experts on constitutional law consider the complete abolition of the "Soli" to be constitutionally imperative.
The AfD parliamentary group has already put corresponding motions to a vote in the Bundestag on several occasions, all of which were rejected by a broad majority.
Effective 2021, the tax surcharge has now been abolished for lower and middle income groups - with the consequence that around half of the 20 billion in annual revenue will be eliminated.
The second half of the revenue, however, remains - for example, also for all small limited liability companies - as an additional burden for the remaining income tax payers.
The principle of equal treatment of all taxpayers is thus blatantly violated.
The Federal Constitutional Court will have to decide on the legality of this action.
Adapt taxation to the digital age: Introduction of a digital tax
The AfD is calling for the introduction of a digital tax for tech giants ("Gafam"), which would be levied not on profits but on the sales of these companies.
It is conceivable that revenues from the placement of personalized advertising based on user data, revenues from intermediary services between users and revenues from the sale of user data will be taxed.
Since negotiations on the introduction of a digital tax at European level have failed for the time being, several European countries are already planning a corresponding regulation at national level or have already implemented such a regulation in parts.
Germany should quickly follow suit and launch a national digital tax.
Economy: For a "Blue Deal
Economic and innovation policy for Germany
The AfD stands for a free-market economic policy:
protection of property, freedom of contract, the unity of action and liability, freedom of occupation and a competitive economic order are elementary components of a free and prosperous civil society.
We want to preserve these and correct undesirable developments.
In recent years, the conditions for increasing prosperity have deteriorated.
The global economy has lost momentum.
Politically initiated upheavals such as the "climate rescue" demand enormous investments and restructuring and hit some industries brutally.
This weakens the core of the German economy.
At the same time, according to a study by the European Central Bank, Germany ranks at the bottom of various prosperity indicators in a European comparison.
In this situation, the Corona pandemic largely paralyzes the international economy for a time and leads to a dramatic decline in value added.
The German economy is export-oriented
and dependent on the international division of labor.
Therefore, our country is particularly affected by the global impact of the Corona crisis.
The AfD therefore wants to return the national economy to a normal development path.
Relieving the burden on SMEs
German SMEs not only provide a large proportion of jobs,
they also form an anchor of stability for our economic structure with their flexibility and inventiveness.
It often manages to do this without government subsidies and tax breaks, which mainly benefit large corporations.
However, it cannot cope with the double burden of politically initiated structural breaks and pandemic-related restrictions.
Bailout packages worth trillions cannot replace a recovery in the real economy or bring it about overnight;
Instead, this is only a redistribution in the sense of the "Great Transformation".
and to the detriment of our competitiveness on the global market.
Suspend politically induced burdens
We want to completely free the economy from politically induced burdens.
To this end, we also want to adapt the legal situation where necessary.
This is without prejudice to our commitment at the national level to compensate the sectors of the economy particularly affected by the Corona measures.
Technology leadership with "Blue Deal
The German inventive spirit is legendary.
Today, however, inventors are mobile and often emigrate because they are harassed with requirements here and cannot find the development support and funders to build a business.
We must reverse this trend.
We want to unleash investment in technology leadership with a blue-deal development plan by:
focusing schooling, higher education and research more on STEM subjects;
encouraging the translation of scientific knowledge into products; and
promoting self-employment and inventiveness to harness the momentum of small innovative units.
We see technological and economic future opportunities, for example, in
the reconstruction of a national pharmaceutical-medical competence cluster, in the
establishment and implementation of a development plan for quantum computing, and
in the development of technologies and business models for the use of space.
To this end, we want to improve the framework conditions for domestic investment,
bring infrastructure up to modern standards, and
end state intervention in the energy market so that Germany remains internationally competitive as a business location.
We want to reduce bureaucracy and make the state more efficient
by streamlining and making employment law more flexible,
Ending the discrimination of small and medium-sized enterprises against large multinational corporations,
Ensuring a reliable legal and regulatory framework,
Reviewing and, if necessary, reducing or limiting regulations and subsidies,
Review and reduction of the areas of law relevant to business in terms of susceptibility to disputes.
Social market economy instead of socialist "industrial policy
Our understanding of a social market economy includes a prosperous interaction between entrepreneurs and employees.
They are not opponents, but cooperate in a spirit of social partnership to achieve operational goals and balance conflicting interests.
As the AfD, we are committed to the participation and co-determination of employees in companies
and to generally binding collective agreements.
By contrast, we firmly reject demands for expropriation, the abolition of private property and freedom of contract, inflammatory class warfare rhetoric or deliberately provoked conflicts by representatives of left-wing parties.
They endanger social peace and cooperation based on trust
The future of organized business and employee representatives is blue: Our social policy goal remains "prosperity for all"!"
We reject the fact that the federal government increasingly sees itself and acts as an entrepreneur.
It exerts a direct influence on companies and innovations and attempts to steer the economy through specifications and subsidies.
This type of state economy regularly leads to economic decline.
We want to revive Ludwig Erhard's social market economy
and create prosperity for all.
The task of the state should be the preservation of competition
and the prevention of monopolies, cartels and other influences damaging the market mechanism.
Protection against competition, government-imposed price increases for supposedly good causes, or the creation of "European monopolies" propagated by the German government are not among them.
The euro has failed
The creeping transformation of the European confederation into an EU central state, which has been going on for 30 years, has never been wanted or democratically legitimized by the European peoples.
The euro does not have the institutional foundation that would be an indispensable constitutional prerequisite for its legitimacy.
Today, the EU presents itself as a federal state -
and no longer as a confederation of sovereign nation states.
The business basis of the euro has also been destroyed for more than ten years.
With the Corona crisis, the last inhibitions to break the constitution have now fallen.
Today, we are witnessing a Community liability in violation of the treaty, even socialist, transfer payments and debt at the EU level, as well as prohibited state financing and economic policy by the ECB contrary to its mandate
- all largely at Germany's expense.
Germany must leave the declining euro system
The AfD also stands for a monetary policy based on a social market economy.
and national ownership,
friendly cooperation in Europe.
The basis of the euro currency was: avoidance of excessive debt in all EU states and no liability among states.
Both rules are permanently broken.
Today, the euro is being "saved" with billions every day.
This via guarantees worth billions, sureties and even direct cash gifts to "distressed" states; via "facilities", "economic stabilization funds", "next generation EU" funds, "European stability mechanisms", EU short-time work programs, interest-free loans, clearing loans (Target2), purchases of government bonds by the ECB central bank system.
All these measures are illegal, as are planned EU taxes, because they violate the prohibitions on monetary state financing or the assumption of mutual liability.
Therefore, Germany must denounce this "transfer union"
and end the misguided path of permanent bailout by reintroducing a national currency, if necessary while maintaining the euro or an ECU-like more flexible clearing unit in parallel.
Any further participation in the "rescue policy" is tantamount to procrastinating on insolvency at the expense of future German taxpayers.
No borrowing by the EU, aid loans only at national level
Today, the EU presumes to incur its own debts, contrary to the wording of the EU treaties.
In the process, funds are raised through new debt and then spent by EU bureaucrats on countless, mostly ideologically motivated projects in the manner of landlords.
Liability and repayment, however, remain with the national states.
Germany's joint liability for these loans taken out by the EU, which will largely benefit the euro crisis countries, will inevitably lead to a deterioration in Germany's credit rating.
The AfD demands an immediate stop to any borrowing by the EU, which would be at the expense of future German generations.
If loans are taken out to mitigate the consequences of excessive government Corona measures, this must be done exclusively at the national level.
End additional inflation from excessive Corona measures.
The excessive policies of the German government, the EU and the ECB during the coronavirus crisis are simultaneously threatening an economic depression and massive inflation,
as large parts of the "corona support programs" are unproductive and flow into consumption as a pure expansion of the money supply, which cannot be satisfied on the supply side.
The AfD calls for Corona-related spending programs and associated debt to be limited to what is necessary.
The German government must not agree to EU Corona programs for which Germany is only jointly liable, from which it receives little benefit but will suffer additional damage from the threat of inflation.
End ECB zero interest rate policy
The ECB should be a second German Bundesbank.
Instead, it is pursuing a monetary policy of zero and negative interest rates, which are hostile to the economy.
In the long term, this will destroy all funded pension systems, from company pensions to state-subsidized funded pension systems, private life insurance and private savings.
In the meantime, over the past years, more than 500 billion euros have been missing for the old-age provision of the Germans.
The ECB's negative interest rate policy means that uncompetitive companies remain in the market as "zombies" and provide unfair competition to healthy companies.
Zero interest rates lead to serious capital misallocation in the real economy.
In Germany, 20% to 50% of companies could now no longer earn their cost of capital in a normal interest rate environment.
This is tantamount to permanent, state-sponsored bankruptcy procrastination by the federal government.
After just a few years, this will lead to cascading collapses of even previously healthy companies and will be the prelude to a full-scale depression.
Negative interest rates also lead to further economic damage because the German capital stock of many trillions of euros cannot be used profitably.
The exchange rate devaluation caused by the ECB's policy and the price explosion on the stock and real estate markets are destroying purchasing power,
of which employees in particular
and pensioners are affected.
Interest rate manipulation is driving up real estate prices, which in turn is driving up rents.
Negative interest rates expropriate savers,
tenants
and pensioners and
lead to poverty in old age in the long term.
Furthermore, the ECB policy leads to the destruction of the bond markets.
While the Deutsche Bundesbank has purchased government bonds only once in 50 years, this has been the ECB's daily "business model" since 2015.
As of the end of 2020, it had purchased government and private bonds for five trillion euros;
to a large extent, the ECB is also pursuing ideological and forbidden economic policies.
This suprastate "bailout" policy violates existing EU law, including the prohibition of government financing by the central bank and the prohibition of liability for the debts of other member states.
The bailout policy also violates all assurances given since the 1990s to "never allow Germany to assume liability for other states."
The AfD demands a return to the law:
(1) All measures of the ECB to manipulate the free capital market must be stopped, (
2) no government financing by the ECB, (
3) no de facto communitization of debt, (
4) restriction of the ECB to pure monetary policy,
(5) no secret and highly ideological economic policy via "Green Deal" and bond purchases, and
(6) an end to the zero interest rate policy and the ECB bond purchase programs.
(7) The Bundesbank is called upon to use all means at the ECB to bring about a change in the rules of procedure regarding the voting rights of the members of the ECB Governing Council in monetary policy decisions.
The voting rights of the members of the Governing Council shall be based on the share of the liable equity capital of the member states.
The rotation procedure practiced to date should be discarded.
Prosperity and social peace in Europe through the reintroduction of national currencies
The euro is a misconstruction for an economic area with currently 19 very differently performing economies and cannot function in this form, neither economically nor socially.
Unemployment has been alarmingly high in southern Europe for years as a result of the lack or loss of competitiveness of these countries within the euro corset.
The social euro crisis is also a systemic problem.
The solution is to reintroduce national currencies that reflect the performance of the respective economies.
Through national currencies, each state becomes responsible again for its economic, monetary and fiscal policy and thus regains its political sovereignty.
This will also resolve the internal conflicts in the euro zone:
No former eurozone country will then have to be subject to strict requirements in order to restore the competitiveness it has lost in the euro corset.
The states can then restore their competitiveness, as they did before the introduction of the euro, by deciding on their own to change the exchange rate.
The reintroduced German mark would regain its high purchasing power vis-à-vis other countries in line with the high performance of the German economy.
Lowering import prices would lead to rising real incomes, which would benefit the entire German economy and not just a few export firms, as is currently the case.
The former Federal Minister of Economics and Finance, Schiller, once put it this way: "Every currency revaluation is a social dividend for the German people, because you can buy everything cheaper in the supermarket afterwards".
The AfD is aware that the reintroduction of the national currency cannot take place without conversion burdens.
However, these will be lower than the costs of remaining in the Eurosystem.
Preservation of cash: Cash is freedom and protection against expropriation and total surveillance
Our cash is in danger.
With the support of the German government, the IMF and the ECB, the abolition of cash is being prepared.
Its abolition would limit the role of money as a non-fee store of value.
Abolishing cash makes it possible to expropriate account holders in the event of a crisis.
Cash is a natural bulwark against expropriating negative interest rates.
A cash ban would mean that payment transactions could only take place electronically.
This gives the state and banks total control over all money flows and economic activities, over all financial transactions, and possibly even over the whereabouts of all citizens.
The transparent bank customer would become the transparent human being - full surveillance right into private, even intimate areas of life.
Such control options are not compatible with a liberal constitutional state.
The AfD calls for the permanent preservation of unrestricted cash use as an important civil liberty right and its anchoring in the Basic Law.
The AfD also opposes digital currencies issued by central banks, which would be a gateway for the creeping abolition of cash.
The availability and store-of-value function of cash must be preserved.
End Target 2 risk
On the assets side of the Bundesbank's balance sheet, the overdrafts of individual central banks of the euro area countries (Target 2 claims of creditor states) amount to more than one trillion euros.
These receivables of Deutsche Bundesbank are unsecured, currently non-interest-bearing, non-maturity-bearing receivables.
Their recovery is uncertain due to a lack of collateral.
There are a number of likely scenarios for derecognition of these amounts.
Target 2 losses in value represent a high risk worth billions for the federal budget and thus for the German taxpayer.
What is certain is that, in the event of a (partial) dissolution of the euro area, the ECB, as the Bundesbank's counterparty, will repay the German Target claims only in devalued euros or not at all.
Because of the insubstantial Target claims, the still very high German foreign trade surpluses within the euro area hardly benefit the German economy.
As an immediate measure, the AfD therefore calls on the German government and the Deutsche Bundesbank to stop the overuse of the "Target-2" clearing account, which has been tolerated up to now.
The Deutsche Bundesbank's Target 2 claims are to be reduced, settled daily, subject to appropriate interest and backed by collateral.
The AfD is also open to other sensible proposals to "monetize" or harness the Target claims.
For example, the Bundesbank could resell its Target claims to investors on the capital market and invest the funds received in foreign shares, foreign gold or other tangible assets.
National investments
As long as the euro continues to exist at Germany's expense, Germany can and should also handle a large part of its refinancing needs via the ECB and the EU.
Emergency program funds must be used strictly for aid and investment in Germany and, wherever possible, financed via the EU or the ECB.
The German Target claim balance should also be mobilized for this purpose.
Hedge against the euro crisis, reform monetary system, German state gold completely back to Germany
Germany must also be able to act in the event of a sudden monetary crisis.
If the German mark is reintroduced, the state gold partially stored abroad could serve as a temporary cover option.
According to all historical experience, gold is a potential cover for a new currency, which becomes particularly relevant in crisis situations or after the introduction of a new currency to build confidence.
Sovereign gold must be held in its own country without counterparty or custodial risk.
The AfD calls on the German Bundesbank to transfer the state gold stored abroad completely and immediately to Germany.
In addition, the AfD calls for the creation of a special balance sheet status for the gold reserve to be secured under constitutional law in order to avert the risk of derecognition due to the dramatic deterioration in the quality of the Bundesbank's balance sheet since 2007.
In the long term, we believe that a fundamental reform of the monetary system is necessary, toward free currency competition or a gold-backed monetary system.
Foreign and defense policy
Germany's foreign policy must be aligned with German interests
As one of the most important economic and cultural nations in the world, Germany is interested in maintaining good relations with all countries
and to promote the peaceful coexistence of peoples.
The AfD is committed to the values of the United Nations Charter and international law.
In particular, the right of peoples to self-determination must not be undermined by the agendas of intergovernmental organizations, NGOs, and the rise to power of large, global corporations.
International relations are undergoing a transformation toward a multipolar world order.
In terms of security policy, the long-term goal is to achieve strategic autonomy for Germany and its European partners.
Within this framework, Germany must play its role in Europe responsibly.
The AfD rejects the communitarization of European foreign and security policy (CFSP) and the European External Action Service.
A stable European peace order requires balanced cooperation with both the United States and Russia.
The legitimate security interests of all European states must be taken into account.
The United Nations must also be reformed to take account of the changed weightings in the world.
We seek a permanent seat for Germany in the Security Council as well as the abolition of the enemy state clause in the United Nations Charter directed against Germany,
and we want to denounce the UN migration pact (Global Compact for Migration).
The AfD calls for strict adherence to the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of states, including by non-state actors.
The OSCE's role in stabilizing crisis regions in Europe and its periphery has proven its worth thanks to the consensus principle and must be expanded.
We are strongly committed to strengthening and expanding nuclear and conventional arms control mechanisms
and to renegotiating recently suspended treaties (INF, Open Skies).
Islamist terrorism continues to pose a serious threat to the international community.
It must be fought with all legal means available.
The relationship with important states in the change of geopolitics
Membership in NATO and an active role for Germany in the OSCE are central elements of our security strategy for the time being.
But NATO must once again become a purely defensive alliance.
The AfD advocates limiting NATO's area of operations to the territory of the alliance countries.
The USA is currently Germany's strongest ally.
The guiding principle of relations between our countries must be the equality of both partners.
Sanction measures by the USA against Germany are unacceptable.
In line with U.S. demands for equitable burden sharing and European aspirations for a greater say in NATO, it is only logical and in Germany's interest to strengthen the European pillar of NATO.
Détente in relations with Russia is a prerequisite for lasting peace in Europe.
It is in the German and European interest to integrate Russia into an overall security structure.
We advocate the resumption of regular talks within the framework of the NATO-Russia Council.
Furthermore, the expansion and deepening of confidence- and security-building measures,
cooperation in the field of arms control
and the renunciation of the expansion of military infrastructure in the immediate vicinity of the respective areas of interest serve to ease tensions.
The AfD advocates the lifting of EU sanctions
and the expansion of economic relations with Russia.
We consider the completion and commissioning of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline to be indispensable.
The People's Republic of China is gaining in importance for Germany, above all as a trading partner.
With the "New Silk Road" project, China has launched a project of the century.
In order to be able to play a role here, the AfD is advocating Germany's proactive participation in the project.
The Chinese Silk Road strategy from East to West should be complemented by Germany with an initiative from West to East.
This applies in particular to supraregional infrastructure projects.
China's increasing influence in the world is a challenge.
Cooperation with China may only take place under conditions of equality and fairness.
This requires in particular an alignment of the legal framework for trade and investment.
A further sell-out of German and European technology must be prevented.
The UK will remain closely intertwined economically with Europe after Brexit.
The AfD is therefore in favor of maintaining close relations with the United Kingdom.
We reject possible blockades and punitive measures on the part of the EU.
Relations with Turkey are difficult and need to be reshaped.
Culturally, Turkey does not belong to Europe.
Its increasing Islamization is a cause for concern and shows that Turkey has distanced itself even further from Europe and the Western community of values.
The AfD therefore rejects Turkey's accession to the EU and calls for an immediate end to all accession negotiations.
On the other hand, we support the efforts of the Visegrád countries to preserve European identity.
The Western Balkans, as an important part of Europe, is increasingly becoming an area of interest for foreign powers.
To stabilize it, the AfD advocates a privileged partnership with the countries of the region.
Security cooperation with them must also be deepened with regard to migration issues.
An expansion of the EU is strictly rejected.
Restoration of Germany's military capability
The German armed forces are in a desolate state.
There is a lack of personnel and operational equipment.
In order for the main mission of national and alliance defense to be taken into account again, our Bundeswehr must not only be well equipped financially,
it must be given back its independence, especially in terms of material and personnel.
Privatization and centralization must be reversed and only applied where they are demonstrably necessary and increase the operational capability of the force.
Responsibility must be placed back in the hands of the inspectors and commanders responsible for mission accomplishment.
The AfD rejects nuclear first strike reservations
and advocates the global abolition of NBC weapons.
The goal must be the withdrawal of all nuclear weapons from Germany,
but also of short-range nuclear weapons aimed at Germany.
This would make the Federal Republic's nuclear participation obsolete.
The AfD also calls for the preservation of an autonomous and efficient defense technology industry in Germany.
In particular, the new hybrid threats and cyberattacks by state and non-state actors must be addressed by massively strengthening the Bundeswehr in this area.
The Bundeswehr should once again cultivate a strong esprit de corps, its traditions and German values.
The virtues of the soldier are honor, loyalty, comradeship and bravery.
The Bundeswehr must live up to the best traditions of German military history.
They help to manifest soldierly attitudes and virtues - also in public.
Military songs and customs are part of it.
For more than five decades, the conscript army has served the Federal Republic of Germany well and ensured that the armed forces are firmly anchored in society.
The AfD therefore advocates the reinstatement of compulsory military service.
A community service year is to be added to compulsory military service.
This is to be applied to women as well as to men who do not opt for military service.
Community service is to be performed in the areas of nursing, firefighting or technical relief.
In order to avoid conflicts of loyalty, service in the armed forces is to be reserved exclusively for Germans who have no other citizenship.
Development Policy: Stability as a Security and Economic Interest
The AfD calls for a fundamental change of strategy in development policy that also takes into account German security and economic interests.
Development policy is based on the principle of ownership, respect for the right to state self-determination and respect for the cultural identity of all partners.
Aid should be help for self-help
- and not support for corrupt systems.
With more than 21 billion euros, Germany is the second most important donor country for development aid worldwide.
German and European development policy should take a realistic view of the population explosion in Africa (from 1.2 billion inhabitants in 2015 to 2.4 billion in 2050), which can hardly be influenced by an optimized development policy from outside.
The success of German development cooperation is ensured by the strict principle of demand orientation on the part of the partner countries.
Priority is given to long-term cooperation projects.
A significant financial contribution by the partner countries of at least 51% of the total financing volume of a project must be mandatory.
This must deliver measurable results
and should be subject to regular independent evaluation.
Due to limited resources, a development policy that is also oriented toward German interests should rather be concentrated on selected countries.
Important criteria are (a) a low corruption index,
(b) the careful handling of previous development projects,
(c) own efforts in the education sector,
(d) the disclosure of state revenues, especially from mineral resources, and
(e) the recipient country's past contribution to regional stability.
In addition, the granting of development aid should be linked to the willingness to take back migrants who are obliged to leave the country.
In order to be able to implement this concept, the AfD wants to shift development policy back entirely to the national level of the member states as part of the EU reform.
Germany must build on its economic strengths
Today, the global economy is caught between a further expansion of global interdependencies or their moderate return to decentralized, regionally focused value creation structures.
German foreign trade policy must ensure non-discriminatory access to foreign import and export markets for German companies.
This includes access to raw materials and freedom of trade routes.
Its core task is therefore to maintain reliable trade rules and develop them further in accordance with our country's interests.
We reject ideologically motivated solo efforts, such as the Supply Chain Act.
We also call for greater control and consideration of macroeconomic and defense policy German interests in the takeover of German companies by foreign corporations and financial investors.
Safety-relevant and basic supply-relevant areas must be protected from takeovers.
We regard decisions of foreign national courts with extraterritorial effect as null and void, and
unilaterally imposed sanctions against economic projects of our country as contrary to international law.
Germany's foreign cultural and educational policy
The AfD wants to promote German culture and language abroad to a much greater extent than before.
German broadcasters abroad, the Goethe Institutes and various cultural projects are intended to convey a positive image of Germany in the world.
Both current developments in the sciences and arts and our rich cultural heritage can promote our country.
In view of increasing mobility in working life, this should also include Germans abroad and their children, who want to be informed in their native language.
The mission of Deutsche Welle and the Goethe-Instituts to act as mediators of German language and culture must not be diluted.
Germany's foreign cultural policy must also pursue the goal of building bridges to other peoples and states.
Economy, politics, culture and last but not least tourism benefit from it.
A better understanding of our cultural values, traditions and history can build trust
and recommend Germany as a reliable partner.
The protection and development of language skills in areas with German minorities require special attention and support.
The AfD is expressly committed to Germany's duty of care towards German minorities
and will strongly support their interests as part of its policy.
In the European institutions, the German language must actually be put on an equal footing with the procedural languages English and French, in accordance with its legal status and prevalence.
The UK's exit from the EU has given this demand even more emphasis.
Internal security
The terrorist attack on the Christmas market at the Memorial Church in Berlin was the low point for the time being in a whole series of events that show that our security is in a poor state.
The violent excesses of left-wing extremist "Antifa" and migrant youth gangs in the streets of our cities make it clear how much internal security has been damaged.
However, increasing street violence, terror and crime are not natural phenomena that must be accepted without criticism.
They are man-made and have causes that can be combated.
That is exactly what we want to do.
Decisively combating left-wing violence
Left-wing extremism is increasingly crossing the threshold into left-wing terrorism.
We therefore call for increased efforts in the fight against left-wing extremism.
The granting of state funding must once again be linked to a declaration of commitment not to support extremist structures.
We therefore call for the reintroduction of a binding extremism clause.
Furthermore, we demand the ban of the left-wing extremist platform "Indymedia".
Violent and supportive left-wing extremist and autonomous groups belonging to the so-called Antifa are to be classified as a terrorist organization.
The federal government's intended privileging of "antifa investigations" must be prevented or, if necessary, abolished immediately.
Effectively combating crime against foreigners
The significant proportion of foreigners, particularly in violent and drug-related crime, but also in public disturbances, currently leads far too seldom to action under the law on foreigners.
Foreign criminals can very often invoke obstacles to deportation and are thus spared deportation.
We therefore call for (a) the facilitation of deportation, in particular the reintroduction of mandatory deportation even for minor crimes,
(b) expulsion already by the criminal courts,
(c) enabling criminals who have not been deported to be housed abroad,
(d) the creation of the possibility of detaining dangerous persons, in particular terrorists, for as long as they are in Germany and pose a significant danger to the general public.
The naturalization of criminals can be reliably prevented by rejecting the acquisition of German citizenship by birth in Germany, because this would automatically make members of criminal clans German citizens,
abolishing the enforceable right to naturalization
and tightening the grounds for exclusion from naturalization in the case of criminality.
In the case of serious crime within ten years of naturalization (participation in terrorist organizations, membership in criminal clans), naturalization must be revoked.
To this end, Article 16 (1) of the Basic Law must be amended accordingly.
Enforcement abroad
In order to relieve the burden on correctional facilities, agreements must be reached with states as close as possible to the home country for the establishment of correctional facilities for foreign offenders that meet the requirements of the European Convention on Human Rights.
These are to be under German management and the application of German law.
Juvenile criminal law
The security situation is worsening dramatically, especially in urban areas.
A special role is played by young offenders, who are currently confronted with a virtually toothless legal system.
Experience has shown that educational success in this segment can only be achieved by immediately imprisoning the perpetrators of serious offenses.
We therefore call for the relevant laws to be amended accordingly, in particular the detention law.
Because of the increasingly early onset of criminal development, the age of criminal responsibility must be lowered to twelve years and adult criminal law must be applied when the age of majority is reached.
Strengthening the Federal Police - Border Protection is a National Task
The security of a nation is based on secure borders. In times of unregulated migration and cross-border crime and terrorism, the protection of Europe's internal borders is becoming increasingly important.
The federal police must be given the legal, personnel and technical capacity to perform this task.
We therefore want to extend the area of responsibility of the Federal Police for combating illegal migration and cross-border crime to 50 km at national borders and to 80 km in the maritime area.
In addition, we demand that the federal police use the most modern search technology, such as facial recognition software.
Successful searches at border controls on the occasion of international summits demonstrate the need for efficient border protection.
We want to align the Federal Police in terms of personnel and structure to effectively protect our country's borders.
Police reform
Federal and state police officers ensure public safety with great personal commitment.
In the process, they are often left in the lurch by the state: Lack of personnel, structural inadequacies, inadequate equipment and weaponry with poor pay and miserable social security.
These conditions are outrageous.
This must finally come to an end.
The AfD demands a uniform federal salary for police, soldiers and emergency services and appropriate remuneration with hazard pay as well as further allowances for overtime and special assignments.
We also call for adequate armament and equipment, including body cameras.
The employer must provide disability and official liability insurance,
as well as provide for a survivor's pension adjustment equal to the pension rights of the last office in the event of death due to a qualifying official accident.
Improve tracking capabilities
In order to improve search possibilities, the police authorities are to be able to use video surveillance with facial recognition software in places and buildings where crime is a problem.
In the search for unknown perpetrators, it should be permitted to have existing DNA trace material also examined for biogeographical characteristics of the person sought, in order to enable targeted search measures.
The aim of intergovernmental agreements is to ensure that police officers on duty are also in a position to determine whether and, if so, which investigation and criminal proceedings were and are pending against a checked person abroad.
Fighting organized crime
We want to fight organized crime (OC) decisively and sustainably.
Assets acquired through criminal activity must be confiscated.
This is not yet happening in a satisfactory manner.
The legal instruments that already exist for this purpose must be better used and further developed.
The majority of perpetrators of organized crime are foreigners.
Their expulsion must be simplified.
Therefore, the OC affiliation should be introduced as a reason for expulsion for this group of persons.
Improve the safety of citizens
At the proposal of the EU Commission, the EU Parliament amended the EU Firearms Directive in response to the terrorist attacks in Paris in November 2015.
This will lead to a further tightening of gun laws.
The tightening of the already restrictive weapons law primarily affects sport shooters, hunters and weapons collectors.
Illegal weapons used for terrorist attacks are not covered.
We continue to reject the implementation of the EU Firearms Directive.
Instead of criminalizing legal gun owners,
illegal gun ownership and trafficking must be stopped.
Improve criminal justice
The AfD is committed to rapidly improving the organization of the judiciary,
strengthening our legal system
and providing effective legal protection for citizens.
Specifically, we want to speed up proceedings by
(a) modernizing the procedural code, which dates back to the 19th century, (
b) hiring more personnel for the judiciary,
(c) combating serious crime more effectively by facilitating detention,
(d) suspending fewer sentences on probation,
and (e) increasing the minimum sentence for "knife crimes."
Islam
The AfD stands unreservedly for freedom of faith, conscience and confession according to Article 4 of the Basic Law.
Muslims who integrate and recognize our basic order and fundamental rights are valued members of our society.
In our secular state, state law stands above religious commandments.
Insofar as Islam lays claim to rule as the only valid religion, wants to enforce the legal principles of Sharia law in Germany as well, and does not fully recognize our legal system or even fights it, it is not compatible with Germany's free democratic basic order and endangers domestic peace.
Criticism of Islam, like any other criticism of religion, is legitimized by the fundamental right to freedom of expression.
It is unacceptable to suppress criticism of Islam by accusing it of "Islamophobia" or "racism."
Jewish life in Germany is threatened not only by right-wing extremists, but increasingly also by Muslims who are hostile to Jews and Israel.
Attacks on Jews and anti-Semitic insults must be consistently punished under criminal law.
Al-Quds Days in Berlin, where demonstrators call for Israel's destruction, should be permanently banned.
The terrorist threat posed by jihadists, which is assessed by the Office for the Protection of the Constitution as very high, is a constant threat to our lives and peace.
We will prevent the formation of "parallel societies" in which Muslim "justices of the peace" apply Sharia law and undermine the state's monopoly on law enforcement and jurisdiction.
Legal principles of the Sharia must not be applied in any way in German jurisdiction.
In addition, the claim to power of large family clans must be broken through consistent use of the investigative authorities and criminal law.
Criminal clan members are to be deported.
We want to prohibit by law the financing of the construction and operation of mosques in Germany by Islamic states.
The AfD wants to end the cooperation of German authorities with the Turkish-Islamic Institute for Religion (DITIB), which is part of the Turkish religious authority.
We reject the granting of public corporation status to Islamic organizations.
Islamic associations that are directed against the Basic Law and international understanding, such as the Muslim Brotherhood, must be banned in accordance with Article 9 (2) of the Basic Law.
Imams preaching in Germany should profess our constitution and, if possible, preach in German.
You must have a B2 certificate for German from the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages at the time of admission.
The chairs of Islamic theology at German universities should be abolished and the positions transferred to Islamic Studies, which is neutral in terms of confession.
There should be no Islamic instruction in the denominational religious instruction at state schools, but rather a factual Islamic instruction in ethics classes.
Minarets and muezzin calls are not compatible with a tolerant coexistence of religions as practiced by the Christian churches.
The AfD opposes the oppression of Muslim women and demands equal rights for men and women in all areas.
We want to ban the wearing of burqas and niqabs in public in Germany as well, similar to France, Austria, Denmark, the Netherlands and Switzerland.
The headscarf as a religious-political sign should generally not be permitted in the public service and should not be worn in public schools by teachers or students.
In order to prevent polygamy and forced marriages of Muslims, the AfD demands that the ban on religious marriage without prior civil marriage be reinstated.
The civil status registers of the registry offices are to be made accessible to the job centers in order to prevent abusive claiming of Hartz IV benefits by second or third wives.
Marriage contracts on property and maintenance matters should only be allowed to be concluded in accordance with German law.
Migration, asylum and integration
Migration, asylum and integration: Acting humanely and rationally - protecting Germany
The refugee movements of the 21st century cannot be managed by taking in migrants in Europe and Germany.
There have never been more refugees globally than in recent years.
In addition to armed conflicts and state persecution, the enormous population growth on the African continent in particular plays an overriding role.
Since this is associated with poverty and the struggle for daily survival, the migratory pressure on Europe is growing in a special way.
Contrary to the intention of the UN Migration Pact, this global problem cannot be solved by migration.
Even smaller parts of this development, which can be expressed in millions of people, can neither be absorbed economically nor in terms of social and integration policy in Europe.
Germany and the other European countries would be destabilized without making an effective contribution to solving the global problem.
End asylum abuse
The current asylum system is dysfunctional and resembles a lottery.
Financial disincentives and failure to deport lead to illegal migration, smuggling and numerous deaths in the Mediterranean.
Most of these migrants make their way to Europe in the hope of a better life.
However, aid for people in need must be decoupled from reception in Germany and provided in the crisis regions themselves, where this is far more effective and reaches many more people truly in need of help.
The unsolvable follow-up problems
The disastrous consequences of unregulated mass immigration since 2015 are unmistakable and continue to worsen: disproportionate immigrant crime, terrorist attacks and Islamic separatism are proof of this, as are costs in the triple-digit billions, housing shortages and high unemployment among immigrants.
Successful integration cannot and will not succeed in this way.
Our Solution: A 21st Century Protection System Based on the Japanese Model
An existential issue such as immigration must be decided in democratic self-determination at the national level.
Our model for the 21st century has the following key points in addition to the replacement of outdated international regulations, such as the 1951 Geneva Convention on Refugees:
Focus on humanitarian aid in crisis regions themselves (intracontinental flight alternatives)
Rejection of asylum seekers upon entry at the border in accordance with Article 16a (2) sentence 1 of the Basic Law
Exclusively qualified immigration based on the Japanese model
Humanitarian admission only for persons in particular need of protection selected by the Bundestag, for whose selection a cultural and religious background compatible with the German system of values and society is an important criterion.
As long as there is no permanent and effective protection of the EU's external borders and the ineffectual supranational legal situation persists, Germany must take control of the borders and the prevention of illegal border crossings into its own hands.
We therefore demand: In the future, only those who are permitted to do so may enter the country.
Rejections at the border must once again be understood as a self-evident right of sovereign states.
The borders must be equipped with modern and effective security to ward off unauthorized immigration and combat crime.
At the same time, cross-border commuter, vacation and goods traffic must be guaranteed without unreasonable restrictions.
In order to be able to monitor the "green border" with the same effectiveness, a comprehensive and modern border security concept is being developed.
This may include physical barriers such as border fences to secure state borders.
Close asylum paradise Germany
Since 2015, Germany has borne the brunt of illegal immigration to Europe, caused by a variety of self-inflicted reasons.
The AfD has developed a comprehensive catalog of measures to restore orderly conditions in the asylum process, migration, asylum and integration and will consistently demand its implementation:
1. no blanket immigration quotas and redistribution quotas, whether in the nation-state, European or non-European framework (e.g. resettlement).
2. no admission of migrants within the framework of a "European solution" who arrive in Europe through abuse of sea rescue.
Rather, in accordance with international maritime law, the persons concerned must in principle be disembarked at the nearest suitable seaport.
The form of sea rescue practiced today often acts as a pull factor that ends in death.
3. application for asylum and opening of the application procedure only with proven identity and nationality.
4. strict punishment of false statements in the asylum procedure.
5. expanding the number of safe countries of origin.
6. combating the abuse of legally issued visas for the purpose of applying for asylum;
7. loss of protection status following travel by persons entitled to asylum to their country of origin.
Anyone who has visited his or her "persecutor country" is to be turned back at the German border when attempting to re-enter the country.
8. refusal of any family reunification for refugees.
9. abolition of the "change of lane" for rejected asylum seekers who are obliged to leave the country.
No reward for illegal entry and refusal to leave the country.
10. settlement permit for recognized asylum seekers only after 10 years.
11. an end to the proliferation of asylum counseling and support services.
The "counseling and support" is mostly provided by non-governmental, independent agencies that have a financial interest in increasing refugee numbers and in keeping as many rejected refugees as possible.
These organizations are part of the "asylum industry" that enriches itself from the asylum system.
Procedural and return counseling almost always turns into refusal and stay counseling.
Procedural counseling may only be provided in accordance with Section 12a of the Asylum Act and only by government agencies.
12. no more work permits for asylum seekers and rejected asylum seekers.
13. annual review of the continued existence of grounds for asylum over ten years, since asylum is a temporary right and does not establish any entitlement to permanent immigration.
14. deportation of dangerous persons and criminals without exception, including to Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria.
15. those who are obliged to return should be able to receive basic training in manual and practical skills that will enable them to rebuild their homeland and start a business there ("fit for return").
Deportation and return
The failure to terminate the residence of asylum seekers who have been rejected and are obliged to leave the country is the opposite of the rule of law:
it is an expression of continued state failure.
The number of persons obliged to leave the country has risen steadily and reached the figure of around 300,000 in the second quarter of 2021 - while the number of voluntary departures and successful deportations is falling steadily.
Politicians have capitulated to the task of resolving this contradiction - driven by a powerful anti-deportation industry.
It is cynical and inhumane to lure people with the de facto guarantee of staying permanently in "rich" Germany, while accepting their possible death in the Mediterranean.
Voluntary return is always preferable to deportation for financial, organizational and humanitarian reasons, which is why willingness to return must be promoted much more than it has been in the past.
The AfD therefore calls for the following in order to restore the rule of law:
1. a deportation offensive to reduce the overhang of people who are obliged to leave the country. 2.
2. a national and a supranational "remigration agenda" to grant protection in regions of origin and transit according to the principle of "help on the spot"
3. no more tolerations, but certificates of the obligation to leave the country.
4. transfer of responsibility for enforcing deportations to the federal police and equipping them accordingly with personnel and competencies.
5. declare prevention of deportations a criminal offense.
6. use of free space capacities on Bundeswehr transport flights to increase the number of deportations.
7. cancel the church asylum agreement between BAMF and churches.
It is unacceptable that the churches, abusing the church asylum, are undermining the deadlines for deportations to EU countries.
Saving lives and achieving social justice
In international comparison, Germany's benefits for asylum seekers are very high.
Recognized awaits a lifetime of material security.
The funds for this are raised by taxpayers who have to work hard for it, but have not invited economic refugees.
The generosity of the German state causes a significant pull that leads to the death of many people.
The federal government is thus burdening itself with serious moral guilt.
The recognition of asylum leads to immediate equality in all social security systems, without any previous participation in the solidarity system.
This is socially unjust.
The AfD therefore demands, in order to reduce incentives
and to maintain social justice:
Social benefits for asylum seekers and those obliged to leave the country are to be provided as benefits in kind without exception.
Recognition of asylum must no longer mean automatic, immediate entitlement to all benefits of the welfare state, unlimited in time and content.
Following the Austrian model, the granting of full benefits could also be made dependent on the achievement of good language skills.
One of the main motives for the current mass migration to Germany and Europe is the possibility for migrants to transfer transfers received in Germany and also legally or illegally earned money back to their home countries.
To remove this incentive to migrate, we advocate the introduction of a tax on remittances leaving the European Economic Area (EEA).
Help on the spot instead of death on the way to Europe
Help on the ground is a top priority for the AfD.
It must be given absolute priority over accepting asylum seekers in Germany.
At the same time, this reduces important reasons for flight.
Part of the double-digit billion sums used in the context of asylum policy can have a multiple effect close to home
and thus help to reduce migration pressure in the long term.
Regulate immigration nationally again
Germany's sovereignty in terms of immigration policy has already ceased to exist.
The main reason for this is a far-reaching surrender of sovereign rights to the EU
and accession to international agreements,
all of which pursue a far-left "one-world utopia."
The AfD opposes this.
It advocates the return of sovereign rights to legislate on asylum and immigration and proposes the following measures to achieve this:
The communitarization of the right of residence and asylum is reversed.
European border security remains a European responsibility (Frontex) in
parallel with national responsibility for their own border security.
Germany immediately denounces the UN Migration Pact and the UN Refugee Pact, as these will become national law despite their alleged non-binding nature.
The new EU migration pact envisaged by the European Commission is to be prevented or Germany's accession is to be avoided.
No "Common European Asylum System" (CEAS) with refugee admission quotas set by the EU.
Qualified immigration
The current immigration system harms Germany culturally as well as economically and is in urgent need of reform.
The AfD is committed to preserving Germany's cultural identity.
For Germany, the model for an identity-preserving migration policy cannot be classic immigration countries of the size of Canada or Australia, but rather countries like Japan, which pursue a limitation and control of migration that corresponds to their national structure.
Due to the lockdown crisis, automation and digitalization, the times of record-high employment are foreseeably over.
Mass migration creates wage pressure all the way into the middle class and leads to competition for social benefits.
We call for the elaboration of a comprehensive migration policy approach based on the Japanese model with the
primary goal of safeguarding the interests of Germans and already immigrated citizens who are committed to Germany's cultural identity.
The assertion by some business associations and lobbyists that there is a shortage of skilled workers in Germany and thus a need for qualified immigration only superficially serves the common good and must therefore not be authoritative.
The harmful influence of particular economic interests or even anti-German resentment masked by them must be ended.
Integration
When it comes to integration, we see immigrants and people to whom we grant temporary protection as having a responsibility.
Integration only succeeds when the rules, traditions and values of our society are accepted.
The acquisition of the German language is indispensable.
The AfD demands: We presuppose an intensive willingness to integrate in the case of qualified immigrants.
The focus must be on language acquisition, which we want to support up to level B2.
The preferential treatment of migrants in the form of a quota system, in disregard of the performance principle, must be ruled out.
We reject any cutbacks in terms of requirements for training or recruitment to the civil service.
Integration projects are to be subjected to a state evaluation and performance review.
The profit-making business of NGOs and charities must be stopped.
The AfD demands that the headscarf as a religious sign is generally not allowed in the public service and is not worn in public schools by teachers or students.
We consider this to be one of the most important conditions for successful integration.
The headscarf ban helps to maintain school peace
and enables young girls to develop their personalities freely and to determine their own destinies.
German citizenship is a precious commodity
We want to remove the birthplace principle (acquisition of German citizenship by birth in Germany, even if neither parent is German) from the law again and return to the principle of descent, as it applied until 2000.
The requirements - especially in terms of time - for discretionary naturalization must increase considerably and there must no longer be an entitlement to naturalization.
The granting of German citizenship should be experienced as a success of one's own efforts and should fill those concerned with pride.
Family policy
Strengthen and support families
The AfD is committed to the family as the nucleus of our society.
It consists of father, mother and children.
Family means security, care, home, love and happiness.
This system of values and references is passed on from generation to generation.
From the left-green side, however, the institution of the family is being discredited for ideological reasons in order to replace it with other models.
In contrast, we call for the restoration of the special protection of the family guaranteed by the Basic Law.
In the Shell Youth Study 2019, 68% of young people said they wanted to start a family at some point in the future, while 19% were still undecided.
In the past, however, many young adults were not able to realize their desire to have children as desired.
This underscores the need for an activating, i.e. birth-promoting, family policy.
A continuation of the prevailing, family-destroying policies will further exacerbate the demographic disaster into which we have stumbled.
At the end of this process, there is also the collapse of social security systems
and ultimately of our cultural identity.
We can't want that!
The AfD is determined to counter the anti-family zeitgeist with a positive, family-friendly social policy.
One key to happier and more stable families lies in activating family policy measures and in a greater appreciation of family work.
Causes of the demographic catastrophe
Since the mid-1970s, the birth rate in Germany has been far below the level needed to maintain the population.
With a birth rate of 1.5 children, a nation shrinks by about 30% per generation.
There are many reasons for the decline in births.
The expansion of the German welfare state, which provides assistance for all situations in life, has led to a fundamental change in citizens' attitudes toward their own generative behavior.
The perception of the state as a helper in all situations in life has replaced the idea of one's own family also as an intergenerational economic and care community.
Against this background, the tendency to prioritize economic wealth optimization during the life-earning phase became the guiding principle of a materialistic society.
More and more couples have therefore lost sight of the ideal value of a family as a socialization space and emotional intergenerational living community.
The idea of "self-fulfillment" as a priority has led to the desire for children being put on the back burner in favor of income and career, or being pushed out of one's life planning altogether.
Parents who stay at home for all or part of family work are devalued in our society.
Particularly in the case of dual-working parents, there is a lack of compatibility between family and career due to the structural disadvantage of families in the world of work.
In addition, there are the additional child-related costs of housing, utilities, and education, which are only minimally compensated for in the assessment of taxes and social insurance.
All of this leads to smaller families on average and, in some cases, to intentional childlessness.
Preserve the performance of families
Middle-income families in particular face a heavier tax burden in Germany than in almost all other European countries.
The birth rate among these families is alarmingly low.
The AfD wants to introduce a paradigm shift here with family tax splitting,
combined with an increase in the child allowance.
As further tax measures, we call for full tax deductibility of child-related expenses
and a reduction of the value-added tax on items of children's needs to the reduced rate.
In addition, in order to establish equity of burden, parents should receive a refund of pension contributions already paid in the amount of €20,000 at the birth of each child or be exempted from future contributions in the corresponding amount, without the subsequent benefit being reduced.
Support families
Surveys repeatedly show that many young parents in Germany would like more time for their children instead of multiple burdens and role conflicts.
Children under the age of three feel most comfortable when they are cared for by their own parents.
It must once again be possible for a family with small children to live on one salary, so that parents are free to choose between working or taking a break from work.
Parents who care for their young children themselves experience their development directly, provide them with heart education and thus maintain their physical and mental health, while outside care is associated with developmental risks, especially for children under three years of age (major study "The NICHD Study of Early Child Care and Youth Development," 1991 and 2007).
The AfD therefore wants to introduce a childcare allowance for parents or grandparents for the first three years, which is based on the average net salary of the last three years before the birth of the first child, capped at the level of the general average net salary.
Child benefits are to be retained,
but opportunities for abuse must be prevented.
For example, for children living abroad, only the amount customary there is payable.
For young families, initial purchases when starting a family are to be supported by a marriage start-up loan.
The marriage start-up loan is to be granted to Germans as defined by the Basic Law and to EU citizens who have lived in Germany for at least 20 years.
With each child, a portion of the credit is forgiven.
BAföG recipients should be exempt from repayment upon successful completion in the event of a birth during training or during studies.
For all students with children, the standard period of study is to be extended by up to six semesters upon request.
The re-entry of parents after maternity leave is to be simplified by paying wage subsidies to employers that are graded according to the number of children.
Families need affordable housing.
In addition to creating affordable rental housing,
we also want to get as many families as possible into their own homes.
To this end, we want to give building land to families at reduced prices
and improve the conditions of the KfW: instead of expensive subsidies for energy-efficient houses, we want staggered partial reductions depending on the number of children.
Family-friendly Germany
We want to include a child-friendly society as a state objective in the Basic Law.
This strengthens families and obliges politicians to be genuinely family-friendly
- in contrast to the inclusion of "children's rights" in the Basic Law, which is only intended to secure "air sovereignty over children's beds" for the state.
Children are already fundamental rights bearers.
Separate "children's rights" therefore only weaken parental rights under Article 6 GG.
Instead of equal opportunity officers, we want family officers who ensure family-friendly decisions and thus support activating family policies.
State services and administrative processes are to be systematically checked for family-friendliness and adapted accordingly.
Social marketing is to be used to promote family formation and the 3-child family model, as well as to provide information about the associated offers.
Multigenerational families should be more strongly encouraged.
Incentives must be created for employers to better reconcile family and career.
Keeping children in families, child withdrawal only in exceptions
Some families need government support through counseling and help with parenting.
However, this may only lead to child removal by the youth welfare office in very exceptional cases.
Unfortunately, in recent years a real industry has developed around the taking into care of children, which requires a constant supply of children.
The number of children taken into care has increased since 1995 from 23,432 children to 52,590 children by 2018, or by 124%.
By 2019, spending on this had multiplied from around 15 billion euros (1995) to 50.6 billion euros.
In extreme cases, even the "excessive love of the mother" had to be used as a reason for withdrawal.
Here, the AfD is calling for a radical change of course.
We want to avoid wrong decisions that are perceived as arbitrary.
Youth policies must be geared towards supporting families
and aim to keep children in their families.
To this end, the counseling and sanctioning of families within the youth welfare offices must be divided between two independent agencies and strictly separated.
The professional supervision and all levels of management must ensure compliance with the law, in particular, free access to files must be granted, an appropriateness check of all services must take place, child removal may only be ordered for a short period of time and the right of request and choice for services of the youth welfare office according to §16 SGB VIII must be respected.
In addition, we want to install an independent control of the youth welfare offices and the independent providers in order to put a stop to the uncontrolled growth that prevails there.
The ombudsman's office must be given decision-making powers and made known so that parents can also turn to it.
Welcome culture for children
Unborn children have a right to life.
Far too often, however, this right is subordinated to fears about the future.
The AfD wants to prevent such fears by providing concrete assistance to families in all circumstances, and in particular to facilitate and promote the life-saving resort of adoption.
We want to further expand and strengthen the options for anonymous or confidential births
and ensure the availability of baby drops.
Society must instill respect for life and a positive image of marriage and parenthood in families, schools, and the media.
This need can be seen from the fact that for years, around 100,000 unborn children have been killed each year in Germany, which is equivalent to the number of inhabitants of a large city.
Mandatory pregnancy conflict counseling has in many cases degenerated into a formal administrative act and promotes a trivialization of abortions.
Instead, it must serve to protect life.
As a condition imposed by the Federal Constitutional Court, the effectiveness of the counseling voucher scheme must be reviewed on a regular basis.
If necessary, legal corrections must be made to ensure effective protection of life.
Pregnancy counseling must be conducted with transparent quality standards and, if possible, with the involvement of fathers.
Abortions, especially for social and family reasons, must remain the exception.
During counseling, explicit information must be provided about the developmental status of unborn children and possible late effects of abortion, such as post-abortion syndrome (PAS).
Abortion must be reported, and
violations of this will be punishable in the future.
The abortion statistics should therefore reflect the true number of abortions.
The decision to have an abortion must, of course, rest with the mother or parents,
yet we reject all efforts to declare the killing of the unborn a human right.
We strongly oppose the commercialization of the womb through paid surrogacy
and the commercialization of tissue from killed unborn children.
Mitigate separation consequences
Children are the main victims when parents separate.
The resulting damage must be reduced by looking at the problem from the children's point of view.
This also includes comprehensive support and advice for separated parents.
Fears of decline and financial pressure place a heavy burden on families and often lead to unstable marriages and separations.
The AfD therefore calls for a family-friendly tax and contribution policy, also to avoid separation, that enables families to support a family with only one earned income, if desired, without serious losses in living standards.
For parents who both want to work, the other framework conditions must also be designed in such a way that family and career are as compatible as possible.
Since the majority of children of separation grow up with their mothers, special attention must be paid to the involvement of fathers in their upbringing.
Children need both father and mother, who each bring different aspects to development.
Children must not be used as a means of pressure or an instrument of revenge by making contact more difficult or denying it to the other partner.
The access rights and obligations of both parents must be strengthened accordingly.
We also demand joint custody from birth in the case of illegitimate children.
The 1977 reform of family law meant that even criminal offenses and serious misconduct against a spouse often have no effect in the assessment of financial claims after separation and divorce.
Such case law is not conducive to encouraging marital solidarity among partners and affects the stability of existing marriages.
Without reintroducing the principle of guilt, however, serious misconduct against marital solidarity must again be taken into account in a binding manner in the consequences of divorce.
Responsible childcare
Children should grow up free from indoctrination until they are settled in the family and old enough to face the problems of our world.
Ideologues of various stripes, however, try to influence children as early as possible.
This was already practiced on a grand scale in the Third Reich and the GDR.
Political ideologies, such as gender mania and climate hysteria, are now being taught to children as early as preschool age.
The AfD demands that daycare centers and schools be kept free of fear and hysteria and that a positive attitude to life be taught.
Often, political influence is accompanied by early sexualization in terms of "diverse" gender roles.
"Sexual pedagogy of diversity" attempts to make children insecure about their sexual identity and to dissolve gender roles.
This massively disrupts their development.
Children have the right to protection of their privacy so that they can develop their sexuality in a self-determined way.
German must be spoken in kindergartens.
Educators, sponsors and authorities must actively work towards this.
In order to make it easier to combine family and career, company kindergartens should be promoted more strongly than in the past.
They reduce commutes and make it easier to balance family and work commitments.
Gender is a biological fact
The human species consists of two sexes, the male and the female.
This bisexuality is not abolished by the fact that for a few individual persons an assignment to the male or female gender is difficult or even impossible.
It goes without saying that these people are a full part of our society and must be treated with the respect they deserve.
However, we believe it is inappropriate to reverse the biological rule-exception relationship and introduce new categories of gender classification (e.g., by changing restroom rules) for a very small number of people.
Biological sex directly affects many behavioral aspects of men and women.
Gender role models in different cultures build on this.
They may vary, but the influence of cultural and social aspects must not be overestimated.
Man is not a creature that can be reshaped at will, but always moves within the limits set by nature.
Equal rights for men and women are a great good and are enshrined in the Basic Law.
We do not regard the biological sex bond of man as a burden, but as a gift.
The AfD therefore calls for traditional lifestyles to be honored
and for the lifetime achievements of women who start families and raise children to be appreciated.
Women should be allowed to decide, just like men, which path they take in life, without having to reckon with social ostracism, as is currently anchored in the leftist zeitgeist.
Accordingly, we do not regard quotas for women as progressive.
They represent a form of discrimination and perpetuate the image that a fulfilling and recognized life for women can only be achieved through a professional career.
Sex is determined by the sex chromosomes.
We are critical of the fact that "gender reassignment surgery" is increasingly being trivialized.
We reject gender reassignment surgery for children and adolescents.
Such a serious decision may only be made with the maturity and discernment of adulthood.
Labor and social policy
Limit immigration of EU foreigners into our social systems
Hundreds of thousands of EU foreigners are included in the basic benefits for jobseekers.
The AfD calls for the national regulations on the receipt of benefits under the basic security scheme for jobseekers to be amended to the effect that only those EU foreigners who entered the country or took up their habitual residence and pursued a livelihood-securing activity for an appropriate period of time are entitled to benefits.
The receipt of basic benefits for jobseekers following a living wage or beyond the receipt of unemployment benefits is to be limited to a maximum of one year.
Defend national legislative sovereignty in social law
A stable, performance-based social system is a national responsibility.
A permanent departure from the principle of unanimity at the EU level in the area of social policy in favor of majority decisions would in fact be a further surrender of sovereign rights to the European Union.
For this reason, the AfD rejects the EU's push to weaken the unanimity principle in the area of social policy.
No disbursement of social benefits to foreign accounts
Social benefits such as Hartz IV or social assistance are also transferred to foreign accounts, depending on the beneficiary's wishes.
Overpayments or shortfalls can only be recovered under more difficult conditions, resulting in considerable financial damage to the German social security system.
This places an additional burden on every taxpayer and the solidarity community.
That is why the AfD is calling for social benefits to be paid out only to domestic accounts.
Preventing wage dumping in temporary employment
Temporary workers are treated at least equally to comparable permanent employees in terms of pay from the first day of work.
A flexibility premium will be introduced to take account of the increased risk of termination and the expected flexibility of temporary workers.
It is paid as a percentage surcharge on the relevant remuneration.
The previous option of a gradual increase in remuneration is no longer applicable.
Effectively concluded (industry) surcharge collective agreements shall remain valid until the agreed expiry date.
An extension is excluded.
Maintain minimum wage
The statutory minimum wage is closely linked to the essence of the social market economy.
In the area of pay, it corrects the position of low-wage earners as weak market participants vis-à-vis the interests of employers as comparatively strong market participants.
It also protects them from the wage pressures expected from current mass migration.
In particular, the minimum wage allows for an existence beyond the poverty line and the financing of an old-age pension, albeit a modest one, which would otherwise have to be borne by society by way of state support.
Minimum wages thus prevent the privatization of profits while socializing costs.
Appreciating Working Life - Making Unemployment Benefit I Fair
An employee who becomes unemployed after many years of employment is usually only entitled to one year of unemployment benefit I.
He then receives unemployment benefit II like an unemployed person who has never paid into unemployment insurance before.
This represents a disregard for the long-term contributors.
The AfD advocates a period of entitlement to unemployment benefit I depending on the duration of previous employment.
The deductible in the calculation of unemployment benefit II must be increased without sanctions.
This is a requirement of fairness in order to treat different employment biographies differently in the event of unemployment.
Unemployment insurance reform
The contribution rate to unemployment insurance is to be lowered in order to increase employees' incomes
and reduce the burden on labor as a production factor.
To this end, unemployment insurance is to be relieved of non-insurance benefits
and the group of beneficiaries should be strictly aligned with the group of contributors.
The insured should no longer be subject to sanctions when receiving unemployment benefit I, which is financed by contributions.
Activating basic security - work that pays off
The AfD wants an "activating basic security" as an alternative to unemployment benefit II (so-called "Hartz IV").
The income earned is not to be fully offset against the support amount, as has been the case in the past.
Instead, the employed person always retains a tangible share of his or her own earnings.
This creates incentives to work.
Those who work will in any case have more money at their disposal than those who do not work but are capable of working (wage gap principle).
Possibilities of misuse must be ruled out.
Strengthen financial control of undeclared work
Combating undeclared work, illegal employment and violations of the Minimum Wage Act is the task of the Financial Control of Clandestine Employment (Finanzkontrolle Schwarzarbeit, FKS).
The AfD demands that the Financial Control of Clandestine Employment be strengthened in terms of staffing by, among other things, organizing staff recruitment via a new independent central organizational unit and reorganizing the training of Financial Control staff.
Reform and simplify labor law
A labor code is to be created that systematically combines and supplements the numerous individual laws and thus creates clarity and legal certainty.
Targeted measures against housing and homelessness
The problem of housing and homelessness has so far received only marginal attention in society.
However, the increasing number of housing and homeless people shows the poor planning in social housing, which has its origin in the lack of concrete needs assessment.
The AfD therefore calls for the immediate introduction of nationwide central statistics to record housing and homelessness.
More jobs with fair pay for severely disabled people
Despite the legal obligation to provide jobs for disabled people, the number of unemployed severely disabled people is significantly too high.
In order to realize real participation for disabled people in working life, the AfD demands the creation of incentives in the form of a bonus system for all employers for the creation of more jobs for people with disabilities, coupled with fair remuneration.
Improvements for people with disabilities in hospitals
People with disabilities should receive better care in hospitals and rehabilitation facilities.
For this purpose, the conditions for social assistance are to be created, which would then also relieve the relatives.
The AfD's pension concept
As a party of performance justice, the AfD is particularly concerned to enable our parents and grandparents to enjoy a retirement in dignity.
With their work, they have built our country into one of the world's leading industrial nations.
The threat of old-age poverty for millions of high achievers is unbearable for us for this reason alone.
We therefore clearly reject the degrading and unjust pension policy of the old parties.
At the same time, we must keep the pension system affordable for the young against the backdrop of demographic developments.
Pensions future-proof
A balanced approach is needed that incorporates the concerns of all stakeholders.
The threat of overburdening contribution payers must be countered by a higher tax subsidy in pension financing, and
noninsurance benefits must be paid for out of tax revenues.
However, this higher tax expenditure must not be financed by tax increases.
Instead, the tax subsidies for pensions must be offset by consistent cuts in ideological policy measures, for example in migration, climate and EU policy.
Good pensions can only be financed in the future if we set the right budgetary priorities.
Instead of left-wing green "world rescue projects", we need market freedom
and public investment in education and science,
to have a prosperous economy
to be able to finance high social standards.
Freedom at retirement
Our concern is not only to achieve a higher degree of benefit fairness in pension insurance, but
also to grant pensioners more freedom rights.
According to our understanding of freedom, the decision on entering the retirement phase belongs in the hands of the individual.
After a long working life, the people concerned have gained a lot of experience and know best themselves when they want to retire from working life.
Some are absorbed in their work, take great pleasure in it and want to work as long as possible.
Others have other plans for their twilight years, want to spend more time with their partner, go on trips or take care of the grandchildren.
We therefore want to make it possible for everyone to work longer and retire at the individual's preferred time in agreement with the respective employer.
The amount of the pension depends on the contributions paid in and the date of retirement.
Those who work longer will receive a correspondingly higher pension.
Preventing poverty in old age
Regardless of the time of retirement, the following must always apply: Those who have paid into the pension fund for a long time should be better off than people who have paid in less, even if their income is lower.
The AfD does justice to this by not counting 25% of the old-age pension towards basic security in old age.
In this way, poverty in old age is prevented or at least significantly reduced.
During the employment phase, it is therefore worthwhile to also take on low-income jobs, which often result in higher-paying employment relationships.
Social justice is an integral part of AfD policy, but it must always encourage personal responsibility.
Abolition of politicians' pensions
We must also demand this personal responsibility from politicians.
No one can understand that professional politicians acquire high pension entitlements after just a few years.
This is especially critical because the beneficiaries of these laws have themselves legislated such regulations.
This must stop.
Politicians should pay into the statutory pension scheme like other employees.
This, too, is an expression of our understanding of social justice.
Reduction of civil servant status to original sovereign tasks
This understanding also includes a new approach to the issue of "state employees and pension insurance."
Our civil servants are the backbone of the German administration and an essential pillar of the state system, which functions well by international standards.
The high loyalty of civil servants is also based on the principle of the employer's duty of care.
The pension scheme under civil service law is based on this.
The AfD would therefore like to retain it, but limit civil service to sovereign tasks, such as in the German armed forces, customs, police, financial administration and the judiciary.
In this way, a large proportion of future state employees will be included in the statutory pension scheme and its contribution revenue will be strengthened.
Establish fairness of burdens between families and the childless
Families deserve special attention in the social security system.
Parents bear the burden of raising children.
However, children's later benefits, especially in pension insurance, benefit all retirees, including those without children.
Families with children therefore bear special burdens for the general public.
The AfD would like to create a balance here by reimbursing families for each child 20,000 euros of parents' contributions to pension insurance from tax revenues, without reducing pension entitlements.
If contributions in the corresponding amount have not yet been paid at the time of the births, they will be offset against future pension contributions.
Parents are thus effectively supported at the stage in their lives when the costs for the children are incurred and, if necessary, one parent forgoes all or part of their earned income.
This will not only make the decision to have a child or more children easier,
but will take overall pressure to perform out of families and thus reduce the rate of separation.
Eliminate injustices in the transition of eastern pensions
In addition to the injustices against families, there
are still injustices in the transition of Eastern pensions 31 years after German reunification.
Inconsistencies have arisen in the pension transition that took place in the 1990s with the Pension Transition Act and the Entitlement and Vested Rights Transition Act.
The regulations for special occupational groups contained in the old-age security system of the "GDR" were only partially implemented.
After the expiry of transitional arrangements, there are significant differences depending on the pension start date.
For hardship cases and gross inequities in the pension transition process, we will provide compensation through a fund solution.
Under the fund solution, lump-sum one-time payments of an appropriate amount are to be granted to those affected.
The assessment of the one-time payments shall - as far as possible - be linked to the length of service.
No double taxation, raise tax allowance
In addition to the particular injustices against Eastern pensioners and families throughout Germany, there are also fundamental injustices in pension taxation.
Many retirees who have paid taxes on their pensions since 2005 are subject to double taxation.
The legal regulations must be adapted so that this unconstitutional situation is abolished.
In general, the taxation of pensions must be viewed critically from a social perspective.
We counteract the income tax burden by raising the tax-free allowance - as outlined in the tax policy section - for everyone, thus at least shielding low pensions from taxation.
Strengthen pay-as-you-go pension
With our balanced approach and the measures derived from it, we will make the pay-as-you-go pension system fit for the entry of baby boomers into the pension system.
We significantly increase benefit equity without overburdening future generations.
We show that present interests and generative responsibility can be reconciled.
Recognizing military service in pension policy
The AfD has set itself the goal of reintroducing the suspended compulsory military service.
Consequently, the period of military service is taken into account in the statutory pension insurance as if the person performing military service had earned contributions and earnings equivalent to an average income.
Thus, for each month of service, 1/12 earning points are credited to the pension insurance account.
This regulation also benefits those performing alternative military service (Zivildienstleisten) who refuse to serve in the armed forces for reasons of conscience.
Health Policy
The AfD's healthcare policy builds on the existing German healthcare system.
However, there are increasing signs of undesirable developments, which the Alternative for Germany is addressing with reform proposals.
Our goal is to provide medical care that is oriented toward people and close to home.
The efficiency of our health care system is to be re-evaluated, personal responsibility, natural prevention and freedom of therapy are to be promoted,
and stricter limits are to be placed on the influence of lobbyists.
An end to the disproportionate Corona measures
The uncertainty of citizens with arbitrary limit values,
incomprehensible measures
and restrictions of fundamental rights
through administrative authorizations bypassing parliaments are unacceptable to us.
The focus of voluntary hygiene measures and protective provisions must be on vulnerable populations.
We reject the wearing of masks in daycare centers, nurseries and schools.
The disproportionate lockdown measures must be ended immediately.
We reject the obligation to wear a mask.
We reject mandatory vaccination (direct and indirect), immunity cards, and tracking apps or other surveillance measures.
We want to ensure that public and scientific discourse and respect for pluralism of opinion are preserved.
We call for a return to proven scientific diagnostic methods for detecting infection.
A rapid test or PCR test, which according to the developer and WHO is not suitable on its own for detecting infection and whose false positive rate leads to artificially inflated incidence values, must no longer be the basis for restrictions on freedom through government-imposed lockdowns, access restrictions and quarantine.
Vaccination must remain voluntary
The AfD defends the fundamental right to physical integrity
and the responsibility of each individual for his or her body.
Establishment of a parliamentary Corona investigation committee
We are committed to ensuring that the entire corona policy of the Federal Government, the declaration of the epidemic of national scope, the corona summit not anchored in the Basic Law, the use and informative value of the PCR test, the arbitrarily set limits, the information policy, the lack of scientific discourse, the proportionality of the measures, the restriction of fundamental rights, mandatory testing and quarantine, as well as the physical, psychological and psychosocial damage caused by the measures, the compulsory wearing of masks without a constitution, the lack of scientific discourse, the proportionality of the measures, the restriction of fundamental rights, mandatory testing and quarantine as well as the physical, psychological and psychosocial damage caused by the measures, the compulsory wearing of masks without a health check and the vaccines used by emergency authorization.
Particular attention should be paid to the personal enrichment of members of parliament and government in the context of Corona politics.
Hospitals and clinics need planning security and individually adequate funding
The existing financing in the DRG flat rate system has proven to be an allocation and savings system with "hedge shears".
The control function for the adjustment of alleged overcapacities potentiates distortions and accelerates hospital deaths, especially in rural areas.
The AfD calls for the introduction of an individual budget for hospitals to enable, for example, emergency facilities, obstetrics departments and, in particular, the inpatient treatment of children close to home, even in structurally weak areas.
The individual financing agreement between the health insurance funds and the respective hospitals takes into account the clinical performance, the audit results of the expanded new Medical Service in Health Care (MDG), the actual needs of the local population, and the economic performance of the respective hospital.
In view of the diversity of sponsors and the provision of efficient hospital structures, the AfD calls for private sponsors in the hospital sector to be limited to a maximum of 60%.
Service-oriented outpatient care by ending budgeting
Half of the physicians in private practice will reach retirement age in the next few years.
Under the existing restrictions, there is little motivation to run one's own practice and to practice for longer than the usual age limit.
The existing system of performance-independent budgeting results in months-long waits for specialty care, excessive bureaucracy, premature practice closures, and greatly reduced desire for professional self-employment.
Not capitation fees, budgeting and arbitrary fee cuts within the SHI system,
but performance-based payment of physicians
ensures needs-oriented care for individual patients.
A disproportionate expansion of services will be avoided through accompanying measures.
1. a further developed medical service in the health care system (MDG), which, in contrast to the existing system, will be staffed and financed on a parity basis, is to be composed of all those involved in the health care system.
In the future, it will not only be a cost-saving instrument for payers,
but also a means of fairness for patients and quality of treatment.
2. a multi-level bonus system for premium payers that does not prevent necessary physician contacts but discourages frivolous visits will be introduced.
Restore and secure medical care in rural areas
The AfD considers the promotion of medical care in rural areas to be one of the most urgent tasks at present.
The following measures will strengthen care there:
1. abolition of capitation payments and budgeting for physicians' fees.
2. ending the cap in the billing system (degression).
3. financial and organizational support for establishment.
4. reduction of hurdles in the employment of physician staff, such as the job-sharing limit.
5. further expansion of medical practices / polyclinics / MVZs with employed physicians also under the sponsorship of the municipalities, but under physician management.
6. support for medical students who commit themselves to working in structurally weak areas for a certain period of time after graduation.
7. providing low-cost student loans to medical students who are successively forgiven with professional work, even on a pro-rata basis, in underserved counties.
8) Consistent fulfillment of the mandate by the associations of SHI-accredited physicians and dentists to ensure comprehensive coverage.
Reduce bureaucracy in access to therapeutic products and aids
The requirement for approval of medical aids by the statutory health insurance (SHI) creates gaps in care for patients
and causes high bureaucratic costs.
It is to be replaced by a fixed amount regulation.
Fund short-term care places in hospitals
Following hospital treatment, the lack of directly subsequent care options often leads to an undignified transitional situation.
The AfD demands that short-term care places in hospitals be financed by long-term care insurance.
This avoids pressure on people in need of care, who often fear that follow-up care in subsequent nursing facilities or at home is not assured.
Ending the nursing shortage
Rising patient numbers, a shortage of qualified nursing staff, overworking of existing nursing staff and a cap on spending by health and nursing care insurance funds on nursing care remuneration are leading to increasing imbalances in the nursing care sector.
The AfD is therefore calling for:
1. appropriate, performance-based pay for nursing staff through a regional collective agreement with tax-free night, Sunday and holiday bonuses.
2. a nationwide statutory minimum staffing level for care facilities with a buffer regulation in the event of a short-term shortfall.
3. regular reviews of the quality of results and billing in care facilities.
4. promotion and financing of training for skilled nursing staff and not only for nursing assistants via the job center.
The AfD calls for the continuation of the various forms of care
and the promotion of age-appropriate forms of housing.
We continue to support the separate vocational training of health care and nursing, pediatric nursing and geriatric nursing, which has proven its worth over decades.
We consider generalized nursing training to be an undesirable development that is detrimental to those in need of care.
Right of way for home care
Over 70% of those in need of care prefer to be housed at home.
It is not only social,
but also for financial reasons.
The need for inpatient care must be postponed as far as possible.
Support for family caregivers should be promoted by largely aligning care allowances with care benefits in kind.
Simplification and better clarity in social long-term care and statutory health insurance
The AfD proposes a merger of social long-term care insurance and statutory health insurance in order to avoid frequent interface problems in the care of people in need of long-term care, who are also often multimorbid.
The scope of benefits provided by social long-term care insurance is to be aligned with the insurance principle in health insurance.
Since having children of one's own is indispensable for the functioning of the welfare state, it must be taken into account that childless insured persons can be expected to build up their own reserves for the eventuality of care to a greater extent due to the omission of child rearing with all the associated costs.
Making drug supply reliable
Increasing waiting times, especially for essential medications, and a threat to consistent quality of care indicate a need for reform.
The following demands of the AfD result from this:
The predominant monopoly situation
and one-sided dependence on foreign countries
is counteracted by abolishing discount contracts, expanding the reference price market, adjusting manufacturer discounts and abolishing the reimport quota.
To avoid overburdening the pharmaceutical budget, these measures will be financed by extending the benefit assessment to include the patent-protected portion of drugs and by lowering the sales tax on drugs from 19% to 7%.
In other EU countries, medicines are already subject to a lower tax rate or are exempt from tax altogether.
A stockpile of prescription drugs for at least two months must be ensured by the manufacturers.
In order to guarantee a nationwide and qualified supply of medicines, the owner-operated pharmacies must be retained, which ensure the supply of local citizens with their delivery, night, Sunday and holiday service on 365 days.
Organ donation, euthanasia
The AfD rejects an obligation to donate organs.
The process of dying is to be accompanied by proven palliative care and passive euthanasia.
Cannabis only in medicine
For medical indications, preparations containing the main active ingredient should be available under medical supervision.
We support the expansion of addiction psychiatric care for permanent abstinence from drugs.
Avoiding and consequently counteracting antibiotic resistance
We demand mandatory testing for multi-resistant germs during every inpatient hospital stay.
It is mandatory for every hospital with an intensive care unit to employ a clinical microbiologist.
Disinfection floor mats, hand disinfection at main entrances and ward entrances, the implementation of fixed, mandatory visiting hours and swabbing in clinics, nursing homes and outpatient surgical facilities will counteract the life-threatening proliferation of multi-resistant germs.
Unannounced quality controls in clinics and nursing homes, consultations and sanctions by the associations of panel doctors and dentists in the event of above-average antibiotic consumption in practices round off these measures.
The development of reserve antibiotics in Germany as well as phage therapy is to receive government funding.
Preserve the profession of alternative medicine practitioner
Training and testing standards need a uniform, binding definition.
Within the framework of the free choice of profession, it must also be made possible for physicians to exercise the profession of non-medical practitioner alongside their medical practice.
Requirements for foreign personnel in the healthcare sector
Medical professionals must generally have at least C1 level language skills.
The professional qualification must meet the German standard without restriction.
Preference should be given to degree and training applicants who commit to working in underserved areas.
Establish sovereignty of the patient over his data
Medical treatment data is characterized by particularly high sensitivity.
The AfD opposes the creation of a central database linking clinics, practices, therapeutic facilities and pharmacies to store confidential patient data.
We are in favor of storing emergency data records, a medication overview or a living will directly on a health insurance card for the benefit of the patient, who
is responsible for deciding how to use them.
Fundamentally reform WHO
The financing as well as the personnel structure of the World Health Organization (WHO) must be fundamentally reformed in order to restore the independence and neutrality of the WHO and to do justice to the claim of an international, i.e. intergovernmental organization.
The necessary structural adjustments should lead to a streamlining of the WHO
and thus lead to a reduction in contributions and donations financed from tax revenues.
We also advocate that the WHO expand the conceptual requirements for the existence of a pandemic again to include the phrase "an enormous number of deaths and illnesses", which was valid until 2009.
If fundamental reform is not feasible by these standards, we advocate Germany's withdrawal from the World Health Organization.
Education, science and research
The courage to perform instead of the academization mania
An achievement-oriented, differentiated education system is the foundation of our prosperity and an essential component of our culture.
However, while the high school graduation rate has been rising for decades, trainees and first-year students lack basic knowledge and skills.
Since the PISA shock 20 years ago, one reform has followed another, with a constant further lowering of standards.
The educational standards of all types of schools and educational institutions must be raised again to the level of a leading scientific and industrial nation.
We call for a move away from exclusive competency orientation
and a stronger subject-specific orientation of teaching.
Maintaining a multi-tier school system
Educational equity requires differentiation, not egalitarianism.
Efficient teaching and learning is only possible if the differences in performance between students within a school form remain limited.
We therefore advocate a differentiated but permeable school system that does justice to the different talents of students.
The Abitur must once again become a certificate of eligibility to study, and the Hauptschule or Realschule certificate must qualify students for qualified vocational training.
Independent schools (private schools) are a useful addition to the state education system.
Strengthening vocational training: Master craftsman instead of master
Dual training in companies and vocational schools is a successful model.
However, the pursuit of ever higher quotas of school-leavers with a university entrance qualification is jeopardizing the next generation of trainees in the training professions.
Numerous apprenticeships cannot be filled for lack of sufficiently qualified applicants.
We want to strengthen the vocational education and training system.
The value of vocational training must be emphasized more strongly.
Digitization is not an end in itself
In principle, schools need modern, up-to-date IT equipment.
This is especially necessary for computer science classes and for vocational training in technical subjects.
However, digitization must always be considered under the premises of meaningfulness and work facilitation.
To this end, binding criteria must be defined for framework curricula and internal school curricula on how digital media can be used within the teaching-learning process in a didactic, methodical, and age-appropriate manner, as well as in compliance with data protection requirements.
The first four years of school should be predominantly digital-free spaces, as they serve to acquire the basic cultural skills of reading, arithmetic and writing.
No ideologically motivated inclusion: Preserve remedial and special schools
The United Nations requirement to guarantee disabled children participation in the education system has already been met in Germany.
Children with special needs receive comprehensive support in the special school that the regular school cannot provide.
The AfD therefore advocates the preservation of remedial and special schools.
The special school must once again become the norm for students with special educational needs.
Education and migration
The integration of migrants is a challenge for the German education system, as many of them come from other cultural backgrounds and are often from educationally disadvantaged backgrounds.
In many cases, a lack of previous education and language skills prevent successful qualification for the German labor market.
These people are at risk of personal failure in Germany and becoming a permanent burden on the welfare state.
The AfD is pushing for a future rationally controlled immigration policy to take into account the level of education as a key decision-making criterion.
The experience gained in Japan can point the way forward.
For asylum seekers of school age, the goal of schooling must also be to prepare them for the possibility of returning to their home country.
The learning progress of native students must not be impaired.
As long as migrants do not speak sufficient German to participate in regular classes, teaching in their native language is an option.
Restore neutrality of the school
The classroom must not be a place of political indoctrination.
German schools often do not promote the formation of an independent opinion, but rather the uncritical adoption of ideological guidelines.
The guiding principle of school education must always be the independent thinking citizen.
Competence orientation devalues education
Initiated largely by lobby groups, the reduction of educational requirements to a content-empty concept of competence has led to an empirically verifiable lowering of standards.
Gobbledygook competency grids supplant instructional content.
Education and the pursuit of knowledge take a back seat.
We call for reducing the influence of lobby groups on our education system.
Teaching German cultural heritage in the classroom
German cultural assets, traditions as well as history are an immanent part of the German identity.
The AfD will oppose all efforts to remove, distort or reduce this from the curricula.
From elementary school onwards, this content must be part of the compulsory curriculum.
This promotes love of one's homeland and a sense of tradition.
No denominational Islamic instruction in German schools
Teaching Islam in German schools is currently not conducive to integration, but encourages a persistence in attitudes that prevent genuine integration.
Since the Islamic communities in Germany do not have a church-like structure, they cannot be granted the privilege of "denominational" religious instruction at state schools.
No special rights for Muslims in our schools.
Muslim students must participate in physical education, swimming lessons, and class trips just like all other students.
This is the only way we can counteract the formation of parallel societies and open up opportunities for students to participate so that they can successfully adapt to our German culture.
No Koran lessons by anti-constitutional mosque associations
The Koran schools in Germany are mostly run by mosque associations.
Many of these associations are hostile to our free democratic basic order.
We therefore call for a nationwide check of all mosque associations to determine whether they are anti-constitutional.
The language of instruction in Koranic schools must also be German.
No Confucius Institutes at public educational institutions.
Through the so-called Confucius Institutes, the Chinese Communist Party exerts influence on the education offered at German universities and increasingly also at general education schools.
This is contrary to the neutrality requirement and the principle of democracy of public educational institutions.
We therefore want to remove the Confucius Institutes from the universities again.
Bologna has failed: reintroduce Diplom and Magister degrees
The EU-wide harmonization of courses of study (Bologna Process) has led to an increase in schooling.
Academic freedom was curtailed and it became more difficult to change university.
Employers criticize the low qualifications of Bachelor's graduates.
The AfD wants to move away from modularization and competence orientation
and reintroduce the tried-and-tested diploma and master's degree programs.
Strengthening the autonomy of universities, preserving the freedom of research and teaching
Germany must once again become a country of top research.
We want to introduce higher basic funding for universities in order to reduce their dependence on third-party funding.
Universities should have the right to select applicants through entrance examinations.
The compulsion toward leveling created by political targets for student numbers, student success, and other quotas must be ended.
No money for "gender studies," no gender quotas
At the core of gender ideology is the denial of biological differences between men and women, combined with the assertion that genders are merely social constructs.
Differences, for example, in the selection and exercise of professions are regarded as evidence of alleged discrimination and their elimination is demanded.
Assertions of gender ideology contradict findings of biology.
All funding for teaching and research based on gender ideology should be eliminated.
We reject politically correct language to enforce gender ideology.
Equal opportunity officers are to be abolished.
When filling positions, the professional qualifications of the applicant alone must be the deciding factor.
Culture
German Leitkultur instead of "multiculturalism
Our identity is shaped by our German language, our values, our history and our culture.
The latter are closely connected with Christianity, the Enlightenment, our artistic and scientific works.
Our identity determines the fundamental values that are passed down from generation to generation.
The German Leitkultur describes our consensus of values, which is identity-forming for our people and distinguishes us from others.
It ensures the cohesion of society and is a prerequisite for the functioning of our state.
The community-creating effect of German culture is the foundation of our Basic Law and cannot be replaced by constitutional patriotism.
Cultural relativism and multiculturalism lead to a juxtaposition of parallel societies that lack common values for living together.
In such a fragmented society, conflicts arise that can hardly be controlled.
The AfD will not allow Germany to lose its traditional culture out of misunderstood tolerance of Islam.
The German language as the center of our identity
The national language is the heart of a cultural nation.
As a central element of German identity, the AfD wants to enshrine the German language as the national language in the Basic Law.
At German educational institutions, German must not be pushed back by other languages.
German must remain the language of teaching and science.
The so-called "gender-equitable language" is a grotesque deformation of the German language.
It does not create equality.
Language must not be a plaything of ideological interests.
We therefore particularly reject so-called "gender-equitable language" and oppose any obligation to use it.
The use of "easy language" should be limited to cognitively impaired individuals.
Cultural Promotion
Funding for cultural institutions must be transparent.
State cultural funding must not be misused to influence the formation of political will.
Associations and foundations that receive state funding must be committed to the free democratic basic order.
The AfD is committed to the cultural sovereignty of the federal states
and wants to limit the cultural policy activities of the federal government.
Artistic freedom must be preserved in film promotion.
Identity-political requirements of state film funding are to be rejected.
Customs and commemoration
Customs have an identity-forming and community-building effect.
Therefore, we want to cultivate our customs and dialects, to which local cultural associations make an important contribution.
The suffering of the expellees must not be forgotten.
Monuments and local architecture shape the sense of home and cultural identity.
The beauty of historic downtowns must be preserved and, if necessary, restored through reconstruction.
German history must be appreciated in its entirety.
The official culture of remembrance must not only focus on the low points of our history, it must also keep an eye on the high points.
A people without national consciousness cannot exist in the long run.
The AfD opposes the vilification of the German Empire, which is inaccurately defamed as a backward unjust state.
Even today, we in the Federal Republic are still drawing on the cultural, technological and economic achievements of the Kaiserreich.
We oppose the increasingly aggressive attempts at an ideologically driven, moralizing reinterpretation of history, which takes the form of the demolition of monuments and renaming of streets.
The aggressiveness that is now directed against the empire as well as against the monuments of Bismarck and the German emperors is not only directed against this past state, but against the German nation as such.
The debate about a supposedly necessary "decolonization" of our culture, which goes hand in hand with a demonization of the "white man," calls into question the self-understanding of our cultural identity as a whole.
The AfD is the only political force opposing this dismantling of our historical-cultural identity.
We reject the so-called "Critical Race Theory" according to which racism against whites is not possible.
The AfD also opposes a blanket return of collectibles from colonial contexts.
We are also committed to finally implementing the Bundestag's decision to build a memorial and information center for the victims of communist tyranny.
Media
Redesigning public broadcasting
Free radio for free citizens!
The public broadcasting system is outdated.
The broadcasting state treaties should be terminated in each state to allow for fundamental reform.
The end result should be a much-reduced provider that is about one-tenth the size it was before.
This "basic radio" has the sole task of providing citizens with neutral content from the fields of information, culture and education throughout the country.
Regional content remains important - a streamlined "Heimatfunk" as a showcase for the regions.
Compulsory contributions and advertising are eliminated.
Funding is provided by a levy, which is payable in particular by technology groups that distribute audiovisual content and by video streaming services.
These dominate the German market without paying taxes or duties in an appropriate manner.
"Fight "Cancel Culture
Any censorship of expressions of opinion is an attack on the fundamental right of freedom of expression.
A dominant position in social media and education must not be abused to unilaterally influence the formation of political will.
As a quasi-oligopoly, we want to oblige the providers of large social media such as Facebook, Twitter or Instagram to respect the freedom of expression of their users.
The Internet must be preserved as a place of free expression.
"Fact checkers" and opinion watchdogs must not receive state funding.
The government also influences the private media through subsidies, corporate holdings and government-political advertising funding.
We reject this partisan political media influence.
We want to prohibit political parties from acquiring stakes in media companies.
Freedom of Expression Instead of Virtue Terror
Diffuse notions of "political correctness" stifle public discussion by prohibiting speech and thought.
Facts are distorted and controversial topics are made taboo.
The convergence of the legacy parties into a political opinion cartel has solidified leftist dominance in public broadcasting and private mainstream media.
The freedom of science, research and teaching is also at risk.
Occupational sanctions, social ostracism and violent assaults reduce the constitutionally guaranteed rights of freedom to theory.
This was demonstrated in a frightening way in the Corona crisis.
Building, living, renting
A lack of new housing construction, rural migration, the increasing number of single-person households, and unbridled and unlawful migration mean that it is becoming visibly more difficult for lower and middle-income groups to find affordable housing in tight markets.
In order to counteract these trends, not only must the conditions be created for the construction of new housing in line with demand, e.g. through the designation of building land, but costs must also be substantially reduced.
The AfD therefore calls for the reduction of excessive standards and specifications, the abolition of the Energy Saving Ordinance and the reduction of fire, heat and noise protection to a necessary minimum.
We need a nationwide simplification and standardization of construction law
and an acceleration of procedures through the reduction of bureaucracy and digitization.
The real estate transfer tax on owner-occupied residential real estate should be abolished without replacement.
In order to give locals better access to the available supply, the purchase of residential real estate by buyers without German citizenship whose primary residence is abroad should be made more difficult by raising the real estate transfer tax to 20%.
The property tax and fees such as the EEG levy and the GEZ fees (household levy) should be eliminated.
The compensation of the property tax to the municipalities is to be paid by the federal government.
Promotion of home ownership
Home ownership exempts citizens from paying rent.
It contributes to asset accumulation,
minimizes the burden of housing costs in old age
and thus reduces poverty in old age.
In addition, however, ownership is also a social factor that is often underestimated.
Residential areas with a high ownership rate are socially stable.
Ownership leads to responsible use of a home and stabilizes the social environment.
The AfD wants to promote the creation of home ownership through the following measures:
state housing companies should offer tenants their homes for sale.
Especially for young families, the ground lease is to be expanded as a cost-effective entry into ownership.
Housing cooperatives are to be given preference in the allocation of residential land in order to make it easier for more citizens to become homeowners.
Government guarantees as equity substitutes for up to 10% of the property value are intended to facilitate the purchase of housing.
We demand a special tax depreciation for owner-occupied real estate.
More housing subsidies instead of social housing
The previous social housing system has failed; it can only reach a fraction of those entitled to it.
It leads to misplacements and causes high costs for the taxpayer.
It is better to provide more housing assistance to low-income tenants, which will ensure a social mix.
If the housing allowance is not sufficient to secure housing, citizens must also be paid a municipal housing allowance.
The AfD stands for balanced tenancy law and rejects government overregulation as well as investment barriers such as the rent brake or the rent cap.
Climate, energy, technology and digitization
Facing climate change positively
The German government's goal of reducing CO2 emissions to de facto zero is leading to a radical transformation of industry and society ("Die Große Transformation" / "The Great Reset")
and is threatening our freedom on an increasingly frightening scale.
The AfD rejects this goal and the associated restructuring of society.
The radical restructuring of industry and society is justified by the claim that decarbonization, i.e. abandoning the use of coal, oil and gas, can still prevent a man-made "climate catastrophe".
We consider this thesis and the measures derived from it to be wrong.
The trace gas CO2 is indispensable as a prerequisite for all life.
The increase in the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere has contributed to a greening of the Earth in recent decades.
No one disputes recent global warming.
However, the AfD doubts that this will only have negative consequences.
Instead of waging a hopeless battle against climate change, we should adapt to the changing conditions, just as plants and animals do.
Human history proves that warm periods always led to a flourishing of life and cultures, while cold periods were associated with hardship, hunger and wars.
To date, it has not been proven that humans, especially industry, are significantly responsible for climate change.
The recent warming is within the range of natural climate fluctuations, as we also know from the pre-industrial past.
Core demands on climate policy
The climate cannot have a protection of continuance postulated by man and certainly not guaranteed.
The climate is not protectable per se.
The AfD rejects the German government's Climate Protection Plan 2050 and decarbonization measures.
The Paris climate agreement of 12.12.2015 must be terminated.
Germany must withdraw from all government and private "climate protection" organizations and withdraw all support for them.
The AfD calls for a public, free discourse on the causes of climate change and the devastating consequences of decarbonization.
Any form of CO2 taxation must be abolished.
Welcome technical progress
In Germany, technological progress is increasingly no longer seen as an opportunity for our country, which is poor in raw materials, but is either blocked or prevented due to fears.
The AfD opposes this development and tries to convey a positive expectation of the future in society and parliaments.
It is not renunciation, regression and socialism that have reduced environmental pollution for decades, but technical progress
and a market economy based on clear rules.
Techniques must benefit citizens, the economy and also our homeland, i.e. the environment.
The task of politics is to formulate framework conditions based on the current state of science and technology.
Safety and economy of any technology must be ensured by the users.
This is why the AfD is calling for the challenges of the present to be met with an open-minded approach to technology.
Secure and affordable energy supply is one of the basic prerequisites of prosperity, security and health.
Ensuring this is the core task of the state.
Energy policy means setting framework conditions in such a way that the energy supply is secure, environmentally friendly and cost-effective within the framework of the free market.
Expensive and scarce energy is causing industries to relocate
and drastically limiting the standard of living of broad sections of the population, especially the lower income groups.
Energy - No to the "Green Deal
We reject the EU's "Green Deal" and any other forms of planned economy.
We want to abolish the EEG without replacement and end priority feed-in.
The secure energy supply of an industrialized country requires a broad energy mix.
A complete conversion of our energy supply to volatile "renewable" energy sources is unecologically unrealistic and therefore to be rejected.
The AfD rejects the new GEG (Building Energy Act) because it leads to further rent increases without adequate ecological improvements.
Wind and solar plants may not be erected in forests and protected areas.
We are committed to preserving the local landscape, our environment and wildlife.
Priority areas for wind turbines should only be designated with the broad consent of the affected citizens.
The minimum distance between wind turbines and residential areas must be 10 times the total height, but at least 2.5 km.
Plants that have fallen out of subsidy after 20 years are to participate in the market without subsidies and feed-in priority.
Wind turbines must be completely dismantled, including the concrete foundations.
We no longer want to promote so-called energy crops and instead want to use arable land for growing food again.
Alternatively, these areas can be returned to nature.
We reject the preference for and promotion of a hydrogen economy as well
as the one-sided promotion of electromobility.
Openness to technology also applies to the use of hydrogen and electromobility.
Both require an ecologically, energetically and economically nonsensical parallel infrastructure system.
Due to high and cheap availability from natural gas, there is no demand for hydrogen produced by volatile "renewable" energy sources, and large-scale production from it is not even possible so far.
We need more flexible gas-fired power plants to secure the energy supply.
To this end, gas supplies must be secured through the completion of the Nord Stream 2 project.
Landing of liquefied gas must also be made possible.
The AfD is committed to the generation of electricity from lignite and hard coal as a base-load and controllable energy source.
Germany has the world's cleanest and most efficient coal-fired power plants.
We therefore reject the plans to phase out coal-fired power generation.
The operating lives of the six remaining active nuclear power plants in Germany must be based on technical service life and economic criteria.
We reject a shutdown for other reasons.
German nuclear power plants are among the safest in the world.
Recyclable nuclear power plant residues should be stored in a retrievable manner for future use ("closed fuel cycle").
Since Gorleben is a fully researched and unrestrictedly suitable repository, the search for another geological repository must be discontinued.
Instead, the research and utilization of technologies should be accelerated that no longer require the storage of highly radioactive residues in geological time periods.
The final repository issue is used by opponents of nuclear power as a politically inflated problem to prevent the peaceful use of minimally invasive and low-emission nuclear energy forever.
The AfD calls for the re-establishment of nuclear research centers
and extensive participation in international nuclear research projects
to ensure the necessary knowledge for the operation and construction of nuclear reactors, research into advanced reactor concepts of Generation III+ and IV as well as breeder reactors and fusion energy.
The AfD advocates the new installation of safe nuclear power plants in order to avoid energy shortages for Germany as an industrial location and for its citizens.
In the area of private-sector aerospace, the AfD advocates competition
and wants to create the framework for lead companies and a European supplier industry to remain competitive.
We support the continuation and expansion of national and international space programs to further open up space for science, as a source of raw materials, and as a potential new habitat for humans.
We want to launch an educational initiative about the benefits of genetic engineering that are already visible today
and create a pragmatic regulatory framework for this technology.
We reject general bans on plastics and advocate
their intelligent use and increased recycling.
The AfD advocates the creation of centers of excellence for research into waste disposal and raw material recovery technologies.
Germany is well positioned in the environmentally sound disposal of waste and recovery of raw materials, and its know-how is in demand worldwide.
This also applies to plastics, as the majority is recovered for energy generation or returned to the material cycle.
Internationally, however, the problem of marine pollution must be addressed primarily by reducing discharges in developing countries.
With competitive reprocessing technologies, Germany could make an important contribution here.
Digitization must serve us humans
We see the digitization of the economy and society as an opportunity to improve the lives of all citizens.
As a liberal and democratic party, however, the AfD opposes any misuse of digital technologies that lead to the surveillance or paternalism of citizens and companies.
Here, too, we demand compliance with the Basic Law and all principles of the rule of law in the creation and use of digital services.
Fundamental rights and freedom of expression also apply on the Internet.
Specifically, we demand: Refrain from using digitization that promotes totalitarian structures.
Abolition of the NetzDG.
Prevent upload filters, because they curtail freedom of expression and lead to censorship.
Deficits in EU copyright law must be corrected accordingly.
The AfD stands for a free and open Internet.
Compliance with rule-of-law principles also in the digital sphere (Internet, social media and platforms).
Obligation of social platform providers to enable non-discriminatory access
and to maintain content neutrality.
Decisions on the legality of content on platforms should regularly no longer lie with the operator.
The judiciary alone has the authority and ability to decide on the admissibility of content.
A central reporting point to which citizens and institutions affected by rights violations on platforms can turn.
At the state level, there are to be focal justice centers for law enforcement on the Net.
Data protection and data security
We stand for data protection and data security without sprawling bureaucracy:
The AfD calls for the abolition of the GDPR
and its replacement with a new, streamlined data protection law
to safeguard informational self-determination.
Consent to data processing must be effectively revocable at any time.
The AfD wants to strengthen data protection authorities in their role
and also make them capable of sanctioning state agencies, since the state has to comply with the same data protection rules as citizens.
End-to-end encryption in electronic communications as well as data protection through technology design and default settings ("by design" and "by default") must be enshrined in law as standard.
Public spending on research and application of quantum cryptography must be immediately and significantly increased for reasons of national security, prevention of industrial espionage, and for the IT security of citizens.
We reject a central, cross-domain personal identifier in the modernization of the administrative registers of the federal and state governments, as it would allow the creation of personality profiles and is therefore unconstitutional.
The numerous IT security laws and strategies in Germany need to be updated and consolidated immediately, as the high complexity of their interaction tends to jeopardize IT security rather than promote it.
Authorities must not use software backdoors,
security vulnerabilities must be reported immediately and closed consequently.
Municipal critical infrastructure and facilities also need to be better protected against hacker attacks.
We want a uniform legal framework for the standardization and certification of IT infrastructures, products, services and systems.
The Federal Office for Information Security (BSI) is to be expanded into an authority for digitalin consumer protection.
Police and non-police security authorities must be brought up to speed with digital technology without delay and their procedures adapted accordingly.
Instruments at the interface with the citizen, such as the NINAWarn app, must not only be provided with the necessary financial resources, but also be designed to be user-friendly.
Infrastructure is the basis for the further expansion of digitization
The AfD calls for the promotion of regional structures, including in fiber-optic and wireless network expansion, along the lines of "national roaming."
Network transition between operators must be unnoticeable to users and cost-neutral.
The 5G network rollout must continue to be accompanied by ongoing scientific studies with regard to health risks when higher frequencies are used in the future, and citizens must be fully informed about their findings.
Digitization of public administration
The digitization of public administration still has a lot of potential, both internally and in interaction with citizens.
The AfD calls for better financial and advisory support for municipalities in OZG (OnlineZugangsGesetz - Online Access Act) projects, which they have been obliged to undertake by the federal government.
The AfD calls for digital administrative processes to be streamlined and standardized.
E-government must be further expanded,
but to provide citizens with an equivalent, low-threshold, personal contact.
In principle, every visit to the authorities by citizens should in future be at their choice.
can be handled digitally or in person.
Payment of fees of any kind must be able to be made with cash.
The AfD calls for the preferential use of open source software (to be developed, if necessary) for digital administrative processes.
This also applies to the operation of servers and workstations.
Digital sovereignty
To improve the security of digital administrative systems, the AfD calls for the bundling of European IT competencies within the framework of research and development cooperations with the aim of developing European hardware & system software in order to become less dependent on solutions from non-European providers.
The AfD wants to oblige public authorities to align procurement with long-term strategic and security considerations.
Artificial intelligence is a technology of the future with high economic potential;
however, competition from multinational corporations in this field is fierce.
Therefore, we want to better bundle the competencies in the field of AI in the Federal Republic
and promote national cooperations more strongly.
Transport policy
The AfD advocates a transport policy that is oriented toward the needs of citizens.
The AfD rejects an ideologically guided prohibition policy that favors or discriminates against certain means of transport.
In the foreground for us is the freedom of the citizens in the choice of the means of transport.
Individual mobility must remain affordable.
Protect motorized private transport
The AfD supports and promotes motorized individual transport as the most popular way of getting around.
Intelligent technology and congestion-avoiding traffic routing protect the environment.
Scientifically flawed measures, such as diesel driving bans or environmental lanes, do not achieve this.
At the same time, the AfD calls for the preservation and expansion of inner-city lanes and parking space to prevent growing traffic chaos
and to protect the attractiveness of retail.
The AfD also rejects collective measures such as driving bans for motorcycles based on the misconduct of individuals.
In principle, the AfD relies on the citizens' sense of responsibility.
Relieving congestion on federal highways - shifting transit traffic to rail and waterways
The AfD strictly rejects a general speed limit on federal highways.
Rigid speed limits must be reviewed regularly and eliminated if unjustified.
Temporarily, flexible, situation-based route control systems are the alternative.
Many highways and bridges in Germany have long been in urgent need of rehabilitation and repair.
This can only be achieved with efficient measures in the planning and execution of construction sites and with fast work by the administration.
In addition, the AfD demands more truck parking spaces
and consistent application of existing truck overtaking bans for the safety of all road users.
The concept of the "rolling highway" and swap body transshipment is to be established for transit connections through Germany with regular intervals.
The network of loading points and multimodal freight transport centers (road, rail and waterways) must be increased.
Safer, cleaner and reliable rail transport:
For passenger rail transport, Germany must have a better developed and coordinated local and long-distance public transport network based on the simple and reliable model of Switzerland.
Punctuality, safety and cleanliness, as well as optimal timing of bus, rail and interconnection with air traffic must be ensured.
The AfD supports the expansion of the rail network, which has been neglected for too long - especially the elimination of bottlenecks and the expansion of the high-speed network.
The primary goal of the German timetable must be to shorten travel times on all connections.
Strengthening air traffic as an economic factor
Global air traffic is of elementary importance for Germany as a business location
and must not be short-sightedly sacrificed to unscientific climate hysteria.
Germany's airports must be strengthened as an economic factor.
Future growth should also take place within the security area (gate-to-gate) with the innovative inclusion of surrounding and less busy commercial airports.
The AfD is in favor of abolishing the aviation tax
and opposes unrealistic EU CO2 reduction targets.
Germany's airports must be strengthened as an economic factor as part of an "Air Transport Concept 2021".
Maintaining the German automotive industry as a leading industry
The AfD sees the strategic importance of the German automotive and supplier industry.
The small and medium-sized businesses responsible for the majority of jobs, especially in the metalworking industry, are dependent on the continued existence of the internal combustion engine.
It is therefore the task of the German government to ensure that legislation is open to technology at national and European level.
The current one-sided preference for electromobility must be stopped immediately due to a lack of electricity capacity and the global environmental impact of battery production.
Whether the combustion engine will one day be replaced by other forms of propulsion or continue to exist is a question of technical progress.
and the market are
and must not be based on the EU's ban policy.
If the existing, unrealistic EU CO2 reduction legislation in the transport sector cannot be prevented, synthetic fuels must be considered as a viable fuel for internal combustion engines.
Vehicles with combustion engines powered by synthetic fuel must be treated equally to electrically powered vehicles in terms of their tax burden.
This applies both to the energy carrier itself and to the vehicle as a whole.
Develop city and countryside on an equal footing
For decades, rural exodus and urbanization have shaped the image of our country.
A fundamental policy change is needed to reverse this trend.
We want equal living and working conditions throughout Germany,
the preservation and sustainable development of regional identity in all parts of the country.
The lifestyles and values of urban and rural areas are of equal importance and complement each other.
With a tradition-oriented, family-friendly and self-confident design of the rural living space, we want to bring our homeland back into balance.
To safeguard municipal autonomy, we will significantly increase the financial volume and scope of action of the municipalities.
Bringing decisions closer to the citizen:
We want to make the regions and counties strong by promoting the economy, preserving regional culture, providing public services, transport and digitization.
The EU, federal and state governments should intervene less regulatively in local self-administration and the regions' scope for action.
Landscape as part of regional identity
In environmental and landscape protection, we want strong regional roots.
For the native landscape, we want to eliminate the privileging of energy-generating facilities.
The further development of existing settlement areas is to be made possible.
When it comes to the necessary use of land, we rely on the regions and municipalities to take responsibility for careful land use.
Our mission statement is the polycentric city
and the livable, walkable, family-friendly neighborhood.
We stand for the preservation of cultural heritage,
Local building standards
and careful reconstruction of historic town centers and individual buildings.
Large cities and their rural surroundings must be thought of as a unit.
We want to develop them spatially along the transport axes,
promote settlement development in the surrounding areas
and relieve the conurbations.
Infrastructure
Social and technical infrastructures are the basis of our coexistence today.
Although we take them for granted, the investment backlog for municipalities to provide them in line with demand continues to grow.
The AfD is aware that intact and comprehensively developed infrastructures
are the prerequisite for a prosperous economy
and represent a very important means of combating the ongoing population decline in rural areas.
Strengthening municipalities - ensuring fulfillment of mandatory tasks
The municipalities must be much better equipped financially to fulfill their compulsory task of providing services of general interest
and transnationally in planning.
Services of general interest should be regarded as a sovereign task of the federal, state and local governments and should therefore remain in public hands.
Accelerating the expansion of digital infrastructures
In the AfD's view, this also includes the nationwide provision of fiber-optic connections and a high-performance, nationwide mobile communications network that is open to all providers.
The current practice of mobile communications frequency band auctions can become an obstacle to nationwide expansion and a price driver for end customers and must therefore be fundamentally reconsidered.
The current roll-out of the fiber optic network in Germany is characterized by isolated solutions and "white spots" in rural areas and parallel structures in metropolitan areas.
Better coordination across the board is imperative here.
Finally complete Nord Stream 2
The AfD supports the expansion of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline.
By linking them to Germany, a low-cost primary energy source can be made available to our citizens.
Agriculture, Environment and Consumer Protection
Clean air and water,
healthy and responsibly produced food,
and near-natural habitats are vital common goods whose protection is one of the AfD's priorities.
Our policies are guided by the goals of sustainability and security of supply as conservative principles.
We want to encourage consumers and producers to take responsibility for their own actions.
If possible, consumers should have access to regionally produced food.
It does not matter to us whether they come from organic or conventional production, but the quality of the products is decisive.
Domestic agriculture and forestry are indispensable for the supply of important common goods.
We want to make more self-sufficiency possible in Germany with domestic food.
The progressive disenfranchisement of farmers, hunters and consumers through more and more European regulations must come to an end.
Decisions must be made with the involvement of all stakeholders on the basis of rational factual analysis rather than ideological wishful thinking.
Renationalize EU agricultural policy
The EU's Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) has so far done more harm than good.
We therefore want to return responsibility for agricultural policy to the nation states alone.
Germany is the largest net contributor to the EU budget.
Farmers from other countries should not be subsidized with German tax money.
In order to establish a level playing field until renationalization, to
reward landscape management
and to promote extensive livestock farming,
the AfD advocates the introduction of a nationwide grazing animal premium.
In addition, agri-environmental measures must be designed in such a way that they maintain viable rural structures in our homeland
and ensure agricultural progress.
Valuing green professions
The various branches of land management - arable farming, livestock breeding, viticulture, forestry, horticulture and beekeeping - contribute to the maintenance of the cultural landscape, the
creation of regional jobs
and the supply of the population with high-quality food in our country.
We advocate for reality-based education on the topic of "green professions" and the resulting appreciation for farmers' services and products.
Before agricultural policy measures are introduced, it is important to examine how they affect farmers' incomes and what environmental benefits they provide.
Putting family businesses at the center
Agricultural support must take into account the performance of small and medium-sized family farms
and simplify farm succession.
Agriculture must be de-bureaucratized to ease the
burden on farmers.
Neither German nor EU authorities should interfere in their farming practices, for example in the choice of crop rotation.
In order to preserve our diverse agricultural structures, we want to improve the position of young farmers who manage their agricultural land themselves.
We are committed to making it more difficult for non-agricultural investors to buy up land.
We want to exempt agricultural start-ups from land transfer tax.
Orient fertilization to the needs of the plant
Adequate supply of necessary fertilizers to crops is essential for plant growth, soil fertility and food security.
However, the tightened new fertilizer regulation contradicts good agricultural practice and endangers the cultivation of crops with high nitrate requirements, such as potatoes, cereals and corn.
The AfD demands the revision of the Fertilizer Ordinance,
the abolition of the blanket reduction of fertilizer quantities
and the precise identification of sources of input according to the polluter pays principle, taking into account cost-effectiveness and proportionality.
Establishing practical plant protection:
Effective plant protection according to good professional practice is the basis of all agricultural production.
In this context, it must be possible for our farmers to register, use and trade old cultivars in order
to increase the diversity of varieties for the consumer.
The proven approval standards with regard to environmental, health and consumer protection must neither be neglected nor tightened in a way that is impractical.
The technical and scientific benefit and risk assessment of active substances, as well as the handling of toxic plants and genetic engineering, must be carried out by independent research institutions.
The Federal Institute for Risk Assessment must be better equipped structurally and in terms of personnel for this task.
Further develop animal welfare, husbandry and transport
The AfD stands for a consistent implementation of animal protection laws in the sense of our responsibility for animals as sentient fellow creatures.
We want to promote species-appropriate husbandry systems in livestock farming that are adapted to the animal species
and demand that livestock farming be coupled to the land.
This includes requiring warehouses and livestock facilities that improve environmental and animal welfare to be approved within three months and with fewer conditions.
We also advocate a network of regional slaughterhouses in Germany to keep animal transports as short as possible.
The duration of stunning must be guaranteed for the entire slaughter process - exceptions to this are not permitted.
In addition, the AfD calls for a restriction on exports of live animals for slaughter to countries with known animal welfare violations.
Animal welfare laws must apply equally to all.
Therefore, we also reject the trade, advertising and importation of meat from cruel slaughter (slaughtering).
It is our ethical duty for the welfare of the animals to reduce the live transport of animals for slaughter
and to third countries where animal welfare legislation is demonstrably violated.
Improve protection of native ecosystems
In the wake of the global movement of goods, more and more alien species are invading native ecosystems along the major long-distance trade routes and starting from international ports with their large transshipment hubs, disrupting the ecological balance.
It turns out that alien species not only have a negative impact on our local nature, but also cause concrete financial and health damage.
We must make greater efforts to prevent the introduction of invasive animal and plant species and to contain their spread.
An invasive trait must be included as a reason for removal in the Animal Welfare Act.
Implement contemporary wildlife management
Through a combination of active wildlife management and species protection exemption regulations, problematic wildlife populations should be able to be monitored and corrected regionally and in a timely manner.
The goal is to balance the needs of wildlife with the interests of farmers, pond keepers, and grazers.
Damage caused by wildlife is to be compensated in a non-bureaucratic and timely manner through monetary payments.
However, an unconditional reintroduction of the wolf is pursued by the authorities with reference to the objective of the EU directives on nature and species protection.
The wolf is a predator that causes livestock losses for farmers.
People's insecurities and fears, especially in rural regions, must be taken seriously.
Grazing sheep, goats, cattle and horses are particularly affected.
Our duty of care applies to our grazing animals as much as it does to the wolf.
The AfD demands the start of a population regulation
and the designation of wolf-free areas.
Protect and preserve our forests
About one third of the total area of our country is forested.
To maintain a healthy forest with game, silvicultural measures in harmony with economy, ecology and local recreation are needed.
In order to achieve sustainable management
and safeguarding of forests,
the AfD is committed to promoting wood as a building material and energy source.
We stand for a reduction of the rampant bureaucracy in forestry documentation.
The forest should be kept free of wind industrial plants in order to protect the wild species
and to leave an intact nature for our children.
Promote healthy food from domestic production
The AfD supports the model of the responsible consumer.
He should not be patronized by the state in his consumer behavior.
That is why we reject any form of separate food taxation, such as a meat or sugar tax.
This includes educating people about the health risks of fad diets
and preserving our traditional food culture in public settings.
We appreciate regional and seasonal food from Germany.
They ensure sufficient income for our producing and processing farms
- while at the same time maintaining high standards of animal welfare and environmental protection.
The supply of the own population as well as the economic efficiency and added value of domestic food production must remain guaranteed.
Expanding transparency in consumer protection
The consumer must be enabled to make an informed and responsible purchasing decision.
Products should therefore be labeled according to defined standards.
The information about ingredients and origin of the products must be improved.
We also want to create more transparency in insurance contracts, financial products and mobile communications contracts.
Manufacturer's information and contractual clauses shall be written in an understandable language.
Keep water supply in public hands
The AfD is in favor of regional water supply by municipalities and special-purpose associations.
Ownership of water resources, conveyance systems, water treatment and the pipeline network must remain in public hands and thus in the hands of the citizens.
The AfD firmly rejects an EU-wide liberalization and commercialization of the water market.
There must be no general privatization of water or waterworks, as suggested by EU directives.
Wells of private property owners who obtain their drinking water from this are excluded from this.
Restrict expansion of renewable energies
The politically and ideologically driven and state-subsidized expansion of renewable energies is not just an economic disaster,
but also burdens our home,
our attitude to life
and our nature to a considerable extent.
We reject the opaque procedures that allow the expansion of so-called renewable energies over the heads of citizens.
Wind turbines are only to be permitted at sites where no adverse effects on humans, animals or the landscape are to be expected.
Forest and protected areas are generally not to be touched.
As a minimum distance to residential areas, 10 times the total height, but at least 2.5 km, is to be observed nationwide.
Studies have shown for years the devastating effects of wind turbines on birds, bats and insects.
The harmful effects on health caused by shadow impact, infrasound and noise emissions are also serious.
Massive subsidies to the wind industry not only destroy cultural landscapes and forests,
but also reduce land values through the construction of power lines.
We reject the construction of new photovoltaic plants on open spaces due to their high land consumption
as well as their deterrent effect on tourism.
In addition, these increase the heating of the microclimate
and devalue agricultural production areas.
Photovoltaic systems generally lead to a change in the microclimate and cause an increase in temperature.
Existing plants may continue to be operated.
Index
Deportation 4, 75, 92, 93
Abortion 109
Antifa 74, 75
Unemployment benefit 5, 116, 118, 119
Workstations 5, 41, 120, 185, 193
Asylum 4, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99
Foreigner 78, 116
Highways 184
Cash 3, 54, 182
Blue Deal 3, 41, 42
Federal police 4, 76, 77, 93
German armed forces 64, 65, 93, 127
Burqa 84
Cancel Culture 7, 162
Cannabis 6, 140
China 63
Corona 3, 6, 12, 20, 27, 40, 41, 48, 50, 132, 133, 134, 163
Digitization 6, 7, 97, 147, 166, 171, 172, 173, 174, 175, 176, 177, 178, 179, 180,
181, 182, 183, 184, 185, 186, 187, 188, 189
DITIB 83
Drugs 140
Property 167, 199
Immigration 89, 97
Energy 7, 171, 172, 173, 174, 175, 176, 177, 178, 179, 180, 181, 182, 183,
184, 185, 186, 187, 188, 189
Energy sources 176, 186
Expropriation 3, 54
Development aid 66, 67
Inheritance tax 34
EU 2, 3, 5, 8, 12, 13, 14, 20, 25, 26, 27, 28, 32, 48, 49, 50, 52, 56, 63,
64, 67, 70, 79, 90, 94, 95, 96, 106, 116, 124, 140, 151, 174, 175,
179, 185, 186, 187, 193, 194, 197, 199
Euro 3, 16, 17, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 66, 107, 127
EZB 3, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 54, 55, 56
Families 4, 5, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 113, 127, 128, 167
Refugees 88, 96
Danger 75
Community service 66
Gender 7, 152
Health care system 132, 135
Great Britain 63
Basic law 13, 54, 55, 82, 83, 106, 113, 133, 156
Home 92, 95, 102, 174, 186, 187, 193, 199
Universities 7, 151
Identity 8, 26, 64, 66, 91, 96, 97, 102, 111, 149, 156, 158, 159, 186, 187
Vaccination 132
Individual transport 8, 183
Integration 4, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 148, 150
Investments 3, 34, 40, 42, 56, 63, 124
Islam 4, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 156
Islamization 14, 64
Justice 2, 15, 127, 179
Nuclear energy 177
Church asylum 94
Climate 7, 27, 124, 171, 172, 173, 174, 175, 176, 177, 178, 179, 180, 181,
182, 183, 184, 185, 186, 187, 188, 189
Climate change 7, 172
Crime 4, 74, 75, 77, 78
Culture 3, 7, 21, 69, 146, 150, 155, 156, 157, 158, 159, 162, 187
Agriculture 8, 191, 192, 193, 194, 195, 196, 197, 198, 199, 200
Guiding culture 7, 156
Left-wing extremism 74
Left-wing terrorism 74
Lobbying 2, 18
Freedom of expression 7, 162, 163, 178, 179
Migration 4, 6, 14, 61, 76, 77, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97,
98, 99, 148, 166
Minimum wage 5, 117, 118
Middle class 3, 41, 185
Multiculturalism 7, 156
Muslim Brotherhood 83
NATO 62
Nord Stream 2 8, 63, 176, 189
Parallel societies 83, 150, 156
Parties 2, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 26, 43, 163
PCR test 133
Care 6, 63, 66, 137, 138, 139, 193
Photovoltaic systems 200
Police 4, 77, 127
Odds 7, 19, 151, 152
Rule of law 2, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 54
Pension 5, 124, 125, 129
Broadcasting 7, 162, 163
Russia 60, 62, 63
Sharia 82, 83
Debts 48, 49, 52
Sea rescue 91
Sovereignty 6, 7, 53, 95, 142, 182
Social assistance 117
Socialism 173
Nationality 4, 66, 75, 99
Taxes 2, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 49, 104, 128, 162
Subsidies 41, 43, 44, 163, 175
Terrorism 61, 77
The Great Reset 172
Turkey 64
Redistribution 41
UN Refugee Pact 96
UN migration pact 61
USA 60, 62
Consumer protection 8, 191, 192, 193, 194, 195, 196, 198, 199, 200
Debt 48, 50
Compulsory military service 64, 66, 129
Whistleblower 2, 20, 21
WHO 6, 133, 143
Economy 3, 12, 21, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 53, 69, 125, 174, 178, 188
Science 6, 124, 145, 146, 147, 148, 149, 150, 151, 152, 163, 174, 177
Housing allowance 7, 168
