The future we are fighting for: SOCIAL. JUST. PEACE. FOR ALL.
Introduction
It's up to all of us.
We can change the country.
We can make the future fairer and better for people.
A good life for all would have been possible long ago.
Wealth is growing every day, but it benefits only a few.
The world is out of joint, it is up to us to reshape it.
The Bundestag election can be a directional decision: for a more social,
sustainable country,
a just Europe and a more peaceful world.
The question will be: Do we want to give more power and influence to the top ten thousand in this country and further widen the gap between rich and poor?
Or do we want to strengthen the welfare state,
save the climate,
create new and better work and
distribute it more fairly,
and fight for secure pensions and good wages for everyone?
Do we want to trust those politicians who are responsible for inequality of income and wealth and divide society?
Or are we ready to take on the rich and powerful?
Do we want to give in to competitive pressure, fear and insecurity or do we want to have more control over our lives and our society?
How we answer these questions will determine our future and how we live together.
DIE LINKE wants a future worth fighting for: We want a country in which everyone has their fair share in society.
In which life can be planned for people again.
We want all people to be free from poverty and not to fear social decline.
We want people with low and middle incomes to be better off.
We want a country where wealth is what belongs to everyone: public education, health, clean environment, culture.
In which housing is affordable for all.
In which nature and climate are protected
and our resources are not wasted.
We want a country in which all people live together on an equal footing
and participate in democratic decision-making - regardless of their individual abilities, physical condition, origin and social status, gender, age or sexual orientation.
An inclusive society where no one is excluded.
That's what we're standing up for.
Against the hatred, the isolation and the prejudices of the right.
Against rearmament and foreign deployments of the Bundeswehr.
For social justice
and peace
and a dawn of democracy.
We are fighting for a turnaround in justice.
This does not come for free, not for warm words, and not without conflict with corporations, the super-rich, and their political allies.
The influence of the richest in the state, economy and society is great: to whom has, shall be given.
Their interests and power reach around the globe, promoting free trade, environmental destruction and competition, and wars that lead to flight and displacement.
Large corporations increasingly dominate the Internet.
Access to good education and work remains closed to many.
The gap between strong and weak regions, rich and poor neighborhoods is widening.
Germany is the economically strongest country in Europe.
Income from companies and assets has risen by around 30 percent since the beginning of the millennium, while net incomes of employees have risen by an average of three percent.
The inequality is always being recreated.
Economic power translates into political power.
The federal government has done nothing to change this, nor has it tried.
At the heart of Germany's "economic success" are increased productivity - through more pressure on workers and more automation - and precarious, poorly paid services.
For those who create the wealth, this means that they only have more pressure, more stress, more exhaustion, less pay.
Throughout the country, regions exist where there is little prospect of a bright future.
Wages and retirement incomes are still lower in the eastern German states, and there is more poverty there.
When politics binds itself to setting up the conditions as favorable as possible for capital, this leads to ever new crises: economic, ecological and social.
Not only since 1989 have many wars been fought over a new order of the world, the opening of markets and access to resources for free trade.
Social injustice is one of the biggest problems of our time.
It promotes exploitation
and global environmental destruction, it creates suffering and destruction.
It fuels exploitation
and environmental destruction.
It destroys democracy.
It creates suffering.
It is robbing millions of people of their hope, their livelihoods and their future and driving them to flee their homes.
The German government is partly to blame for this new disorder in our world.
It has contributed significantly to this development.
With a record in arms exports, including to crisis areas, with its participation in or support for Western military interventions.
When it comes to armaments and defense, the federal government is obviously not under any pressure to save money or to achieve a "black zero": spending in the federal budget has been massively increased and is set to rise further.
What is urgently needed, on the other hand, is to strengthen peaceful conflict resolution and to fight the causes of flight and displacement: unjust world trade and global capitalism.
But the German government is strengthening financial capitalism: in Germany, in Europe and worldwide.
Housing, food, health become markets for speculation.
The profits benefit only a minority.
The consequences: People in Germany are living below their means.
The policy of the German government in Europe has devastating consequences for the people.
The German government plays a central role in further transforming the European Union into a competitive area.
However, location competition, pressure on wages and the welfare state, and free trade are not in the interests of the people in Germany or the rest of Europe.
Today, the European Union is in a profound crisis.
This is where social cuts, austerity
and the lack of democracy.
The federal government in particular has always reinforced this course.
The responses of the powerful to the crises are based on more isolation, armament and a European intervention army.
EU and NATO troop movements on the borders with Russia endanger peace.
The powerful are getting involved in deals with despots like Erdogan.
They tolerate a Member State like Hungary dismantling democracy.
They weaken trade unions and intensify their neoliberal course of economic and financial policy.
At the same time, racism and nationalism and the agitation against people fleeing the consequences of these policies are growing.
Right-wing parties and authoritarian populists in Europe and the U.S. are fueling racism, nationalism, and misogyny.
We want a different Europe, a Europe of the people, not of the banks and corporations.
We want a new start for the European Union, with new treaties, new structures, new hopes.
We want to end the neoliberal policies of privatization, speculation and anti-social cutbacks.
We want to strengthen social rights in the EU.
We want to disarm
and ban arms exports.
We need a new policy of détente and peace in Europe and worldwide.
We will never resign ourselves to people drowning in the Mediterranean or being deported to death and torture.
We know: We have to fight the causes, not the symptoms.
We must end war, arms exports and the injustices in the global economy.
DIE LINKE stands by the side of the poor and unemployed as well as the refugees.
We fight for a peaceful,
solidary
and democratic Europe.
Powerful corporate interests prevent environmental destruction and climate change from being stopped.
The corporations secure their profits by organizing economic growth at the expense of nature and the environment.
It is highly likely that Germany will not meet its climate targets for 2020.
Neoliberal capitalism continues to use fossil fuels, and the destruction of climate and nature continues.
We have to decide what we want to save: Capitalism or climate.
We want to transform the generation and consumption of energy in an environmentally compatible way.
DIE LINKE is the only party that advocates a different economic system: for real social
and ecological restructuring.
People before profits.
We live in a rich country.
But for many people, there is no sign of this: they work, but barely make it through the month.
Public ownership is melting away, and private ownership has never been so unequally distributed as it is today.
Many public facilities are decaying.
In countless schools, it rains in and there is no money for proper cleaning.
At universities, there is an increasing lack of seats in lectures.
Necessary investments are not carried out in public hospitals, swimming pools, sports halls, theaters and libraries are closed.
Bridges, playgrounds, pedestrian and bicycle paths are not maintained to the necessary extent.
What is lacking in public offerings must be paid for privately.
Many people can't.
We live in a country where many people are poor.
The lines at the food banks are getting longer and longer, and not just at the end of the month.
More and more children come to school without breakfast.
Class trips are often a financial challenge.
The fabric of solidarity in society has become thin.
We live in a country where many people are rich: Around one million are millionaires.
But a property tax is not levied.
When the gap between rich and poor widens, it also means more pressure on those in the middle: stress and uncertainty characterize the everyday lives of many people.
They expect little from the future, from pensions, from politics.
Many people feel that they are not getting what they deserve.
And they are right.
For more than 25 years, the various federal governments have been unlocking the company.
Necessary investments in public property were held back.
The explosion of rents in cities is exacerbating redistribution in favor of the wealthy.
Having an affordable apartment has become a matter of existence for many.
Displacement, de-renting and price increases through out-modernization are the order of the day.
The cities have fallen prey to speculation.
Agenda 2010 and the Hartz IV system have pushed millions of people into low pay and condemned them to poverty and paternalism.
They were taken down.
The major parties do not care about them, but create resignation.
The interests of the rich are protected.
The interests of the majority who use public facilities and services are sold.
The debt brake is touted as austerity, but it turns out to be dogma: urgent needs are not met with funding and investment, even if there is a surplus in the federal budget.
Inequality settles.
At school, social background has a stronger effect again: those who go in poor or as working-class children go out toward low wages.
This is how the wrong neoliberal policy gambles away the future and social security of the people!
Public and personal safety are components of social justice.
Security is increasingly becoming a condition that you have to be able to afford.
Insecurity and social inequality encourage the search for scapegoats.
Fear and anxiety grow where there is scarcity.
Right-wing parties exploit the uncertainties.
They try to direct the mobilization against the weakest in society.
In doing so, they can build on the mobilization against Muslims from the center of society.
Racist agitation and violence are on the rise.
DIE LINKE stands by the side of those who are victims of racist attacks and those who stand up against racism
and for solidarity.
We are part of the welcome and solidarity movement for the refugees.
Germany has long been a country of immigration.
We want to strengthen good coexistence, with everyone who lives here: a social offensive for all.
Against a right-wing culture war, against the false promises that "we" are better off when "the others" are worse off, we want a society in which we can be different without fear.
We create a reliable social network of society
and establish a fair distribution of wealth.
Time for fundamental change
The federal government of CDU/CSU and SPD has introduced a statutory minimum wage under pressure from the trade unions and the LEFT party, but many people still cannot live on their work.
We still have a larger low-wage sector than most Western European countries.
The government boasts that few can retire as early as 63, but does nothing about the exploding number of older people who are or will be poor.
The federal government talks about taxing rich heirs, in fact they get relief.
It bemoans climate change, but does little effective to ensure that even the lowly measured 2020 climate targets are met.
It complains about the refugees, but it continues to export weapons to crisis areas.
It talks about international responsibility and plans to massively increase spending on the military.
We fight for every improvement in everyday life.
But we also know it takes more than superficial fixes.
We are at a turning point.
After all, a system that sends people into old-age poverty en masse has run its course.
With a merely different management of the present comes no better future.
If we do not enforce alternatives, capitalism will increasingly destroy people's health, their social cohesion
and democracy.
Mass unemployment and poverty on a global scale, wars, right-wing and Islamist terror, millions of people fleeing persecution, poverty, war and the consequences of climate change and having to leave their homes - all this shows: Global capitalism is leading to more and more dislocations and crises.
This system, in the interests of a class of capital owners and the super-rich, is contrary to the interests of the majority of people.
DIE LINKE is therefore fighting for alternatives to capitalism.
We want a new socialism, a democratic, ecological, feminist and pleasure socialism.
Against the concentrated power of corporations, the rich and their political parties, we need a social justice revolution.
Instead of a society in which central areas of life are subordinated to profit, competition and privatization, we want:
A future worth fighting for.
What we are urgently addressing:-Good work and good wages: We are raising the statutory minimum wage to 12 euros.
Even the German government knows that this is not enough to live on and to receive a pension above the basic income level.
We want to abolish precarious work: Fixed-term contracts without an objective reason, mini-jobs and temporary work will be excluded.
We want to abolish the exemption rules for fixed-term contracts in the scientific field.
Working with people must be paid better!
Social guarantees of life: Abolish poverty instead of fighting the poor: We abolish the Hartz IV system and replace it with a needs-covering and sanction-free minimum income of 1,050 euros without sanctions and reduction options.
The receipt of unemployment benefits must be significantly extended.
We create a basic child protection scheme that protects all children from poverty and exclusion.
It ensures their participation in social life and good opportunities for development.
The pension level must be raised again to 53 percent.
For a standard pensioner, this means a net increase of around 126 euros per month.
We want a solidary minimum pension of 1,050 euros.
More time to live instead of slaving away until you drop: We want to redistribute work in such a way that some people are no longer drowning in stress and overtime and others can't find as much work as they want.
Shorter full-time around 30 hours a week with good standards: We want a new normal working relationship and a right to take time off.
And a fairer distribution of activities between the sexes.
We want a pension from the age of 65 or from the age of 60 after at least 40 years of contributions.
We have a program for the future that is geared to the needs and requirements of the people - away from the policy of debt brakes and "black zero": We invest in education and health, in more personnel in care and education, in social housing.
We invest in renewable energies
, public transport, fast Internet connections
and accessibility.
We are creating a social
and ecological transformation of the economy.
We are fighting mass unemployment and creating new jobs in short full-time.
We are financing this program for the future by limiting wealth: We want to tax assets above one million euros, including high inheritances.
We will increase taxes on corporations and enforce tax enforcement.
We reject privatization and "public-private partnerships," for example in the construction of highways or schools.
In income tax, too, we want to ease the burden on lower and middle incomes and increase the tax burden on higher incomes: we are raising the basic monthly tax-free allowance to 1,050 euros.
Our tax concept provides relief for everyone earning less than 7,100 euros gross per month (tax bracket I).
We envisage two stages of a separate wealth tax: 60 percent on those parts of taxable income above around 260,000 euros in annual income and 75 percent on those above one million euros.
Stop rent increases!
We want a real rent brake, across the board and without loopholes.
We want to create at least 250,000 new social housing units every year.
We want to strengthen social, municipal and non-profit housing construction and a ban on speculation in housing.
Instead of two-tier medicine, we are creating a solidarity-based health insurance system.
Everyone pays in with all incomes, contributions go down and care gets better for everyone.
We are thus abolishing co-payments, e.g. for dentures and glasses.
A wall still separates the East from the West: We want to bring the pension value of the East into line with the West immediately.
We fight for equal wages and equal living conditions in East and West.
Stop climate change!
We want the switch to renewable energies, an ecological change in transport and the protection of our environment.
We create good education for all: with well-equipped daycare centers and schools and sufficient training and study places.
We reject rearmament, arms exports and foreign deployments of the Bundeswehr as well as any German support for military interventions.
Military spending must not be increased, but significantly reduced.
Instead of rearmament, confrontation and sanctions against Russia, as the German government is doing, we will introduce a policy of peace and détente.
We want to fight the causes of flight, not the refugees!
We need equitable development assistance and fair global trade.
We support the demands for an immediate stop to deportations and for a right to stay for all.
We want to create safe escape routes so that the deaths in the Mediterranean Sea stop.
We restore the right to asylum and enforce the Geneva Convention on Refugees.
The dirty deal with Turkey and other countries must be cancelled!
We want an immigration society based on solidarity: with social security instead of competition for jobs, housing and education.
With a social offensive for all that strengthens the cohesion of society.
We want a new start of the European Union with fundamentally changed EU treaties: solidary, peaceful, democratic, ecological.
Social rights, collective agreements and democratic governance must take precedence over the internal market freedoms of companies.
This includes strengthening the European Parliament.
We will put an end to the antisocial policy of cuts.
We want democracy for all.
All people living here should have the opportunity to participate in the democratic process.
This also includes transparency in government action.
We reject the neoliberal free trade and corporate protection agreements: TTIP with the USA, CETA with Canada, JEFTA with Japan, the free trade agreements with Africa, the services agreement TISA and similar agreements.
They are anti-democratic and restrict the development opportunities of weaker countries.
Germany must refuse them approval.
We are fighting for this in parliaments and on the streets, in governments and in companies, at the federal, state and local levels.
Extra-parliamentary movements are an important engine of left-wing politics.
We will not succeed alone in giving politics and society a new direction.
We are aware of the need for trade unions, independent welfare and social associations
and committed citizens.
Let's not just vote, let's raise our voices!
There is a lot of anger and outrage - and rightly so.
A lot of things are going wrong.
The good news is that it doesn't have to stay that way.
Things can be done differently if we do them differently.
We are many, much more than we think: we do not look away, we stand up against injustice
and inhumanity.
Many people are on the move: for fair world trade, for
climate protection, for
peace and disarmament,
against racism,
for an upgrading of social and educational services, for
higher wages in the retail sector,
against rising rents and displacement, for
more staff in health and care, for
good work and against the abuse of work contracts and temporary work.
We argue.
We demonstrate.
We have hope.
We are the hope for change.
Together we can change the country.
It depends on each and every one.
I. Good work for all instead of low wages, permanent stress and fear of relegation
Millions of people in Germany want better wages, secure jobs, less stress and working hours that are compatible with life with children, family and friendships.
But these legitimate claims are not being honored for many employees and the self-employed.
Many work to exhaustion and yet barely make ends meet with their wages until the end of the month.
A quarter of employees work in precarious employment relationships such as temporary work, contracts for work and services, fixed-term employment, mini-jobs, solo and bogus self-employment.
Precariously employed people can hardly plan their own lives and can hardly build up a professional perspective.
DIE LINKE equally represents the interests of the many employees who work with adequate salaries and permanent employment contracts.
Worries about the job and the professional future, permanent stress and stressful working hours make people ill.
We oppose employers' attempts to divide workforces: into workers in precarious employment and workers who are not directly affected.
DIE LINKE is fighting for a fundamental change of course in labor market, social and economic policy and for a new normal employment relationship.
The old normal employment relationship, which was fought for by employees and trade unions after the Second World War, meant security against the risk of social decline.
It allowed to plan the future and lay the foundations for the children to be better off one day.
We want a new normal employment relationship that provides social security for all people and takes individual circumstances into account: Wages must be sufficient for a good life and for a pension that secures the standard of living in old age.
Work must not make people ill; it must be plannable and compatible with life with children.
Work must be secure and permanent for all people, paid according to collective agreements, socially secure and democratically co-designed.
This applies regardless of whether the work is done with a laptop or a mop, in a nursing coat or overalls.
In a rich country like Germany, socially just policies start by immediately stopping poverty despite work, social decline and permanent insecurity in precarious jobs.
DIE LINKE wants to implement the following immediate measures:The statutory minimum wage will be increased to 12 euros.
The minimum wage of 8.84 euros, which the grand coalition has finally introduced under pressure from the unions, social associations and the LEFT party, is too low.
The statutory minimum wage must be raised annually, taking into account at least productivity and price trends.
It must be measured and continuously adjusted in such a way that it effectively protects against poverty in old age.
And it must apply across the board: We want to eliminate all exceptions.
More state inspectors urgently need to be hired to monitor compliance with the statutory minimum wage.
Stop time limits!
More and more people shimmy from one temporary job to the next for years.
Every second newly concluded employment contract is fixed-term.
DIE LINKE is therefore calling for the deletion of the "object-free fixed-term contract" from the Part-Time and Fixed-term Contract Act without replacement.
Factual grounds must be strictly limited, chain fixed-term contracts prohibited: The second employment contract with the same employer must be open-ended, and fixed-term contracts should be limited to a maximum of one year.
In the public sector, too, employees are increasingly working on fixed-term contracts for longer periods - especially young career starters.
The public sector must be a role model: fixed-term contracts without a basis in fact must be ruled out.
Prevent wage dumping through temporary work and contracts for work and services!
Temporary work creates second-class employees in the same company.
Temporary workers earned just under 60 percent of the average wage in 2015.
We want to abolish temporary employment.
Until then, we fight for better conditions for the workers!
Wage dumping must be stopped immediately: Temporary workers must receive the same wage as permanent employees plus a flexibility bonus of 10 percent!
No assignment of temporary workers may last longer than three months.
Temporary workers must be taken on after three months in the company and may not be exchanged for other temporary workers.
The use of temporary workers and the awarding of contracts for work and services must be tied to the approval of the works council and compliance with the collective agreements in force in the core company.
The abuse of contracts for work and services through bogus contracts for work and services must be effectively prevented by reversing the burden of proof and placing it on the employer in the future.
More and more employees, mostly women and single parents, are being forced into involuntary part-time, mini- and midi-jobs and thus into poverty in old age.
DIE LINKE demands social security: From the first euro, there must be a full obligation to pay social security.
DIE LINKE is committed to replacing mini- and midi-jobs with permanent employment contracts and living wages.
To this end, we want to introduce a legal right to a minimum number of hours in the employment contract of 22 hours per week.
This is to apply to all employees.
Exceptions may only be made for serious economic reasons.
The burden of proof for this must lie with the company.
In addition, employers must be required to discuss the conclusion of part-time contracts under 22 hours with the works council, and the works council must be given a right of veto.
Employees in private households need incomes that are sufficient to live on and a strengthening of their labor rights; all those involved need planning security.
To push back informal work and ensure that workers do not continue to rely on multiple precarious jobs, we want to regulate employment in domestic services (including cleaning, care, childcare).
Preference should be given to organizing work in private households through certified agencies, public welfare or community-based providers.
Certified service platforms must guarantee collective bargaining agreements, permanent employment, the right to a contractual minimum number of hours and payment according to the minimum wage.
In addition, counseling and training services for employees in private households must be expanded.
In order to reduce overexploitation, workers in private households without work and residence rights must be given the possibility of legalization.
The regulations in the Occupational Health and Safety Act that the prevention of mental stress is part of the legally obligatory occupational health and safety must be brought to life.
The legal instrument of risk assessment must therefore be more strictly enforced, monitored and obvious deficiencies sanctioned.
The occupational safety and health offices must be better equipped in terms of funding and personnel.
In order to improve the equal participation of employees, appropriate strategies must be developed and implemented (diversity strategies).
Corresponding service agreements must also be concluded.
Discrimination and bullying must be punished.
Equality plans must be drawn up for all groups of employees who are or could be affected by discrimination.
Higher wages instead of rising returns
The introduction of the Agenda 2010 reforms by the SPD and Green governments - with the approval of the CDU/CSU and FDP - paved the way for low wages, precarious employment and wage evasion.
In recent years, wages have hardly risen at all.
Collective agreements now only apply to a minority of employees.
Wages often fall in places where companies are engaged in collective bargaining; precarious work, stress and the vulnerability of the workforce to blackmail are increasing.
DIE LINKE fights for a redistribution of wealth from profits to wages.
Wages for low and normal earners must increase significantly!
The federal government has done nothing to stop the companies' tariff evasion.
We want to improve the negotiating position of employees and trade unions.
The employer side can veto the general applicability of collective agreements.
We want to abolish that.
A collective agreement must be declared generally binding at the request of a collective bargaining party, e.g. if one third of the employees in the respective industry are covered by this collective agreement.
A collective agreement must also be declared generally binding in the public interest at the request of a party to the collective agreement if it is necessary to safeguard the collective agreement against the consequences of economic or social undesirable developments.
It must be considered a "public interest" to strengthen the scope of collective agreements and to prevent unfair competition to the detriment of wages and working conditions.
In the case of transfers to companies not bound by collective agreements and outsourcing, the existing collective agreements in their current version must remain protected indefinitely and also apply to new employees.
Some companies systematically violate the minimum wage, labor law and the Works Constitution Act.
The law must be enforced: In the world of work, however, there is often a free pass, and the rule of law often fails.
DIE LINKE calls for the establishment of a state complaints office with the involvement of the DGB.
We want to create public prosecutor's offices for criminal offenses arising from labor law and establish more staff for the supervisory authorities.
The state must take on a pioneering role for good wages: We want to link the awarding of public contracts to compliance with collective agreements
and to trade union criteria for good work.
Wages in the lower and middle income groups of the public sector must increase significantly.
DIE LINKE wants good wages for all employees.
We want binding upper limits for manager and board salaries: they may not be more than twenty times the lowest salary in the company.
The Young Socialists in Switzerland had called for a ratio of 1 to 12 - this is the next step.
Annual salaries in excess of half a million euros may no longer be tax deductible.
We want to examine ways of doing this, such as those in Portland (USA): There, a penalty tax is levied on companies whose wages diverge too widely.
We demand binding rules for all public companies.
Caps on salaries in companies should help make incomes in society fairer.
We propose that no one should earn more than 40 times the societal^minimum.
That is currently just under half a million euros a year.
Equal pay for work of equal value
Overcoming wage discrimination against women requires a fundamental change of course in labor market, social and economic policy.
A binding equal pay law and wage measurement instruments are important steps.
DIE LINKE also wants to abolish the low-wage sector, in which the majority of employees are women.
All genders must have equal opportunities to pursue gainful employment.
That is why we are creating family-friendly working hours, a redistribution of work, expansion of all-day care in daycare centers and schools, as well as services for people with care needs.
The socially indispensable work with people in daycare centers, in nursing professions and in social work, which is still mostly done by women, must be recognized and better paid!
DIE LINKE will invest more money in social services (see Chapter V "Investing in the future").
We end the underfunding of education, health care and long-term care.
The minimum nursing wage must be raised to 14.50 euros and collective wage agreements for nursing professionals must be declared binding throughout Germany (see Chapter IV "Solidarity-based health insurance").
DIE LINKE wants to strengthen the rights of employees in private households.
Controls and labor law support must be expanded.
Equal pay for equal work from the first day must also apply to seasonal workers and employees under the Employee Posting Act.
Employees in eastern Germany still receive less pay than in the west, an average of 24 percent.
The low-wage sector is larger.
We oppose this.
We support the trade unions in their fight for uniform national collective agreements (see Chapter X "Equal Living Conditions in East and West").
Instead of a digital precariat: social security for all employees
Digitization and work and contracting via clouds and platforms are creating new, often de-limited and precarious forms of employment.
As digital networking continues, a wide variety of new forms of work and employment are emerging.
Companies can access a large amount of labor providers - the crowd - on a large scale on the Internet - in the cloud - select candidates on a case-by-case basis and hire them for partial tasks.
The employees usually have no social security, co-determination, collective bargaining agreements, and they are not unionized.
Labor law does not apply.
The number of digital day laborers offering their work via the Internet is growing steadily.
The vast majority earn little.
Freelancers are generally not insured for periods of unemployment and do not receive sick pay.
The German government's digital agenda does not provide an answer as to how this precarization can be pushed back.
Crowdworking stands for a new digital and globalized world of work.
The terms "employee" "employer" and "company" must be adapted to the new circumstances.
DIE LINKE defends the protective rights and democratic co-determination of employees together with the trade unions.
We want to expand it so that crowd and cloud work is regulated and good work is also possible in the cloud.
Occupational health and safety laws must apply comprehensively and be revised to meet these challenges, according to the recommendations of a commission made up of trade unions, experts from the fields of labor law and occupational medicine.
An EU framework on crowdworking needs to be established so that minimum wages, regulation of working hours, social security, pensions, taxation, etc. can neither be eroded nor circumvented.
In the case of crowdwork platforms, both the operators and the clients must participate equally in the financing of the social security systems.
The development of new technologies and digitalization are leading to changes in the demands placed on people's work and professional skills.
Continuing education is also an important prerequisite for keeping pace with technical changes at work.
This does not mean, however, that companies should regard the responsibility for the further training of their employees as their duty to bring.
So far, people have been left in the lurch with this requirement.
DIE LINKE wants a comprehensive right to continuing education.
The qualification of employees is a social task that must not be passed on to the individual.
Employers must not be let off the hook when it comes to in-company training.
Training measures that are in the interest of the companies must also be financed by them.
All employees must have a legal right to temporarily reduce or temporarily suspend their working hours for the purpose of further training.
Where companies refuse to make arrangements, a legal obligation must take effect: The employer must pay partial wage compensation of at least 70 percent of net salary and social security contributions during part-time educational leave.
The state must support employees' educational part-time work by taking greater account of pension entitlements and the level of entitlements to ALG-I.
For low-wage earners (with incomes of 70 percent or less of the average wage in an industry), full wage compensation must be guaranteed through government subsidies.
To ensure that all companies contribute equally to the financing of continuing vocational training, DIE LINKE proposes a continuing training fund into which all companies in a given sector would pay.
For social security for the solo self-employed
There are over two million solo self-employed in Germany.
Their social problems must finally be taken seriously.
Many have incomes that are well below average.
However, your contributions to the statutory health insurance fund are not calculated according to this income.
The consequences are a heavy financial burden or limited health care for many self-employed people.
Retirement provision is also a major problem for many self-employed people, who often face the threat of old-age poverty.
For example, only a quarter of the solo self-employed are included in a mandatory pension system.
We want to change that.
Therefore, as a first step, we demand that the minimum contribution be based on the marginal earnings threshold (currently 450 euros per month) and that, above this threshold, the contribution be based on actual income.
Solo self-employed must be included in unemployment, health, pension and long-term care insurance.
This must not lead to a situation where solo self-employed persons have to claim supplementary minimum benefits.
We will expand the statutory pension system into an insurance scheme for the gainfully employed, in which the self-employed are also compulsorily insured (see Chapter II "A Good Pension").
We are creating industry-specific minimum fee regulations that apply nationwide.
In this way, we want to counteract ruinous price competition.
The public sector must lead the way with a minimum fee schedule for publicly funded contracts.
Stop permanent stress! More time to live
Employers' associations are trying to push through extensive deregulation of standards and working hours under the guise of digitization: being reachable always and everywhere, overtime and working on call, at weekends and at night.
This vision of a highly flexible working world is directed against the interests of employees for plannable, limited and self-determined work.
We counter this: Flexibility in working life must be geared to the needs of employees.
Employees must have more influence on the organization of their work and working hours.
In recent years, burn-out and mental illness have increased dramatically as a result of permanent stress and stressful working and living conditions.
Staff is being cut and the pressure to perform is being increased.
In many professions - whether in nursing, daycare or construction - employees do not make it to retirement due to the high workload.
Work must not make people ill.
It must be regulated in such a way that health is maintained throughout a working life.
Home office or checking email during off hours and weekends often results in overtime without time off or pay compensation.
We want to create a legal entitlement for employees to mobile working and home office, but only on a voluntary basis and with binding protection against overload and stress under collective agreements.
Round-the-clock availability means that it's never the end of the day.
This is not only an enormous burden for people with children.
DIE LINKE advocates legislative changes that lead to more time sovereignty for individuals and protection against permanent stress and overwork:
An anti-stress regulation, as also demanded by trade unions.
In addition, there needs to be an individual veto right against overload.
Works councils and staff councils must be given comprehensive co-determination rights with regard to personnel deployment, target setting and work planning.
There is a right to finish work.
The statutory maximum weekly working time must be reduced to 40 hours.
Exceptions must be more strictly limited and stronger controls by occupational health and safety authorities and employee representatives must be prescribed by law.
Every year, employees work millions of hours of overtime without pay.
This wage theft must end immediately.
Employers must be required to record working hours in full and compensate them with bonuses or time off in lieu.
We want to enshrine in law the right to be unavailable outside working hours and to limit and promptly compensate for overtime.
Business trips and work performed during free time must be fully counted as working time.
We want to limit on-call work to what is absolutely necessary.
We reject exceptions to the legally permissible maximum daily working hours and required rest periods.
Night, shift and weekend work must be more strictly regulated and reduced to an unavoidable level.
Where shift work is unavoidable, employers must be obliged to implement models that are more compatible with health and social considerations.
For example, short shift blocks (a maximum of three consecutive shifts) reduce the changeover difficulties caused by the alternation of early, late and night shifts.
We support initiatives by trade unions and works councils to compensate for atypical and particularly stressful working hours with additional time off.
We want to gradually increase the minimum vacation entitlement in the Federal Vacation Act from 24 to 30 working days.
We want to improve occupational health and safety.
This includes an occupational health and safety regulation on mental hazards in the workplace.
And we want to improve the Youth Employment Protection Act.
There must be greater monitoring to ensure that working hours are observed and that occupational health and safety is implemented.
The responsible trade inspectorate and other supervisory authorities must be given more staff.
A new normal employment relationship does not mean that everyone works full-time in a company all their lives, but rather shorter working hours
and a fair distribution of socially necessary work, including between the sexes.
Work must fit life and not life revolve around work!
We want a right to a temporary reduction in working hours: The existing legal right to part-time work (enshrined in the Part-Time and Fixed-term Employment Act) must be supplemented by a right to return to the previous contractual working hours.
DIE LINKE calls for a legal right to an increase in working hours, provided that work with the appropriate qualifications is available in the company (cf. legal right to a minimum number of hours).
Child-rearing and care work must be socially recognized and given greater consideration in the organization of working hours.
There needs to be a legal entitlement to family-friendly and shorter working hours for all those who take on responsibility for raising and caring for children (see chapter "Supporting families").
In order to be able to organize a new care situation for relatives, a legal right to a six-week care period is introduced. (see Chapter XI "Left-wing feminism").
Sabbatical years for all: Employees should have the opportunity to take a sabbatical year twice in their working lives.
This is associated with a right to return to the same or an equivalent job.
Sabbaticals may also be taken as smaller sabbaticals of three to six months.
Already today, more than three million unemployed people are excluded from gainful employment.
Many part-time employees wish they could work more hours.
At the same time, employees worked a total of 1.8 billion hours of overtime in 2015, almost one billion of which were unpaid!
If work were distributed more equitably, instead of overtime and constant stress, more than a million jobs could be created in short full-time hours of 30 to 35.
The increased productivity of labor makes it possible: prosperity and more time for all instead of high profits for a minority of capital owners.
Through a general reduction in working hours, the promise of digitization to work and live in a more self-determined way can become a reality for everyone.
In this way, mass unemployment can be effectively combated even under conditions of digitalization
, and work can be distributed fairly, including between the sexes.
Together with the unemployed, employees and their unions, DIE LINKE wants to implement a fundamental change in the world of work: good work for all, but less work for the individual.
Redistribute work instead of permanent stress and unemployment.
Our goal is clear: six hours of work per day on average is enough!
In the 20th century, the eight-hour day was a success of the struggles of the workers' movement.
In the 21st century, we need a more flexible and shorter normal working time, a short full-time that revolves around the 30-hour week.
DIE LINKE is fighting for a reduction in working hours with full wage and necessary personnel compensation.
We support unions and initiatives in the fight for shorter working hours and more time sovereignty.
To ensure that the reduction of working hours does not lead to work intensification, binding co-determination rights are needed in the organization of work and the assessment of personnel.
Works councils and staff councils must be given an enforceable right of co-determination and veto with regard to the amount of work, work organization and personnel assessment (personnel and job plans).
Strengthen trade unions, extend co-determination and the right to strike
The democratic co-determination of employees is being undermined and attacked.
More and more companies are trying to prevent works councils from being set up and trade unions from organizing, in some cases using criminal methods.
Those who are only interested in maximum returns feel disturbed by real employee participation.
For us, however, it is clear that there can only be good work if there is comprehensive democratic co-determination.
Strong unions and strikes are essential to improve the working and living conditions of workers.
Unions must be given a comprehensive right of association to sue for compliance with collective bargaining agreements and statutory provisions.
They must also be given the right to collective complaints under the Protocol of the European Social Charter.
DIE LINKE defends the right to strike enshrined in the constitution.
We therefore call for the withdrawal of the Collective Bargaining Unity Act, which is associated with a restriction of the right to strike.
The right to strike enshrined in the Basic Law must be extended: Solidarity strikes with workers in other companies and industries and political strikes to achieve social improvements and to defend democracy and peace must be included in the right to strike.
The anti-strike paragraph § 160 SGB III favors the already stronger side, the employers, and must therefore be abolished.
The right to strike and co-determination rights must also apply without restriction to church, diaconal and Caritas employees: Section 118 of the Works Constitution Act with exceptions for religious communities and tendencies must be deleted.
The General Equal Treatment Act must also be applied in church institutions.
Labor law must ensure that what the churches see as a "lack of private good conduct" may not be made the basis for dismissals in church institutions and enterprises.
The white spots on the map of co-determination - companies without co-determination or union representation - must be eliminated.
DIE LINKE is committed to making it easier to elect works councils: the simplified election procedure will become mandatory for all companies.
All companies with more than five employees that do not have a works council must hold annual employee meetings at which trade unions provide information on the Works Constitution Act.
Protection against dismissal must be extended to all organs of works constitution and extended from 12 to 24 months from the time of application for a works council election.
The same co-determination rights must apply to public sector employees.
The tasks of works councils are also becoming more diverse as a result of digitization.
We want to significantly increase the time off for works councils in relation to the number of employees under BetrVG §38.
Anyone who obstructs the formation of a works council or its work is liable to prosecution.
But it is only in rare cases that charges are brought.
In order to be able to take effective action against such obstruction of trade unions and works councils (union busting and works council bashing), criminal prosecution for violations of the Works Constitution Act must be improved.
We want tougher sanctions against employers and law firms that specialize in preventing union organizing.
Violations of the Works Constitution must also be prosecuted more vigorously under criminal law.
Fines must be increased and based on the economic strength of the company.
A central registration register must be created in which works council elections are recorded with their course and result.
All information on obstruction, manipulation and influence should also flow together in this.
The civil register can be used to track how many works council elections were initiated but not successfully completed.
This would make it easier for unions and NGOs to develop strategies against union busting and anti-works council activities.
Effective co-determination requires strong works councils that cannot be blackmailed by management.
We therefore want to abolish the obligation of works councils to maintain industrial peace in the Works Constitution Act.
We want mandatory co-determination and veto rights for employees and their works councils on all economic issues.
This applies in particular to operational changes, site changes and redundancies, as well as the design of activities and working conditions.
Many employees experience that creative ideas and the voice of the workforce count for little in the face of supervisors or management.
However, employees are experts in the design of work.
That is why we want to strengthen the rights of each and every employee to participate in decision-making through more direct democracy in the workplace.
Workforces must be given two hours of consultation time once a month during working hours to exchange views on issues relating to work organization and working hours and to develop initiatives for co-determination.
II. good pensions for all!
The statutory pension must once again secure the standard of living in old age and effectively protect against poverty.
These are the cornerstones of our pension policy.
In one of the richest countries in the world, this must be a matter of course.
We want a reversal in pension policy: The pension "reforms" of the SPD and the Greens have ensured that companies pay significantly less into the pension fund than employees.
As a result, the level of the statutory pension is plummeting.
From once around 53 percent in 2000, it will fall to 41.7 percent in 2045.
Old-age poverty threatens many pensioners.
Due to the retirement age of 67, we can only retire later without deductions.
Most of them will retire earlier: This will drastically reduce their pensions once again!
The state-subsidized Riester pension has failed.
It cannot close the gaps torn in the statutory pension.
Billions in subsidies are being squandered, which end up in the coffers of insurance companies instead of in the wallets of pensioners.
This also applies to the Rürup pension (basic pension).
Millions of people with normal and low incomes cannot make private provision.
Year after year, more and more pensioners are affected by old-age poverty and social decline.
Currently, 2.7 million people live in poverty or are at risk of poverty after their 65th birthday.
This must be changed urgently!
We want to reverse this development!
It is not enough to just stop further drawdown.
The pension level of 53 percent must be restored immediately.
This means: 122 euros more net per month for a "standard pensioner".
No one should be poor in old age - regardless of how long they have been working, due to occupational disability, periods of unemployment or raising children.
No one should be forced to collect deposit bottles to survive.
We want a solidary minimum pension of 1,050 euros net per month - below that, poverty is imminent.
The Solidarity Minimum Pension is income- and asset-tested; it is paid on demand.
Our neighbor Austria shows: A statutory pension system can protect against poverty and be affordable at the same time.
Instead of making part of the old-age provision dependent on the capital market, the statutory pension system in Austria was expanded into an insurance scheme for employed persons, into which politicians also pay.
Old-age pensions are significantly higher than in our country.
In Austria, too, high pensions are a thorn in the side of business and employers.
However, the current model shows that a pay-as-you-go statutory pension insurance system can be financed, it secures the standard of living and it protects against poverty in old age.
And that from the age of 65 at the latest!
The German government currently expects the contribution rate to rise to 22 percent by 2030 and expects employees to put an additional four percent of their wages into Riester and 3.2 percent into company pensions or occupational pension plans.
DIE LINKE says: Contributions to statutory pension insurance and company pension schemes must be financed equally by companies, employers and employees.
This applies to all employees.
The contribution level must not be based on the companies' willingness to pay!
In the future, the employer's share may be higher than the employee's share, similar to the Austrian model.
Unemployment, low wages and precarious and temporary employment are poison for good pension entitlements in old age.
This makes it more difficult for women in particular to build up their own retirement provision.
For them, too, the following must apply: from good work to a good pension!
We want to raise the pension level: The security level of the statutory pension must be raised again to 53 percent so that pensions increase noticeably for everyone.
A pension level of 53 percent costs employees and employers only 32 euros more per month each on average earnings of 3,092 euros.
The four percent contribution of 108 euros (after allowances) for a Riester pension could be waived for this.
Average earners would therefore have 78 euros more in their pockets.
Solidarity compensation for low wages: We want to compensate for periods of low wages.
We also want to introduce the "pension according to minimum earning points" for periods after 1992.
Vol l-time workers with an hourly wage of twelve euros or more would then generally receive a pension of more than 1,050 euros.
A retail saleswoman earning 1,940 euros gross would have a good 270 euros more pension per month as a result.
Especially women and East Germans would benefit from this pension!
Training periods must be better recognized under pension law and lead to higher pensions.
Periods of unemployment, child-rearing and caregiving must be better covered so that they do not lead to poverty pensions.
For each child, we want to credit three earning points - currently more than 90 euros of so-called "maternity pension" - to the pension account.
It doesn't matter whether a child was born in 1960 or 2010, in East or West.
This improvement must be financed from taxes as a task for society as a whole.
For regularly performed voluntary and unpaid work of citizens in the organized recognized rescue service, fire protection, disaster control and THW, adequate contributions are paid by the state into the statutory pension insurance.
We want an employment insurance scheme: contributions must be paid into the statutory pension insurance scheme for all earned income.
Politicians, the self-employed, freelancers, civil servants and managers should also pay contributions into the statutory pension insurance scheme.
Entitlements already acquired are preserved or transferred.
Contributions must finally be paid into the pension fund again for the long-term unemployed.
We want to standardize the income threshold, then raise it drastically in several steps and finally abolish it.
Anyone with a salary of 10,000 euros and more per month must also pay contributions for 10,000 euros and more.
The level of pension entitlements above twice the average is to be flattened.
We want to transfer the Riester pension to the statutory pension: Individually acquired pension entitlements can be transferred voluntarily to the personal pension account with the pension insurance fund.
We want to prevent extra profits for the insurance industry.
We will end the state subsidies of more than three billion euros a year and increase the subsidies to the statutory pension insurance scheme accordingly.
In addition, it is to be made easier for insured persons and their employers to pay additional contributions into the statutory pension insurance scheme on a voluntary basis up to a certain limit.
Employees must not be exposed to risks on the capital market: We reject releasing employers from liability in the context of funded occupational pension schemes and so-called "target pensions".
This also applies to the waiver of pension guarantees in favor of a pure defined contribution plan.
DIE LINKE is in favor of a company pension scheme that is predominantly financed by employers.
The expansion of occupational pension schemes financed mainly by employees - especially through deferred compensation - must not be misused as an alibi for a further decline in pension levels.
We will immediately put an end to the double contribution of health insurance premiums for company pension plans.
Company pensions may not be free of social security contributions.
This will weaken the finances of the statutory pension insurance system and reduce the pension entitlements of all insured persons - regardless of whether they make provisions through the company or not.
Inequality is thus exacerbated.
The pension only from 67 must be withdrawn.
Demands for retirement only at 69, 70, 71 or 73 are unrealistic and irresponsible.
Working until you drop is undignified and neither socially nor socio-politically acceptable.
Everyone must once again be able to retire without deductions from the age of 65 at the latest.
This is fundable.
If people have paid contributions for at least 40 years, they should be able to retire without deductions from the age of 60.
In perspective, everyone should be able to retire from the age of 60.
Those who fall ill should not have to fear even lower pensions: Access to reduced earning capacity pensions must be made easier.
We want to abolish the deductions, also for those who already receive a reduced earning capacity pension.
We want to increase the additional period (the time that is "added on" because the insured person was unable to pay into the pension scheme due to reduced earning capacity) in one step from 62 to 65 years.
We want to finally put an end to the discrimination against East German pensioners.
We call for an immediate adjustment to the West German level without disadvantaging future pensioners (see Chapter X "Justice for the People in East Germany").
Solidarity-based minimum pension: Those who already have to look back on long periods of poor wages, unemployment or illness are nevertheless entitled to a dignified life in old age.
No person should have to live on an income below the poverty line in old age.
The Solidarity Minimum Pension should therefore be paid as a supplement - or in individual cases as a full amount - by the pension insurance to all people of retirement age who have a net income of less than 1,050 euros in old age.
The Solidarity Minimum Pension is income- and asset-tested.
It is financed from taxes.
The maintenance claims according to the BGB are taken into account.
We will ensure that social hardship is avoided and that normal, owner-occupied residential property remains untouched by means of significantly higher asset allowances.
Our goal is: No one should have to live on less than 1,050 euros in old age.
The amount of the solidarity-based minimum pension is regularly adjusted to the development of the cost of living, but may not be lowered.
III. social security instead of Hartz IV, poverty and harassment
For years, there has been entrenched unemployment in Germany: between three and ten percent in the various regions.
The government is talking about recovery.
But the labor ose statistics are nicely calculated.
Many people are parked in pointless measures or are not counted: for example, if they are over 58 years of age, sick and unable to work, or in third-party placement.
Others are poor despite working and have to supplement their income.
Those who have paid into unemployment insurance for years are nevertheless threatened by Hartz IV and poverty.
Long-acquired entitlements are destroyed.
Individuals are blamed for what is a societal problem.
The fear of social decline is said to push people to accept even bad or poorly paid work.
Those who resist are threatened with sanctions and cuts.
Those who are unemployed for more than a year are less likely to find a new job.
These people are harassed and discriminated against.
The Hartz IV system has failed and must be abolished!
We replace it with a sanction-free minimum income.
We want to fight the causes of unemployment, guarantee social security and eliminate poverty.
To this end, 1. additional, well-paid jobs covered by collective agreements must be created - instead of mini-jobs and involuntary part-time work.
2. those who are unemployed must not be pushed into poverty.
Away with Hartz IV!
And we want to 3. create a public employment sector for people who are currently unable to pursue regular employment.
These are three prerequisites for a socially secure life and work.
A fair insurance against unemployment
We want an insurance against unemployment with which the previously achieved standard of living can be approximately secured.
Employees and employers pay into the insurance.
We want unemployment benefit I to be paid for longer and entitlements to it to be acquired more quickly.
An entitlement to unemployment benefit I is acquired after at least six months of employment.
The framework period is extended to three years.
If necessary, unemployment benefit I is topped up to the level of the minimum benefit, financed by taxes.
Blocking periods and sanctions in SGB II and SGB III will be abolished without exception.
Previously developed claims must not be discarded.
Job offers to the unemployed must be commensurate with their qualifications and take into account their work history and training interests.
We want a right to gainful employment and a right to refuse a specific job: No one may be forced to accept a specific gainful employment against his or her conviction.
All unemployed persons should have a right to qualified support and further training.
This is true regardless of how long they have been unemployed.
Create good work and public employment
We want a labor market policy that creates more good jobs.
We want to strengthen public services
and create more personnel in education, health and care.
To this end, we are launching a program for investing in the future (see Chapter VI "Investing in the future").
We want to strengthen job protection:
We want to prohibit mass layoffs at profitable companies.
Protection against dismissal is strengthened.
The Dismissal Protection Act applies to all companies with more than five employees.
The works council has not only a right of participation but also a right of veto in the case of dismissals.
We want to increase funding for education and training for the unemployed.
They should have a legal right to counseling and further qualification.
Voluntariness, interests and abilities must be the focus of placement, instead of forcing the unemployed into meaningless training measures.
We want new perspectives for people who are currently unable to pursue regular employment, also due to physical or mental impairments.
To this end, we are creating a publicly funded employment sector with additional living wage jobs.
They are intended to strengthen district centers, initiatives and cultural projects.
They must be geared to regional conditions and the needs of the unemployed.
Remuneration must not fall below the minimum wage and a gross monthly salary of at least 1,500 euros (full-time).
We want to use all available funds to finance socially useful employment instead of unemployment (so-called passive-active transfer.)
Employees have a legal right to work at least 22 hours a week.
The offers are voluntary for the unemployed.
Minimum security without sanctions instead of Hartz IV
Hartz IV means poverty by law.
Instead of job center harassment and cuts in the subsistence level, DIE LINKE focuses on securing the social guarantees of life.
We support trade unions, social and welfare organizations and unemployed groups in their struggle to improve the social situation of people living in poverty.
We fight for every improvement for people who receive social benefits.
But we say clearly: Small corrections are not enough with Hartz IV.
We fight against poverty and sanctions.
The subsistence level must not be reduced!
That is why we want to abolish and replace the Hartz IV system.
We replace it with good work, better unemployment insurance and a needs-based individual minimum income without sanctions and cuts.
The amount must currently be 1,050 euros.
It applies to the unemployed, those in supplementary employment, the long-term unemployed and those unable to work without sufficient income or assets.
We want the benefits of the sanction-free minimum income to be increased annually in line with the cost of living.
Once during the legislative period, the amount of the minimum benefit is reviewed on the basis of the poverty risk threshold and a basket of goods.
We want to abolish the principle of means-tested and single-payer communities.
We replace it with individual claims (individual principle), taking into account the statutory maintenance obligations.
DIE LINKE rejects cuts, benefit restrictions or lockout periods, regardless of the reason.
This minimum income support secures both able-bodied and non-able-bodied adults, e.g. pensioners on reduced earning capacity.
In addition, we demand:Special needs, e.g. for the chronically ill or people with disabilities, are granted within the framework of the Solidarity Health Insurance or the Federal Participation Act.
If necessary, an additional housing allowance (gross rent) is paid.
We advocate a minimum income for all people living permanently in Germany.
The Asylum Seekers' Benefits Act is abolished.
Asylum seekers and EU citizens living here are included in the minimum income scheme.
To enable people with low incomes to receive legal assistance, we call for the expansion of legal aid and counseling assistance.
We want to change the criteria for approval, the use of income and assets, as well as the wantonness clause.
We also advocate for free and independent counseling centers.
The funds for mobility must correspond to the real prices.
We advocate a social ticket for local public transport.
In the long term, we want free public transport for all.
DIE LINKE raises the issue of basic income, as do many social movements, non-governmental organizations and associations.
At the same time, DIE LINKE has not made up its mind; we want to continue the controversial discussions.
This is another reason why DIE LINKE supports the establishment of an Enquete Commission on Basic Income in the German Bundestag.
We support the self-organization of the unemployed and low-income earners in initiatives, companies and trade unions and fight alongside them in parliament and on the streets.
We will never accept that in one of the richest countries in the world people live permanently in poverty.
This also guides our actions in possible government coalitions.
Abolish child poverty!
The Welfare Associations' Poverty and Wealth Report once again shows that poverty in Germany is on the rise.
Single parents, families with three or more children, the unemployed and people with an immigrant background are particularly at risk of poverty.
Child poverty has also continued to rise.
Nearly one in five children grows up in poverty.
The poverty of children and young people is a central problem and shameful for our rich society.
The government has not presented a concept to safely protect children and young people from poverty.
Poverty marginalizes, discourages and robs children of opportunities for development and a future.
We create equal opportunities for all children!
Our plan against child poverty: 1. Child poverty is "parent poverty".
We are fighting against low wages and for a minimum income that protects against poverty. 2.
2. against poverty of children and young adults we need an independent action plan against child poverty.
It must be developed by the federal and state governments and with the participation of children and young people.
Bureaucratic hurdles and shame often prevent support from being requested.
We want to create unbureaucratic solutions that give all children the same opportunities. 3.
In addition, children and young people need a better public social infrastructure.
This includes free use of public transportation and free access to cultural and educational institutions.
In many places, services for children and young people are falling victim to municipal debt brakes.
If only "absolutely necessary" tasks are taken on, the offerings that are supposed to support children and young people in their cultural self-determination, for example, suffer.
Social inequalities of the families of origin then have a stronger impact.
Education must be free of charge from daycare to university (see chapter xx "Education").
We want to better equip educational institutions.
Free high-quality meals should be standard in schools and daycare centers.
The needs of children, young people and families differ according to their way of life and family situation (such as single parents), age, place of residence (accommodation costs and social infrastructure), support needs and opportunities to participate in society.
These differences must be covered by an independent basic child benefit scheme: We want to combine flat-rate cash benefits into an independent basic child benefit.
This reduces barriers and thresholds that prevent people from taking advantage of services.
This and the free services prevent poverty among children and young people and
protect them from exclusion and discrimination.
All children and young people are offered good opportunities for participation and development.
Every child is worth the same to us: Currently, wealthy parents can claim a higher amount of tax for their children than parents with lower incomes receive in child benefits.
As an immediate measure, we want to increase child benefits for all children to 328 euros.
In areas with particularly high rents, the child allowance - like the basic child allowance - is supplemented, if necessary, by appropriately regionalized housing allowances.
For all children and young people living in Germany, DIE LINKE, together with welfare associations and academics, is calling for an independent, individual basic security benefit amounting to a taxable 573 euros.
The basic child allowance is adjusted in line with the development of the subsistence minimum for children.
It aims to lift children and young people out of the hidden poverty and stigma of Hartz IV benefits.
It is composed of a basic monetary amount and an amount intended to compensate for deficiencies in infrastructure for children.
We are fighting for a society in which all services for education, childcare and upbringing as well as public goods such as mobility, culture and leisure activities are available free of charge, not only but first and foremost for children.
Once this social infrastructure for children and young people has been created, the basic child allowance can be reduced by the corresponding amount.
Supporting families where they need it
Family is where people take responsibility for each other: As a cohabiting community, as a single-parent family, as a small or large family, as a married couple, as a multigenerational household, or in other forms of community.
Family is where people are there for each other, regardless of gender.
Right-wing and conservative politicians attack equal rights for women, want to make same-sex partnerships worse off, and propagate an image of the family from the century before last.
DIE LINKE stands for an emancipatory and forward-looking family policy.
Family policy must aim to give everyone a good, predictable life without fear of the future.
This requires public infrastructure
and social security must be effectively expanded.
But the necessary expansion of public childcare is stalling.
The federal government plans to dismantle central legal entitlements and services provided by child and youth welfare.
The public and social infrastructure for children and young people has deteriorated in many places.
Services were reduced, music schools became more expensive or libraries and swimming pools were closed.
A good social system, especially child and youth welfare, and public services strengthen families.
DIE LINKE is fighting for an inclusive child and youth welfare law.
The legal rights and the participation and co-determination rights of children and young people must be strengthened.
We want to create an adequate, needs-based and high-quality non-contributory all-day care program for children: Children should have a legal right to this, regardless of their parents' employment status.
It must meet diverse and age-specific needs.
The provision of daycare places is based on actual demand and not on arbitrarily determined quotas.
In addition, the legal and financial basis must be created for an all-day school offer that is appropriate to the area and needs.
Parents need childcare facilities with flexible opening hours so that they can combine work and family life.
At the same time, the standards of good work must be realized in these facilities.
If the services are expanded, the specialist staff must also be increased.
DIE LINKE supports the employees in daycare centers in their demands for recognition of their work, adequate pay and good labor law conditions (cf. chapter XIII "Good education. For all").
We want to create working time models that enable mothers and fathers to reconcile their careers with family and private life.
Instead of a flexibilization of working time that is merely oriented towards operational requirements, employees need more time autonomy.
Companies need sufficient staff to compensate for absences due to child sick days, for example.
Parents receive special protection against dismissal until the child reaches the age of six.
Returning to work after a break due to pregnancy or child-rearing must be made easier by offering free continuing education.
DIE LINKE is fighting for a basic child allowance.
We want to improve the rights and services in child and youth welfare and the infrastructure for children.
We want secure funding for women's shelters and thus also to strengthen children (cf. Chapter XI "For a Left-Wing Feminism").
We want to strengthen single parents - single-parent families.
They make up a large proportion of families.
At the same time, they are the most affected by poverty and are discriminated against in many ways: in access to education and work, participation in public life and equal opportunities for children in education.
We see an urgent need for action here.
We want to extend the receipt of the advance on maintenance payments until the child has completed schooling or training and at least until the child is 18 years old without any restrictions.
Only half of the child benefit is to be counted towards the advance on child support, instead of 100 percent as is currently the case.
Advance maintenance payments and child benefits may not be offset against SGB II benefits.
The receipt of parental allowance, especially Elterngeld Plus for single parents, must be improved.
Single parents need more support to return to work or to complete training.
We want to improve appropriate support, further training and social networking opportunities.
Being sick is almost always a burden for parents of young children - for single parents it can simply be a disaster.
Lengthy approval procedures for home help from health insurance companies are of little help here.
Single parents need fast and unbureaucratic help.
IV. solidarity-based health and care insurance and more personnel in care and health
Social injustice makes people sick.
As a result of strong competitive pressure, it is not only mental illnesses that are on the rise.
Generally speaking, people who are poor are more likely to be ill and die earlier.
The health care reforms of recent governments have exacerbated inequities in the health care system.
Companies have been relieved of the burden, while insured persons alone have to pay for rising costs.
At the same time, the pharmaceutical industry and hospital groups are making billions in profits with the insured's money.
Statutory health insurers must compete with each other - the focus would have to be on need and care.
Benefits were cut, and co-payments and additional contributions were introduced for the insured.
Anyone who falls ill today often has to dig deep into their pockets.
Dentures alone can become a matter of existence.
There are far too few nurses in hospitals.
For years, urgently needed investments in hospitals have been held back.
We want a solidarity-based, equitable and barrier-free healthcare system that focuses on patient care.
Health must not be allowed to degenerate further into a market in which profits count more than people: instead of ever further privatization, the health system must be publicly organized as part of the welfare state.
The economization of the health care system not only stands in the way of good care, but also good working conditions for employees.
We want to finance hospitals in line with demand
and combat staff shortages.
We want to improve outpatient healthcare in both urban and rural areas.
We are committed to a solidarity-based health insurance system into which everyone pays.
We want to overcome two-tier medicine.
Co-payments and benefit exclusions, such as for dentures and eyeglasses, pharmaceuticals, and hospital or physical therapy, create an additional hurdle for low-income people.
We will therefore return completely to the principle of benefits in kind: All services will again be provided without co-payment.
The influence of the pharmaceutical industry must be pushed back.
We want to limit drug prices.
We want to free the healthcare system from barriers: Barriers to accessing doctors' offices and hospitals must be removed, and examination techniques and treatment methods must be adapted to the special needs of people with disabilities.
We also want to adapt communication to the special needs of people with disabilities: easy language and comprehensible patient information must become a matter of course.
Solidarity-based health insurance for all: an end to two-tier medicine
Statutory health insurance was developed as a system of solidarity: Healthy people are in solidarity with sick people, insured people and their employers pay in according to income, and all insured people receive necessary benefits according to their individual needs.
This basic principle has been increasingly eroded in recent decades.
Today, there is no longer any question of fairness in the financing of the health care system.
Several hundred thousand people still have no health insurance coverage - ten years after the introduction of mandatory health insurance!
Parity financing has been abolished, increasing costs must be borne solely by the insured, and the employer's contribution has been frozen.
Co-payments and additional contributions are a burden on the insured, they are socially unjust and hardly affordable for many.
Higher earners, if they are insured by law at all, pay a smaller share of their income than people with average wages or low earners.
Income such as stock gains is exempt from contributions; contributions must be paid on wage income.
As a first step, we want to restore parity financing and abolish co-payments.
We oppose two-tier medicine with our model of solidarity-based health insurance.
We want everyone living in Germany to become a member of the solidarity-based health insurance system, including those who are currently privately insured.
Everyone - including civil servants, members of parliament and the self-employed - pays in according to their total income.
Everyone receives equally high-quality medical care - without co-payments and additional contributions, financed equally by employers and employees.
We do not want to further disadvantage labor income and no exceptions for capital income and profits.
We also want to put an end to the discrimination against small and medium incomes by abolishing the income threshold.
Insured persons with an income above the previous income threshold will be included in the solidarity-based financing with their entire income.
The principle is that everyone pays in to make it better and affordable for everyone.
In this way, the contribution rate can be permanently reduced from the current average of 15.7 percent (2017) to below twelve percent without cutting benefits.
On the contrary, all medically necessary services will again be paid for by the health insurance fund.
At the same time, the very largest part of the population will be relieved financially by this concept, including many self-employed persons and pensioners.
Employers and insured persons each pay half, which is then less than six percent.
Private comprehensive insurance will thus be abolished.
We want to limit private health insurance to supplementary benefits and enable employees of insurance companies to make a socially acceptable transition to statutory health insurance.
Better care and more staff in the hospital
Since the early 1990s, hospitals have been transformed into commercial enterprises according to market and competitive criteria.
Many have been privatized.
It is often all about cost savings and profit maximization.
There is a nursing emergency in hospitals - there is a shortage of at least 162,000 positions, including 100,000 nurses.
In a European comparison, Germany is at the bottom of the league when it comes to nursing staff.
Fewer and fewer employees have to care for more and more patients in less time.
The consequences: lack of attention, poor hygiene, and even more accidents and deaths.
According to many studies, the risk of death increases as workload increases: when a nurse has one more patient to care for, the risk increases by up to nine percent.
A large proportion of hospital-acquired germ infections can be attributed to staff shortages.
Hospital-acquired infections have increased dramatically in recent years, resulting in up to 15,000 preventable deaths annually.
Around half of the deaths could be prevented by better hygiene!
Staff shortages in hospitals put patients' health at risk.
We want to stop and reverse the reduction of personnel through retrenchment and outsourcing.
We support the unions' demands for filling the missing positions across the hospital sector and for reversing outsourcing and privatization (such as of kitchen and cleaning services).
In order to combat the personnel shortage, DIE LINKE wants to introduce a statutory personnel assessment.
We need binding nationwide guidelines on how many nurses must be available for how many patients.
We need 100000 more nursing professionals!
Economic competition between hospitals leads to a distinction being made between lucrative patients and those with whom no profit can be made.
Many patients wonder whether treatment is given or withheld for economic reasons.
Stations are closed if they are not profitable, even though they are needed.
The system of flat-rate payments per case (DRGs) forces hospitals to treat the most and most severe "cases" with the fewest staff in the shortest time in order to avoid going into the red.
At the same time, private hospital corporations are making profits at the expense of employees.
For patients, flat rates per case often mean too early discharge and readmission ("revolving door effect").
This logic must be broken:
DIE LINKE wants hospital treatment to be financed in a way that does not regard patients as lump-sum cases but covers the necessary needs of the hospital and is oriented toward the common good and not toward economic criteria.
Flat rates per case should be abolished.
Hospitals are part of the welfare state.
Its purpose is not to maximize profits, but to provide the population with necessary inpatient services in line with its needs.
The financing of hospitals by health insurers must be aligned with this principle in the same way as public hospital planning and investments by the federal states.
However, these have been declining steadily for many years.
The result is a constantly growing investment backlog.
In order to be able to pay for the most urgent investments at all, hospitals are accessing operating funds that are actually intended for personnel - with all the negative consequences.
To reduce the investment backlog in hospitals, the federal government must provide earmarked support to the responsible states.
We demand an annual federal contribution of 2.5 billion euros (the other half is borne by the states).
This will make it possible to reduce the investment needs that hospitals have today over the next ten years or so.
In addition, we are putting the Länder in a position to meet their investment obligations: We are reintroducing the wealth tax (see Chapter VI "Inequality is anti-social").
The revenue from this goes to the state budgets.
Hospitals belong in public hands: Further privatization must be prevented and hospitals and care facilities that have already been privatized must be transferred to non-profit ownership.
We want to buy back health care facilities by public agencies.
We facilitate and encourage community hospital alliances to be created.
It must be ruled out by law that hospitals are operated with the aim of maximizing profit and return on capital.
Any surpluses that arise must be plowed back into the healthcare system, especially into improved staffing levels and better patient care.
Improve outpatient care in town and country - shorter waiting times!
Good health care includes proximity to home, reasonably short wait times for an appointment, and good emergency care.
Germany has a high average physician density, yet many people complain about underuse.
It is not only in rural regions that long distances and long waiting times have to be accepted in some cases.
In structurally strong regions with many privately insured patients, on the other hand, there are often more physicians than necessary.
DIE LINKE advocates good, comprehensive, barrier-free and needs-based health care in cities and rural areas.
In return, we want to distribute physician seats more evenly.
A key lever here is the reduction of oversupply.
We want to eliminate better payment for treatment of privately insured patients and thus eliminate unequal waiting times.
New forms of care such as patient buses, group and part-time practices, or publicly owned medical care centers can make working in rural areas more attractive to young physicians and non-physician specialists and
thus guarantee that employed general practitioners and specialists can also work in part-time positions.
Polyclinics are to become a backbone of outpatient care in the medium term.
This is because they not only ensure high-quality, interdisciplinary treatment, but also offer the flexible and family-friendly working conditions desired by many young physicians.
We want to support communities to operate their own healthcare facilities and thus secure care.
To ensure that all people receive good health care close to home, the municipalities need better funding and - similar to hospital planning - the authority to plan care centers.
Not only the supply of physicians, but also of psychotherapists, physical and occupational therapists, speech therapists, podiatrists, midwives and maternity nurses as well as pharmacies must be guaranteed - especially in rural areas and in disadvantaged regions.
It must take place close to home, e.g. via integrated solutions such as care centers, midwife bases and cooperations.
DIE LINKE is committed to strengthening qualifications and improving pay in the health and medical professions.
Training in health professions must be free of charge and work performance during training must be remunerated.
We want a non-violent psychiatry and the abolition of special laws.
The spatial conditions and staffing must allow treatment without coercion and violence.
We want to place mentally ill people on an equal footing before the law and in social insurance schemes and give them access to our publicly funded employment sector (see Chapter III "Social security").
We want to expand home and outpatient care so that fewer inpatient treatments are needed.
In many regions, psychotherapeutic care falls far short of demand.
Demand planning needs to be urgently revised in this area in particular.
Funding for therapy must also meet the need.
We call for a tuition-free direct study program for psychotherapists that trains psychological and child and adolescent psychotherapists together.
Appropriate remuneration shall be paid for continuing education for participation in the SHI psychotherapy service.
We want to consistently free the healthcare system from barriers.
This means not only removing barriers to accessing doctors' offices and hospitals, but also adapting examination techniques and communication to the special needs of people with disabilities.
Plain language and understandable patient information must become a matter of course.
A fundamental solution must finally be found for the liability insurance of midwives and maternity nurses.
We want a public liability fund to make midwives and maternity nurses independent of private insurance.
Midwives can be the first point of contact for pregnant women and prenatal care - as in the Netherlands.
This understanding of a new job description should also be reflected in compensation.
We want to strengthen the medicinal character of the pharmacy profession.
That is why we reject pharmacy chains, all the more so in the hands of stock corporations.
We want to limit mail-order sales of pharmaceuticals as far as possible and
thus strengthen personal consultation and care close to home.
Affordable medicines instead of profits for pharmaceutical companies
Statutory health insurers in Germany spend over 35 billion euros on pharmaceuticals - and the trend is rising fast.
Patients are burdened by high co-payments.
They must pay for most non-prescription medications entirely out of pocket, even if they are prescribed by a doctor.
None of the previous laws have been able to break the power of the pharmaceutical industry.
The health policy of the last federal governments has allowed fantasy prices to be charged for cancer, rheumatism and multiple sclerosis drugs, for example, in the first year after approval.
We want all patients to be provided with safe and effective medicines based on the latest scientific knowledge
- regardless of their income or disease.
Medical care with proven benefits urgently requires the introduction of a positive list.
All drugs with proven benefits must be fully reimbursed - expensive drugs that only appear to be new, on the other hand, do not belong in the benefits catalog.
With this demand, we are at the same time advocating an effective limitation of pharmaceutical prices by law.
Given limited resources, the focus on effective action is urgent.
To this end, we are calling for a pricing structure that is based on the benefits for patients and includes a clear cap on drug prices from the time of approval.
We want to push back the influence of the pharmaceutical companies at all levels.
Your marketing activities must be strictly limited.
This applies not only to advertising, but also to influencing the medical profession, the scientific community and patient organizations.
Physicians must not be rewarded for prescribing certain medications.
The manufacture of medicines and medical devices must not be subject to the profit interests of shareholders.
The pharmaceutical industry must be committed to the common good and placed under democratic control.
We want to effectively combat corruption in the healthcare sector.
A public study registry for drug studies should ensure that negative study results can no longer be suppressed.
We call for transparent, legal regulation of donations from the pharmaceutical industry to physicians and other health care professionals.
Data collected with the electronic health card may not be stored centrally or shared online.
Third-party access to the decentralized data repositories without the consent of the insured persons must remain prohibited.
Drug research is of great public interest.
It determines not only whether drugs are developed that are really needed,
but also who owns the property rights,
what prices are called,
whether the research results are made transparent
and, last but not least, whether people in the global South can gain access to innovations.
For DIE LINKE, pharmaceutical research is a public task.
Patents for medicines and cures must be abolished.
Health promotion instead of competitive pressure
The best health policy is one that promotes health and prevents disease.
The design of a livable environment, good work, good living and learning conditions and social justice contribute significantly to health.
LEFT health policy involves all policy areas, because this is the only way to break the vicious circle of poverty and illness.
DIE LINKE advocates health care that combines high quality and humanity.
The health care system is difficult for many people to navigate.
It is difficult to find out about one's rights and even more difficult to enforce them against health insurance companies, doctors or hospitals.
Financial pressure inevitably leads all parties involved to put their own advantage before the interests of patients more and more often.
Patients must not be treated as billing figures and ground between profit interests on the one hand and expenditure avoidance on the other.
We want to push back competition between and within health insurers, the medical profession, the hospital landscape and pharmacies.
The supply function, which was assigned to them by law in the public interest, must once again take center stage.
We want to abolish rebate contracts, health insurance tenders, e.g. for medical aids, and many other selective contracts.
They are not transparent and jeopardize the quality of care as well as the diversity of providers.
To ensure that care is based on the current state of knowledge and to protect patients, we demand good scientific evidence on the benefits and harms of every treatment method - especially if it is financed on a solidarity basis.
Patient representatives are to be represented with voting rights in committees of joint self-governance in the future.
In the short term, we want to give them the right to appoint a majority of the impartial members available at any given time.
In order for self-help to secure its independence and to be able to meet the large associations and companies in the healthcare sector on an equal footing, it must be adequately financed.
The municipalities offer free counseling by professionally trained staff for patients.
The waiting time for an initial consultation should not exceed six weeks.
If desired, self-help groups or patient representatives are to be included in return for payment.
Municipalities are fully compensated for this task.
Good care for all instead of a care crisis!
Anyone who becomes seriously ill or frail in old age needs care.
But good care services are not available in every place of residence or for every person with care needs.
More than half of the people in Germany are afraid of being dependent on care in old age or in the event of illness.
People with care needs and their families bear more than half of the ever-increasing cost of care.
Long-term care insurance does not cover the costs; it is a partial benefit insurance.
This has not changed with the care strengthening laws of the grand coalition of SPD and CDU/CSU.
On the contrary, we have a two-tier system in nursing.
More and more people cannot afford good care, have to go into debt or end up on welfare.
This is an indictment of poverty for a rich country like Germany.
The available care options are confusing and unaffordable for many.
Care services are bought expensively or provided by lay people without payment.
It is still mainly women who provide care - spouses and partners, daughters and daughters-in-law.
For many, the desire to be cared for at home can only be fulfilled if family members step in.
In everyday life, many caregivers struggle with constant stress, exhaustion and money worries.
Many limit or give up their professional activities.
This reduces their own pension entitlements and leads caregivers into old-age poverty.
We oppose a care policy that focuses on competitive pressure and profits for the few.
Care has become a market, private companies are making profits - at the expense of people in need of care and care workers.
There is a lack of time for activating care and for listening, attention and encouragement.
In some cases, people have had to wear incontinence pads against their will.
Some were even fixed because there were only two nurses for 50 nursing home residents on the night shift.
Many caregivers get sick because they are completely overworked and can't bring in what they've learned.
There is often talk of a shortage of skilled workers.
When work stress makes you sick, and good pay and recognition are lacking, it's not surprising that many trained nurses only stay in their profession for a few years.
Women, in particular, work in nursing.
Low wages and part-time contracts lead to poverty in old age despite hard work.
The wage differences between individual regions are enormous.
DIE LINKE stands by the side of the employees in the care sector: Care work must finally be upgraded and better paid!
We want to improve working conditions and set the course for recruiting more nursing staff.
DIE LINKE wants a fundamental change: Good care should become a binding right for all.
We want an understanding of quality that does not make decisions on the basis of records, but focuses on the work situation of the caregivers
and the actual care needs of those being cared for.
We want to relieve the burden on families: care benefits are to be extended in a full insurance scheme,
and we want more professional caregivers.
This opens up the possibility of being cared for in the home environment and - if desired - having greater recourse to professional care.
Everyone must be able to decide for himself or herself where and from whom he or she will receive which care.
The decision must not depend on one's wallet, place of residence or origin.
No care service may be denied on the basis of cost.
This also applies to the decision on the place of death.
For a vacation in EU countries, the costs of care benefits in kind, preventive care and care aids are to be covered by the statutory care insurance for up to six weeks.
Care should be funded equitably
and provided by well-paid professionals.
Family care and neighborhood involvement can be complementary and not out of necessity.
DIE LINKE therefore wants to place care on a fair, needs-covering and solidarity-based footing:
We want full long-term care insurance that covers all care-related benefits.
People with care needs and their families do not have to pay any co-payments.
Those who are dependent on social assistance receive the same benefits as all other people in need of care.
At the same time, the burden on local authorities is reduced because fewer people become dependent on social welfare as a result of care costs.
All services are provided to meet demand and in accordance with nationally binding quality standards.
Care services include assistance and participation in public life as long as possible.
We want to distribute the financial burden fairly across all shoulders with a solidarity-based long-term care insurance scheme into which everyone pays: privately insured persons, civil servants, members of parliament and the self-employed must also pay into the solidarity-based long-term care insurance scheme in proportion to their income - without a contribution assessment ceiling that spares millionaires.
The basis for dignified care is reliable,
fair and future-proof financing.
This creates financial leeway for services that cover requirements,
more staff and better pay.
Good care needs good work.
Collective wage agreements must become standard in order
to reduce regional performance and wage differences.
Humane care cannot and must not be profit-driven.
The care infrastructure is part of the public service; the federal and state governments must finally invest sufficiently in this area.
Care should be returned to public responsibility and under democratic control.
To achieve this, we also want to strengthen the municipalities financially.
Because good care is provided locally.
Through regional employment policies, we aim to create well-paying jobs with public and nonprofit care providers.
People with care needs must be able to decide for themselves where and how they live.
They need barrier-free and affordable housing options.
They need support networks close to home and independent counseling services.
We want to strengthen the rights of people with care needs, family caregivers and care workers.
Their representatives need motion and voting rights in all statutory bodies, especially in the quality committee at the federal level and in regional nursing conferences.
Digitalization is not bypassing the care sector.
So-called care robots are already being used in isolated cases for certain tasks.
However, dignified care also includes a right to care by people and human contact.
That is why DIE LINKE will campaign for a statutory minimum number of hours of human contact in care facilities.
The current care crisis is no longer sustainable for the people who need care, their relatives and the employees.
DIE LINKE is therefore also calling for immediate measures to ensure dignified care:
More staff and an expansion of professional services are needed immediately.
To finance this, we want to dissolve the nursing provision fund and convert it into a nursing staff fund.
Additional caregivers can thus be employed on a regular basis and paid better.
DIE LINKE demands a quota of at least 50 percent of skilled workers in care facilities, which must be implemented nationwide and compliance with which must be effectively monitored.
Good wages for good care - upgrading care professions: As a safeguard against wage dumping, the minimum care wage must be increased immediately to 14.50 euros and extended to other areas of activity in care.
Violations of the minimum nursing wage must be sanctioned.
The collectively agreed remuneration of skilled nursing staff must be declared generally binding throughout Germany.
No nursing professional should earn less than 3,000 euros (full-time).
Training in the nursing professions must be designed as integrated training with two years of joint training and one year of supplementary specialized professional training.
The three-year nursing apprenticeship must ensure immediate job readiness.
Education, training and continuing education must be tuition-free for nurses.
In addition to nursing training, we want three years of training to become a specialist assistant, not only for people with disabilities.
The increasing qualification of the profession must also be reflected in higher training pay and better remuneration.
We want to relieve the burden on insured persons: The costs of medical treatment care must also be borne by statutory health insurance in inpatient care facilities.
This alone will relieve the burden on long-term care insurance by more than two billion euros and reduce the co-payments of people with care needs.
The subsidy for private nursing care provision - the so-called Pflege-Bahr - will be discontinued.
V. Inequality is antisocial. We are redirecting.
Wealth and poverty in Germany are on the rise.
The richest ten percent own well over half of society's wealth, while the bottom half of the population owns just one percent.
Germany is one of four countries with the most millionaires.
More than one million people own more than one million euros (1.2 million people own more than one million US dollars).
But a wealth tax is not levied.
If you have a lot, you can easily multiply it.
A cheap tax is levied on profits from capital and shares, less than half of what was paid under Helmut Kohl.
On the other hand, those who have little or nothing pay more and more: income tax cannot be evaded, it is deducted immediately.
In percentage terms, the value-added tax hits people with low incomes harder.
Because public property has been privatized, many services must be paid for privately.
Private wealth is offset by an impoverished public infrastructure: Libraries and swimming pools are closing, the education sector is chronically underfunded, hospital staff is being cut in order to finance necessary repairs.
The revenue from a wealth tax would be particularly helpful here: It goes to the states and can strengthen public infrastructure.
The rich have many allies in politics.
They can add weight to their voice.
We hold against it.
More justice and a strong public service can only be achieved by reducing the burden on those at the bottom - and increasing the burden on those at the top.
High assets and incomes, inheritances and profits from capital and shares must be taxed more heavily.
This is how we finance investments in good public services and a welfare state that safely protects everyone from poverty.
We want solidarity
and ecological forms of the economy
and create jobs.
Profit, privatization and price pressure damage the social foundations of democracy.
Public transport, public housing association apartments should not have to make a profit.
Public services form the structures that connect people in our society.
This requires that these structures be aligned with the needs of society.
Our program for a future worth fighting for is not wishful thinking.
It is not unrealistic.
It is doable and we know how we will pay for it.
There is enough for everyone if everyone contributes enough.
We want assets of one million euros or more to be taxed at five percent.
The first million is exempt from this.
Assets required for operations can be exempted up to five million.
We ensure that private assets are not "hidden" in business assets and that foreign-owned business assets are taxed in the same way as domestic owners.
Such a wealth tax would generate 80 billion euros in additional revenue per year.
Inheritance tax: Wealth is inherited - usually without significant taxes being paid.
The super-rich in particular can bequeath or give away their multi-million assets in company shares tax-free.
The reform of the inheritance tax adopted by the grand coalition of CDU/CSU and SPD does not change this, on the contrary.
We will ensure that tax loopholes are closed.
We will increase the inheritance tax on high inheritances.
Normal, owner-occupied residential property remains exempt.
Additional revenue per year: five billion euros.
Corporate taxes were massively reduced years ago.
Corporation tax must be increased to 25 percent again.
We want to stop the corporate race to avoid taxes and are pushing for Europe-wide minimum corporate tax rates.
We will ensure that companies and corporations do not evade taxes.
We want reduced sales tax rates for labor-intensive crafts, products for children and pharmaceuticals.
We want to combat tax evasion, money laundering and subsidy fraud more effectively and thus dry up tax havens - including "Made in Germany".
To this end, we want to establish a federal financial police force and increase tax enforcement personnel in line with demand.
It is realistic to collect around 15 billion euros more per year with more consistent tax enforcement and combating tax evasion in tax havens.
With a financial transaction tax, we curb speculation on the financial markets.
A tax rate of 0.1 percent is to be applied to every financial transaction.
On the one hand, the funds raised are to be used for sustainable development in the countries of the South.
and for global climate protection
and, on the other hand, for the socio-ecological restructuring of our industrial society.
Annual additional revenue in Germany: at least 30 billion euros.
Quality of life has to do with what municipalities offer: Can they finance only the bare necessities, or do they provide cultural events, swimming pools, municipal housing, free daycare centers and youth centers?
We want to improve the equipment of the municipalities.
If the federal government or the states hand over tasks to the municipalities, they must also provide the funding (principle of connexity: he who orders, pays).
We want to transform the current trade tax into a municipal business tax.
The tax base will be expanded (rents, leasing rates and royalties will be taken into account) and include high-earning self-employed and freelancers.
To this end, we will raise the exemption amount to 30,000 euros and take the assessed tax into account in income tax.
Additional revenue for local authorities: 15 billion euros.
With these additional revenues, we can finance the start of a society based on solidarity: Better social security,
more personnel in education, health and care and a new start in non-profit housing construction,
accessibility
and the start of a social and ecological restructuring of the economy.
Our demands are counterbalanced and realistic.
We also want to make income taxation fairer.
We want to ease the burden on low and middle incomes.
High incomes must be taxed more heavily.
All taxable income below 12,600 euros per year remains tax-free.
This means that employees up to a gross wage of about 1,400 euros per month do not have to pay income tax.
The control curve is flattened.
We want to tax higher incomes more heavily.
From 70,000 euros of taxable income per year, the tax rate is 53 percent.
Taxable income means: what remains of the gross income after the usual deductions (lump-sum allowances and special expenses): 70,000 euros of taxable income corresponds to about 81,000 euros of gross earnings of a single person without children.
53 percent tax rate applies to income above 70,000 euros.
The average tax rate for 70,000 euros of income is around 30 percent.
We envisage two stages of a separate wealth tax: 60 percent from the current wealth tax threshold of 260,533 euros and 75 percent for incomes above one million euros of taxable income.
As a rule of thumb, anyone who (as a single person, tax class I) earns less than 7,100 euros a month gross pays less tax according to our tariff; anyone who earns more pays more tax.
Everyone benefits from improved public services and solidarity-based health insurance.
Income from capital gains should not be further favored, but taxed at the same rates as all income.
We will abolish the final withholding tax of 25 percent, but retain restrictions on offsetting losses from capital assets and the saver's allowance.
Marital splitting will be replaced by family-friendly tax models.
In this context, the unexhausted taxable subsistence minimum must be transferable between spouses or civil partners.
In the case of redundancies, we want to reintroduce tax allowances for severance payments.
VI Investing in the future
For years, necessary investments in social infrastructure have been held back.
Behind it are the dogmas of neoliberalism - cutting back, called "austerity" and "austerity."
Long-term expenditures are less and less organized via long-term financing, i.e. loans.
They are incorrectly referred to as "debt" and are excluded from the debt brake.
State and local governments have too little revenue from taxes - there is a lack of wealth tax and a municipal economic tax (see Chapter V "Inequality is antisocial" ).
Many municipalities are structurally overburdened.
Increasingly, they have to finance ongoing tasks from cash advances, which are actually intended as short-term financing aids.
When public infrastructure deteriorates, it directly affects the quality of life of the population.
Social differences have a greater impact on everyday life.
Large gaps have appeared in the supply of the population.
Social housing, schools, hospitals, roads, railways - everywhere there is a lack of investment in public infrastructure.
Instead of privatization and public-private partnerships that operate according to market and profit, we want to shape investments so that wealth benefits everyone.
The first step is to strengthen the areas in which people have an urgent need.
Investments must tangibly improve people's quality of life.
In education alone, there is a lack of investment in buildings, technology and personnel amounting to 50 billion euros.
There is a lack of staff and investment funds in hospitals.
There is a shortage of affordable housing in all major cities.
More public investment at the local, state, and federal levels
and an equitable distribution of work can create millions of new jobs in short full-time (30 to 35 hours per week) schedules.
We will invest over 120 billion euros a year in public services of general interest.
and infrastructure.
Higher revenues from taxes and social contributions can refinance at least half of these expenditures.
The Investment and Future Program aims to: Good education: We are creating more staff, inclusion, increasing the BaföG and renovating buildings.
Better equipment in health care and nursing.
We are creating a new start in social and non-profit housing construction and a support program for socially just modernizations.
We are financing a genuine energy turnaround in which fossil fuels, which are harmful to the environment, are replaced by renewable energies.
We want to replace the large energy companies: clean energy in the hands of citizens.
The usual innovation strategies in areas such as energy management and logistics are profit-driven.
Instead, we want to invest in the common good and needs-oriented development of necessary innovations.
We are improving public transport facilities
and introducing a social ticket.
We are relieving the burden on local authorities and strengthening them in the provision of public services.
We strengthen regional economic cycles by promoting the economic activity of municipalities.
We support disadvantaged regions.
We create access to fast Internet everywhere.
We invest in accessibility: in transport, public buildings and housing.
We create more quality of life locally through funding for measures against ambient, road, rail, and aircraft noise.
We put innovation and digitization at the service of the public.
"Smart cities" from the left are public, transparent and accessible to all.
We want to promote and implement an increase in the number of public sector employees in line with social needs.
Strengthening the Public Sector and Local Authorities: Stop Privatization Instead of Debt Brake
A majority of people in Germany reject the privatization of important areas of public services.
Opposition to the privatization of hospitals and water supply was also an important reason for many to take to the streets during the protests against the TTIP free trade agreement.
In many places, initiatives have been formed in recent years for a re-municipalization of housing, energy, water and waste management or against the privatization of municipal or state-owned hospitals.
DIE LINKE stands by their side and fights against privatization and for a strengthening of the public sector through re-municipalization.
Because: Privatization of water, public housing, energy supply, public transport and education destroys the foundations of a democratic society and makes it more unjust.
Privatization has long been justified on the grounds that it makes services cheaper and better for citizens.
The opposite has demonstrably happened.
Privatization means that people have to pay more: for water charges, admission to the swimming pool, local transport or the music school.
Privatization promotes a parallel world of the rich and better-off; those who can't afford admission are left out.
Where public property is sold, the quality of life deteriorates, especially for ordinary and low-income earners.
Cuts in public services and privatisations are often justified by the debt brake.
Allegedly "we" could no longer afford the public sector, otherwise we would only leave our children and grandchildren with debts.
But it is precisely in the interests of our children and grandchildren that we must not leave services of general interest to the profit interests of private companies.
The debt brake and the "black zero" are above all levers to cut public services and create new markets for private corporations.
Infrastructure that will last generations can also be financed in anticipation of future generations.
To exclude loans in this sense is irresponsible and economically nonsensical, even more so given current interest rates.
Investments by the state in public services and infrastructure are important investments in the future that will pay off, especially for future generations.
To finance them, DIE LINKE finally wants to make multi-millionaires contribute appropriately to financing the common good through higher taxes.
DIE LINKE calls for a halt to privatization instead of a debt brake:The debt brake must be withdrawn.
DIE LINKE advocates a corresponding amendment to the Basic Law.
Until then, enforcement of the debt brake must be suspended.
We want to abolish the forced administration of municipal budgets.
Municipalities and the federal states should have the option of taking out loans via municipal or state-owned companies in order to be able to guarantee public services.
Basic areas of services of general interest such as healthcare, housing, education, youth welfare, culture, energy and water supply, local public transport, long-distance transport, communications infrastructure and waste disposal must be organized in public hands.
We will therefore not participate in or tolerate any government that privatizes public services.
We want the privatization of public services to be stopped, as well as all public-private partnership projects.
Until this is enforced, all privatization projects must be submitted to the citizens for a direct vote by referendum.
We want to prevent the privatization of the highways.
The federal highways and trunk roads belong to public ownership and are part of the public service.
The privatization of infrastructure is only intended to create profitable investment opportunities for the financial industry, which must be paid for by motorists.
Those who suffer are also the employees.
We want to remunicipalize privatized areas of public service.
We want to ensure that the federal government makes funds available to local authorities for the re-municipalization of housing, hospitals, water and energy supplies.
This can be done through a re-municipalization fund.
Support and legal advice can be organized by a re-municipalization agency so that the wheel does not have to be reinvented in every municipality.
Particular importance is attached to the partnership between municipalities and states in ÖÖP projects (ÖÖP: public-public partnerships).
We want to transfer privatized hospitals and care facilities to non-commercial, public, non-profit or cooperative ownership (see IV Solidarity-based health insurance).
The wealth of a society must be reflected in public wealth.
and in the life chances of all.
Only this kind of wealth benefits everyone.
A democracy cannot function without effective public ownership - i.e., municipal, regional, cooperative, public sector or state ownership.
DIE LINKE wants to improve the public sector through investment
and at the same time more socially just
and organize them more democratically.
We want to enforce a new model of an efficient, democratic, public service and infrastructure that is accessible to all and ecologically sustainable:
Public services and facilities must be accessible to everyone, regardless of their income, where they live, or their citizenship.
Public services must be affordable and accessible for everyone.
Only public enterprises, civil society non-profit organizations and public ownership offer the chance of democratic control and co-determination by citizens and employees.
Public enterprises must be given the objectives of doing business, orientation toward the goals of good work, reduction of social inequality, participation, climate and environmental protection, and a clearly defined framework for action by parliaments.
The public service and public enterprises must be oriented to the needs of society.
Among other things, this means that there must be no staff reductions.
Administrations can be reformed without cutting jobs to respond to changing needs.
Public ownership
and citizen participation go together.
Participation does not mean having a say, but being able to influence decisions effectively.
DIE LINKE is fighting for citizens to have a say in the purpose of public companies and to be able to control public companies and institutions.
They need to be involved in decision-making and in shaping their living environment.
This requires a comprehensive change in corporate law.
We want public companies and institutions to operate transparently and for contracts concluded by the public administration to be disclosed.
The co-determination rights of employees must be extended.
DIE LINKE advocates that the right to staff representation should apply without restriction to all people who work for a department.
For supervisory bodies of public enterprises, regardless of their legal form, transparency and co-determination of local councils and workforces as well as the participation of user groups must be guaranteed.
Supervisory board members must be bound by the instructions of the delegating bodies (municipality, works council, etc.), their accountability must be extended and their duty of confidentiality towards the delegating body must be lifted.
The interests of the company must not take precedence over the public interest obligation for the Supervisory Board members delegated from the municipalities.
Public services must meet a high environmental standard.
DIE LINKE wants to invest in the ecological modernization of public infrastructure (cf. chapter XIII "People and nature before profits").
The public sector must be a role model in terms of good work and training (see Chapter I "Good Work").
We want to increase the proportion of employees with an immigrant background,
also in order to ensure multilingualism in the administration where there is a need for it.
Employees in administration, public institutions and companies must be able to influence their development.
Quality of life and democracy in the municipalities
It is in the districts, cities and municipalities that decisions are made about childcare and culture, housing and health care.
In metropolitan areas, the social divide is becoming entrenched.
The development of a few large cities on the one hand and the "rural area" (which also includes many medium-sized and small towns) is drifting apart.
The neoliberal policy, which provides tax relief for the rich and burdens the municipalities with tasks and additional costs, means that there is a backlog of investments in the municipalities of well over 100 billion euros.
Already, many municipalities in economically disadvantaged regions are over-indebted and in receivership.
The debt brake has a devastating effect on the quality of life of people with lower incomes
and on local democracy.
When the city or municipal council sometimes only decides on the management of scarcity and supposed constraints, democracy in the municipality is stifled.
Municipal services of general interest must be geared to the needs and requirements of the most disadvantaged.
In order to create equal living conditions in all regions and municipalities, we want a binding right of consultation and participation for municipalities at the federal level when draft laws and regulations are developed that are relevant to municipalities.
Municipalities should also have a right of self-determination in the federal government.
We want municipalities to be able to decide independently on all matters relating to municipal services of general interest and the local community and to perform the resulting tasks.
The municipalities are not a neoliberal experimental field.
We want a solidarity pact that benefits the most disadvantaged municipalities and no longer distributes them according to the points of the compass.
The over-indebtedness of municipalities is largely due to changes in tax law in recent decades.
We need an old debt fund with the participation of the federal and state governments.
Municipalities must not have to pay for tasks that the federal government imposes on them without providing sufficient funding for them: The principle of connexity ("He who orders, pays."), must be implemented.
We want comprehensive municipal finance reform that increases the autonomy of municipalities.
To this end, the trade tax is to be further developed into a municipal business tax (see Chapter V "Inequality is unsocial").
Municipalities in Germany will have to cope with major tasks in the future as a result of the climate crisis.
Climate impacts are most directly felt by local people.
DIE LINKE advocates that the federal government provide greater support to municipalities in meeting these challenges
and, together with the municipalities, create binding framework conditions for climate protection concepts.
Municipalities must rely more and more on renewable energies for their local energy supply.
Public transport is to switch to new drive models.
Here, municipal companies and the local administration have a role model function - not only in the conversion, but also in the provision of the energy (e.g. charging stations).
The Renewable Energy Sources Act must be restructured or replaced by new energy legislation: Municipalities, municipal utilities and citizen energy cooperatives should be given equal access to the expansion of renewable energies.
Uniform standards for climate protection concepts are needed at the federal level to
ensure that municipalities are supported in coping with climate change adaptation and that the federal government provides appropriate financial resources for this purpose.
VII Rents down! A new start for social, non-profit housing construction and fundamentally improved tenancy law
Rents are exploding in large cities, metropolitan areas and university towns.
Because rent is no longer affordable, many are being forced out of their homes.
Cities are changing: the attractive inner cities are increasingly reserved for the rich.
Poor people, students, people with low income, pensioners are displaced.
And it's getting tight for middle-income people, too!
More and more of our wages and salaries have to be spent on housing and are lacking elsewhere.
The fear of no longer being able to afford housing unsettles many people.
The government's rent brake is ineffective: it has not been able to stop the explosion of rents.
Social housing continues to decline.
Rents are rising because speculation has hit the housing market and there is too little housing available in many places.
Capital is waltzing through the cities.
After the financial crisis and in view of low interest rates, real estate funds and finance companies are looking for new profit opportunities: They are buying apartment buildings and "modernizing" the tenants out of them: existing rents are rising, and big profits are waiting to be made on new rentals or conversions into condominiums.
It has now also reached many medium-sized and smaller cities: housing, modernization and speculation in real estate is the new "concrete gold".
Large real estate funds and private financial market-driven housing companies such as Vonovia and Deutsche Wohnen are acquiring ever larger portfolios and subjecting tenants to their profit interests.
Our Basic Law binds property to the common good.
The rampant growth of rent increases and privatization profits, on the other hand, is reminiscent of the gold rush era: regulations do not take effect or are undermined with impunity.
All experience teaches that if there is no state investment, hardly any affordable housing is built, and there is no state regulation, housing will be exploited as a mere commodity.
The crisis in the housing market needs decisive and fast-acting measures.
Instruments must be created to reduce excessive rents and set maximum rents in each area.
Possibilities for expropriation of real property for public benefit and its transfer to public ownership already exist; they must be facilitated.
We need more affordable housing.
No one should have to spend more than one-third of their income on rent.
Over the past 30 years, the stock of public housing has declined by two-thirds.
The government's policy? completely misses the mark: There is a shortage of five million social housing units!
50,000 social housing units fall out of the social obligation every year.
We want a fresh start in social housing.
This is a central component of our program for the future: social housing must be built and purchased - at least 250,000 a year - primarily through non-profit municipal housing construction.
We are supporting this project with over 5 billion euros.
The apartments remain social housing: Publicly subsidized housing must not be released from the social obligation.
The "Vienna Model" has set an example: affordable apartments with fixed rents, which are publicly owned and in which the tenants have a say.
We want to introduce a new residential community benefit!
The residential community benefit system was abolished in Germany in 1990.
Housing was thus left to the market and the pursuit of profit.
A sector in the housing market that is not profit-driven is a core component of a new social and sustainable housing policy.
It should make rent affordable, cap profits and reinvest in affordable housing.
In return, there are tax benefits, preferential funding and preferential access to land.
Public benefit-oriented companies must operate transparently and guarantee tenant co-determination.
These are the foundations of a democratic, socially just and safe organization of housing.
DIE LINKE focuses on the interests of tenants.
We support tenants who defend themselves against rent-seeking and displacement!
In most cities there are now numerous initiatives fighting for their homes, their neighborhoods, fighting for the right to the city.
DIE LINKE takes sides with tenants and is a partner of the rent policy movement.
Housing is a human right that must not be left to the market.
We want to 1. stop the explosion of rents and displacement,
2. end the privatization of and speculation with land and housing,
and 3. restart public and social housing construction and strengthen non-profit and cooperative housing construction.
Rents are too high! Stop rent increases!
We want to replace the "Mietpreisbremse" (rent brake), which has proven unsuitable for protecting tenants, with a genuine rent brake that applies nationwide, indefinitely and without exception.
Until they are introduced, we want a moratorium on rent increases, i.e. until then rent increases will be ruled out.
No rent increases without housing value improvements!
Landlords can only apportion the inflation adjustment.
The rent index may not be a rent increase index.
All rents must be included in the calculation, not just those of the last four years.
For cities above a certain size, rent indices become mandatory.
The municipalities receive financial support from the federal government for this purpose.
Landlords who violate the rent cap must be punished.
We need a register that creates transparency about past rent and takes into account tenants' data protection.
Rent-seeking must finally be effectively punished.
Stop displacement and gentrification
In municipalities with tight housing markets, rental housing should not be allowed to be offered commercially as vacation rentals.
We want to stop the misappropriation of residential space.
We want to stop the misappropriation of residential space with a ban on misappropriation with high vacancy charges.
The implementation of tenant protection, rent indexes, milieu protection and bans on de-tenanting and commercial vacation rentals must be effectively monitored.
To this end, we want to create a special "Fair Housing" commission and a public complaints office.
We want to expand milieu protection and make it effective.
Until a binding rent index is implemented, a cap on rents of €8.50 will be introduced in milieu protection areas.
Lower rents are frozen and may not be increased.
The caps are reviewed on a neighborhood-by-neighborhood basis.
Here we want a general ban on the conversion of rental apartments into condominiums.
We want to promote housing for all, not foreclosure properties for a few.
We want to abolish the modernization levy, as it is one of the central instruments of de-renting.
We want to improve protection against termination for tenants:
If rent arrears have been settled, notice of termination may not be given.
Rent reduction is not a reason for termination!
If the rent reduction is unlawful, a reasonable period of time must be granted for payment of the rent arrears.
We want to regulate terminations due to owner occupancy more strictly.
If companies are the owners, they should be excluded.
Tenants' rights have been honed and eviction suits made easier.
We will undo that!
Termination protection for commercial leases must also be improved to protect small stores from displacement.
For a new residential community benefit.
A brake block against speculation and privatization!
Housing is a human right and must be removed from the market and profit.
We want to bring housing back into public ownership.
Primarily municipalities,
but we also want to enable cooperatives and tenant associations to buy back apartments and promote them through the public sector.
To this end, a re-municipalization fund is to be set up and a municipal right of first refusal strengthened.
We will stop the privatization of public land and housing.
Properties owned by the Federal Real Estate Agency may now only be sold to municipalities, states, tenants' initiatives and tenants' syndicates.
We want to withdraw the authorization of real estate funds.
When real estate is sold, the municipalities and tenants, individually and collectively, should have a right of first refusal.
Public land may not be privatized, but only granted on a leasehold basis.
Non-profit use is preferred in this regard.
Vacancy to rental apartments!
In tight residential areas, vacant apartments may not be written off against taxes.
This sets the wrong incentives.
We want to abolish the rule that no taxes have to be paid on profits from real estate sales after a period of ten years.
Profits generated by speculation and real estate sales must be taxed much more heavily.
Housing companies need legal requirements to commit them to social management, maintenance and tenant participation.
Share deals allow large investors to avoid land transfer tax.
Municipalities and states are thus deprived of millions of euros in revenue.
We want to abolish them.
We want a new land law.
Without a land price cap, there will be no effective rent cap.
Capital gains from land price increases must be skimmed off and used for social, municipal and cooperative housing.
In view of the current emergency, the following applies: residential space or commercial space usable as residential space that is vacant or misappropriated for speculative reasons or the like must be seized and put to mandatory interim use.
Civil society initiatives that use civil disobedience to advocate for the appropriate use of housing ("squats") must be legalized.
For livable and social cities.
We want to preserve socially mixed neighborhoods instead of bed castles for the poor on the outskirts and glossy districts for the rich in the centers.
To do this, we aimed for a percentage of public housing in all neighborhoods.
Housing is part of our investment in the future: we want a fresh start for public social and non-profit housing.
To this end, we want to create at least 250,000 new social housing units per year on a permanent basis.
Federal, state, county and local governments must be more verifiably obligated to create social housing.
Shortages must be reduced.
When the social commitment expires, this leads to significant rent increases and terminations.
The earmarking must be maintained.
In the future, the rule must be: Once social housing, always social housing.
The tenants affected need grandfathering.
The federal government must not be released from its responsibility for social housing after 2019.
We need a federal-state program.
We want to build barrier-free!
For inclusive cities.
In future, we want to enshrine barrier-free construction as a general requirement in German building law - accessibility, like statics, should be subject to an inspection before planning permission is granted.
Student services need more funding to increase the number of dorm spaces available.
Commercial rents must also be limited to preserve small businesses and a supply of shopping options close to home.
We want to build in a land-saving and ecological way and preserve allotment gardens, urban green spaces and areas for urban gardening.
Cities are worth living in if people can help shape them.
There needs to be more of a voice in urban redevelopment projects, inner-city redensification, and large-scale new construction projects.
Stop demolishing affordable housing with structures worth preserving in favor of expensive new construction.
The municipalities are to develop housing policy concepts, including stock concepts and vacancy concepts.
Alternative concepts such as building over parking lots, storage areas, railways and roads as well as the integration of living space in industrial or agricultural buildings should be used for residential construction.
Renovations social
and ecological!
Redevelopment is often used to "de-rent" apartments and drive up rents.
After energy modernization, the rent increase may not be higher than the tenants save in heating costs.
The difference must be covered by a grant program.
To this end, we are launching a federal program worth five billion euros a year.
Tenants should have a legal right to have landlords take advantage of this subsidy.
If the subsidy is not used, the tenants do not have to tolerate the modernization.
We want to abolish the modernization levy.
We want to secure housing for those who are most at risk.
Homelessness has increased.
In a rich society like ours, this is a shame.
We want to stop homelessness.
The focus must be on: Provide housing (housing first).
We want to prevent forced evictions.
We want to legally preclude eviction into homelessness.
The right to housing belongs in the Basic Law.
Refugees must not be made the scapegoat for the shortcomings of housing policy.
In a social offensive for all, we can create good housing for all.
We want to end the housing of refugees in mass accommodation and organize it in a decentralized manner.
So far homelessness is not documented, we want public statistics.
We want an overall concept against housing and homelessness.
Institutions providing assistance to the homeless must be strengthened financially.
Housing subsidies must be increased and rebuilt.
The public sector must not feed the private profits of apartment owners - that's why we want the rent cap.
We want to reintroduce the heating cost surcharge immediately and a climate component in housing subsidies and housing costs (cf. XIV "People and nature before profits").
Until the introduction of a minimum income of 1,050 euros (cf. Chapter III "Social Security"), the adequacy limits for the "costs of accommodation" must be raised significantly so that they cover actual needs.
Accordingly, the federal government must significantly increase its share of cost coverage.
The houses to those who live in them!
Many people are fighting back against rent increases, displacement and evictions.
DIE LINKE is fighting alongside them.
We want tenants to have more say
or their houses jointly (collective right of first refusal).
Democratic tenant councils must be elected in all public companies.
Tenants must be involved in all important decisions made by the company.
The results of supervisory board meetings of public companies must be publicly accessible.
Tenants' associations must be given the right to take legal action.
We want to anchor these demands in a nationwide tenant co-determination law that applies equally to all housing companies, public and private.
We also want to democratize cooperatives.
In order to facilitate the establishment of small cooperatives for cooperative and/or age-appropriate housing and cultural projects, we want to introduce a special legal form in cooperative law (legal form of limited liability cooperative company).
Better protection for social carriers
Many social institutions are facing problems due to the tight housing situation: Long-term leases are being terminated and they often only receive commercial leases.
These allow landlords to make unfounded rent increases and terminations.
Many projects are therefore on the brink of cancellation.
Social sponsors for housing projects are to receive a housing lease with the usual protection against termination and drastic rent increases.
The rental law for commercial leases must be changed.
DIE LINKE wants tenancies with social objectives (such as children's stores, housing projects, physiotherapy practices) to be subject to special tenancy law in the future, which protects against arbitrary termination, provides for longer notice periods and only limited possibilities for rent increases.
We want to introduce a general tenant model in the municipalities.
The municipality or a sponsoring association rents suitable apartments from the house owner for housing projects.
This gives the landlord a permanent rental relationship and the social institutions planning security.
Living in the city and in the countryside
While rents are exploding in the big cities, apartments and houses are standing empty in many rural regions.
When apartments are vacant and leasing is uncertain, less is invested, e.g. in energy refurbishment, accessibility or maintenance.
Moreover, housing companies in rural areas in particular are often unable to reduce burdens from old debts.
As a result, rental housing in rural and structurally weak regions is less and less in line with demand and attractive.
This accelerates the exodus of the population.
Municipal and cooperative housing companies in rural areas face an existential threat.
The dilemma: The advantages of rural living (lower rents, neighborly coexistence, close to nature) do not compensate for the disadvantages (longer distances, more time required, higher costs for mobility, etc.).
Access to social, economic, cultural and civic opportunities is also often difficult.
This situation exacerbates the imbalance of living conditions in urban and rural areas.
We want to support rural regions and structurally weak areas nationwide through a federal urban redevelopment program that combines the urban redevelopment programs for the east and west.
The deconstruction of apartments and the upgrading of housing and the living environment must be thought of together in this context.
We advocated that the urban redevelopment programs for the east and west be merged.
This must not lead to a reduction in financial resources for the East (cf. Chapter X "Equal living conditions in East and West").
The focus of the funding is to be on improving housing and the residential environment in the city districts,
on modernization
and on age-appropriate and barrier-free conversion of buildings.
The municipal contribution to upgrading measures is eliminated.
In some communities, it will still be necessary to encourage housing demolition.
The plan is to rely on partial demolition, i.e. the removal of the upper floors instead of complete demolition.
In many villages and small towns, new residential areas are being designated in the outskirts.
This leads to land grabbing.
The town centers are decaying and emptying.
The federal government must set up a support program for the redevelopment and preservation of local and village centers.
The Socially Integrative City program must be better funded.
In the future, measures to improve the residential environment will not require a municipal contribution and will be financed equally by the federal and state governments.
We want to make funding for urban development and village renewal accessible at a low threshold.
We want to strengthen basic and medium-sized centers so that they can provide a basic range of public services and utilities as well as rental housing in line with demand in the long term.
We want more space for alternative housing concepts.
This requires a redesign of the building code.
Promote the ecological transformation of the building sector
The building sector urgently needs to be ecologically transformed in order to limit climate change and create livable cities.
The existing building stock must be renovated and new buildings must be well insulated.
We want to expand renewable energy and decentralized power supply.
Building owners will bear the main financial burden for the change in the building sector.
To this end, they are to be supported by targeted funding programs.
We also want to remove obstacles to ecological building materials in building law.
We want to adapt the training.
We want to promote innovation (see chapterVI "Investing in the future" ) and establish favorable loans for ecological construction methods and minimum standards for climate-friendly construction.
VIII. Good education. For all.
Access to education in Germany is strongly dependent on social background.
Those who have wealthy parents have significantly better chances of graduating from high school and going to university.
Education is a human right.
But for many children, the decision as to which type of school they will attend and thus which doors will remain closed to them in the future is already made after elementary school.
The German education system exacerbates the social division of society instead of counteracting it.
Far too little money is invested in education.
A visible sign of this are dilapidated schools.
The debt brake exacerbates these problems.
The need for renovation of schools alone is estimated at 34 billion euros nationwide.
Approximately 35 billion euros would have to be invested in universities between 2017 and 2025 to reduce the modernization backlog.
Lecture halls and seminar rooms are often overcrowded, and there are too few staff.
The student-staff ratio was set at 13 to 1 in 1980.
The Education and Science Union has calculated that 56,746 science positions must be created to achieve it.
We are fighting for more staff in education.
We want to renovate and expand the buildings and adapt them to demand.
We oppose social division in education, pressure to perform and underfunding with a different idea.
Our goal is for everyone to have equal opportunities for and access to education throughout their lives.
Access to education should reduce social disadvantages, not exacerbate them.
No one should be excluded.
DIE LINKE is committed to an inclusive education system in which people receive individual support.
We want learning together in solidarity instead of competition and pressure to achieve grades.
The education system is part of the public service.
It must be adequately funded by the state.
Privatizations - including of public educational institutions - must be stopped and reversed.
We want free teaching and learning materials, free meals at daycare centers and schools, and free transportation for students to school.
DIE LINKE stands for good education that does
not depend on one's wallet and origin.
Cooperation instead of competition
Education systems are so different in the states that moving can be a problem.
The idea of equal living conditions, which is anchored in the Basic Law, falls by the wayside.
Uniform standards would improve many things, but instead the states are competing with each other.
Education policy is a matter for the states, yet the federal and state governments must be able to work together on education.
This cooperation has not been possible since 2006.
The so-called prohibition of cooperation is an obstacle to equal and comparable conditions in learning and teaching.
There are major differences between the federal states in terms of educational infrastructure, educational qualifications and educational pathways.
The federal government has only partially lifted the ban on cooperation for its prestige projects in higher education.
As a result of this so-called excellence strategy, competition for scarce financial resources is increasing, the basic funding of universities by the federal states is declining,
and chain appointments in the middle and lower levels of universities are getting out of hand.
This is the wrong way!
We want to completely lift the ban on cooperation
and anchor education as a joint task in the Basic Law
so that educational justice can be achieved for all children and young people.
We want to renovate buildings,
create barrier-free access
and expand the digital infrastructure.
This can only be done with public investment.
We need more personnel in education!
We are starting to do this in residential areas with socially disadvantaged populations.
We want the inclusive school.
Temporary positions are ubiquitous in education, whether in higher education, in continuing education, or by laying off teachers before summer vacation.
The special regulations for fixed-term contracts at universities must be ended.
We want permanent employment as the rule.
Exceptions must be limited to a few objective reasons (e.g. parental leave replacement).
Standards in education should be comparable nationwide.
With an education framework law, we want to set standards of teaching and learning conditions (personnel and equipment).
The focus should be on the comparability of educational demands rather than on measuring student achievement.
Unequal opportunities and life courses are also organized and assigned through education.
Early division into different types of schools promotes this.
At universities, this development has intensified in recent years: through pressure to perform and constant testing of knowledge.
Everyday life is also often stressful at school and in training.
Competition is practiced early on.
In order to reduce social inequality instead of increasing it, we want a community school in which learning takes place together for longer.
Class Kitas
From the very beginning, all children must be able to live and learn together with other children in daycare facilities all day long.
Regardless of whether and how long the parents work.
We reject such needs tests.
To achieve this, all children need a legal right to a full-day place in a daycare center.
However, there is currently a shortfall of almost 300,000 places that would be needed to meet current demand.
The federal government must make more money available to ensure the quality of the facilities and for the further expansion of daycare places.
We need a law on the quality of daycare centers that focuses on the interests of children and employees when expanding daycare centers:
DIE LINKE calls for a uniform childcare ratio in daycare centers throughout Germany of at least one educator present for a maximum of three children up to the age of three and at least one educator for a maximum of eight children over the age of three.
We want tuition-free daycare centers (parental contribution-free) and fight for the abolition of all fees in the public education system.
The switch to daycare provision without costs for parents must not be made at the expense of the quality of the educational work at the facilities.
All children should receive free, healthy, hot meals every day, as is already the practice in some cities.
We urgently need more educators for good education, upbringing and care.
Social and educational professions must be upgraded.
They deserve greater appreciation: better pay and working conditions.
This also includes the crediting of pre- and post-processing times, further training and illness to the care key.
We want to raise educator training in early childhood education to university level.
But we also want to create more attractive career paths in daycare for women and men without university entrance qualifications.
This begins with remuneration in training and the abolition of school fees.
A school for all
The main cause of the social divide in education is the early division of students into different types of schools.
We want a school for all: a community school that leaves no child behind and counteracts social inequality.
Instead of allocating educational opportunities through different educational pathways, we call for inclusive forms of schooling that enable longer shared learning.
School should be organized in such a way that social differences are not exacerbated, but balanced out as far as possible.
Therefore, the children's own work should not remain in the family sphere (homework).
Space and time must be created for this in everyday school life.
Every child must have the opportunity to attend an all-day school.
As long as this is not guaranteed, we demand a legal right to all-day care in elementary school.
The community school supports the children individually and comprehensively.
Private tutoring and homework become obsolete.
The community school has high content standards, promotes strengths and compensates for disadvantages.
It is organized on a full-day basis and offers all school-leaving qualifications.
Teachers, school social work and school psychology should work together in multiprofessional teams.
The community school is democratically organized with real co-determination of students.
DIE LINKE wants an inclusive school where all children and young people are welcome.
The inclusive school also stands for the full implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
Today, many special needs are identified, but adequate assistance for these needs is not provided.
That has to change.
For us, inclusion is an obligation for society as a whole; everyone must be able to belong and participate on an equal footing.
To this end, the federal, state and local governments must launch an "inclusive education" investment program to comprehensively convert and equip educational facilities to make them barrier-free.
The legal right to inclusive education and the right to learn together in a mainstream school belongs in every school law.
All schools must have barrier-free access for all children, not just limited to building requirements.
They must have adequate equipment and qualifications in staff, assistance services, teaching and learning materials, and other aids for each child.
We want to implement a 2-teacher system as one of the frameworks by which we make special schools obsolete.
Inclusion must not be made dependent on how much it costs!
Thousands of refugee and other immigrant children and young people are attending school or training in Germany.
We want a federal-state program called "Immediate Action in Education."
It must be co-financed by the federal government and includes training and continuing education for additional teachers who teach German as a second language,
an initial supply of school supplies for all children, additional language and literacy courses also for refugee adults, and information on vocational training offered for refugees at the Federal Employment Agency.
The municipalities must be provided with appropriate funds for this purpose.
In Germany, multilingual socialization is only valued for languages that are considered economically important.
We, on the other hand, see multilingualism as a qualifying characteristic even among young people with an immigrant background.
Including the mother tongue in the learning of other languages is important in order to acquire a secure footing in these languages.
School social work must become an integral part of school work - at every school and on a permanent basis.
To this end, it must be anchored in youth welfare law.
School staffing shortages lead to missed classes and stress.
Staff must be able to compensate for shortages with regularly employed teachers.
To end the staffing shortage in schools, significantly more teachers need to be trained and hired.
Many sports halls and swimming pools are dilapidated, have to be closed or already are because savings have to be made.
We want to renovate here
and barrier-free,
energy-efficient and beautifully designed classrooms!
We want to stop lobbying in schools and classrooms.
Interest groups may not be active there for commercial reasons.
Commercial advertising in schools must be prohibited by law.
Schools must be better equipped with teaching materials.
Teachers should no longer be forced to rely on external teaching materials due to financial constraints.
DIE LINKE wants to promote free, non-commercialized teaching and learning materials for the entire education sector with federal funds.
Education without the Bundeswehr!
The Bundeswehr should no longer be allowed to advertise or perform in schools or universities.
Instead, we need more political and peace education by teachers.
All teaching positions should be equalized.
We want to strengthen democracy, self-governance and the co-determination rights of students in schools.
Well trained
Every year, around 80,000 young people in Germany are put off in their search for an apprenticeship.
They cannot find an apprenticeship with prospects or are stuck in endless waiting loops.
Mainstream students and migrants are particularly disadvantaged.
A study by the DGB has shown that there are not too few qualified applicants, as employers claim.
Around 283,000 young people looking for an apprenticeship place are going away empty-handed.
More than half of the trainees complain about too high a workload, many also go to work sick or are exploited as cheap labor.
The conditions and quality of training urgently need to be improved.
Because the training market is still divided into so-called women's and men's occupations, the hurdles for young people to make an atypical career choice are great.
DIE LINKE advocates a right to free and fully qualifying education for all.
Anonymized application procedures are designed to ensure that everyone has an equal chance of receiving training.
We want to see solidarity-based pay-as-you-go financing that makes all companies responsible for creating sufficient dual and high-quality apprenticeships (see Chapter I "Good Work").
Trainees need a training allowance that is sufficient to live independently of their parents.
That is why we are calling for a legally regulated minimum training allowance comparable to the statutory minimum wage.
We support the trade unions and trade union youth organizations in their struggle for better collective bargaining solutions.
Training in occupations that are not dual-regulated must be better financed.
At the end of vocational preparation measures, there must be a binding offer of training.
People who have not completed vocational training should be able to obtain a recognized vocational qualification - regardless of their age.
We want a fundamental reform of the Vocational Training Act (BBiG) that focuses on improving the quality of training and enshrines a legal right to fully qualifying training.
We want to strengthen the co-determination of trainees.
Their participation in the staff councils must be guaranteed.
We want a vocational school pact so that long overdue investments are made for good quality at vocational schools.
Political education must also be part of vocational training.
The freedom of teaching and learning materials must be anchored in the Vocational Training Act.
Good training
We are committed to lifelong, life-long learning: as an offer, not as an obligation to self-optimization!
General, cultural, political and professional education is an important part of this.
It serves the development of the individual and professional training or reorientation and promotes social participation.
With the adult education centers, the districts and independent cities also have an instrument at hand that is suitable for this purpose, regardless of the profit interests of private education providers, also for catching up on school qualifications.
To this end, the adult education centers are to be strengthened financially so that they can expand their range of services and offer them free of charge.
Adult education centers pay particular attention to providing language support services for immigrants.
Waiting months for a free place is unacceptable.
We want to facilitate professional development.
DIE LINKE also wants to secure educational leave for all employees by law, not just for continuing vocational training (cf. Chapter I "Good Work").
In further education, working conditions are often precarious.
Teachers in continuing education need a generally binding collective agreement for all areas of continuing education.
Honorary contracts are to be converted into permanent positions.
Fee contracts, to the extent they are still necessary or desired by employees, must be adjusted to the terms in this collective bargaining agreement.
This also applies to teachers in language and integration courses.
Labor agencies and other public contracting agencies must focus on the quality of education and good pay for teachers when awarding contracts.
When the Federal Employment Agency awards contracts for training services, the applicable collective bargaining provisions are to be binding on all providers.
Adult education centers and other publicly funded continuing education institutions must be adequately and permanently financed.
Teachers should not have to shimmy from one temporary project to the next.
Democratic university and critical sciences
For years, colleges and universities, under pressure from public finan cial systems, have been expanding to become entrepreneurial universities.
The goal is to make knowledge, education and research economically exploitable.
We reject that.
Chronic underfunding means that the space for independent and socially critical research and teaching, and thus an essential function of science, falls by the wayside.
Research without third-party funding is hardly possible anymore.
The study program is characterized by pressure to perform and time pressure.
Many are excluded by barriers to entry.
This is politically intentional.
But it doesn't have to stay that way.
The abolition of regular tuition fees has shown that it is worth fighting.
After long protests, the fees were gradually abolished in all German states, most recently in Bavaria in 2013.
We want to pick up where we left off and fight together with students and teachers to improve the study and working conditions at universities and universities of applied sciences.
DIE LINKE is committed to a social, democratic, open and solidary university.
Access and admission restrictions such as numerus clausus, selection interviews, IQ tests or job interviews must be overcome.
To this end, we propose a Higher Education Admissions Act.
Access opportunities for people without a high school diploma must be improved.
Admission to the master's degree must be open.
To achieve this, master's degree places must be expanded in line with demand.
In CDU/SPD-governed Saxony and under the leadership of Winfried Kretschmann, the Green Minister President of Baden-Württemberg, tuition fees were partially reintroduced.
These higher education policies promote exclusion.
We oppose this.
We abolish all forms of tuition fees for people with and without German passports.
To that end, we are proposing a federal higher education admissions act.
DIE LINKE stands by its criticism of the neoliberal Bologna Process.
We therefore advocate for emancipatory, democratically organized, interdisciplinary and critical study that addresses the flaws of the current Bachelor-Master system.
Opportunities for university transfer and study abroad must be improved.
We want the inclusive and barrier-free university.
We want to open up universities to refugees.
To this end, additional study places must be created and educational qualifications acquired abroad must be recognized quickly and without red tape.
Taking up studies must ensure the right to stay and protect against deportation.
Democratization of universities: We are fighting nationwide for constituted student bodies with a general political mandate.
University committees should have equal representation so that all status groups, including students, have equal voting rights.
Instead of unilateral strengthening of the university management, we need strengthening of the university bodies democratically elected by all university members.
Bodies that are modeled on supervisory boards - such as university councils - should be abolished.
Instead, we want to create advisory boards that are staffed from civil society.
We want to strengthen the democratic exchange between the university and civil society actors, trade unions, citizens' initiatives and social associations.
We want students to be able to organize at universities.
Universities should be open places for social debate.
This must take precedence over commercial use of university space.
The content of teaching and research is increasingly geared to economic usability and corporate interests.
We want a diverse offering and are committed to critical science and teaching,
in the sense of a socially just,
ecologically sustainable
and peaceful world.
The universities are supported to a significant extent by non-scientific personnel in administration, building management and research operations.
Whoever talks about working conditions at universities must not neglect this part of the workforce.
They have been equally disadvantaged by the reforms of the last federal governments.
We want good working conditions for students and academic staff.
To do this, the underfunding of universities must end.
The federal government must assume responsibility for the basic funding of public universities.
We want to reduce the time limit on the Higher Education Pact and develop it into a permanent subsidy.
Instead of one-sided funding for excellence, we need public funding.
The Excellence Initiative must be discontinued and the funds must be used for basic funding.
Investments in social infrastructure: The joint task of university construction must be re-established in the Basic Law and a special program for the construction of new dormitory places must be launched.
Teaching is to be secured by basic funding based on the number of actual student enrollments and the cost of the student place.
BAföG must be adapted to the reality of life and provide comprehensive funding for education.
We advocate for a parent-independent, repayment-free BAföG in the amount of 1,050 euros net.
The BAföG funding rate must be regularly and automatically adjusted to the rising cost of living.
We want to abolish the age limits for BAföG and adjust the duration of entitlement to the real, average duration of studies.
Likewise, the linking of BAföG to performance reviews must be abolished.
Funding gaps must be closed.
People with Duldung, Aufenthaltsgestattung and with humanitarian residence titles must have access to training support when they start their studies or training.
The Deutschlandstipendium has proven to be a flop.
Only 0.6 percent of students benefit from this funding opportunity.
Instead, we want to use the federal funds from the Deutschlandstipendium to finance BAföG.
Good science needs good work.
To this end, the scientific and non-scientific sub- and mid-level faculty must be strengthened.
Permanent tasks must be handled by permanent positions.
We reject precarious work, teaching at dumping wages, and the exploitation of adjunct faculty and non-academic employees.
We want to increase the fees for teaching assignments; they must also cover preparation and follow-up work.
Teaching assignments are intended to supplement the course offerings.
Teaching percentages in research and qua l ification contracts must be limited.
Central teaching duties must be performed in permanent, tenured positions.
We want to reduce the number of teaching positions in favor of regular employment.
Put an end to chain fixed-term contracts.
We want to abolish the special fixed-term contract for academic staff below the professorship level.
As a first step, the improvements made in the Act on Temporary Scientific Contracts must be concretized and expanded.
This relates, for example, to the compatibility of family and career.
We are calling for a federally funded start-up program to create 100,000 permanent positions or make existing positions permanent.
The minimum contract periods for third-party funded positions and in qualification should correspond to the duration of the approved funding.
Instead of being dependent on individual professors, young scientists should belong to departments.
Qualifying positions of doctoral students must be compensated at 100 percent.
We need a nationwide collective bargaining agreement for student employees.
Empowering women: We want to enforce a 50 percent quota for women at every career level and further develop the Women Professors Program into a program for promoting women at all career levels.
The dual study program must be accredited under public law and lead to equivalent degrees.
Dual students must receive a training contract with a minimum salary.
Access to dual studies must be possible without a high school diploma.
Transparent research and social responsibility
Cooperation agreements, sponsorships and other contracts between public universities and private companies and foundations must be disclosed.
They directly or indirectly influence science.
In order to make copyrighted works freely available for the purposes of education, research and teaching, we want to anchor a general exception (science barrier) for education and research in copyright law.
The second publication right for scientists must be freed from the narrow restrictive specifications so that the rights of use cannot be appropriated exclusively by publishing companies.
Information and scientific knowledge generated with taxpayer funds must be available to all.
Therefore, we advocate OpenAccess strategies for the publication of research results and access to research data.
We promote an Open Science culture and want to enable needs- and participation-oriented scientific work.
We want to ban usage and publication fees to publishers that go beyond transparently made typesetting and editing work.
We reject the package negotiations of research institutions with individual major publishers.
Research for peace instead of for war and the arms industry: We demand the anchoring of civil clauses at all universities and all scientific institutions as well as the promotion of peace research.
Research and science must contribute to solving social divisions,
contribute to climate and environmental change.
With this in mind, we want to strategically align the billions in federal innovation and technology funding, including non-university research funded jointly by the federal and state governments.
In addition to technical innovations, social innovations are particularly important.
We want to link this research landscape more closely with the work of the universities.
A transparent system of public governance is needed.
The improvement of working conditions for a predictable life perspective for scientists and technical staff, with fewer fixed-term contracts is also essential in non-university research.
We want Open Access to be the publication standard for predominantly publicly funded research.
Access to education for all, including digital
Digitization offers the opportunity to provide many people with rapid access to information.
However, this does not happen by itself, but must be enforced.
We want to teach more competencies in the area of media and information.
A self-determined and critical approach to digital technologies and the Internet are linked to education.
The expansion of IT must go hand in hand with training and continuing education opportunities for student teachers and active teaching staff.
Digital media must not be a gateway for privatization of education by private commercial providers, companies or publishers.
Software used in educational institutions should be Free Software, and hardware should be openly specified whenever possible.
We want every child to have a mobile device as part of their educational equipment and to be familiarized with the principles of digital technologies (such as how memories work, sensors, programming skills) at an early and regular age.
That's why schools need free loaners for those who can't afford one themselves.
The IT infrastructure at schools must be supported by specialist personnel.
Corresponding positions are to be created in the short and medium term.
The IT infrastructure of all schools and universities must be expanded with fast and powerful broadband connections, WLAN for all and up-to-date hardware and software equipment.
IX. For a diverse, participatory culture accessible to all
Culture opens up new spaces in thinking and acting and always raises the question: How do we want to live together?
Culture and art enable communication and understanding, education, freedom and self-assurance.
Imagination and creativity show that we do not have to resign ourselves to reality, but can shape it.
DIE LINKE advocates a democratic culture,
in which all people living in Germany, regardless of their origin, can find and express their cultural identity.
We will promote cultural life in all milieus and regions, in metropolitan and rural areas, in cultural institutions and the independent scene, as a basis for understanding between the various groups in society.
Cuts in cultural funding, closures or privatizations of public institutions, and massive staff reductions have weakened the public cultural sector.
Commercial offerings are not accessible to all people and are often not democratically designed.
The economic and social risks for cultural workers have increased.
Their situation is increasingly characterized by social insecurity and low and fluctuating incomes.
Digitization and the growing creative industries have changed the character of work: More time- and location-independent work enables more self-determination and time sovereignty.
But the danger of (self-)exploitation is growing.
Temporary employment relationships and solo self-employment are increasingly replacing the old standard employment relationship.
DIE LINKE wants good working conditions,
Strengthening the public sector
and more democracy in the area of culture as well:
Culture is part of public services of general interest.
A municipal budget emergency must not lead to the closure of cultural institutions.
We want to create good framework conditions for archives, libraries, cinemas, museums, music and other art schools, opera houses, orchestras, socio-cultural centers, theaters, dance, adult education centers and the diverse associations.
Cultural institutions, the independent scene, and the diverse actors in cultural education in both metropolitan and rural areas need a secure financial and staffing basis and longer-term planning opportunities.
We advocate a fundamentally different approach to cultural funding: instead of pressure from economization, we want solid basic funding that is not product-oriented but process-oriented.
It should offer sufficient freedom for project development and provide social security for cultural workers, whether employed or freelance.
For public libraries, media acquisition must be in the hands of the respective institution.
We reject privatization by transferring this task to external service providers.
We are fighting for good, living wage jobs, a new normal employment relationship and social security in the cultural sector (see chapter I "Good Work").
We want to link the awarding of public funding to good, living wage, good working conditions and gender equality.
We fight for industry-specific minimum fees and exhibition fees for visual artists.
We support the preservation of ensemble theaters so that theaters can remain constant political actors in urban society.
We want to strengthen the negotiating power of creative professionals in copyright contract law.
The artists' social insurance fund must be maintained and expanded.
We want to include newly created fields of activity and increase the federal subsidy.
We strive to include the (solo) self-employed in our solidarity-based insurance models (health, unemployment, pension, care).
We want to reform the collecting societies and improve the co-determination rights of creative professionals.
We want to digitally secure cultural assets
and make them accessible to all.
To achieve this, we need a nationwide digitization strategy.
We are committed to an open access strategy in the cultural sector as well.
We create opportunities and incentives for cultural institutions to place their digital publications under free licenses.
We want to expand our cooperation with the German Digital Library.
We want to preserve films in perpetuity and make them accessible.
For public libraries, we want to simplify digital media lending.
DIE LINKE stands for barrier-free and equal access to culture.
We want to create spaces for dialogue and transcultural exchange.
We don't want to deny differences, we want to make them productive.
We want to promote mutual understanding and a change of perspective.
Admission to federally funded museums and collections must be free of charge in the future.
We want to increase the museum education staff.
Cultural institutions must offer barrier-free and inclusive services.
The experiences of cultural institutions and projects with intercultural and transcultural mediation concepts must be used and disseminated.
We promote and demand the production and protection of temporary and non-institutional, freely accessible arts, such as street art and art in public spaces, in socio-cultural and self-managed centers.
We are committed to nationwide cooperation between schools and art institutions as well as independent artists.
We want to restructure federal cultural funding.
DIE LINKE opposes the economization and privatization of services of general interest.
We insist on compliance with the UNESCO Convention on Cultural Diversity in international trade agreements.
The ban on cooperation between the federal and state governments must be ended.
We want culture to be a community task and a state objective in the Basic Law.
In this way, we want to strengthen cooperative cultural federalism.
We want a federal minister of culture with cabinet rank and a ministry of culture to represent the interests of culture more effectively vis-à-vis other ministries and at the European level.
States and municipalities must receive sufficient funds to enable them to fulfill their tasks in the preservation and promotion of culture and to ensure a wide variety of cultural offerings.
The utilization of financial resources for art in buildings must be pushed more strongly and publicized more in the municipalities.
We want to expand cultural policy research, establish a cultural report and re-systematize federal cultural funding.
We want to equip the cultural promotion funds in line with demand and strengthen them as a central instrument of the independent scene.
DIE LINKE is working at the federal level to ensure that federal funding programs can be better integrated with state programs.
DIE LINKE stands for a lively and pluralistic policy of history and remembrance.
We want to encourage a critical examination of Germany's history in the 19th and 20th centuries, especially the reappraisal of the crimes of National Socialism.
We are committed to a differentiated reappraisal of the history of the GDR.
We want to strengthen memorial sites as places of remembrance and as museums of contemporary history.
The working conditions of the pedagogical staff in particular must be improved.
We want to promote living cultures of remembrance that are oriented to the realities of the immigration society.
We are committed to democratic, anti-fascist culture and a critical approach to the colonial past.
Nazi looted art must be returned.
This requires better research into the origin of art and cultural assets (provenance research).
We want to transfer the Stasi files to the Federal Archives.
Their use must be regulated by the Federal Archives Act.
We want to transfer the special cultural support under Section 96 of the Federal Expellees Act to the general cultural support.
X. Equivalent Living Conditions in East and West
The differences between East and West, between structurally weak and growth regions in Germany as a whole are becoming greater instead of smaller.
The neoliberal model of society leads to growing inequality between regions.
The federal government promotes this through its unfair economic and tax policies.
For years, the economic power in the east has stagnated at only 72 percent of the level in the west.
The eastern German economic structure is small-scale and there are no large corporate headquarters.
A population decline of seven percent is expected by 2030.
The risk of poverty among retirees increased by 0.7 percent in 2015 alone and stood at 16 percent.
The main reason for this is the expansion of the low-wage sector.
The gaps in public services in some regions, states and municipalities are dramatic.
The investment backlog in the municipalities amounts to well over 100 billion euros.
Cities and towns in the East and West need more funds to invest in their public infrastructure.
Justice for the people in eastern Germany
Even in the third decade after German unification, people in eastern Germany are not equal in many areas: The pension value and standard pension are lower, wages and salaries are lower on average, and economic output is still more than a quarter below that of the western states.
As different as the personal experiences before and after 1989 were and are, and as varied as their evaluations may be - it remains that the reality in the eastern German states falls far short of what was promised and expected during the Wende.
The way of unification has cut the life perspectives of many people.
And new structural problems have arisen.
Even a strong will to achieve on the part of all generations in the East, a pronounced willingness to make sacrifices, major investments and a largely modern infrastructure have not been able to compensate for the cultural humiliation and social disadvantage of many East Germans and the economic collapse of the economic area of the former socialist countries after 1989/90.
Two misguided policy approaches are responsible for this: 1. the eastern German states are still suffering from the wrong Treuhand policy, which relied on deindustrialization or deliberately accepted it.
Resistance to this policy - such as the hunger strike in Bischofferode - against the political elimination of unwelcome competition by the Treuhand and other political trustees in the interests of West German corporations was sat out and hardly noticed in the West.
The same applies to protest and indignation over investors who used the sell-off of the industrial structure and public property after 1989 for criminal machinations.
Positive economic elements from the GDR were not taken up.
2. the forms of investment followed neoliberal ideas of economic promotion: low wages for employees and tax advantages for companies.
In many places, the social infrastructure and public services have been cut to the bare minimum or privatized.
The consequences of the neoliberal policies of the past 25 years can be seen in East Germany as if under a burning glass.
They are linked to social disadvantages and cultural humiliations of the people in East Germany.
Only 2.8 percent of all decision-makers in Germany come from eastern Germany.
In the new federal states themselves, only about 20 percent of managers are from the east.
The East remains the largest collection of structurally weak regions nationwide.
It is true that eastern Germany is not universally an economically isolated region.
Especially in the larger cities, future opportunities and good development prevail.
But even the comparatively successful subregions cannot keep up with the performance centers in the West.
The promise of all federal governments since unification to create equal living conditions in East and West has been broken.
The decided "pension adjustment" only continues this:
It provides that equal treatment will not be achieved until 2025.
35 years after unification!
We want a complete equalization of pensions as an immediate measure.
There are still fewer pensions in the east for the same lifetime achievements.
Wages are lower, poverty rates are higher, and more people are unemployed.
East Germans have fewer assets, collective bargaining coverage and trade unions are weaker.
It is no wonder that 65 percent of East Germans believe that the federal government is doing too little to equalize living conditions in East and West.
This stalling policy, the lack of recognition of East German life achievements and the fact that East German interests often have no lobby in the federal government mean that many people in East Germany still do not feel they are treated equally.
We have a special responsibility in dealing with these social and regional inequalities and upheavals.
We fight for social justice and equal living conditions.
Unlike all the other parties represented in the Bundestag, we see ourselves as representing the interests of the people in eastern Germany.
We will remain so in the future.
The experience of eastern Germany has taught us that the problems of de-industrialized regions cannot be solved by low-wage policies, wage sacrifice or the creation of scapegoats.
People need a committed, active policy for equal living conditions.
This includes continuing and strengthening positive aspects of the experiential upheavals of recent decades.
It is important to take advantage of the autonomous successes in maintaining and expanding proven social structures and competencies on the ground, in order to demonstrate perspectives for increased quality of life in eastern Germany.
Treuhand policies, privatizations and the gold rush of criminal investors in the 1990s need to be reappraised.
We see mass policy failure at all levels.
In the next legislative period of the German Bundestag, DIE LINKE will therefore advocate for a commission of inquiry to examine these deep cuts in the lives of millions of East Germans and to review policy approaches and institutions such as the Treuhand that existed at the time.
We will finally put an end to the disadvantages for East Germans:
We demand equal pensions for equal lifetime achievements!
Pensioners in the east and west still do not receive equivalent pensions.
The grand coalition now wants to stall the East Germans with its pension plans until 2025.
Anyone who retired in 1990 would have to be 100 years old to experience the pension unification.
At the same time, the grand coalition plans to abolish the conversion of lower East German wages, which would lead to significant pension cuts for those currently employed in East Germany.
DIE LINKE wants to finally put an end to the discrimination against East German pensioners.
For this reason, the pension value for the East must immediately be adjusted to the West level, financed by taxes.
As long as there are still strong wage differences between East and West, the conversion must be maintained.
The equalization of eastern pensions must not be to the detriment of current employees.
For periods of low pay, we generally want to introduce a higher pension for all employees in both East and West, and therefore we want to remove the time limit on pensions based on minimum wage points and improve them (see Chapter II "Good Pensions").
When the GDR's old-age pension systems were transferred to federal law, pension entitlements were insufficiently recognized for various groups, for example nurses, employees of lignite refining, and people who had divorced in the GDR.
Hundreds of thousands of East Germans and 17 occupational groups continue to be affected.
It's not just about significant financial losses in pensions, it's also about the feeling that one's own achievements are less valued simply because one has lived and worked in the east of the country.
We, on the other hand, say: The life achievements in the East must be recognized!
Neoliberal labor market policies have failed everywhere and especially in the East: we want good work instead of precarious jobs.
We want to dry up the low-wage sector with a statutory minimum wage of twelve euros.
Collective wage evasion through work contracts and temporary employment must be prevented.
We want to reduce the proliferation of fixed-term contracts and limit them to a few factual reasons.
DIE LINKE stands for the principle "Equal pay for equal work of equal value!" - in East and West.
The Treuhand left behind a largely deindustrialized country in East Germany.
We need investments and regional development plans for good work and socially and environmentally sustainable production.
That is why we are calling for an investment program for sustainable agriculture.
We want to strengthen the cooperative idea as an economic model based on solidarity.
For us, this also includes agricultural cooperatives as an important social link between sustainable agriculture and the villages.
The East German housing companies will be freed from their old debts and the free financial resources will be used in the interests of tenants and public companies.
We particularly want to promote innovative industries and research in the East in order to be able to pursue new development paths.
East Germans have had special experiences in the transformation of living and working environments as well as social values.
Even today, experiences from the time before the "Wende" continue to have an effect: many women take it for granted that they do not have to choose between children and a career.
Egalitarian role concepts in families are still widespread.
Those who have experienced social security are less willing to subject all areas of life to competition.
These attitudes also need to be brought back into focus from an economic and ecological perspective.
In addition, there are positive experiences and models such as polyclinics and agricultural and other cooperatives as forms of solidarity-based economy.
These different experiences and progressive East German life models must also be recognized in federal policy as important impulses for the future.
They are valuable alternatives to social coldness and a dominance of profit and competition in more and more areas of life.
Strengthening the regions: Equivalent living conditions
DIE LINKE fights for the realization of the equality of life chances enshrined in the Basic Law: Neither the social nor the regional origin of people must be an obstacle to the enjoyment of life chances and the guarantee of quality of life.
There is also a disparity in income between northern and southern German regions, between regions of deindustrialization and industrial centers, just as there is between east and west.
Disintegrating infrastructure, high unemployment and growing poverty are leading to a lack of prospects for many people, for example in the Ruhr region and other disadvantaged areas.
The experiences of many employees in eastern Germany prove this: Neither the eastern German states nor the structurally weak regions in the west had and have a chance as low-wage regions - the opposite is the case.
Experience from eastern Germany in particular shows that economic development that serves a low-wage strategy creates dependencies in the long term.
The East German economic profile as a supplier to West German corporations has cemented this region's uneven development in economic and fiscal strength as well as in the development of employees' incomes since 1989/90.
We are countering the strategy of cutbacks and low wages with an active regional economic development and structural policy,
that puts good work first
and sustainable research and industrial development
with the ecological restructuring of the economy and infrastructure.
An important starting point for this process is the strengthening of regional value chains, which must focus on small and medium-sized enterprises.
Instead of being merely the extended workbench of large corporations, these companies must receive targeted support in research and development.
In order to safeguard the industrial and artisanal cores in rural areas, support is needed for company successions, with the transfer of companies into the hands of the employees as productive cooperatives (cf. chapter XIV "People and nature before profits").
Particularly in small companies with fewer than ten employees, the differences between entrepreneurs and employees become blurred in the work process.
Here, too, the aim is to anchor collective bargaining agreements and conditions for good work, for example by changing public procurement policy.
This is the only way to retain skilled workers in rural areas and structurally weak regions.
This also includes living minimum wages.
Temporary work and contracts for work and services do not fit into the model of a future-oriented regional and structural policy.
Together with the trade unions, chambers of commerce and industry associations, we are continuously discussing suitable measures to prevent the undermining of labor law and collective agreements and to reduce temporary employment and work contracts.
And together with the unions, we are fighting to implement them.
For the development of the regions, we urgently need the revenue from a wealth tax, the revenue from which is distributed among all the federal states through a solidarity-based fiscal equalization system:
We want to tax wealth so that more money is available locally.
Only through well-paid work, a sanction-free minimum income and a sustainable economy that is more than just an extended workbench can poverty be permanently combated.
We want a comprehensive municipal finance reform in which, among other things, the trade tax is transformed into a municipal business tax.
We want to introduce a Solidarity Pact III for structurally weak regions in the east and west.
In the course of the socio-ecological transformation, we want to secure the joint task "Improvement of the regional economic structure" as an important instrument of economic promotion.
More extensive investments must be made in science and research to strengthen innovation and universities, especially in eastern Germany.
We advocate that the urban redevelopment programs for the east and west be reworked into a program for structurally weak regions without reducing the current financial resources for the east.
Cities and communities must be enabled to meet the challenges of demographic development, energy conversion, conversion and social cohesion.
XI. Integration Means Social Offensive and Equal Rights for All: An Immigration Society Based on Solidarity
A good coexistence is not without preconditions.
A society based on participation and recognition needs a social infrastructure that is not committed to private profit interests but to public needs.
And it needs equal rights for all people,
effective protection against discrimination,
and the opportunity to participate socially, culturally, and politically.
We see integration as a task for society as a whole: to prevent it from drifting apart, structures of participation must be put in place.
and cohesion can be created.
Integration is not the responsibility of the individual.
The integration of a democratic society includes the right to different lifestyles.
Integration that is built on a system of bureaucratic and legal harassment and that subjects migrants and refugees to ongoing discrimination is not integration.
The federal government has not created the conditions for good integration and instead continues to pursue a policy of isolation, general suspicion and disenfranchisement against immigrants, refugees and people of non-German origin.
It simulates the ability to act by creating a mood.
The government remains inactive against the crisis on the housing market and the decay of the social infrastructure.
In the parallel society of the rich and tax refugees, it doesn't matter: there is no need for a public infrastructure and social rights here.
We, on the other hand, are fighting for equal rights and a social offensive for all.
This is the best remedy against the brutalization of society and a reactionary response to the crises.
DIE LINKE stands on the side of all those who fight for freedom of movement, fundamental rights
and social justice for all.
Germany has long been a country of immigration.
We want to shape an immigration society based on solidarity.
In doing so, we focus on an inclusive "we who live here".
In many cases, this is already a lived practice in communities, at work and in leisure time, in trade unions as well as in sports clubs and civil society initiatives.
All those who already live this practice in their everyday life or struggle for it, we will support.
How much openness and commitment there is in our society is shown by the many who are active in refugee solidarity.
DIE LINKE stands for open borders for all people in a Europe of solidarity that does not close itself off.
We fight for safe escape routes
and a society that realizes human rights - instead of building walls and adapting basic rights to the current budgetary and mood situation.
Unlike all other parties represented in the Bundestag, we have rejected any restriction of the right to asylum.
We want to restore the fundamental right to asylum.
Human rights know no upper limit (see Chapter XVII "Defending Democracy, Right to Asylum").
We also want to give people who have not fled because of political persecution or war, but immigrate for other motives, the opportunity to live in the Federal Republic of Germany.
We want to abolish the current restrictive residence law.
We clearly oppose any discrimination against refugees and immigrants.
A functioning democracy needs equal political and social rights for all who live here (see Chapter XVII "Democracy, equal rights for migrants").
We want to finally fight the causes of the flight movements by banning arms exports,
supporting peaceful conflict resolution
and creating a fairer world economy (see chapter XV No to War).
We call for an initiative to legalize people living in Germany without a valid residence permit.
They are to receive an unlimited residence and work permit in order to be able to lead a regular life in dignity.
We want to expand genuine integration offers
and reduce bureaucracy:
Migrants and refugees must be given early access to integration and language courses, regardless of their residence status.
For this, language courses must be offered in sufficient numbers.
We want to pay teachers better according to their tasks and qualifications.
We will expand low-threshold services, especially for migrant and refugee women.
We will launch a nationwide program to help women lead self-determined lives.
Good education for all!
We will launch an immediate program to train and hire additional school social workers and teachers to teach German as a second language.
Compulsory schooling must apply to all children nationwide and regardless of residency status, and the same applies to the legal right to childcare and all-day places.
In doing so, we want to flexibly align all educational offerings with longer retention periods.
Offers of acquiring qualifications for vocational training must not be tied to age limits.
We want to provide education and integration opportunities regardless of residence status. (Cf. Chapter XIII "Good education")
Good and affordable housing for all!
Housing asylum seekers in emergency and mass shelters is inhumane, expensive and hostile to integration.
We want a new start for social housing for all.
Vacant apartments are to be rented out on a mandatory basis.
We want to create accommodations in residential neighborhoods instead of in secluded peripheral locations.
Responsibility for migration and integration must be taken away from the Federal Ministry of the Interior.
We call for a Federal Ministry for Migration and Integration, similar to the Thuringian Ministry for Migration, Justice and Consumer Protection or the Berlin Senate Department for Integration, Labor and Social Affairs.
Good training and work for all!
Migrants and refugees in particular are excluded from the labor market.
We oppose exceptions to the minimum wage and want to integrate asylum seekers and refugees into the labor market quickly but fairly.
We reject quotas, quotas and point systems.
They merely serve the exploitation logic of capital and are instruments of a selective immigration policy.
We want to abolish the identity check for the training permit.
Refugees should receive a work permit after only three months in Germany.
We will significantly increase the overall workforce in the public sector as part of the social offensive.
We want to create 300,000 jobs that are subject to social insurance contributions, covered by collective agreements, and provide a living wage in the area of publicly subsidized employment for the long-term unemployed and refugees.
Solidary health insurance for all!
Benefits for refugees must not be restricted.
Special needs due to experiences of war and flight must be taken into account.
Psychotherapeutic care for traumatized refugees must be guaranteed.
Strengthen self-organization!
We want to strengthen civil society groups that work against racism, anti-Semitism, anti-gypsyism and for more democracy, refugee councils, migrant associations, self-managed counseling services and the self-organization of refugees.
Support our communities!
They create the conditions for successful integration.
The federal government must assume 100 percent of the costs for the reception, accommodation (including health care) and integration of refugees and their family members who have joined them.
Establish ombudsman offices for refugees!
Its tasks should include the independent recording and processing of indications of assaults, discrimination and violations of human dignity.
Enforce minimum standards for accommodation and care!
DIE LINKE advocates that minimum constructional and social standards for the accommodation and care of refugees be bindingly defined and adhered to in the municipalities.
The federal government must make an appropriate contribution to the costs of education and early childhood education for refugees and their family members joining them.
Expand public transport!
The federal government must increase regionalization funds and support local authorities in expanding local public transport.
and the introduction of social tickets.
We want to expand child and youth welfare!
The federal government wants to lower standards because of the care of unaccompanied refugee minors.
We want to strengthen the entire child and youth welfare system.
We will implement the EU Reception Directive so that the needs of particularly vulnerable groups are finally taken into account.
Sport brings people together and provides space for shared experiences.
That is why it is important to support the 90,000 sports clubs and the many fan initiatives in their integration efforts.
The federal government must contribute to the renovation of sports facilities that have been used to house refugees.
Anti-racist fan initiatives should receive more financial support.
Coaches, trainers and volunteers in clubs and fan projects who carry out integration work must be given more support than in the past.
XII. For a left feminism - socially just, sexually self-determined and active against violence
The feminist movements and many courageous people have made a lot of progress in recent decades.
The new generation of women has fought for a better future - even in the face of fierce resistance: stereotypical role models have been softened and more women are in employment than a generation ago.
But the revolution of gender relations is unfinished.
Jobs are still unfairly distributed between the sexes.
Women still earn on average 21 percent less than men, in many areas despite having the same qualifications and doing the same or equivalent work.
On average, women still take on the greater share of household and care work in families.
And professions in which a disproportionate number of women work tend to be the lower-paid ones.
The executive floors are predominantly staffed by men.
The fight against everyday sexism still faces fierce resistance from defenders of patriarchy.
The low-wage sector is growing, with many women in particular toiling away as saleswomen, hairdressers, masseuses or building cleaners, for example, and barely making ends meet.
Women are more likely to work involuntary part-time, especially single parents.
As a result, women in particular are affected by poverty in old age.
Women experience sexism at home, at work, and in public - even to the point of sexual harassment or violence.
Migrant women are doubly discriminated against by racism and, as a result, are particularly stigmatized and exploited.
From the right, the heteronormative nuclear family - father, mother, child - is sold as a supposed safe haven in uncertain times.
The right-wing populist movement creates a mood against people and their demands for equality who do not fit into their reactionary worldview.
And it instrumentalizes feminist criticism for its racist slogans.
Important emancipatory successes and demands are turned into the opposite and are to be adapted again to the world view of the 19th century.
DIE LINKE opposes this culture war from the right with a solidary and liberal-ancipatory concept of a society in which everyone can live in a self-determined way.
We are fighting for a society in which people can live free from existential fear.
and discrimination.
We fight for the equal value of all life plans, sexual orientations and gender and ethnic identities.
We want equality between women and men.
But equality is only a stage goal.
It is not a question of women being given the same right to work themselves to exhaustion on the hamster wheel, to do their work under time pressure and to be poorly paid - just like many men.
It's not just about improving the work-life balance so that women can juggle children and careers even faster.
We need new working time models - for everyone!
We are therefore fighting for a revolutionary change in society, in which all activities and needs are given their due, and gainful employment alone does not set the pace.
Such a society must safeguard different life plans and promote self-determination in solidarity, instead of ego corporations in competition.
Gender justice means emancipation for the whole society.
It's about social justice and solidarity instead of individual struggle against male dominance and competition.
This is left-wing feminism.
Time for a radical redistribution of gainful employment and care work
The fact that we produce the necessary goods with less work could be a happiness: If the work is distributed fairly.
Instead, some have to work overtime while others can't find work at all.
In order to live self-determined, we must be able to dispose of time differently.
Four components belong together: Time for gainful employment, for family and friends, for social engagement, education and culture, and sufficient recreation and time for oneself.
We want: a reduction in working hours that revolves around 30 hours per week or a six-hour day, with full wage and necessary personnel compensation.
In this new normal employment relationship, individual needs are given greater consideration in working hours.
an individual right to part-time work as well as the right to return to the previous working hours, the introduction of time-out regulations and
stronger control of overtime and working time laws by works councils, staff councils and employee representatives. the
strengthening of social services and public services of general interest, toward a needs-based provision, through better funding and more staff.
All people should be able to enjoy free time equally and have access to a variety of leisure and cultural activities.
However, not only time, but also work and wages are unfairly distributed between women and men.
That is why we demand: Equal pay for equal and equivalent work!
To achieve this, we need a binding law on equal pay, including the right to take legal action by associations, so that women no longer have to go to court alone.
The equitable distribution of paid work, unpaid domestic work, child rearing and care, and care within society and between the sexes.
This also means a redistribution of well-paid gainful employment to women.
We know: More men want to and would participate more in family work if economic conditions allowed.
That they can do this just as well as women is proven every day by many men who educate and care.
An equal opportunity law for the private sector that affects not only the 101 Dax-listed companies and not only the supervisory boards.
Do away with the non-binding flexi-quota!
We need a binding women's quota of 50 percent for all supervisory boards and for the management boards of all companies.
Women still do the lion's share of the so-called care work.
In this context, caring for oneself and others is at the heart of a society based on solidarity.
Anyone who cares professionally for others, be they children, the elderly or the sick, deserves a high level of social recognition - not only, but also financially.
Many are torn between the obligation to provide care and their own gainful employment, and Hartz IV is often the only way out.
Mostly it hits women.
In addition, more and more women are in employment, often as breadwinners.
Families often no longer live spatially close to each other.
Public services are lacking, and only a few can afford professional round-the-clock care.
We need a revolutionary rethinking of how care work is distributed and recognized.
This is why we are calling for a "care revolution": full long-term care insurance based on solidarity (see Chapter IV "Solidarity-based health care").
A legal right for employees to regular time off, paid by the employer, for up to six weeks for acutely needed care.
People today assume responsibility for each other in very different life models.
The legal entitlement to caregiver leave must therefore also apply to relatives without a family relationship.
Full recognition of child-rearing and better recognition of care periods in pension calculations.
This is how we counteract poverty in old age, which
affects women in particular.
A re-evaluation of all socially necessary activities and a new distribution of all paid and unpaid work between men and women.
Only in this way can care work be upgraded in the long term.
The achievement of women's suffrage was a milestone on the road to equality.
The fact that actual gender equality is still a long way off is also due to the lack of representation of women in elective offices.
We call for a parity law that - as is already common practice in various countries - obliges parties to draw up their electoral lists and constituencies on the basis of gender parity.
Being able to be different without fear
For us, diversity is not just lip service, but a matter of course, a sign of quality of life and humanism.
To do this, we must take action against discrimination.
We stand with those affected by precarious work and low pay, unequal educational opportunities, racism, sexism, ableism and ageism, homophobia and transphobia.
However, people affected by discrimination must not only be protected.
At the same time, it is necessary to strengthen their (self-)organizations financially and politically.
We want diverse lifestyles to be given equal legal status and are committed to their social acceptance.
This includes overcoming the unequal treatment of registered civil partnerships.
Until now, marriage and civil partnership have been equal in obligations (e.g. mutual maintenance obligations).
But they do not have equal rights, such as joint adoption rights.
The recognition of all family forms and lifestyles is our guiding principle.
Outdated privileges of marriage are to be overcome.
For this reason, the special protection and support provided by the state and society should in future benefit not married couples, but those who live with children or those in need of care and require compensation for the resulting disadvantages.
We want to end state subsidies for an outdated single-earner or additional-earner model.
Instead, actual care and nursing services as well as cohabitation with children are to be promoted
and compensated for in pension law.
Marriage splitting will be replaced by family-friendly tax models.
In this context, the unexhausted taxable subsistence minimum must be freely transferable between spouses or life partners.
We want the first step to be the opening of marriage and the right of adoption for all.
Marriage is to be supplemented in perspective by a system of elective affinities (cf. chapter XIII "Queer").
Reproductive medicine must also be available to non-married, lesbian and single women through health insurance coverage.
Children need adults who care for them in a loving and committed way.
Parents and guardians are not necessarily the same people.
We advocate that (up to) four people can also be parents for one child, i.e. have joint custody in co-parenthood.
In addition to obligations, this also affects rights such as child allowances and pension entitlements.
Conversely, this contractual obligation also affects the child's rights vis-à-vis all parents, such as the right to maintenance and inheritance.
All discrimination against lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex, queer and asexual (LGBTTIQA) people must stop.
This also applies to churches and religious communities as employers.
Likewise, divorced people, those separated from their partners, or those living in unmarried relationships must be protected from discrimination and dismissal by churches and religious communities on the basis of their relationship status.
The unjust sentences of the homosexuals and people with trans* background persecuted according to § 175 StGB in the FRG and GDR must be repealed!
Those affected must be fully rehabilitated and compensated.
Women must have access to positions in society without having lifestyles imposed on them.
Both the ban on headscarves and the compulsion to wear them would be a restriction of women's opportunities for development.
It is important not to patronize women in their personal decisions about how they dress and not to put pressure on them - either in one direction or the other.
We want to create more and well-funded support and counseling services for women under pressure, free of charge and in their own language.
The staff for this needs good working conditions.
Strengthen women's rights
We stand up for the right to sexual self-determination and self-determination over one's own body
and vigorously oppose any sexism.
In this sense, we are in favor of deleting sections 218 and 219 from the penal code, which continue to list abortion as a criminal offense and only allow it to be exempt from punishment under the condition of forced counseling during the first three months.
Instead, we want a legal regulation that guarantees the right to and access to safe abortions close to home and without barriers.
We want a dense landscape of counseling centers so that women receive professional support in the event of wanted and unwanted pregnancies.
Planned hospitals must be required to perform abortions.
Contraception is part of the self-determination of all people.
DIE LINKE therefore calls for all contraceptive methods to be included in the catalog of services provided by health insurance funds.
Their costs are to be borne entirely by the health insurance companies.
Feminine hygiene products must also be provided free of charge by public health agencies.
As an interim step, they should at least be subject to the reduced VAT rate of 7 percent, instead of continuing to be considered "luxury products" with a VAT rate of 19 percent.
Social power relations are also reflected in prostitution.
In the LEFT, different ways of dealing with prostitution politically are being discussed.
There is unanimity: those working in prostitution must be protected and strengthened.
They must not be objectified.
Protection from violence
Every person - regardless of gender, sexual orientation and life plan - must be effectively protected from violence.
This must be recognized as a mandatory federal policy task and enshrined in law.
Safe, fast and needs-based protection and qualified help, for example in women's refuges and other shelters as well as counseling centers, must be accessible to those affected - regardless of physical impairments, their residence status or their living situation.
This needs to be funded uniformly across the federal government.
We want a law that regulates the legal entitlement to immediate protection and comprehensive assistance for women affected by violence and their children
- without obligations to provide evidence that place additional burdens on women or jeopardize their safety.
Protection and assistance facilities are to be financed on a case-by-case, flat-rate and reliable basis
and be barrier-free.
Funding through per diem rates must end.
The funding of women's shelters is part of a duty to protect and must no longer remain a voluntary service.
The federal government must finally take responsibility for this and provide the municipalities with appropriate funding.
State authorities such as the police, courts and offices, as well as hospital emergency rooms, must be made even more aware of the issue of violence against women through continuous training.
Particular attention is paid to access and custody rights when children are affected by violence as witnesses or themselves.
All forms of violence and glorification of violence against women, children and LGBTTIQ* people - in the most diverse media - must be consistently punished.
We want to fight forced prostitution as exploitation without fighting the people forced into prostitution.
DIE LINKE wants to better protect victims of human trafficking.
As long as the victims do not obtain a secure and independent residence status, the perpetrators are protected by the victims' fear.
Residence permits, protection and compensation must be granted regardless of the willingness of victims to testify as witnesses in criminal proceedings.
For those affected, we demand therapeutic resources, medical as well as psychological care, legal assistance and legal aid, access to social services and educational opportunities.
Appropriate measures must be developed to enforce the ban on female genital mutilation.
Counseling opportunities and shelters are created to protect the affected girls and women.
Violence against women in war and crisis zones plays a special role.
Although the Immigration Act in Germany recognizes gender-specific persecution as a reason for asylum, in practice many affected women have no chance of obtaining asylum.
In particular, the right of residence, which has been dependent on the husband up to now, must be abolished and converted into an independent right of residence.
Protection in refugee shelters also still shows considerable deficits.
This also makes the host society partly responsible for the violence that many women experience.
We want needs-based housing and sufficient shelters for refugee women and their children, as well as for lesbians, gays and trans people.
The staff in the accommodations must be carefully trained accordingly.
Around the world, women continue to struggle for full equality.
But women still predominantly work part-time, and the gender pay gap is over 20 percent.
Old-age poverty is female.
Single parents, who bear the highest risk of poverty, are almost always women.
Nevertheless, women's rights have been called into question again for some time.
It is necessary to continue defending them and not to sit back satisfied.
Better wages, job security, inclusion of domestic and care work in salary negotiations, the fight for further reductions in working hours.
In order to pay special tribute to these struggles, but also to commemorate our pioneers, we want March 8 to be a public holiday!
XIII Queer - Equality for all lifestyles!
DIE LINKE is committed to equal rights for all lifestyles.
Sexual and gender diversity is a social reality.
We demand to adapt the legal reality to the social reality and we oppose any discrimination, be it in private, at school or at work.
We support all steps that help to break with state and societal heteronormativity, cisnormativity and bisexuality as a norm.
In addition to the right to self-determination of people with trans* or inter* background in the personal status law without the degrading assessment system, we also strive for a change of the legal provisions in the marriage and adoption law.
There must be no more unequal treatment of registered civil partnerships compared to marriage.
We demand the opening of marriage to enable legal equality for all.
At the same time, we demand that the privileges of marriage be withdrawn.
Marital splitting, favors a classic housewife marriage or additional income marriage, especially of high-income earners.
We want to replace it with tax models that do justice to the diversity of lifestyles with children and do not disadvantage anyone: not single parents and rainbow families or, in general, people who live non-heteronormatively or in a marriage. (cf. Chapter IX "Left Feminism")
Advance equality for all lifestyles!
Equality of lifestyle has not yet been achieved with equal treatment of marriage and civil partnership.
It is to be supplemented by a system of elective affinities.
Here, not only monogamous relationships of two should be allowed to take responsibility for each other, but any community that feels connected to each other.
This can mean a relationship involving more than two people.
These people must be granted extensive visitation rights in the event of illness, adoption rights and the right to refuse to testify.
At the same time, special allowances are due if a relative must be cared for (under the law of elective relatives) or if there are children in an elective relationship.
Lifestyles in all forms deserve acceptance and social equality.
Violence prevention and help for victims of violence
Queer people are still disproportionately affected by assault and violence.
This applies both to the private or family environment and to the public sphere.
Homophobic and transphobic attacks have actually been on the rise since the rise of right-wing populists and other radical groups.
This is where the state has a protective role.
DIE LINKE advocates comprehensive support for prevention projects and organizations that help victims of violence.
Prosecution of queer-hostile violence must be punished accordingly and prosecuted more vigorously than in the past.
Inter- and transsexuality
The order of bisexuality - society's requirement to unquestionably define oneself as a woman or a man - marginalizes.
A gender-just policy must work towards treating women, men, people with a trans* background and people with an inter* background equally and putting them on an equal footing in law, without setting a gender or a way of life as the norm.
Gender equity must be promoted from an early age, ensuring space for personal development and gender diversity.
We support people with trans* background in their struggle for the right to self-determination and self-realization.
People with a trans* background should be supported in their own changes.
The interventions are to be safeguarded and no longer considered an illness:
The current classification as "mental illness" dates back to the 19th century.
The corresponding sex researchers diagnosed neuroses in people with trans* backgrounds and classified them as degenerate people.
People with an inter* background are forced to disguise their background in order to get operations and measures approved and paid for via the Transsexual Act.
The obligation to undergo an assessment, compulsory therapy and the judicial procedure must be abolished when it comes to changing first names and marital status.
Instead, this procedure must be converted into an administrative act and regulated on a non-discriminatory basis upon request without precondition.
Medically unnecessary operations on people for the purpose of gender reassignment may only be performed if they themselves are capable of giving consent and have given their consent themselves.
The Transsexual Law must be repealed as a special law and integrated into existing law.
In terms of need-oriented and preventive health care, people with trans* background and inter* background (including refugees) need access to all specific medical, therapeutic and counseling services (and the associated medication) and unbureaucratic cost coverage by health insurance companies.
All required services must be included in the payer's catalog.
We advocate for the nationwide expansion of counseling services in cooperation with trans* initiatives.
We demand counseling and education centers for affected persons and their relatives as well as a compensation fund for people with an inter* background who have experienced considerable suffering as a result of gender reassignment surgery.
We demand reproductive opportunities for trans* people.
They must be included in the catalog of services provided by health insurance companies.
If the right to reproduce has not been willingly ceded, a claim for compensation may be made.
We want to include protection against discrimination based on physical variation, sexual identity and lifestyle in Article 3 of the Basic Law and in the Anti-Discrimination Act.
In order to guarantee this extended fundamental right, anti-discrimination bodies are needed, a genuine right of action for associations in the General Equality Act, and its design in conformity with EU law.
The unjust verdicts against and persecution in National Socialism of people with trans background and inter background must be dealt with!
Those affected must be fully rehabilitated and appreciated, valued and compensated.
We want to initiate a change in social awareness with offers and measures.
The curricula of educational institutions must reflect the real diversity of lifestyles and identities in a holistic way, instead of catering to clichés and old role patterns.
Strengthen dialogue of the queer community with all social groups
DIE LINKE is committed to promoting dialogue with the aim of understanding and combating prejudice.
This also concerns the discourse with Christian churches, Jewish communities and non-Jewish Christian faith communities.
In particular, we hope that a dialogue with the diverse Muslim communities will lead to emancipatory progress on both sides and to less conflictual coexistence.
This dialogue is also urgent because right-wing groups and parties, among others, want to capitalize on the fact that they want to incite and divide the queer and Muslim communities against each other.
For DIE LINKE, combating right-wing radicalism, anti-Muslim racism and other forms of group-based hostility is just as important as combating queer-hostile attacks.
XIV People and Nature before Profits - for a Social, Ecological and Democratic Economy of the Future
Instead of focusing economic policy on social
and ecological goals, the German government is focusing on greater competitiveness and more location competition in the interests of corporations.
It thus puts pressure on wages
and environmental standards.
The German government is pushing ahead with the TTIP and CETA free trade agreements against hundreds of thousands of protests.
It places the economically nonsensical goal of the "black zero" above urgently needed investments and
thus blocks socially just
and ecologically sustainable development.
While billions are being poured into promoting the export industry, the public infrastructure is falling into disrepair.
Areas that are important for providing for people, such as housing and social services in healthcare, care and education, are neglected, underfunded and privatized (see Chapter VI "Investing in the future").
The urgent climate and energy turnaround is being blocked, as is regulation of the banks and financial markets, because the German government does not want to enter into a conflict with the economically powerful.
Profit-oriented corporations do not ask about social benefit or ecological damage.
The pressure of the financial markets and global competition between locations mean that even in an upswing, too little is invested.
The divide between rich and economically isolated regions is growing.
The market cannot guide investment in a socially meaningful way.
The German government's economic policy primarily strengthens export corporations.
This one-sided orientation not only leads to massive economic imbalances between EU countries, among others, and thus contributes to crises.
It also means that despite hard work and high productivity, the working population in this country has to live below the means of a rich country.
Precarious work and mass unemployment are entrenched despite positive economic development.
The growing polarization into rich and poor is not only socially unjust, but also economically destructive.
DIE LINKE advocates a fundamental change of direction in economic and financial policy.
We are fighting for the following to apply in the economy: people and nature before profits.
Only if the power of profit-oriented large corporations is broken and decisions on investments in key areas of the economy are made democratically can the necessary ecological transformation of the economic structure
and digitization also be shaped in a socially just manner and oriented toward the common good.
Our economic policy consists of the following elements, among others:Wages and salaries must increase, especially lower and middle incomes.
On the one hand, we are achieving this by raising the statutory minimum wage to twelve euros.
On the other hand, we are removing the wage brakes in labor market policy: temporary work, contracts for work and services, Hartz IV and sanctions, declining collective bargaining coverage, etc.
This will increase purchasing power and strengthen the domestic market (cf. Chapter I "Good Work").
Creating good work.
To combat mass unemployment, which is about twice as high as the official unemployment figures, DIE LINKE relies on strengthening the domestic economy, and
the purchasing power of employees on
public investment.
In addition, by redistributing and shortening work, the promise of digitization to work and live in a more self-determined way can become a reality for everyone (see Chapter I "Good Work").
We want new perspectives for people who are currently unable to pursue regular employment.
To this end, we are creating a publicly funded employment sector with additional, living wage jobs.
They must be geared to regional conditions and the needs of the unemployed (see Chapter III "Social security instead of Hartz IV").
We invest in public services
and public infrastructure.
A 120-billion-euro investment program is intended to boost public and private investment
while creating more tariff-based and socially regulated jobs.
It is funded from equitable tax reform.
At the same time, this can also promote the regional economy, such as crafts or regional service companies (see VI "Chapter Investing in the future").
The urgently needed socio-ecological restructuring of the economy affects the entire way in which and what we produce and
how social wealth is distributed and used.
Blind growth must be replaced by targeted investments in the social and ecological transformation of production and services, oriented toward the common good and the needs of the population.
These must help to reduce the consumption of natural resources and energy consumption.
DIE LINKE wants to set this in motion through a democratization of the economy, a different tax policy
and a fundamental reform of state economic development.
We want to end environmentally harmful subsidies.
We want to regulate the financial sector and curb financial speculation: we let the air out of the speculation bubbles.
In this way, funds are withdrawn from the international financial markets and made available for urgently needed investments.
Our alternative to dangerous free trade agreements, growth at any price and the destruction of the environment is a program for the future for the social
and ecological restructuring of the economy.
Shrink financial markets - and break the power of banks
The causes of the financial and global economic crisis have not been overcome - because governments did not have the courage to take on the big banks, hedge funds and multi-billionaires.
When speculation grows faster than economic production, new crises are always the result.
A real break with capitalism is necessary - otherwise the welfare state and democracy in Europe will be further eroded.
We want to free society and democracy from the stranglehold of the financial corporations:
On the financial markets, different forms of wealth (shares, foreign exchange, derivatives...) are exchanged, multiplied and concentrated in a few hands.
Only if the large fortunes are redistributed will the source that fuels speculation dry up.
The financial markets are also receiving billions of euros from funded pension plans.
We want to reverse pension privatization and withdraw funds from speculation.
The federal government has failed in bank regulation.
Deutsche Bank's involvement in criminal business shows that large private banks are still ticking time bombs.
They are protected because they are indirectly guaranteed to be saved by the taxpayer.
They use this guarantee for risky investment banking.
It would be irresponsible to merge Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank because the resulting larger bank would be even better able to blackmail the population.
Society is not there for the banks, but the banks have to serve society.
DIE LINKE wants to disempower major banks, bring banks under democratic control and transfer them to public ownership in order to focus the financial sector on socially useful core tasks such as lending and payment transactions for the real economy:
Large private banks and state banks must be downsized and placed under more effective public control.
Savings banks and cooperative banks form the basis of a new financial sector.
We want to promote them.
Commercial banks, like savings banks, must be committed to the common good.
With democratic control of the banks by representatives of employees, unions and the public sector, the banks' resources could be used to steer the economy in the interests of the majority of the population.
This is the only way to protect the deposits of small savers and to provide traders with favorable loans.
The majority of the banks' so-called capital market business follows speculative motives.
It does not serve the needs of the real economy or the majority of the population.
On the contrary: in good times, speculative profits go into the pockets of the rich.
In the event of a crisis, the financial industry calls for the state to take over the losses.
We intend to wind down investment banking - which only invests in operations to generate high returns - as a business area.
Shadow banks, off-balance sheet special purpose vehicles, derivatives, hedge funds and private equity companies must be wound up.
We want to ban speculation in agricultural commodities and food.
DIE LINKE calls for the introduction of a financial MOT, which must examine the business practices of banks and all financial products offered and approve them before they are introduced.
In addition, we want to overcome commission-based consulting.
Independent financial advice by consumer centers and fee-based advice are to be expanded.
The Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) must be strengthened in its role for collective consumer protection.
A newly created democratic banking regulator must be able to freeze suspicious assets.
Institutions that stand in the way of transparency will lose their banking licenses.
Regulating banks cannot be done by the banks themselves.
Trade unions, social associations, consumer protection and environmental associations and other civil society actors must also be represented in the monitoring bodies.
All people must have a legal right to a free checking account.
We want to limit overdraft interest to a maximum of five percent above the central bank rate.
Draining tax havens - stopping organized financial crime
Through tax havens and tax tricks, the rich and corporations deprive the general public of hundreds of billions of euros every year.
European Union governments are allowing international corporations like Apple, Google & Co. to steer their profits past tax.
They pay less than one percent tax on their profits.
The Panama Papers have revealed a web of shell companies that serve tax evasion and criminal businesses such as corruption, terror financing, human trafficking and arms trafficking.
DIE LINKE wants to combat organized tax crime:Law enforcement agencies and tax offices must be put in a position, in terms of personnel, technology and legal framework, to consistently pursue tax evasion as a business model.
Germany needs a federal financial police force to combat tax evasion and money laundering.
Each tax investigator brings in about one million euros more than he or she costs.
Assets and criminal funds are often concealed through shell companies and other legal constructs.
We want to make that impossible.
Germany is still blocking the establishment of a public, internet-accessible transparency register of all owners and beneficiaries of companies, foundations and trusts at EU level.
This has to stop.
We also want to introduce such a register at the national level.
Misinformation in the register must be punished.
To prevent tax dumping, binding minimum tax rates for corporations must finally be introduced in the EU, based on a broad and comprehensive determination of profits.
To this end, the EU treaties must be amended.
An automatic exchange of information between tax authorities must be introduced as a binding standard for German tax agreements.
Transnational corporations are to be required to disclose their core data such as their value added, sales, profits and tax payments on a country-by-country basis.
Double taxation agreements with uncooperative states must be terminated immediately and their financial institutions must have their licenses revoked in Germany.
We want to make tax evasion unattractive by imposing a withholding tax of 50 percent on all payments flowing into non-cooperative states, on dividends, interest and royalties paid by companies.
This can also be done immediately on a national stand-alone basis.
The burden of proof must be on companies and wealthy individuals, through a credit for withholding tax only upon disclosure of all tax-relevant information.
We want to combat the shifting of corporate profits abroad: existing tax exemptions for capital gains flowing abroad must be abolished.
We want to eliminate tax advantages for investment income earned in a low-tax country: the tax difference must be levied in Germany.
Banks, auditors and law firms that aid and abet tax evasion must be severely punished - up to and including the revocation of their banking or business licenses.
To combat white-collar crime committed by legal entities, we want to introduce corporate criminal law.
Based on the model of the U.S. Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA), financial institutions are required to disclose tax-relevant information.
Democratize economy
Democracy must not end at the office door, the factory gate or the entrance to a corporate headquarters.
In today's capitalism, however, business is largely a democracy-free zone.
In the companies, the existing possibilities for democratic co-determination of the employees are coming under pressure from management and competition between locations.
Economic and political power is increasingly concentrated in the hands of a few large corporations, banks and billionaires.
This is how democracy is undermined.
The property question is the fateful question for the future of democracy.
DIE LINKE is fighting to transfer public utilities, banks and insurance companies, energy corporations, pharmaceutical and medical companies, the postal service, telecommunications infrastructure and other key industries into public (or cooperative) hands and into forms of social ownership.
We want to strip the big power companies of their power and transfer them to public ownership.
The energy industry is to be organized by municipal utilities,
decentralized in the municipalities
and democratically organized.
Surveillance technologies and private sector monopolies over knowledge are on the rise.
For technological progress to be used for the benefit of all people and for the development of an ecologically sustainable economy, a comprehensive democratization of the economy is required.
We want to democratize development, production and distribution: This includes open innovation programs.
Standards must be disclosed and patent abuse, which prevents product diversity, must be curbed.
Extend corporate co-determination
More democracy in business starts with strengthening and developing employee co-determination in companies and on supervisory and administrative boards.
The concentration of power among corporate owners and management needs an effective democratic counterweight.
We want to introduce genuine codetermination on a parity basis in all private, public and public-sector companies with more than 100 employees.
In these companies, the owners and the employees must be equally represented.
The chair is taken by another person on whom both sides must agree.
In addition, we want to find ways to involve the public sector in corporate decisions that have a significant impact on society.
We want the Supervisory Board to have to approve all important management decisions.
This applies in particular to the relocation of operations and parts of operations, the merger or demerger of companies and operations, capital increases, capital reductions and the purchase of treasury shares, borrowings, acquisitions of companies or shares in other companies, and the sale or closure of operations or parts of operations.
For issues of significant importance to the workforce, we want a workforce vote to be held first.
Decisions against the vote of the workforce require at least a two-thirds majority on the Supervisory Board.
The erosion of co-determination by internationally operating corporations must be stopped.
We want to make it more difficult for corporations to circumvent co-determination laws by relocating their headquarters or setting up bogus foreign companies.
Corporate co-determination must be extended to international companies with branches in Germany without exception.
Trade unions, environmental and social associations must be given a comprehensive right of associational action.
Cooperatives and solidarity economy
We will promote democratic public and cooperative forms of ownership.
They can be at the center of a non-capitalist economy in the future, a democratic
socialist
, and ecologically sustainable future economy.
Cooperatives and worker-owned enterprises build on the knowledge, experience and planning skills of workers and give them more opportunities to have a say in the nature and content of production.
Cooperatives must be given equal consideration in all areas of government economic development.
We want to promote companies that are wholly or partly owned by the workforce: with tax breaks and by giving preference in the awarding of public contracts.
DIE LINKE supports workforces that want to continue running their crisis-stricken companies on their own: State subsidies to companies and aid in economic crises must be awarded in the form of collective employee shares where the workforce supports this.
When companies are sold, the workforce must be given a right of prior information and preemption.
Industrial and services policy
An increase in labor productivity and new forms of production can open up opportunities for a more self-determined work and life,
for a more socially just
and ecological shaping of the economy.
At present, the opportunities presented by digitization are being blocked by corporate interests.
To expand nationwide broadband infrastructure, billions of euros of government investment are needed, to be carried out directly by public-sector operators.
Digital infrastructure must be accessible to all and democratically designed -
so it must be oriented toward the common good and not profit.
Under pressure from shareholders, industrial companies are focusing on work compression, outsourcing and permanent restructuring.
We want an active state industrial policy that is oriented toward the common good, not toward the profits of the export industry:
We rely on a stronger concentration on the domestic market
and, where possible, on regional economic cycles
and ecologically sustainable alternative production.
We want to promote the expansion of socially necessary services
and thus create meaningful jobs that are paid according to collective agreements.
We want to restructure socially harmful sectors of the economy such as the armaments industry and fossil energy supply
and secure jobs and create new ones by converting production.
For this restructuring of industry, DIE LINKE relies on binding ecological targets and multi-year phased plans.
A combination of financial incentives, prohibitions and binding public control is needed
, as well as more democracy in economic policy and in companies:
The LEFT wants to establish a Future Fund to promote, for a transitional period, the socio-ecological restructuring of industry, cooperatives and the takeover of companies into collective employee ownership, public welfare-oriented and regional economic structures.
In addition to representatives of the federal government, half of the members of the governing body that decides on investment funds should be trade unions, environmental associations and stakeholders in the public interest economy.
The federal government spends billions on economic development.
We want to make it more democratic and tie it to binding requirements: to good work and wages, collective agreements,
ecologically sound production
and the promotion of an economy based on solidarity.
This must also apply to the awarding of public contracts.
The funding must be used primarily for ecological modernization,
regional structural policy in economically underdeveloped regions and for cooperatives.
In the Research Promotion Act, we want to anchor a binding share for basic research in the area of the solidarity-based economy.
In addition, we want to establish a social-ecological chamber of commerce that supports regional lighthouse projects and business start-ups in the field of solidarity-based economy by providing advice and financial support.
Digitalization and the crisis in the automotive industry pose major challenges for shaping the future of the industry.
Framework concepts for the socially just and ecologically sustainable design of digitization and for the "future of mobility" must be developed with democratic participation and the expertise of industry employees.
We want to introduce economic councils that provide expert support for the social and ecological restructuring of the economy.
They should have the right of initiative at the various levels from the region to federal economic and infrastructure policy.
They include scientists, environmental and consumer associations, trade unions and half directly elected citizens and representatives of the workforce.
Transforming the economy socially and ecologically
The climate and environmental crisis shows that a fundamental change in our society is urgently needed.
But politics is failing in the face of this question of the future for humanity.
The German government is putting the brakes on the coal phase-out and at the same time on the growth of renewable energies.
Its energy policy is largely geared to the profit interests of fossil fuel companies and the auto industry.
Because the federal government does not want to seriously mess with the companies, it avoids effective legal requirements to change course.
Germany will miss its climate targets - this is devastating for our future.
And for the people in the countries of the global south, who are hardest hit by the consequences of climate change.
A socio-ecological turnaround here in Germany is also a question of global justice.
That is why Germany must do its part to limit global warming to well below two degrees, if possible to 1.5 degrees.
We want the Federal Republic to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40 percent by 2020 compared with 1990 levels, by 60 percent by 2030 and by 95 percent by 2050.
The aforementioned goals must be enshrined in a climate protection law.
The German government's Climate Protection Plan 2050 must also be tightened up in line with the ambitions of the UN climate protection agreement in Paris and backed up with effective measures.
The implementation of the universal UN Agenda 2030 and the "17 Sustainable Development Goals" formulated therein must increasingly focus on the responsibility of the North.
It must aim at structural changes to enable poverty reduction, development and the protection of natural livelihoods worldwide.
Capitalism means growth at any price, at the expense of people and nature.
DIE LINKE is fighting to ensure that the urgently needed ecological transformation of society is no longer blocked by the profit interests of corporations.
We want a socio-ecological turnaround that benefits everyone through affordable energy, affordable mobility, healthy food and a better quality of life.
Our demands tie in with social debates and movements.
Many people are concerned about how their food is produced or how they want to and can be mobile.
The planned erosion of consumer protection
and environmental standards through the TTIP and CETA free trade agreements has brought hundreds of thousands of people onto the streets in recent years.
Activists have protested against lignite mining in Germany with spectacular actions.
In the face of the climate crisis, people around the world are organizing, and there will also be international protests at the UN Climate Summit in Bonn in November to put pressure for quick action (Especially now that there is a president in office in the U.S. who denies climate change while people in the Global South are fleeing the consequences of climate disasters, we urgently need to act).
DIE LINKE fights for the entry into a socially just and democratically by the people shaped ecological transformation: towards renewable energies, energy efficiency, ecological mobility, climate protection and just transitions to a sustainable economy.
To enable the ecological transformation of our energy supply, mobility, food production and the entire economy, we need policies that are at once socially just, ecological and radically democratic.
A strong social divide also has a very concrete impact on the environment: Those who are unemployed or earn little can hardly afford organic products or healthy food.
As a rule, the higher the income, the higher the environmental impact and CO2 emissions per household.
Invest in renewable energy, disempower energy companies
The energy transition will only be successful if it is socially just
and shaped by the citizens themselves.
DIE LINKE is fighting to end the supremacy of large corporations in the energy supply sector and to bring energy supply closer to the people.
and organized as part of public services of general interest.
Energy supply must serve the common good and be withdrawn from profit-making.
We want to use the necessary mil lion investments in the expansion of renewable energies to promote a transfer of power from the electricity companies to the citizens.
In return, unjustified industrial rebates in eco-taxes, network fees, emissions trading and the Renewable Energy Sources Act are to be abolished.
They prevent the necessary structural change:Electricity and heat networks must be transferred to public ownership and democratically controlled.
The network development plan must be revised on the basis of new target criteria
and aligned with ambitious climate protection targets.
If the coal phase-out is accelerated and a decentralized energy supply and an expansion of storage systems are advanced, a significantly smaller grid expansion is also required than is currently planned - driven by the profit interests of the transmission grid and coal-fired power plant operators.
The Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG) in its central pillars - priority feed-in of green electricity, guaranteed cost-oriented compensation rates - has been largely destroyed by the federal government through a system of market premiums and tenders.
For example, since 2017, the subsidy level for green electricity has been determined via tenders.
However, tendering systems are expensive, risky and burdensome for citizen energy projects, and we reject them.
We want a structural reform of the EEG with social components and want to increase the share of green electricity to 43 percent by 2020, 70 percent by 2030 and to 100 percent by 2040.
DIE LINKE supports a regionally oriented energy turnaround that is anchored in the population:
Energy cooperatives, bioenergy villages, institutions, facilities, businesses, cities and municipalities should be given the legal right to purchase the grids they use for energy self-supply.
We advocate that investors be required to offer local communities a stake in new wind farms, photovoltaic power plants, and energy storage facilities.
To advance the energy transition, we want to improve the legal framework for homeowners, tenants' associations, businesses and municipalities that want to take their energy supply into their own hands.
Ecological energy production and affordable energy prices can best be achieved in municipal utilities under direct democratic participation of the population.
At the same time, this creates the basis for promoting regional economic structures.
We want to better promote the use of combined heat and power (CHP) plants and other forms of cogeneration as a highly efficient bridging technology in order to increase their share of gross electricity generation to 25 percent by 2020.
DIE LINKE supports tenant power concepts of an in-house power supply through CHP units in the basement or photovoltaic (PV) systems on the roof.
We want to exert greater control over electricity prices
and make energy affordable for all:
Access to energy is a fundamental right.
DIE LINKE wants to prevent energy poverty.
Payment difficulties must not lead to people having to sit in the dark or freeze.
Electricity, gas, water and heating must not be switched off!
Low-cost base rates are created for the average consumption of electric power, water and heating energy.
These cover part of the average consumption.
What exceeds the average consumption will be more expensive.
This creates incentives to save electricity.
We see this as an instrument for using electricity, heating energy and water more sparingly.
At the same time, low-income households are relieved, and average electricity consumption remains affordable for all.
Electricity prices need to be more closely monitored
and made more socially just.
The responsible state authority is therefore to be assisted by an advisory board in which consumers, environmental and social associations, and trade unions are represented.
We want to introduce a uniform national grid fee across all voltage levels in order to prevent significantly higher grid fees being charged in control areas with a high proportion of green electricity installations than in regions with a low level of renewable generation.
We call for tougher competition and antitrust laws for electricity, gas and petroleum companies.
We want to abolish unjustified industrial rebates on eco-taxes, grid fees, emissions trading and the Renewable Energy Sources Act, to the detriment of private households and public budgets.
We want to reduce the electricity tax for private consumers.
To provide additional relief, we want to set up an energy turnaround fund that stretches the payment obligations of electricity customers via the EEG surcharge over a longer period of time.
We also want to abolish rebates on the EEG surcharge for energy-intensive industries.
Housing allowances are to be paid on the basis of gross rent and expanded to include a component for electricity costs.
The heating, hot water and electricity cost components are to be combined in the housing allowance to form an energy cost component ("climate housing allowance").
The climate housing allowance should be designed to safely prevent energy poverty with prudent consumption.
The energy-efficient refurbishment of existing buildings must not lead to higher warm rents or even displacement.
We therefore call for greater commitment on the part of the public sector to limit costs for tenants in this area (see Chapter VII "Rents and social housing").
In order to almost completely renovate the existing building stock in terms of energy efficiency by 2050, the renovation rate must double from the current 1.1 percent to two percent per year.
To this end, a binding plan is to be drawn up and the subsidy programs for energy-efficient building refurbishment are to be increased significantly and permanently.
In the case of thermal insulation, priority is given to measures that use environmentally friendly insulating materials.
The eco-scrapping bonus for refrigerators, which expired last year, is being relaunched and extended: every private household is to receive a subsidy of 200 euros for the purchase of a new refrigerator, washing machine or dishwasher in energy efficiency class A+++.
For reasons of resource and environmental protection, the electrical appliances to be replaced must be at least ten years old.
The new device belongs at most to the same device class (size) as the old device.
DIE LINKE wants to expand and realign state support for renewable energies and for greater energy efficiency:
The mandatory share of renewable energies in the heat supply for new buildings must be gradually increased and, in the case of fundamental renovations, also extended to the existing building stock.
The share of renewable heat in Germany is to be at least 20 percent by 2020.
The cheapest and most environmentally friendly is still the kilowatt hour that does not have to be provided in the first place.
Efficiency policy needs not only subsidies, but also laws and regulations that set minimum standards for the energy consumption of products, production methods and buildings (including existing ones).
Only durable, repair-friendly, material- and energy-saving products may be manufactured.
An energy efficiency fund can support and socially accompany the transition to an efficient economy.
We also want to implement an innovation policy that promotes the research, development and implementation of new technologies and practices
that are not driven solely by profit logic, but are first and foremost oriented to the needs of people and the conservation of resources.
Energy must be clean: Ban fracking. Get out of coal and nuclear power!
A sustainable energy system means phasing out energy production from uranium and coal.
Fracking is not an alternative, but an uncontrollable and expensive risky technique that can lead to groundwater pollution and earthquakes.
With their Frac king Enactment of June 2016, the CDU/CSU and SPD nevertheless permitted fracking in sand rock (so-called tight gas reservoirs).
We want to ban fracking without exceptions.
We are committed to ensuring that the underground injection of CO2 (carbon capture and storage, CCS) is also permanently banned without exception.
Profiteers to pay: the energy companies want to shirk their financial responsibility for the costs of nuclear waste disposal and pass them on to society.
Companies that have earned billions from the nuclear industry and coal mining for decades must bear the aftercare costs for their businesses.
We want to prevent corporations from making themselves poor through corporate spin-offs or escaping liability.
The polluter pays principle must be applied to all exploration and extraction projects.
Getting out of coal,
shaping transitions fairly: We want a swift and socially cushioned phase-out of coal-fired power generation.
EU emissions trading has failed here.
Three billion surplus CO2 allowances have undermined the emissions trading system; they must be decommissioned.
In connection with the redefinition of the EU climate protection and energy targets for 2030, the German government must work for a 60 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared with 1990; a 45 percent share of renewable energies in final energy consumption; and a 40 percent reduction in primary energy consumption compared with 2000.
DIE LINKE calls for a national coal phase-out law with the following key points: Thegradual coal phase-out begins in 2018, and the
last coal-fired power plant must be taken off the grid by 2035 at the latest.
Part of the law is a ban on the construction of new coal-fired power plants and the development and expansion of opencast lignite mines.
Structural change in the opencast mining regions must not be carried out on the backs of the employees - that is why DIE LINKE is calling for a structural change fund of 250 million euros a year for the social security of those working in mining
and for the creation of new jobs.
Until the necessary phase-out of coal is achieved, the serious consequences of lignite mining must be limited.
DIE LINKE advocates a reform of the Federal Mining Act.
So far, corporate interests and raw material extraction have taken precedence there over the interests of the environment and the population.
Instead, comprehensive rather than limited zoning procedures must be introduced.
They are intended to ensure that, in addition to environmental compatibility, the necessity of the projects is also examined in the weighing and planning process.
Citizens' rights of participation, information and legal action must be guaranteed.
The phase-out of nuclear power must be enshrined in the Basic Law and all operating nuclear power plants must be shut down immediately.
We advocate a pan-European plan for decommissioning nuclear power plants.
We want to ban the import and export of uranium fuel for the operation of nuclear power plants and nuclear waste.
The production of uranium fuel at the plants in Gronau and Lingen, which have so far been exempted from the nuclear phase-out, must be ended.
The Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW) is not allowed to support nuclear power plants abroad.
No storage in the "final repository" Konrad shaft in Salzgitter.
Gorleben must be abandoned as an unsuitable and politically scorched site.
Nuclear waste storage cannot be imposed from above and without the participation of those affected and those active in the anti-nuclear movement.
DIE LINKE supports an open debate with the participation of all those concerned about the storage of all types of nuclear waste with the greatest possible safety and the goal of a social consensus.
This requires a comprehensive voice and rights of action in all phases of the search process to be developed.
The costs of decommissioning and dismantling nuclear plants must be borne by the nuclear companies.
The highest level of radiation protection and safety must apply
as well as comprehensive public participation that goes beyond existing nuclear law.
We reject an uncontrolled release of low-level radioactive waste during the dismantling of the plants.
The protracted search for a nuclear waste repository requires prolonged interim storage of highly radioactive waste.
We must counter the growing risks this entails with improved safety concepts for interim storage.
This first requires a comprehensive social dialogue.
We are committed to phasing out nuclear power in Europe and around the world.
Public money, including pension reserves and retirement funds, must be immediately withdrawn from investments in fossil fuel companies.
Public institutions must not invest in fossil and nuclear energy companies.
This also applies to public funders such as KfW.
Equitable transport: flexible, ecological, barrier-free and affordable for all
The prevailing traffic conditions are unfair: many billions of euros are invested in environmentally harmful road and air traffic, but in many places there is no money for good alternatives such as buses, trains, pedestrian and bicycle paths.
The burden of cars and trucks mainly affects those who cannot afford to move away from the main road.
Working conditions of employees in the logistics industry are often miserable - winners are international corporations.
Top managers and shareholders of automotive companies profited from the emissions fraud - the damage is passed on to the population and the employees.
For oil and other raw materials, dictatorships are supported worldwide, wars are waged, and indigenous populations are displaced and exploited.
Last but not least, steadily growing traffic is a major cause of climate change.
We want to change these conditions.
And we are not alone: citizens' initiatives against destructive transport projects, against highway privatization, for better rail services or cycling conditions are active all over the country.
There is support from environmental associations and the climate protection agreements make a socio-ecological transport turnaround imperative.
DIE LINKE rejects the Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan 2030 in its current form.
Instead, we want a transport infrastructure plan that completes the social-ecological mobility turnaround and focuses on rail-based passenger and freight transport.
Instead of building new highways, we want to finance the expansion of local public transport as well as bicycle and pedestrian traffic in the municipalities and regions.
When planning transport projects, we want to fully involve citizens and interest groups from the outset and put real alternatives up for discussion.
We want to introduce citizen councils at the federal, regional, and local levels to democratize transportation planning.
We reject the planned infrastructure limited liability company.
It is removed from the control of the Bundestag and enables privatization through the back door.
However, highways and interstates are an essential part of the public infrastructure.
We oppose all direct or indirect privatization of transport infrastructure.
Public-private partnerships (PPPs) also cause additional costs in the long term, are a risk for the public sector
and limit democracy.
We are actively involved in extra-parliamentary protests against the threatened privatization of federal trunk roads and consistently oppose this disastrous development.
No passenger car tolls, neither for foreigners nor for nationals.
It creates the transparent citizen and is a prerequisite for privatization.
We want to abolish government subsidies for diesel fuel, aviation gasoline and "biofuel".
This involves a sum of over 15 billion euros annually.
International airline tickets should not remain exempt from VAT.
We want to eliminate this subsidy (4.7 billion euros) and instead halve the VAT rate for rail tickets.
The company car tax privilege must be redesigned according to ecological criteria so that it is not mainly high earners, employers and the automotive industry that continue to benefit at the expense of the general public.
and the environment.
We want to transform the commuter allowance into a socially just mobility allowance and also offer an incentive to use the environmental network.
The funds from the commuter allowance that are freed up here are invested in the expansion of local public transport.
Almost all car manufacturers have "manipulated" or cheated on fuel consumption and exhaust emissions.
As a result, the already lax limits for exhaust gases that are harmful to health and the climate have been and continue to be exceeded enormously.
We want the consequential costs to be charged to the manufacturers according to the polluter-pays principle.
The legal options must be exhausted and expanded to include the managers involved in the emissions scandal as well as the owners of the corporations, including their private assets.
Compliance must be regularly verified in independent field tests.
To protect people and the climate, we finally need speed limits: 120 km/h on highways and a standard speed of 30 km/h in built-up areas.
Wildlife bridges must also be standard on state highways of three lanes or more.
Downsizing or deconstruction of streets when minimum use frequencies are not met must become practice.
Mobility for all - with less traffic.
Mobility and transport are not the same thing.
Mobility means participation in social life.
Being mobile does not mean traveling as far and fast as possible, but rather being able to reach the places of life (work, school, leisure, shopping, etc.) easily.
Preferably with little expenditure of time, money and energy.
Those who walk or bike place the least burden on others and need better conditions.
We want truly barrier-free mobility: no one should have to rely on their (own) car; everyone must have access.
For us, the focus is therefore on public mobility services.
and barrier-free.
To achieve this, we want more funding from the federal government
and a local transport levy for companies.
We are striving for uniform nationwide standards for services and fare conditions in order to overcome the patchwork of transport associations.
We advocate for municipal, democratically controlled public transportation companies.
The priority given to own-account operations must be abolished.
Instead of profits for UBER & Co. we want regulated cab operations as part of public transport.
We want a mobility guarantee for rural areas: connections to the nearest major center at least every hour.
This can include services such as citizens' buses or call-sharing cabs, as well as modern area-call bus systems.
Public transportation fares are too high for many.
We want significantly lower fares, nationwide social tickets for low-income households, a social rail card, and free tickets for schoolchildren and trainees.
Our goal is the solidary financed zero fare in public transport for all.
For the time being, "fare evasion" is to be decriminalized and punished no more severely than parking tickets.
Foot and bike ahead!
We want to make cycling and walking more attractive and safer in everyday life: More space on the streets, more safe and intact bike and pedestrian paths, and more bicycle parking facilities are needed.
In cities and metropolitan areas, cycling expressways with green waves must be created.
To this end, the federal government must provide sufficient earmarked funds for the municipalities.
We want to make the road traffic regulations more bicycle-friendly.
Rail for all!
DIE LINKE advocates funding for the railroads to meet demand and for expansion to eliminate bottlenecks, close gaps and create new connections.
We demand barrier-free and user-friendly train stations with service personnel, reliable, synchronized timetables
and advocate a change in the business policy of Deutsche Bahn AG: This must be geared to the common good and not to the balance sheet profit.
Rail transport must be organized publicly.
What is needed is cooperation instead of competition.
All further steps toward liberalization and privatization in rail transport must be stopped.
All privatisations, spin-offs and splits of existing railroad companies must be reversed.
We want a reform of the railroad reform, which has put DB on a privatization course; a democratic citizens' railroad, where the competence and experience of the employees is also brought to bear.
We say no to the dismantling of railroad infrastructure!
Freight traffic must also return to the railroads below 300 km.
No job cuts at DB Cargo!
That is why we are advocating a nationwide investment program for the rapid electrification of rail lines previously used only by Diese lfa h rzeugen.
By far the best and most sensible form of electromobility is and remains rail transport.
We advocate for a European night train network so that travel in Europe is once again comfortable
and ecological.
We are calling for train path prices to be halved so that more traffic goes by rail.
We are against expensive and nonsensical projects: We want to stop Stuttgart 21 and rely on the concept "Umstieg 21 ".
The second Munich main line is too expensive and of little use.
We want to stop the project and put the money into better solutions.
And we also reject the Fehmarnbelt Tunnel because there are ecological alternatives.
Avoid, shift, improve freight traffic
The international corporations ensure that more and more transport kilometers are put into the products, because the most profitable conditions are used in all corners of Europe and the world.
The price is high: accidents, noise, exhaust fumes, climate change and environmental destruction.
The costs of this are externalized - they add up to 77 billion euros per year and are primarily a burden on the health insurance funds.
We want to reverse this trend, make transportation more expensive
and strengthen the regional economy.
We want to extend and increase the truck toll to all roads.
External costs such as air pollution and noise pollution must be included.
We want to introduce a ban on truck driving from Friday afternoons and at night, and prohibit the use of federal and country roads if a federal highway exists in parallel.
We reject the approval of Gigaliners (long trucks).
Similarly, we oppose federally funded projects to test and introduce overhead power lines for hybrid trucks with pantographs on highways and electronic drawbars for convoy travel by trucks and other commercial vehicles.
We want to enforce longer rest periods and better working conditions for truck drivers and expand road traffic controls.
We want to relieve the inner cities of delivery traffic.
The purchase of e-load bicycles is to be promoted, as are combi-buses that also transport parcels.
State aid for shipping must be linked to social and ecological criteria.
We want to ban flags of convenience for German shipping companies.
Competition between ports must be replaced by close cooperation.
Only cargo and cruise ships powered by diesel or more environmentally friendly types of propulsion are to be allowed to enter the territorial waters of the EU.
This would limit the use of heavy oil, which is highly polluting.
Reduce air traffic
We advocate a strict ban on night flights from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m., especially for areas close to cities.
This ban on night flights must be enshrined in the Federal Aviation Act.
Flight paths must be worked out in a transparent, public, democratic and interstate process.
We want to shift as much domestic and intra-European air traffic as possible to rail.
Public subsidies for airports are to be eliminated.
We want to put a stop to social and ecological dumping competition in air transport.
We want a uniform kerosene tax in the EU.
The full VAT rate is to be applied to airline tickets.
As an immediate measure, we want to put an end to the expansion of further flight capacities.
Strengthen noise and environmental protection
DIE LINKE wants to regulate and reduce environmental noise, road, rail and air traffic noise with a binding noise protection law.
Funding for noise abatement must be increased.
Noise makes you ill!
The CO2 limit for new cars in Europe is to be well below 60 grams from 2025.
We support the Federal Council's proposal to only allow passenger cars with zero CO2 emissions from 2030.
We want to establish a new, independent and powerful authority at the Federal Environment Agency to monitor emissions standards.
We reject the purchase premium for electric cars.
Instead, we want to promote electromobility in public transport.
Subsidies for e-cars also make sense for vehicles that have to be on the road a lot - e.g. those of craftsmen, social services, cabs.
DIE LINKE wants to ban the import of "biofuels" because this displaces food production in countries of the global south and destroys biotopes.
Regional vegetable oil fuels should only be used in the agricultural sector and for public transport.
For a sustainable agricultural economy and healthy food for all
Studies show that poor people have a smaller ecological footprint than rich people - but at the same time they are more affected by environmental pollution.
For us, environmental justice means eliminating this inequality
while protecting nature and animals.
We want to enable an ecologically compatible way of life for all people
and affordable.
The agricultural industry is becoming increasingly export-oriented throughout Europe.
In particular, the focus is on the growing markets outside the EU.
The export of agricultural commodities and food must no longer be subsidized.
It contributes to the destruction of local agricultural structures in many countries of the global South.
DIE LINKE opposes the further globalization of agricultural markets.
We want to end the export strategy in agricultural policy.
We want a socially just
and organic farming with a focus on regional production, processing and marketing.
The guiding principle of left-wing agricultural policy is agriculture oriented towards the common good, aligned with the international concept of food sovereignty
and making an appropriate contribution to a sustainable supply of renewable energy.
In agriculture, too, you have to be able to make a good living from your work.
We advocate good working and income conditions in agriculture, forestry and fisheries and
demand legal framework conditions that ensure respectful treatment of people, nature and animals.
We want regional processing and marketing structures as a counter-strategy to the market power of slaughterhouse, dairy and retail groups.
We want to abolish the farm surrender clause: it is tantamount to a forced sale of farms for a mini pension.
We want to secure land ownership for regionally based farms and rural populations.
It should remain socially broad-based.
Farmland does not belong in investor hands.
We want to address this with a comprehensive reform of the regulatory, tax, subsidy and price regulations governing land.
As a matter of principle, agricultural land is to be sold to farmers and non-profit land companies - and at prices that reflect the capitalized value.
To this end, we are creating an effective price abuse limit.
For share purchases of farms, we want a uniform federal regulation on the approval procedure.
We rule out the possibility of tax avoidance inherent in the Real Estate Transfer Tax Act.
We want to ban the cultivation and trade of genetically modified plants.
The ban on animal cloning must be preserved.
We want labeling of imported foods made from cloned animals and their offspring.
We want to ban the cultivation and trade in, as well as the import of, genetically modified plants.
We want to strengthen domestic production of protein feed and ban imports for livestock farming.
This takes up agricultural land that is urgently needed in the exporting countries for their own food supply.
We want livestock farming that is land-based, related to domestic demand and animal-friendly.
To this end, inventory caps are to be introduced for regions and locations.
We want to ban forms of livestock farming with cruel production methods and a high demand for antibiotics.
The use of antibiotics and growth agents in animal breeding can lead to health risks and pollute the environment.
The use of antibiotics in agriculture must be limited to absolutely necessary treatments,
controls must be tightened and violations must be punished more severely.
DIE LINKE is committed to a fundamental reform of EU agricultural policy.
From the next funding period after 2020, there may only be money for concretely verifiable public services.
The area premium should take into account socially responsible labor and exclude investors.
With higher producer prices, we want to reduce the dependence of farms on subsidies and ensure that food remains affordable through a fair distribution of profits in the value chain.
We want affordable and healthy food for all, fair transitions
and sustainable future prospects for agriculture.
We promote peasant, cooperative and ecological agriculture instead of agricultural corporations.
We want to expand organic farming
and promote regional production and sales structures more strongly.
Greater support is also needed for cooperative farming and affordable organic food in school and daycare catering.
DIE LINKE wants to preserve farms in metropolitan areas as well.
This also contributes to short distances in the supply of food.
DIE LINKE wants to ban patents on life.
To safeguard genetic diversity, old plant varieties and livestock breeds are to be preserved and free reproduction rights secured.
We want to promote cultivation systems that give special consideration to soil, animals and plants.
Especially beneficial insects such as bees and bumblebees must be preserved and promoted.
We need agricultural research that is applied, practice-oriented and ecological.
Strengthening the rights of consumers
Businesses, banks and corporations have the higher leverage over consumers and regularly use their power to the detriment of consumers.
Liberalization and globalization are creating new markets that are becoming increasingly confusing.
DIE LINKE is not focusing solely on transparency here, but wants to strengthen the rights of consumers.
It combines consumer policy with the social issue, because it is primarily people with low incomes and senior citizens who are targeted by windy business practices - and to whom this rip-off particularly hurts the wallet.
We want an independent consumer protection agency with strong enforcement powers.
Consumer protection associations are to be better funded and their rights strengthened.
To this end, they are also to receive federal revenues from fines imposed for antitrust violations.
Good consumer protection depends on whistleblowers who draw attention to abuses in companies, public authorities and other institutions.
We need a whistleblower protection law.
The new criminal offense created by the grand coalition (Section 202d of the German Criminal Code) of "data theft" criminalizes the handling of leaked data without providing adequate protection for whistleblowers and journalists.
We are committed to ensuring that this criminal offense is adapted so that freedom of the press and broadcasting is guaranteed and whistleblowers are protected from prosecution.
Consumers must have the right to be informed directly by the company about the social and ecological conditions of production.
For this, we need a strong consumer information law (not limited to food).
In order for consumers to be able to defend themselves collectively against tricks and deceptions by companies and enrichment at consumer expense, we are campaigning for the introduction of class actions.
Two years' warranty for defects with 6 months' protection of evidence is too little for us.
We want to extend warranty and guarantee obligations and prohibit planned premature wear and tear by law.
Unfair telephone advertising, excessive collection costs and cost traps when making phone calls or surfing the Internet must finally be stopped.
DIE LINKE wants consumers to have the right to short, clear and comparable information, for example on the costs of loans and financial investments, Internet offers, insurance or telephone calls.
When it comes to food, it must be clear what is in it.
That's why we advocate clear labeling of ingredients, additives and nutritional values.
An additional, comprehensible labeling with the "nutritional value traffic light" is intended to facilitate the quality classification "at first glance".
We also want real origin labeling for processed foods so that regional products are strengthened.
Vegetarian and vegan foods are to be uniformly defined and labeled.
We want a gradual restriction of product and brand advertising in public spaces.
Immediately, we demand a ban on advertising in schools and daycare centers as well as illuminated advertising in public spaces.
Consumer education must include social and environmental impacts.
Every consumer must have the right to determine for himself or herself what happens to his or her data without being disadvantaged.
Consumers must be asked for consent when shopping online if data is collected from them.
Beforehand, they must be informed about what data is collected from them and how this data is used.
We want to improve consumer protection in financial services (see "Shrinking financial markets" above).
We want to reform the paragraph on theft: Taking food from waste containers should no longer be a punishable offense.
Precarious employment and unemployment, high rents and illness, to name a few of the many reasons, drive people through no fault of their own into the poverty trap and thus inevitably into debt.
The so-called reform of the consumer insolvency procedure of 2013 has further worsened, not improved, the situation of people stuck in debt.
We say: out of the debt and poverty trap!
For a real, social reform of the consumer insolvency procedure.
For us, this includes: People who have already been registered in the "debtors' tower" (public debtors' register) for at least 72 months should receive a shortened full discharge of residual debt of 12 months.
We want to prevent debts before they arise.
To this end, we want to strengthen debt counseling centers and introduce mobile debt counseling in rural areas.
We want free legal help for every affected consumer with no strings attached.
Protect the diversity of nature and animals
Nature, the environment and the climate are public goods and our livelihoods that must be protected.
Nature conservation and biodiversity goals must be integrated into other policy areas in the future to ensure the conservation of nature and biodiversity.
To achieve this, environmental administrations need to be staffed with more people.
In order to sustainably protect nature and preserve biodiversity, the EU nature conservation directives and their national equivalents must be implemented and financially supported.
We want to press ahead swiftly with the implementation of the "National Strategy for Biological Diversity".
For this purpose, a cross-border interconnected biotope network must be created.
Public spaces should remain public and existing gaps should be closed.
We want to increase the federal "Biological Diversity" program to at least 50 million euros per year.
We want to gradually reduce subsidies that destroy nature and the environment and invest the money released in nature and environmental programs.
Nature conservation land belongs in public hands and may be given at most to nature conservation and environmental associations.
We want to secure and expand the national natural heritage - financed by a natural heritage fund.
Areas for wilderness development must also be designated beyond these lands to meet the 2020 goal of two percent wilderness.
Training methods and the species-appropriate keeping of horses are to be regularly inspected by the veterinary office.
Wildlife must be better protected.
DIE LINKE wants to fight poaching and illegal wildlife trade.
We want to put an end to the keeping of certain wild animal species and the training of wild animals in circuses and dolphinariums in the interest of animal welfare, as well as to the trade in wild catches at commercial animal fairs.
Animal testing must be replaced by alternative methods.
We want a ban on live animal transports that exceed the four-hour maximum.
The nearest slaughterhouse shall always be preferred.
We advocate for the legal anchoring and full extension of the right of associations to file lawsuits for environmental, nature and animal protection associations and individuals in the sense of the Aarhus Convention.
Animal welfare must be strengthened.
We want to ban the shredding of chicks, tethering for cattle and cows.
Breeding sows must not be kept in crates in the mating and farrowing area.
Down must not be obtained by plucking live animals.
We want to ban the import of products from force-feeding (stuffing).
The sale and trade of real fur from animals for the sole purpose of fur production shall be prohibited.
Sustainable use and protection of soil, water and air
Soil protection is climate protection, it is important for the water cycle as a carbon store and for food security.
These functions extend beyond national borders.
That is why we advocate the legal anchoring of soil protection at EU level.
New soil sealing must be significantly reduced.
New sealing may only be approved if it is accompanied by at least an equal amount of land unsealing in the region.
New road construction may only occur if there is an independently identified need.
Unsealing potentials must be worked out in the regional plans.
DIE LINKE advocates the concretization of the Federal Soil Protection Act on the basis of existing DIN standards.
We advocate near-natural forest management and forest conversion at the federal, state and local levels.
The forest ecosystem with its diverse ecological protection and filter functions must be preserved through a coordinated forestry and hunting policy.
We want to prevent the privatization of forest land; the forest belongs to everyone.
Private forests are to be bought back and transferred to public ownership where possible.
We want to push ahead decisively with the Water Framework Directive.
This includes maintaining or restoring near-natural structures, reducing the discharge of pollutants from fertilizers and pesticides into rivers and seas, and safeguarding floodplain areas.
We want to immediately ban pesticides that are particularly harmful to the environment, such as glyphosate and neonicotinoids, as well as microplastics in cosmetics and cleaning and care products.
The "National Action Plan for Plant Protection" (NAP) is to be transformed into an effective plan for reducing pesticides in Germany.
We want to continue, implement and financially secure the federal "Blue Ribbon" program.
Environmental pollution of water bodies due to improper disposal of human pharmaceuticals is dangerous.
We want to (re)introduce the take-back system for medicines.
Wastewater from "hotspots" such as retirement homes or hospitals must be collected and pretreated.
A fund must be introduced to free polluted areas from contaminated sites.
We are committed to protecting the NATURA2000 protected areas in the North Sea and Baltic Sea.
Protected areas should be free from fishing, military use, resource extraction and other economic interventions.
We want to promote alternative fishing methods to avoid bottom-disturbing (trawls) and habitat-damaging methods, and pursue sustainable fisheries with catch quotas based on scientific recommendations.
Waste management that conserves resources
The EU Waste Directive must be implemented and the proximity principle of waste disposal and processing must be observed.
Waste disposal must be a public service!
We want to introduce a deposit system for energy-saving light bulbs, disposable cups, cell phones and televisions to increase collection rates for technical products.
We want to end the import of rare raw materials extracted in conflict regions.
That is why we are in favor of a certification requirement.
The regulations of the EU Ecodesign Directive must be extended to product design to ensure easy repairs by the user.
In addition, we support the "top runner model" (the most efficient device at a given time sets the new standard) for device production.
Environmental data on the use of material and energy resources should be collected for the entire life chain of a product.
The company must subsequently disclose this data.
We are committed to ensuring that the duty of care is met along the entire supply chain of minerals from conflict and high-risk areas - including from the products that contain these resources.
Companies must be required to report on this publicly.
Municipalities should continue to play a prominent role in local waste disposal and act as role models in terms of environmental and social standards.
Nature, the environment and the climate are common goods.
But access to green spaces, for example, and thus to opportunities for exercise and recreation, is just as unequally distributed socially as is exposure to noise and pollutants.
Health risks and different life expectancies are also unequally distributed.
Environmental policy measures must be geared to their impact in terms of the social distribution of opportunities and costs and to the polluter-pays principle.
Environmental justice is not only a national issue, but also an international one.
European standards, e.g. of environmental
and consumer protection, must be maintained and expanded.
XV. No to war. For a democratic and just world
DIE LINKE is the party of peace.
We are the only party and parliamentary group in the German Bundestag that has not approved the Bundeswehr's foreign deployments and will not do so in the future.
We fight for consistent disarmament and want to ban the export and production of weapons and armaments.
The upheavals in the world order, the militarization of global conflicts, the rearmament policy of the EU and its member states make these demands more urgent than ever.
The refugees have made it possible for many people to experience this: The world of today no longer knows any outside, we all live in the same world.
At home, the deliberate rearmament - especially under the conditions of the "debt brake" - threatens the existence or necessary expansion of the welfare state.
Externally, war, arms exports and militarization are deforming the civil, social and democratic development of many countries.
Many people are worried and unsettled by war and terrorism and a threatening military confrontation between the NATO countries or the USA and Russia.
Arms exports, free trade and direct investment, competition for scarce resources and the consequences of climate catastrophe lead to uprisings, armed conflicts and flight movements across the continents.
For 16 years, the U.S. and NATO, with Germany's participation, have waged a war for influence and access to resources in Central Asia and the Middle East.
The wars in Afghanistan and Iraq have led to the destabilization of the regions and favored the emergence of the "Islamic State - Daesh."
This supposed "war on terror" has failed.
Russia is also waging an "anti-terror war" in Syria.
The "war on terror" has cost many lives and spawned even more violence.
The majority of the victims of this war are not "terrorists."
Terror was not defeated, but brought to many more countries around the globe, including Europe.
In the countries where the "war on terror" is being waged, such as Afghanistan, Pakistan or Iraq, it has destroyed societies.
It has hardly weakened the embattled groups such as the Taliban and al Qaeda or effectively stopped their terror against the civilian population, but has made other groups such as the "Islamic State - Daesh" strong in the first place.
Germany is one of the richest countries in the world and has power and influence over these developments.
The Bundeswehr White Paper claims to be actively involved in shaping the global order - including militarily - against the backdrop of Germany's "economic, political and military importance."
DIE LINKE will be a motor for global justice, we oppose the plans of the German government for rearmament and world power politics.
When the government speaks of "German responsibility in the world," we say: This must be a responsibility for disarmament and peaceful conflict resolution.
In order to end war and violence and enable all people to live a good life, global peaceful
and cooperative solutions can be found.
This is only possible if conflicts are resolved peacefully,
if consistently disarmed
and the global economic order is organized fairly - and with international solidarity.
All people have a right to protection from death, torture, persecution and discrimination.
A look at Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan or the numerous wars and conflicts on the African continent shows: These human rights are in a bad way.
In Syria, major and regional powers as well as the Assad regime and terrorist organizations are responsible for one of the greatest humanitarian catastrophes since World War II: millions of people are on the run, hundreds of thousands are starving.
We need an active peace policy!
The dominance of the military must be ended.
We want to withdraw all German soldiers from missions abroad and ban arms exports.
These are important first steps on this path.
Another step is the conversion of the defense industry.
We rely on strengthening civil society initiatives and mechanisms of non-military conflict resolution under international law - instead of an imperial policy of "regime change", instead of drone wars and military operations.
In all countries, the populations must have the right to determine their own economic, social and cultural development.
We fight for the right to social and individual security and protection from violence for all people in the world.
Resolving conflicts peacefully - ending foreign deployments
War and the threat of military force cannot be the means of a peacemaking policy.
Peaceful prevention and early resolution of potentially warlike conflicts must be at the center of German foreign policy.
We want Germany to abide by international law and universal human rights in their totality of civil, economic, social and cultural rights.
When, on the other hand, the German government speaks of "more responsibility" in Europe and the world, it means the assertion of geopolitical interests, foreign deployments of the Bundeswehr and more money for armaments projects.
The German government is pursuing a dangerous policy of militarizing German and European foreign policy.
Germany, not only since the election of U.S. President Trump, threatens to assume a new, leading role in the military security architecture of the world (dis)order and within the European Union.
Although the German military budget has increased significantly over the past fifteen years, the Ministry of Defense is calling for around 130 billion euros by 2030 to modernize existing weapons systems and upgrade new armaments projects.
Instead of currently spending 1.2 percent of GDP per year on military, NATO is calling for as much as two percent of GDP.
The German government wants to launch the largest rearmament program of the past two decades.
Foreign deployments of the Bundeswehr have increased: from 1992 to 2016, they cost at least 17.2 billion euros.
A responsible foreign policy looks different: For DIE LINKE, responsibility for peace means assuming international responsibility for a cooperative relationship between states and their populations in a democratic world community.
We reject a policy of dominance and hegemony by individual states.
For these reasons, we reject foreign deployments of the Bundeswehr.
The Bundeswehr must be withdrawn from all foreign deployments and must not be sent on new foreign missions.
The funds currently spent on military interventions should be reallocated to civil reconstruction and peacekeeping programs and development cooperation: We want to use the funds from foreign missions for a peaceful program for the future.
We reject the idea of German soldiers training other armies that are then directly or indirectly involved in acts of war.
DIE LINKE rejects any further increase in the arms budget.
We oppose a military component in the European External Action Service.
We want to end the involvement of federal and state police forces in international police operations that serve to support wars and authoritarian regimes.
We reject cooperation in the security sector with authoritarian regimes to prevent flight and migration.
We advocate for an end to the current military advisory missions.
They fuel conflicts around the world instead of defusing them.
We reject the mixing of civil and military measures.
"Civil-military cooperation" and "networked security" are used to disguise the militarization of foreign policy.
The integration of development cooperation and humanitarian aid into security policy concepts - as has happened in Afghanistan, for example - not only prevents social development in these countries.
It also contradicts the civil society mission of non-governmental organizations.
International aid must never be part of a military strategy, but must be guided solely by the imperative to help populations affected by hunger and war.
We want to orient policies toward nonviolent, social, and proactive peacebuilding.
The participation and protection of the local population are central to this.
We want to provide comprehensive support for projects aimed at expanding civil conflict transformation.
We want to double funding for the Civil Peace Service, which sends experts to conflict areas, by 2020.
In addition, we want to establish a European Civil Peace Service and support African countries in establishing an African Civil Peace Service.
This can be funded from some of the money that has been spent on military training missions.
We want to anchor civil clauses in the shareholder agreements of the implementing organizations of German development cooperation.
We resolutely oppose the deployment of the Bundeswehr within Germany.
DIE LINKE is committed to ensuring that right-wing extremist ideas and the cultivation of Wehrmacht traditions in the Bundeswehr are completely uncovered and combated.
Building peace without weapons: Ban arms exports.
Our international policy aims at peace,
disarmament and demilitarization.
Germany is currently the world's third largest exporter of weapons.
Every weapon exported from Germany serves to arm another country.
Arms exports promote oppression and make it possible for conflicts to be fought violently and wars to be waged elsewhere in the world.
As a first step, we want to ban all exports of small arms and weapons factories.
These so-called small arms - including assault rifles and submachine guns - are used to kill most people in the world's wars.
They are the weapons of mass destruction of the 21st century.
Arms exports must no longer be supported with taxpayers' money - neither through state backing with Hermes guarantees nor through training support or via other channels.
Software and devices that can be used to track Internet users and set up Internet blocks may not be exported.
Our goal is for arms exports to be banned and for all arms production in the Federal Republic of Germany to cease.
Together with social partners from trade unions, the peace movement and churches, we want to develop conversion programs for employees in the defense industry in order to create new jobs.
A comprehensive production ban is the best way to curb and prevent arms exports.
Research into arms conversion, i.e. conversion from military to civilian production, is to be financed both by public funds and by the private sector and its associations affected by it.
DIE LINKE calls for a ban on the participation of German companies in international or foreign arms companies.
With the support of the German government, the Islamist dictatorship in Saudi Arabia is turning Yemen into a place of horror.
DIE LINKE demands an immediate stop to arms deliveries and the planned training of Saudi military personnel by the Bundeswehr.
German arms companies such as Rheinmetall must be forced to cease their arms production in Saudi Arabia.
We are participating in the movement for civil clauses at universities nationwide.
DIE LINKE supports the initiative for a so-called civil tax law.
This would provide, in accordance with the protection of conscience, the possibility for every citizen to object to the use of his or her taxes for military purposes.
The vision of a world without weapons of mass destruction also includes consistent disarmament at home.
The last U.S. nuclear weapons still stationed in Germany must be withdrawn and destroyed immediately.
No modernized nuclear weapons may be stationed in Germany and no funds may be made available for the modernization of carrier aircraft for the use of nuclear weapons.
We want to end so-called nuclear sharing.
No military drone operations in other countries may be coordinated or directed from the soil of the Federal Republic of Germany.
The military sites in Germany currently involved in such drone warfare - such as Ramstein, AFRICOM and EUCOM - must be closed.
Germany must finally fulfill its obligations under the 1968 Non-Proliferation Treaty.
DIE LINKE will continue to advocate a treaty banning nuclear weapons worldwide in the next legislative period.
The German armed forces or federal and state police forces may not acquire drones that are directed against humans (in combat or for surveillance) or participate in the operation of such systems abroad.
We want to outlaw all unmanned and fully autonomous combat systems (armed drones and combat robots) under an international convention.
The recruitment of minors by the Bundeswehr must be ended.
We do not want recruitment campaigns in public spaces.
We reject the offensive strategy of the Bundeswehr in cyber space - defense against these threats is a matter for law enforcement agencies of the interior, not the army.
All foreign military bases in Germany must be closed.
Corresponding contracts, also with the USA within the framework of the residence agreement and the supplementary agreement to the NATO Status of Forces, will be terminated.
The infrastructure in the Federal Republic of Germany must not be used to wage wars in violation of international law.
and human rights violations such as the deportation of prisoners.
No Bundeswehr in educational institutions and at training fairs! (cf. Chapter VIII "Good Education")
Fighting the causes of flight - not refugees!
More than 65 million people are fleeing wars, civil strife and persecution.
Most of them do not come to Europe, but seek refuge in the neighboring countries of their homeland.
International refugee assistance is underfunded.
The German government and the EU must significantly increase funding for refugee aid, especially for the UNHCR.
Large refugee camps that house refugees for many years create problems instead of solving them.
That is why the German government and the EU must gear their refugee policies toward opening up opportunities for refugees to work and integrate in their countries of refuge.
DIE LINKE wants to fight the causes of flight and displacement instead of fighting refugees and blocking their escape routes.
At the center is the right not to have to migrate.
Causes of flight are manifold.
They are almost always related to global inequality between rich and poor.
This inequality is growing as a result of exploitation in unfair trade relations, the strengthening of large agricultural corporations, ruthless transnational corporations and climate change, for which the industrialized countries are primarily responsible.
The Federal Republic of Germany often supports and exacerbates existing conflicts - by approving arms exports to crisis areas and by supporting even undemocratic regimes, only for them to block escape routes (cf. chapter XVI "For a Europe of the people").
DIE LINKE fights for a just world economic order based on solidarity,
against war and arms exports,
against land theft,
for fair production conditions, for
democracy and
human rights, worldwide.
Refugees should have the right to social, cultural and democratic participation in our country.
Social justice worldwide - strengthening cooperation in solidarity
DIE LINKE is the party of international solidarity.
The eight richest people in the world own more than the poorer half of the world's population.
Over one billion people worldwide go hungry and more than two billion live on less than two dollars a day.
The rich few are getting richer and richer.
Justice in international trade and economic relations is a direct prevention of poverty, violence and war.
We want to radically redistribute wealth and change unjust global trade and economic relations so that all people can develop socially, culturally and politically.
The UN's Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) form an important basis for this.
To achieve them, a change of political and economic direction is needed.
German and European "development aid" is often tied to extortionate "structural reforms" and undermines independent development.
We are committed to a reorientation of development cooperation.
It must be geared towards the interests and needs of the supported countries and be based on the ideas of justice, solidarity and solidarity.
and sustainable development.
It must be an instrument of global redistribution in the interests of social justice and must not be misused as an instrument of interference or as a means of exerting pressure in favor of the economic and security interests of donor countries and international corporations.
Development cooperation must help the supported countries to implement their ideas of independent, sovereign development.
We oppose linking development funds and other funding to border protection and migration control measures.
We advocate primarily public development financing at all levels, want to end the undemocratic influence of private foundations in development cooperation, and reject public-private partnerships with German companies as a failed model.
Germany should at least make a binding commitment to implementing the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
German funds for development cooperation must finally be increased to the internationally pledged 0.7 percent of gross domestic product.
Instead of sticking to the policy of unequal trade relations, German foreign policy should contribute to the creation of a global social infrastructure that enables all people in this world to have access to education, health, work and a self-determined life in dignity and social security.
We are opposing the planned free trade agreements TTIP, CETA and TiSA with hundreds of thousands of people.
The same applies to the Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs) with ACP countries and other unfair trade agreements between the EU and countries of the Global South.
These agreements are designed to open markets and cement privatization.
We need fair world trade and a new equitable world economic order that meets high ecological and social standards:
We advocate for the implementation of the global right to food.
Land grabbing and food speculation must be banned.
We want to promote food sovereignty instead of collaboration with agribusiness.
We are committed to ensuring that raw materials are paid for appropriately and that their processing and value creation are specifically promoted in the regions of origin.
To achieve this, the countries of the South must be able to protect local and regional markets from cheap imports and further processing in the country through export duties, contrary to free trade dictates.
We call for a fair international tax system and the draining of tax havens in order to give transnational corporations a greater share in the development of the countries from whose exploitation they profit massively.
Through tax evasion and tax avoidance, the countries of the South lose $100 billion a year - far more than they receive in development funds in return - which are urgently needed for public development financing.
We are committed to supporting the development of public social security systems in the countries of the South.
At the UN level, we want to establish a compensation fund for the consequences of climate change and colonialism, financed by the industrialized countries.
In addition, we call for a solidarity-based transfer of knowledge and technology for an energy transition in the countries of the South.
Germany's climate finance transfers are to increase to seven billion euros per year by 2020, most of which will be provided in addition to development cooperation (see chapter XIV "People and nature before profits").
We want to oblige German corporations to comply with social and ecological standards worldwide and to uphold democratic rights.
We want to ban the import of products made with child labor.
We advocate binding rules for multinational companies.
That is why we support the so-called Treaty Process of the United Nations, which aims to introduce a global corporate criminal law and has so far been blocked by the EU states, including Germany.
Employees should also be able to take legal action against corporations at their home locations.
We want German companies to have to disclose their suppliers and their working conditions.
They have a duty of care - including a human rights duty - along the entire supply chain.
This applies to the raw materials as well as to the production itself, to the cotton in T-shirts as well as to the working conditions of the seamstresses.
We support efforts of independent regional integration, such as ALBA and CELAC in Latin America, as well as South-South cooperation based on equality and solidarity.
We advocate for the full and unconditional lifting of the U.S. blockade on Cuba, including the third country provision of the U.S. blockade.
We support the normalization of relations with Cuba and call for cooperation based on equality and solidarity.
We condemn the destabilization attempts of the European Union (EU) and the Organization of American States (OAS) against Venezuela.
We demand that the trade war against the country's economy and against the supply of the population be stopped.
We vigorously oppose such attempts at the international level.
The social changes set in motion by leftist governments in Latin America have given millions of people economic prospects and democratic participation.
We support leftist governments and self-determined regional integration processes in Latin America.
Strengthening international law
DIE LINKE is the party of international law.
We see the United Nations as the central body for peaceful understanding between states and societies.
The ban on the use of force, as stipulated in the UN Charter, must be strengthened.
We oppose any attempt to play human rights off against international law and to misuse them as a justification for war, as all federal governments of the last almost 20 years have done.
Human rights are universal and indivisible.
All human rights - including social, cultural and environmental rights - must apply to all people worldwide without restriction.
The federal government must sign the Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, which allows individuals to appeal to the United Nations if these human rights are violated.
We want to strengthen and democratize the United Nations.
The General Assembly, in which all members of the United Nations are represented, must be able to make more decisions.
The composition and competencies of the UN Security Council should be put to the test.
UN civilian bodies must be made more efficient, better funded and politically strengthened.
Funding for the UN Relief and Works Agency and the World Hunger Program must be increased sufficiently.
We reject the militarization of the UN.
We focus on the development of multi- and supranational instruments for peacekeeping and democratic conflict prevention.
Issues of global economic development must be negotiated in United Nations bodies such as the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) and the Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) - and not in self-appointed circles such as the G8 or the G20.
We reject a permanent German seat on the UN Security Council.
For a European policy of peace and détente
A united social Europe can only have a real, democratic future as a project of peace (cf. Chapter XVI "For a Europe of the People").
NATO is extending its sphere of influence to Russia's western border.
The accession of further countries to NATO, such as Georgia, Ukraine or Macedonia, would further fuel tensions with Russia.
Many people in our country are worried about the deterioration of Germany's and the EU's relations with Russia.
Today, nobody talks about a common house of Europe, about the peace dividend after the end of the Cold War.
Instead, a hot war is taking place in the middle of Europe, in Ukraine.
Sanctions and counter-sanctions dominate the picture between the EU and Russia.
Where disarmament would be called for, verbal and military armament dominates on both sides.
Diplomacy and military restraint have been sidelined.
We consider this policy of confrontation to be fatal.
DIE LINKE opposes intensifying EU accession negotiations with authoritarian regimes, as in the case of Turkey.
We advocate a radical change in German and European policy on Turkey.
We stand with the democrats in Turkey and demand an immediate halt to arms exports and deliveries from arms factories.
DIE LINKE is committed to the release of political prisoners in Turkey and opposes all attempts to give Turkish President Erdogan a helping hand, such as with an expansion of the Customs Union.
DIE LINKE advocates strengthening the OSCE as an important format for pan-European cooperation.
To achieve this, the first thing to do is to reach an agreement not to admit new members to NATO.
We want a new Ostpolitik oriented toward détente.
Security in Europe can only be security with and not against Russia.
This must become the security policy orientation of European and German trade.
Military maneuvers or plans to deploy weapons systems along Russia's western border fuel conflicts.
We oppose military maneuvers.
We want to prevent the deployment and stationing of German soldiers in Eastern European countries.
We reject the NATO arms target of two percent of GDP.
We want to dissolve NATO and replace it with a collective security system involving Russia and aimed at disarmament.
We want the Bundeswehr to be removed from NATO's supreme command and the Federal Republic to withdraw from the Alliance's military structures.
DIE LINKE demands that paragraph 80 of the German Penal Code be reintroduced, which prohibits the "preparation of a war of aggression".
As a first step, we want conventional arms control in Europe along the lines of the aCFE Treaty (Adapted Conventional Armed Forces in Europe Treaty).
We reject new NATO war involvement such as in Syria and Iraq.
German participation in NATO wars such as Afghanistan must be stopped.
We want to eliminate the U.S. and NATO infrastructure in Germany that is used for deployment against Russia, devastating regime change policies, and more generally for wars of intervention.
We reject a NATO missile shield.
We want to stop the transformation of the Bundeswehr into an operational army.
All offensive-capable weapons systems must be disarmed.
DIE LINKE is committed to the gradual disarmament of the Bundeswehr.
DIE LINKE pursues the long-term goal of a Germany and a Europe without armies and a world without wars.
In the course of downsizing the Bundeswehr, its members must be offered prospects in civilian professions.
Retraining, education and training are supported.
DIE LINKE demands a ban on military security and mercenary companies.
The federal government may not mandate or support them.
DIE LINKE advocates that May 8 be declared a public holiday as an international day of commemoration of the liberation from fascism.
In times of global upheavals and crises, left-wing politics must be guided by the mandate to enable people to live together in dignity.
Peace is more than the absence of war.
Peace requires policies that enable all people across national borders to live in dignity, recognition and social justice.
A living democracy requires the joint search for alternatives.
We confront the numerous actors and multilateral commitments of international politics in order to open up sustainable transformation processes for a more reliable and peaceful world.
DIE LINKE will not participate in a government that promotes rearmament and militarization, that wages wars or permits combat missions of the Bundeswehr abroad.
XVI For a Europe of the people instead of the banks and corporations
The European Union is in a fundamental crisis.
Social inequality has grown, wealth and poverty are exploding.
Militarization is being pushed forward.
Neoliberal policies of competition and austerity have led to mass unemployment and produced a lost generation in Southern Europe.
In the EU as a whole, it is almost a quarter, in Italy, Spain, Greece 40 to 60 percent of young people who cannot find work.
In this EU, competitiveness in the interests of the profits of banks and corporations takes precedence over the interests of the people.
The "rescue" of Greece was more than 90 percent a financing of rich creditors and bank profits, not least German banks.
The implementation of neoliberal trade agreements such as TTIP and CETA against the will of hundreds of thousands of people or the blackmailing of Greece to continue its devastating neoliberal austerity policy shows that democracy is being pushed aside as an obstacle to competition: When people want a different policy, democracy is cast aside as an obstacle to competition.
The result: this EU and this project of European integration are losing people's trust.
Many people in Europe feel increasingly disconnected.
This is being exploited by the political right to pit people against each other and polarize the continent.
Entire regions, industries and economic sectors have been brought to ruin.
This has come to a head as a result of flight and migration movements.
Nationalistic tones in public debates are on the rise.
Alongside left-wing, social criticism of the neoliberal EU project, criticism from the right, fed by dull nationalism and irrational fears, is also on the rise.
Election successes of right-wing, extreme right-wing and fascist parties in numerous countries are an expression of this political crisis.
At the latest with the "Brexit" referendum in Great Britain, it has become obvious that the danger of a breakup of the EU is quite real.
It is this antisocial and undemocratic EU and the policies of its member states that give impetus to authoritarian forces, racism and nationalism.
Europe can be changed through democracy and social justice - otherwise there is a danger that right-wing parties and populists will change Europe in their image.
Anyone who wants to stop the shift to the right in Europe must work for a fundamental change in policy, especially in Germany.
The German government is playing a central role in further transforming the European Union into a competitive area.
Location competition, pressure on wages and the welfare state, free trade and rearmament are neither in the interest of the people in Germany nor of the people in the rest of Europe.
The one-sided export orientation of the German economy in particular is leading to deindustrialization, debt and mass unemployment in large parts of the EU.
It is also to the detriment of employees in Germany: the result is precarious work, low wages and permanent stress.
DIE LINKE is therefore fighting for a change of policy in Germany and a different economic policy - for higher wages,.
Redistribution of wealth
and public investment,
for a social-ecological restructuring of the economy This is the
only way to overcome the deep crisis in Europe.
The German export surplus leads to the indebtedness of other countries.
The neo-liberal construction of the euro mainly benefits the German export industry and international conglomerates, while dividing Europe economically and socially.
The policies of the Troika, Merkel & Co. are destroying the single currency.
The monetary union must also be radically reformed or it will break up with unforeseeable consequences.
The prerequisite for this is a different German economic policy
and an end to austerity.
This is possible by breaking with German hegemony in the EU and creating a democratic EU consisting of equal partners.
We reject all efforts to blackmail euro countries that want to end neoliberal policies with the threat of exclusion from the eurozone.
DIE LINKE wants a new start for the European Union.
The Maastricht and Lisbon treaties inscribed neoliberalism into the foundations of the EU.
We need a fundamental social and democratic alternative to this neoliberal EU: with new treaties, new structures, new hopes.
We want the left-wing European idea of social justice,
Humanism
and international solidarity from being destroyed by the EU's neoliberal policies.
Only in this way can Europe, can a social, democratic EU be a real and lasting response to the centuries-long history of wars and tyranny in Europe - especially the criminal Second World War and National Socialism.
A failure of the EU would give further massive impetus to nationalism and racism in Europe.
An improvement of democratic and social standards in the 21st century in Europe will only be possible on the basis of solidarity.
We share this firm conviction with many people who are committed to European integration.
We want to relaunch the European Union through an initiative for a Europe from below.
In all member states, the new treaties must be decided in referendums.
We want to disempower the financial markets and democratically control the European banking sector.
For us, the interests of the people in Europe are in the foreground, not the capital interests of individual countries or a monetary system.
We want to break with neoliberal competition policy.
We want to stimulate domestic demand and reduce speculation.
DIE LINKE is campaigning at all political levels to ensure that in the negotiations on Britain's withdrawal from the EU: 1. the protection of the right to free movement of workers is preserved so that British citizens continue to have the right to work in EU member states and, at the same time, citizens of EU member states can work in Britain
2. the right of British citizens residing in EU member states and the right of citizens of EU member states to stay in Britain is preserved.
The EU can be changed by movement from below, a standing up of the people in Europe for democracy and social justice.
Already earlier, pressure from trade unions and social movements prevented neoliberal moves to privatize the water supply (2014) and the so-called Bol kestein Directive (2006) to liberalize services in the EU internal market.
This is the only way we will also prevent TTIP, CETA and TiSA.
DIE LINKE stands alongside the trade unions and is part of the social movements.
We will continue to fight in Germany and in Europe, together with our group in the EU Parliament and our sister parties in the European Left (EL), to ensure that the interests of the people take precedence over profit and competition.
DIE LINKE stands in solidarity with the left-wing progressive crusaders in Europe who strive for a social and solidary Europe.
Austerity for the bottom, profits for the top? Break the power of the banks and corporations!
We want to put an end to the dictates of cutbacks in Europe, which are being driven forward by Germany in particular.
Effective steps must be taken immediately to combat mass unemployment, poverty and a lack of prospects for young people in the crisis countries.
Wages in Germany must rise, and
the deindustrialized regions in the EU must be given alternative development opportunities.
DIE LINKE is therefore calling for a public European investment program that focuses primarily on development in the area of public and social services such as education, health care and long-term care, transport and housing, as well as on a socio-ecological restructuring of the economy.
To finance this, we want to levy a one-off wealth tax on assets over one million euros in all EU countries.
We want to decouple public borrowing from the financial market: The ECB should be allowed to lend directly to euro states within defined limits.
The aim is not only price stability, but also sustainable economic development.
and full employment are taken into account.
This would be possible as a first step via public banks such as the European Investment Bank as well as national development banks.
We want to create a public European rating agency.
Ratings from private agencies must not be subject to binding EU rules.
Investment programs such as the EU's Juncker Plan promote the privatization of highways, hospitals and public services.
We want to promote public investment in the EU instead of using public money to secure private investment and private returns.
We want the Europe-wide expansion of public and ecologically sound infrastructure
and specifically promote the expansion of renewable energies.
No bank bailouts at the expense of society!
The owners and creditors must be liable for the banks.
The deposits of small savers must be publicly protected (see chapter XIV "People and nature before profits").
Savings banks and cooperative banks must not be liable for mega-banks.
We want a European debt conference to examine the legitimacy and sustainability of sovereign debt and find solutions that will provide the most indebted countries with a way out of the humanitarian catastrophe and a path to sustainable development.
We advocate a debt haircut for Greece.
The German government, in legal succession to the Nazi regime, must finally settle the extorted loans with the Greek state and pay reparations for war crimes committed.
We want to stop the undercutting competition - which country offers capital the lowest taxes, wages and social benefits.
We are fighting for minimum standards and coordinated taxation of the super-rich in Europe.
We want wage dumping in the EU to be stopped.
Wage, tax and social policy must be coordinated in this sense.
DIE LINKE is fighting for a European minimum wage that must be 60 percent of the national average wage.
We reject the Capital Markets Union, which would link the capital markets of the member states more closely.
DIE LINKE, together with the trade unions, demands a clause for social progress in the EU treaties.
Fundamental social rights and autonomy in collective bargaining must take precedence over the freedom of the internal market.
The welfare state must be protected in the EU treaties alongside democracy and the rule of law.
In the euro crisis, it became obvious: We need mechanisms to counter the imbalances in trade balances.
The export surpluses of some are necessarily the debts of others.
This is no way to build a social Europe!
We want to commit countries to balanced trade accounts.
This is in the interest of our European neighbors.
And it is in the interest of the people in Germany, because wages are rising and the economy is being geared more to domestic demand rather than speculation.
We want to combat tax evasion and dry up tax havens: through automatic reporting requirements for banks, the possibility of freezing suspicious assets, revocation of banking licenses for non-cooperative banks, improved prosecution of tax evasion and through capital controls.
The borrowing of states, initially those in the eurozone, must be secured by joint liability in order to prevent speculation with the countries' debts and interest rates being driven to unaffordable levels.
The existing regulations of the financial supervision of the European Stability Fund shall be adjusted accordingly.
EU leaders are using the TTIP, CETA and TiSA free trade negotiations to further erode workers' rights and consumer protection.
The fiscal pact and the troika create further opportunities for intervention in the decisions of elected representatives of the people.
Stop TTIP, CETA, TiSA and EPAs!
In trade policy, we will continue to oppose all trade and investment agreements that mean a deterioration in workers' rights, in consumer, environmental and climate protection, and in the protection of public services and the promotion of cultural assets.
DIE LINKE therefore advocates a fundamental realignment of economic and trade relations worldwide.
An EU in which parliaments decide
Instead of an EU that is essentially undemocratic, we want to fundamentally democratize the institutions of the EU and thus enable a new start for democracy in Europe.
We want to strengthen the rights of the European Parliament.
Under the given conditions, no further competences may be shifted to the European level, which could lead to a consolidation of the neoliberal EU.
The principle of subsidiarity must apply: This ensures that political decisions in the EU are taken as closely as possible to the citizen.
Decisions should be made at the levels that are most affected: Local affairs in the municipalities and federal affairs in the national parliaments.
Fundamental decisions in the EU must be made by the European Parliament and the national parliaments instead of by non-legitimized bodies such as the EU Commission or the Council.
The European Parliament must be given the right of initiative.
In the area of economic and monetary union, the EP should be able to make decisions on an equal footing with the Council and the Eurogroup.
Deputies should be able to elect and vote out the commission and its president.
The hurdles for European citizens' initiatives must be lowered.
All should be able to enjoy full civil rights in the EU countries where they live.
We want a mandatory and binding lobby register.
Lobbyists who influence politics are to be registered.
The ECB must be placed under democratic decision-making and control of the European Parliament, instead of being "independent" of it and above democracy.
The ECB must be equally committed to economic development and employment alongside price stability.
We reject the disempowerment of parliaments and interference in collective bargaining autonomy by a euro economic government.
We want to enable EU-wide referendums and plebiscites.
The EU must accede to the European Convention on Human Rights.
Fundamental social rights - in line with the Council of Europe's revised European Social Charter - must also be enforceable by individuals before the European Court of Justice.
We want Europe-wide public service media and platforms and equal access to them for all democratic political and social forces and movements.
We want to strengthen fundamental rights in Europe: no suspicionless data storage and no profiling.
Under the pretext of security and the fight against terrorism, surveillance technology and data collection are being expanded and the freedoms that are claimed to be defended are being eroded.
We need strong European data protection so that data protection in Germany works better.
The right to legal assistance and translation must be secured in the European Arrest Warrant and the European Investigation Order.
An EU that creates good work and social rights
The principle of "equal pay for equal work in the same place" must be enshrined in law to prevent wage dumping.
We are fighting for a European minimum wage of at least 60 percent of the average wage in the respective country.
Co-determination rights and the rights of trade unions and employees must be restored and expanded.
Labor inspectorates at the European level must be better staffed and given independent monitoring rights.
We want social security with binding minimum social security and binding minimum social standards in accordance with the favorability clause.
The right of free movement in the EU must apply to all.
Unequal living conditions and high unemployment in Southern and Eastern Europe force young people in particular to migrate and undermine genuine freedom of movement.
We are against the exclusion of Union citizens seeking work from social assistance.
Instead, they should be helped to find a good job.
The alternative is poverty, impoverishment and exploitation.
Creating equal living conditions
EU programs - such as the Cohesion Fund, the Social Fund, Rural Development Fund, Fisheries Fund and Regional Development Fund - have promoted the development of technical and social infrastructure in the member states, their regions and municipalities.
But despite these important contributions, they have not been sufficient to correct the uneven development of the economy and create comparable living conditions across borders.
Therefore, these funds must be significantly strengthened instead of being threatened by cuts or misused to enforce neoliberal policies.
The European Investment Program we are calling for is not intended to replace these funds, but to complement them: as a component for a social reboot of the EU.
Cohesion policy must also be continued from 2021 onwards and support southern European countries of the EU in particular.
The European Social Fund for the promotion of social cohesion employment policy must be further developed.
The European Globalization Fund (EGF) is intended to help employees if they have lost their jobs due to the effects of globalization.
It must also be made available to companies with fewer than 500 employees
and expanded into an employment security fund.
The INTERREG program must continue to receive support to promote cross-border cooperation.
We want to use the funds of the EU agricultural subsidy in the sense of a left-wing agricultural policy to end the export orientation and to promote ecological sustainability, regional production, processing and marketing more strongly.
No European Union of Rearmament and Militarization
NATO member states have pledged to invest two percent of gross domestic product annually in rearmament and war-fighting capabilities.
The response to the election of Trump as president of the USA and the "Brexit" vote of the British population are also plans in the EU for further armament with the goal of "strategic autonomy".
What is meant is: a European army, financed and led by the European Union.
A common defense market is to be created and the defense industry Europeanized.
The internal market for defense equipment is to be strengthened.
To this end, funding opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) from EU funding pots are also being examined.
The economic and social disintegration processes in the EU are followed by military and security integration plans.
Economic development is pursued as arms promotion.
The expansion of a "defense union" or "military union", the creation of a European army and other projects of militarization do not lead to more security for the people in Europe, but secure corporate interests militarily.
We want to end the militarization of the EU.
Security can only be achieved with a consistent peace policy
and the promotion of global justice instead of competition between locations.
We want to abolish the EU Armaments Agency.
We advocate an EU-wide ban on arms exports.
Our investment program also includes funds for the civilian transformation of the defense industry.
Jobs in the defense industry must be transformed into environmentally and economically sustainable jobs.
We reject the plans for a European defense union, including intensified EU-NATO cooperation.
The EU must pursue a policy committed to peace, and its foreign policy must be strictly oriented toward civilian instruments.
We want to dissolve the EURATOM Treaty and disentangle it from the contractual foundations of the EU, because it blocks a transparent, socially and democratically designed energy transition and the irreversible nuclear phase-out.
We advocate the establishment of an alternative "European Community for the Promotion of Renewable Energies and Energy Saving".
We advocate a European policy of peace and détente (see Chapter XV "No to War").
Safe escape routes and protection of human rights instead of war against refugees
It is not compatible with a democratic and humane Europe that thousands of people drown in the Mediterranean Sea on their way to a supposedly safe Europe or are interned in lawless spaces in reception camps and deportation centers in front of the EU borders.
To eliminate the causes of flight, joint action by the EU member states is needed (on the causes of flight, see Chapter XV "No to war").
We fight for legal and safe escape routes to Europe.
This would save lives and stop the traffickers' business.
The current "war on traffickers" is too often a war on boats full of refugees.
Repression and surveillance, incapacitation and disenfranchisement run through the proposals of the European Commission.
We need a humane asylum policy and an equally definable framework for immigration to the EU.
Ferries instead of Frontex!
Frontex must be abolished and replaced by a coordinated sea rescue under European responsibility.
Funding and training of the Libyan Coast Guard under Operation EUNAVFOR Med will cease.
The responsibility to protect refugees must not be transferred to third countries outside the EU.
The EU-Turkey deal pushed by the Chancellor must be cancelled!
We reject the plans to create reception camps in North Africa.
According to the Geneva Convention on Refugees, refugees may not be turned away!
The EU Dublin system has failed.
We advocate for a fair and solidary system of refugee reception and responsibility sharing in the EU.
A balance is to be established primarily financially ("escape levy").
We want the principle of free choice of the member state for the refugees.
The borders of the EU must be open for people seeking protection, there must be safe and legal escape routes.
XVII For a democracy in which there is something to decide.
Social inequality feeds doubts about democracy.
Many doubt that elections will change anything.
When austerity policies and debt brakes are presented as having no alternative, confidence in democracy declines: What else is there to decide?
When social inequality translates into political inequality, the rift in democracy deepens.
Powerlessness, frustration, dissatisfaction and fears of social decline.
We see the dangers of this in the successes of right-wing parties in Europe and the USA.
The rise of right-wing populists is closely linked to the crisis of democracy - in Europe and in Germany.
"We will find ways to shape parliamentary co-determination in such a way that it is nevertheless also in line with the market, in other words, that the appropriate signals arise on the markets." (Angela Merkel)
That is the Chancellor's understanding of democracy.
It wants a democracy that conforms to the market.
The federal government is abandoning the primacy of politics, the will to also shape the economy by means of politics.
The trust of the markets, not that of the citizens, is its yardstick.
Politics should discipline itself: everywhere, in Europe, at the federal level, in states and municipalities.
Democracy means more than holding elections every four years or voting in parliament.
We want to expand democracy: by creating more direct influence of citizens on political decisions.
We need more direct democracy and referendums at the federal level as well.
We want to defend and expand civil rights.
We want democracy to once again take precedence over economic power.
And we want to strengthen democracy in everyday life: through participatory budgeting, through democratization of the economy, through a democratic public sphere based on solidarity.
Everyone must be equally effectively involved in decision-making.
This requires that all people can live free from fear of losing social, economic and political security.
We want to promote the democratization of democracy, the state, society and the economy.
Political, social and cultural rights must be universally secured.
Social and democratic rights are indivisible.
Fundamental rights must apply equally to all citizens and not only benefit privileged classes.
They must not be restricted: not for the unemployed, those affected by Hartz IV, migrants or extra-parliamentary initiatives and movements.
Democratizing democracy also means strengthening the influence of people who have fewer opportunities for political engagement anyway in terms of education, income, access to the public sphere, or because of too much work or too little time.
Our goal is to expand the public sphere and involve citizens more: a new solidarity and democracy from below.
Stop right-wing violence: Anti-fascism is democracy in action
The political landscape of the Federal Republic has shifted to the right in recent years.
With the AfD, a nationalist and largely racist party has established itself that has ideological and personnel links to the extreme right.
Right-wing groups and parties try to serve people's fears and needs of the consequences of neoliberal policies.
With Pegida and its numerous regional offshoots, a racist citizens' movement has emerged in parts of the country that engages in agitation against refugees and Muslims.
Attacks on refugees and their shelters are increasing dramatically.
According to official figures, there were 180 such attacks in 2014, and well over 1,000 in 2015.
2016 saw attacks continue unabated.
Independent agencies arrive at much higher figures.
Everyday racist attacks and acts of so-called hate crime directed against minorities have also increased.
They are not only directed against the refugees themselves, but also against people who are committed to helping refugees.
The perpetrators often escape prosecution.
Every attack on refugee homes or asylum shelters is an attack on democracy.
We demand the protection of people.
We want to create an independent observatory "Extreme Right, Racism, Anti-Semitism, Islamophobia and Other Forms of Group-Related Misanthropy".
We support the initiative of the Central Council of German Sinti and Roma to create an independent committee of experts to investigate prejudice and discrimination against Sinti and Roma.
We want the right to stay for the victims of right-wing violence in order to counter the intention of the perpetrators to displace them.
We condemn the attacks on mosques, synagogues and other sacred or symbolic places.
Left-wing people and structures are also repeatedly the focus of right-wing attacks.
We stand together and do not give way.
We stand in solidarity with victims of right-wing violence and support them against any attacks.
DIE LINKE continues to block Nazi marches on streets and squares together in broad alliances and fights against racist attacks.
Civil disobedience is part of democratic protest and must not be criminalized.
With its policies, the grand coalition has prepared the breeding ground on which racism and ideologies of exclusion thrive.
The rise of the AfD is also the result of this misguided policy.
An effective policy, on the other hand, must tackle and clarify the causes: Push back precarization,
Promote the democratization of society
and social security.
Federal programs against right-wing extremism must be funded on a permanent basis.
We want to provide more support for mobile counseling projects against right-wing extremism, victim counseling and civil society democracy alliances in order to be able to effectively counter the growing right-wing civil movements in the regions.
We are committed to an anti-fascist culture of remembrance to preserve the memory of the victims then and now.
May 8 is to become a national holiday as the day of liberation from fascism.
DIE LINKE demands a ban on all neo-fascist organizations.
It will not solve the problem of racism and the extreme right by itself, but it stands for social ostracism and prevents state support for the structures of the extreme right.
Equally important are civil society counter-mobilizations.
So far, no lessons have been learned from the murder series of the "National Socialist Underground" and the scandalous behavior of the security authorities.
The cases have not yet been fully resolved.
However, it is already clear that a real change of mentality is needed in dealing with right-wing and racist crimes.
The state must take earlier and more sustained action against right-wing terrorist structures, including within its own ranks.
Racist, anti-Semitic, homophobic, transphobic and sexist views must also be combated in the authorities, as they undermine the fundamental values of society.
We call for the swift establishment of a committee of inquiry into right-wing terrorism to continue the unfinished investigation of the NSU crimes
and to come to terms with the long history of other right-wing terrorist structures in the Federal Republic and the responsibility of state agencies in failing to adequately prosecute them.
Because of the unprecedented crimes committed by the Germans against the Jews, because of the unleashing of the Second World War and the resulting crimes against the peoples of Europe - especially mass crimes against the peoples of the Soviet Union, against the Sinti and Roma, against political dissidents, disabled people and homosexuals - Germany has a special responsibility and must oppose any kind of misanthropy, anti-Semitism, antiziganism and racism.
The rise of anti-Semitism is a renewed reason for us to emphasize the right of Jews in Israel to political self-determination.
Therefore, we stand up for Israel's right to exist.
We stand for a peaceful settlement of the Middle East conflict within the framework of a two-state solution.
In view of Donald Trump's election victory in the USA, the alarming result for Marine Le Pen in France, the establishment of right-wing populist governments in various EU states and the rise of right-wing populist and radical right-wing parties and movements, DIE LINKE emphasizes the obligations resulting from Germany's National Socialist past.
DIE LINKE supports the fight against anti-Semitism.
Germany bears a colonial guilt with the responsibility for the first genocide of the 20th century against the Herero and Nama in "German Southwest" (today Namibia).
Ensure the independence of politics
DIE LINKE is the only party in the Bundestag that does not receive donations from corporations, banks, insurance companies or lobbyists.
The influence of lobbying on politics must be pushed back.
Laws must not be written by those who profit from them.
Corruption and bribery, the granting of advantages, the acceptance of benefits, intransparency and party sponsoring must not be allowed to determine politics.
We want to effectively criminalize bribery of members of parliament.
Whoever accepts consideration for acts or omissions in connection with the exercise of the mandate of a deputy shall be punished.
We want to introduce a binding, machine-readable and transparent lobby register and advocate a ban on the employment of lobbyists in federal ministries and - in the case of full-time parliamentarians - of members of parliament with companies and lobby organizations.
No lobbying in schools!
The ancillary earnings of members of parliament are to be published in euros and cents in a timely manner.
We want to ban corporate and lobbyist donations to parties as well as party sponsorship, such as corporate booths at party conventions, and limit donations from private individuals to 25,000 euros per year.
We want to put a stop to the mixing of political and economic interests: Federal ministers, parliamentary state secretaries and state secretaries must wait at least three years after leaving office, or for the duration of the time they are entitled to transitional benefits, before moving to companies whose economic interests they were previously politically involved with.
We want to expand and strengthen the European anti-corruption agency OLAF.
More co-determination, more participation
When public money is used, public scrutiny is needed.
Economic, ecological and technical large-scale projects lack transparency, democratic participation, independent monitoring and regulations on liability for damages, although they are time and again a goldmine for large corporations and an occasion for corruption, as e.g. with the Berlin airport BER, Hamburg Elbphilharmonie or Stuttgart 21.
DIE LINKE demands a democratization of democracy for large-scale projects at the federal, state and local levels, public and announced citizens' meetings, mandatory citizens' referendums, parliamentary consultations with all information on the planning process, after a third of the implementation and for follow-up monitoring.
We advocate for a nationwide registry of corrupt companies.
DIE LINKE calls for a comprehensive reform of electoral law.
The five percent blocking clause should be abolished.
We want the right to vote from the age of 16 and for all people who have lived here for five years.
We reject the idea that people who are under full care should be excluded from voting.
Democracy must not end at the company gate or the office door.
We need a democratization of the economy (see chapter XIV "People and nature before profits").
We want to introduce comprehensive rights to information and disclosure.
Legislation and government action should be made transparent for citizens.
We want the Freedom of Information Act to be further developed into a transparency law so that citizens do not have to apply for information first.
All federal agencies should be required to publish official documents from the outset.
These are to be made available in open, machine-readable formats with information about the source (Open Data).
We want to introduce popular initiatives, referendums and plebiscites at the federal level.
The expansion of co-determination rights also includes the introduction of referendums, i.e. citizens can veto parliamentary decisions.
We want to establish mandatory citizens' forums.
Planning approval procedures must be designed in such a way that everyone has sufficient time to inform themselves, to check whether their interests are being protected, and to participate.
We reject any acceleration of the planning approval procedure at the expense of public participation procedures.
We want to further expand the right of petition as a civil right.
Accessibility of polling places and voting processes is long overdue and must be ensured.
The self-evident right to vote must be upheld for people with and without disabilities, regardless of their health status.
We want to strengthen opposition rights in all parliaments, plenums and committees.
Committee meetings should always be open to the public.
By European standards, Germany is at the bottom of the league when it comes to the self-administration of the judiciary.
To safeguard the structural independence of the judiciary, we want to introduce self-administration of the courts and public prosecutors' offices by judicial councils.
DIE LINKE advocates the consistent enforcement of the principle of separation of powers and the democratization of the judiciary at the federal and state levels.
Judges and public prosecutors are to be appointed exclusively by judicial selection committees instead of under the decisive influence of the ministers of justice, as is currently the case.
All social classes should be adequately represented.
DIE LINKE wants to expand legal aid at the federal and state level.
Legal protection should not be a matter of money.
Strengthening the rule of law also requires that public prosecutors be given the same independence as judges by abolishing the right to issue instructions.
We want to abolish the life sentence.
We advocate for the abolition of the alternative custodial sentence.
Enabling more volunteering
Democracy thrives on the critical and participatory involvement of all.
Whether in clubs and associations, volunteer fire departments or rescue services, and even in neighborhood assistance - people's voluntary commitment is important everywhere for cohesion in society.
In the reception and care of refugees in 2015, volunteerism made up for the failure of the state.
Voluntary commitment must nowhere be misused to replace public tasks of general interest.
We want to improve the conditions for volunteering so that all people who live here can participate.
Civil society organizations bundle commitment and make demands heard and visible.
For this work, they rely on donations and public support.
The non-profit law is sometimes more of a hurdle than a help.
We want to change that.
The increase in voluntary work for low expense allowances promotes the low-wage sector.
Voluntary work must not replace jobs that are subject to social insurance contributions.
Youth volunteer services, both at home and abroad, are important for young people's orientation and social engagement.
We want to better promote them as educational services.
This also applies to international voluntary services.
The voluntary work of the emergency forces in fire protection and disaster control as well as in rescue services is to be placed on a better footing.
Full-time structures are necessary to ensure the framework conditions for volunteer work.
We want to secure and expand these structures.
Those who volunteer should receive more public recognition.
Freedom and security for all: expanding civil rights
Even in parliamentary democracies, fundamental and civil rights are constantly coming under pressure.
The social climate is brutalizing.
On the streets and in social networks, people are threatened or attacked for taking a stand against right-wing populists or because their origin or creed is held against them.
Economic and political interests of companies and state authorities endanger data protection by collecting and exploiting personal data without limits.
Public spaces are subjected to permanent surveillance in the name of security, and employees in companies are often deprived of their personal rights through monitoring and surveillance.
DIE LINKE fights for the defense and restoration of fundamental and civil rights.
The enforcement of existing law to avert danger must be guaranteed, as must the protection of civil liberties and civil rights.
These include freedom of expression, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly and association, and
the freedom of citizens from state spying and surveillance.
We want to safeguard the right to informational self-determination: against data retention, inventory data disclosure and online searches, non-individualized radio cell searches, ubiquitous video surveillance, spying and eavesdropping attacks and dragnet searches.
With regard to social media, civil rights must be renewed and secured.
This includes protection against bullying as well as the right to the complete deletion of all stored data.
To this end, the supposed anti-terrorism legislation of the federal governments of the past 15 years must be put to the test in terms of civil rights.
The prevention of danger is the task of the police.
It is also responsible for counterterrorism.
The right to privacy and informational self-determination also applies to employees.
Employers may only store data that is necessary for the fulfillment of the employment contract.
We oppose the surveillance of employees by video, detectives or e-mail traffic.
We want to protect people and structures that make critical publicity possible: so-called whistleblowers.
This applies to whistleblowers about maladministration in companies and public authorities and platforms on the Internet where critical information can be published (leaking platforms; cf. in Chapter XIV: "Consumer protection")
Secret services are foreign bodies in a democracy.
Instead of protecting democracy, they act with dubious means such as mass surveillance of Internet traffic and the use of undercover agents.
Not least the NSU scandal, but also the uncovered practices of the NSA and BND show that intelligence services can neither be controlled nor contribute to the clarification of scandals.
Their lack of transparency and the priority they give to the protection of whistleblowers impede police investigations and legal clarification.
That is why we want to abolish the Office for the Protection of the Constitution and, in the long term, all intelligence services.
The first thing to do is to end the use of undercover agents by the police and the Office for the Protection of the Constitution.
Fighting crime and averting danger is the job of law enforcement.
Neither secret services nor a special political criminal law (§§ 129a and 129b StGB) are needed for this; we want to abolish these paragraphs.
We demand the lifting of the PKK ban.
Governmental and non-governmental civilian organizations must not be further militarized.
We want to end civil-military cooperation (ZMZ) in favor of strengthening the Federal Agency for Technical Relief (THW) and disaster management.
The already existing structures of the ZMZ as well as the structures of the reserve forces (RSUKr), which are being established, must be dissolved.
Weapons possession is to be more strictly regulated
and largely prohibited in private households.
We want to increase the requirement for the issuance of the small arms license.
A citizen-oriented police force
Many people want more security and better accessibility of the police.
The cuts in the public sector have also affected 18,000 police jobs.
At the same time, central units within the Federal Police are being strengthened, which are not accessible to citizens.
We want to eliminate staff shortages.
A comprehensive task critique must rid the police of pointless work.
This task critique has the proportionality of state action as its yardstick, is intended to limit its remit to hazard prevention and increase availability for citizens.
A citizen-oriented police force must protect the rights of migrants and left-wing demonstrators, for example, as well as be accessible to people, present in the cityscape and thus approachable.
We want to protect the safety of citizens in public spaces by increasing staffing levels.
In social networks, as in the public sphere in general, protection against verbal attacks, agitation and character assassination must be enforced.
We want to prevent or reverse the privatization of security through steward services, "black sheriffs", etc.
It is difficult enough to monitor state security authorities, but it is impossible with private services.
Democratic control of all federal security agencies, such as the BKA and the Federal Police, must be strengthened by, among other things, mandatory identification of uniformed police officers and an independent ombudsman's office to investigate police misconduct.
Parliamentary powers of control over the security authorities must be significantly expanded.
We reject the planned tougher penalties for resistance offenses.
State action should be guided by proportionality: We want to tie criminal law more closely to the prosecution of crimes against life, limb and sexual self-determination.
The police are to be relieved of prosecuting petty offenses such as illegal entry, fare evasion, and drug use.
This makes it more responsive to citizens.
Equal rights for migrants!
DIE LINKE advocates a cosmopolitan society and respectful coexistence.
We want to give recognition to the diversity of all people.
Everyone in Germany must have the same rights.
We reject immigration and integration policies that award rights based on whether people have the right passport or are deemed "useful" to companies.
We therefore reject quotas, quotas and point systems.
We oppose tightening of the right of residence and stigmatizing debates about alleged integration refusers (see Chapter IX "A Social Offensive for All").
All children and young people born here should be granted German citizenship and have a right to multiple citizenship - without having to renounce the citizenship of their parents.
We want to give migrants a legal right to naturalization after three years of legal residence in the Federal Republic.
Who lives here, should vote here!
We want active and passive voting rights for migrants living permanently in Germany at the federal, state and local levels so that they can help shape society on an equal footing.
Qualifications acquired abroad must be recognized without red tape.
Supplemental qualifications must be offered as needed.
Family reunification must not be hindered.
We want to abolish discriminatory German tests for spousal reunification and in the right of residence, and family reunification must not be restricted to the closest relatives.
The right of residence must not be made dependent on family status, German language skills, a job or the balance of a bank account.
DIE LINKE demands comprehensive visa liberalization or the abolition of visa requirements.
We want to overcome wars and poverty, create just living conditions
and open borders for all people.
The decent subsistence minimum applies equally to all people in Germany.
It must not be cut, as the SPD-led Ministry of Labor recently did, as a deterrent or to drive migrants out of the country.
We want an active anti-discrimination policy.
Migrants are to be promoted in administration and business.
Intercultural opening of administrations and companies is necessary.
People must not be the focus of police checks because of their skin color (racial profiling).
We oppose expulsions and deportations as a form of double punishment for migrants living here.
Numerous people are currently forced into lawlessness and illegality simply because they do not have a valid residence permit.
We call for an initiative to legalize these people.
They are to receive an unlimited residence and work permit in order to be able to lead a regular life in dignity.
Strengthening the rights of minorities
Danes, Frisians, Sinti and Roma and the Sorbs/Wends have lived in Germany for centuries.
Their rights as laid down in the European minority agreements must be implemented in the Federal Republic.
We renew our call for the elaboration of federal policy principles for the preservation and further development of the identity, language and culture of ethnic minorities in Germany, which could lead to an article in the Basic Law in the medium term.
We want to financially equip institutions and projects that contribute to the preservation, maintenance and development of minority languages and cultures in such a way that they can meet the growing tasks.
The education sector is particularly important in this regard, but so are science and basic and advanced culture.
Independent media in minority languages should be given conditions so that they can continue to contribute to the preservation and development of the languages.
We are committed to ensuring that the rights of the Sinti and Roma as a minority cruelly persecuted by National Socialism are protected in a special way.
The social and economic consequences of the Holocaust and the racial persecution that continued thereafter are still effective today.
We want to communicate the contribution of Sinti and Roma to culture and the economy in Germany to a wider circle of people and thus counter prejudice and deeply rooted rejection of this minority.
We want to expand the rights of democratically legitimized minority bodies vis-à-vis state and municipal authorities and work toward the creation or strengthening of specific minority bodies at the federal, state and municipal levels.
Defend and expand the right to asylum
Millions of people are active in helping refugees.
This voluntary commitment must be recognized and encouraged.
It shows that there is not only hatred in Germany, but also and above all a great openness and a strong civic commitment to refugees.
However, government policies often work against this.
A spate of legislative tightening against alleged asylum abuse fostered a negative perception.
At the same time, the rate of recognition of asylum applications is higher than ever, at over 60 to 70 percent, demonstrating the great need for protection.
Many problems in the reception of protection seekers are due to state failure or political unwillingness: Too few staff in the Federal Asylum Office, asylum procedures were not effectively accelerated, reception and accommodation capacities of relatives living here or civil society organizations were not used.
This emergency was and is calculated.
The federal government should have quickly reimbursed the municipalities for the costs of hosting refugees so that there were no restrictions on local public services (for our alternatives, see Chapter XI "A Social Offensive for All").
A change of course is needed: the substance of the fundamental right to asylum must be restored.
We reject regulations on supposedly safe third countries and countries of origin that allow for the rejection and deportation of protection seekers without effective case-by-case assessment.
They must be taken back.
Asylum law is repeatedly targeted by right-wing campaigns - and is willingly dragged down by a very large coalition from the CDU/CSU to the SPD and the Greens.
That is not possible with us!
Racist accusations, which in recent years have been aimed particularly at Muslims, Roma seeking protection, and people from North Africa, reach far into the bourgeois center.
As a deterrent, they are subjected to a discriminatory and exclusionary regime of harassment.
Legal protection in the asylum procedure is undermined in many ways.
At the same time, the EU is setting up a civilian-military sealing-off regime at its external borders, in which authoritarian regimes such as Turkey are quite openly included.
In contrast, we want a humane and open refugee policy at both German and European level.
Stop the harassment of refugees!
The residence obligation, residence requirements and accommodation in collective camps must be abolished nationwide.
We oppose the system of forced distribution and want to take into account personal as well as family ties in the distribution.
Asylum seekers and immigrants have the same right to freedom of movement as all other people.
The everyday life of refugees and their helpers is often characterized by harassment and breaches of the law.
The right to assistance is repeatedly disregarded.
We want to create a right to independent hearing preparation and legal counsel for asylum seekers.
Gender-specific causes of flight should no longer only be formally recognized as grounds for asylum, they must also be comprehensively taken into account in (examination) practice (cf. Chapter IX "Left Feminism").
We want to abolish the exceptions to the minimum wage and the Asylum Seekers' Benefits Act.
Refugees must not be forced into precarious employment with fewer rights.
Asylum seekers and immigrants have the same right to work, basic security and health care as everyone else.
Existing work bans must be lifted.
We want to abolish the priority check for the employment of asylum seekers and tolerated persons.
The hurdles and waiting periods to be able to attend a school must also be eliminated.
Asylum seekers and tolerated persons in training need a residence permit for the entire duration of the vocational training.
We want to simplify the recognition of foreign educational and professional qualifications.
We demand a right to stay for all people with uncertain residence status, at the latest when they have been living in Germany for five years.
We want to abolish the practice of so-called chain tolerations in favor of permanent perspectives.
Instead of return management, we call for stay management.
We reject deportations.
In particular, we will immediately stop deportations to war zones and existential hardship such as homelessness, inadequate medical care and discrimination.
LGBTTIC persons are threatened with death in many countries, often also in so-called safe countries of origin.
Persecution on the basis of sexual or gender identity must be recognized without restriction as a reason for flight, regardless of the country of origin.
Equal rights analog and digital: Access to the Internet must be open to those seeking protection.
Living self-determined in an inclusive country
Since the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, there has been a greater focus on the issue of inclusion with regard to people with disabilities.
DIE LINKE advocates full and effective participation of all people with disabilities.
We want to break down barriers - constructional, communicative and structural - and make it easier for people with disabilities to live independently.
But inclusion goes far beyond that.
Inclusion is a human right: it opens up the possibility for all people not only to participate in political, social and cultural life everywhere, but also to be able to actively shape it in a self-determined way.
We want to dissolve duplicate structures in education, housing and work.
For people with disabilities, there are particularly many discriminations and structural barriers to access: in the labor market, in social space, in transport, in education, and in voluntary and political activity.
We want to change that.
We want to establish an employment policy framework for people with disabilities that follows the principle of "as few special work environments as possible and as regular as possible."
It is intended to gradually create the framework conditions for an inclusive working environment for all employees.
Among other things, the minimum employment rate is to be raised to six percent.
We want to gradually make the workshops obsolete.
The "budget for work" must not be subject to any limited benefit entitlement.
We want to establish protected jobs on the primary labor market.
The rights of the representatives of severely disabled persons and the workshop councils must be aligned with the rights of the works and staff councils.
Public contracts are to be awarded preferentially to companies with a high proportion of severely disabled persons, to integration companies and companies with integration departments.
Only civilian contracts may be awarded to workshops for the disabled (WfbM); the manufacture of armaments products in WfbM is prohibited.
Participation benefits should be independent of income and assets.
This applies, for example, to a non-recognizable participation allowance.
This compensates financially for handicap-related disadvantages
and in this way enables people with disabilities to lead a self-determined life.
We want to enable needs-based personal assistance, independent of income and assets, in every situation and phase of life and in every area of society.
This is accompanied by the consistent expansion and simplification of the structures of the personal budget.
People with disabilities should have equal rights to choose their place of residence and decide where and with whom they live.
They should not be obliged to live in special forms of housing (UN CRPD, Article 19).
Article 1 § 104 SGB IX restricts this right through the additional cost proviso.
The reservation of additional costs must be removed so that the right to choose where and how to live is guaranteed without restriction.
We want a National Action Plan to implement the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities with the actual and effective participation of those affected and their self-advocacy organizations.
The action plan is regularly updated and concretized.
Verifiable targets, implementation deadlines
and sufficient funding are essential - human rights must not be made subject to funding.
New and older laws are to be regularly reviewed for conformity with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
We advocate for the abolition of all legal discrimination against people with disabilities, especially special psychiatric laws and coercive powers under medical or care law.
We want to amend the General Equal Treatment Act (AGG).
The right to vote for all should be implemented and all exclusions from the right to vote should be abolished.
Polling place, voting procedure, voting materials, voting facilities must be barrier-free.
We want a nationwide "Inclusive Education" framework program for all educational sectors and age levels.
People with disabilities and their self-advocacy organizations need support.
This includes, above all, the promotion of independent advice by experts in their own right, of initiatives and of public relations measures.
Any structural and communication barriers must be removed.
To this end, we want to launch a son der investment program worth one billion euros a year over a period of five years.
In future, public investments and subsidies should also be tied to the criterion of accessibility.
DIE LINKE wants a barrier-free health care system.
Accessibility must be an admission criterion for medical practices and medical facilities, and conversion measures must be promoted.
Mobility, information, communication and other services must be barrier-free.
For severely disabled or sick people who cannot use public transport, a free transport service should be available to enable them to participate in public life.
We want to retrofit ATMs to be barrier-free so that people with impaired vision can also use them.
Age with dignity
In the public discussion, %elderly people are often reduced to a cost factor.
Old age seems to be a disposal mass for longer working hours or voluntary gap-filling of public services.
But: Changing performance is part of life and must not be presented as a burden on social security systems.
Old age is a stage of life with independent needs, demands, ideas and opportunities for experience.
How people want to experience old age, in well-deserved rest, actively and politically engaged or involved in family, care work or other solidary relationships must be their free decision.
The young and the old must not be played off against each other.
We fight for a society based on solidarity in which people can age in dignity.
We advocate for a stronger voice for %elders in the political decision-making process at the federal, state, county and local levels.
We want age-appropriate working and living conditions.
Quality of life is always related to the current life situation, which varies from person to person.
In order to ensure this, we support the call for the adoption of a guiding law that sets out the principles of senior citizens' policy in a binding manner.
Age-appropriate living and housing includes %elderly people being able to remain in their own homes and familiar living environments for as long as they wish.
The coexistence of generations stands against exclusion and isolation.
We want to promote age-appropriate living and the coexistence of different generations in multigenerational houses.
Health and nursing care must be ensured or expanded close to the patient's home and made a compulsory municipal task, which also includes binding basic funding.
Digital forms of communication must be adapted to suit the age group.
For a self-determined youth policy
The expectations of young people are many and varied.
They are viewed critically by the adult world.
The conditions under which they grow up vary: around a quarter are at risk of poverty or poor, from their own unemployment or that of their parents.
Few are spoiled by the wealth of their parents.
The lives of many young people in Germany are burdened by growing pressure to perform.
Youth is usually talked about when there are problems.
Their right to cultural self-determination often ends at the empty coffers of the municipalities.
Young people are therefore not necessarily disaffected with politics.
Many want to change society.
But they have no interest in the prevailing kind of politics.
Politicians are disenchanted with young people.
We want to support young people in their political and social self-organization.
We want to strengthen their social rights and create better opportunities for their social and political participation.
As places of non-formal and informal education, open child and youth work and youth association work make an indispensable contribution to the development of children and young people.
The Federal Government's 11th Children and Youth Report already considers a share of at least 15 percent of total youth welfare expenditures to be necessary at the local youth welfare agency.
To this end, we demand that children and young people be strengthened in their political and social self-organization and that the development of youth association work as well as children's and youth parliaments be supported.
their social rights be strengthened and better opportunities for their social and political participation be created
. local public transport be free of charge for children and young people.
international youth encounters be supported and promoted in the sense of worldwide exchange and to strengthen Europe.
voluntary work by children, young people and young adults be recognized and promoted as co-determination and co-design of social life.
Training to obtain the youth leader card should be ensured by providing sufficient financial resources.
first-time voters are optimally prepared for democratic decision-making processes / elections (right of co-determination) within the framework of school and extracurricular education.
the voting age is lowered to 16, which applies to participation in all democratic decision-making processes at European, federal, state and local level.
Young people need better opportunities to exercise their right to cultural self-determination:
We want to strengthen child and youth welfare in the long term; for us, this includes maintaining and expanding youth clubs, open youth work, and vacation and leisure activities for children and young people.
To strengthen and rebuild lost municipal facilities in a targeted manner, we are creating a special youth work fund of 250 million euros.
Admission to museums, theaters, concerts should be free for children and young people.
We want an open and tuition-free range of music schools and sports opportunities.
Expressions of different youth cultures should be recognized and promoted.
This includes, for example, graffiti, street art and outdoor festivals.
We want to promote international youth exchanges
and further expand memorial trips and make them free of charge.
We want to strengthen youth voluntary services, including voluntary service abroad.
The expense allowance is to be increased.
DIE LINKE will continue to fight for the inclusion of children's and youth rights in the Basic Law.
A children's and young people's commissioner is to check compliance with rights and all laws with regard to their effects and to propose measures to eliminate disadvantages for children and young people.
An end to the criminalization of drugs
DIE LINKE advocates a paradigm shift: away from prosecution and toward prevention, counseling and assistance.
We do not see it as the task of politics to educate people, but rather to enable them to make informed and risk-conscious consumption decisions, similar to those for tobacco and alcohol.
We do not want to moralize the desire for intoxication; it is a part of culture.
Prohibiting drugs does not effectively reduce the risks to users and society.
It does not prevent drug trafficking or effectively reduce consumption.
The health risks posed by drugs, the financing of the mafia, drug-related crime, the social decline of addicts, concomitant diseases such as HIV/AIDS and hepatitis - many drug-related problems are caused more by repression than by the drugs themselves.
At the same time, repression ties up large financial resources: Several billion euros are spent on law enforcement, and only a fraction of that is spent on aid and prevention.
Addiction is an everyday phenomenon.
One can be addicted not only to illegal or legal substances, tobacco or alcohol, but also, for example, to gambling, work, food.
It has multiple social and psychological causes and, like other diseases, should not be interpreted as the failure of individuals.
Substitution therapy must be open to all opiate addicts.
Previous political requirements in laws and regulations hinder good substitution therapy.
They belong to be deleted.
DIE LINKE calls for an independent scientific review of whether the previous repressive drug policy has achieved its goals and what side effects it has unleashed.
We want to end the criminalization of users.
To this end, uniform federal maximum quantities are to be set for frequently used drugs, the possession of which will not result in criminal prosecution.
This frees up resources to fight organized crime
and strengthen assistance and prevention.
We want to create a legal and primarily non-commercial supply option for cannabis and allow possession and cultivation for personal use.
The federal narcotics law is to be amended to allow states to independently decide on model scientific projects for the regulated dispensing of cannabis.
The focus must be on: Reduce damage and save lives.
Therefore, we want to create opportunities to consume in safe and hygienic conditions and under supervision.
Drugs should be able to be tested for blending and harmful effects (drug checking).
We want to adjust the regulations on drugs in road traffic.
For all drugs, blood concentration limits are set at which impairment of driving ability can be ruled out.
The sobriety requirement is not to be touched.
We want to ban advertising and sponsorship of tobacco and alcohol products in public.
We want to further expand the protection of non-smokers.
We want to reduce the dangers of gambling addiction.
We want a ban on vending machines for catering establishments.
Democratization of the media
A democratic society needs a lively public sphere and a multi-voiced discussion.
Media contribute to comprehensive information as well as to the formation of opinion and will - if plurality is established and ensured.
We want to preserve public broadcasting.
The reception of public broadcasters must remain affordable for citizens.
We want to counteract the commercialization of public programming.
Public broadcasters come under pressure from quotas or partisan majorities in the Broadcasting Council.
Critical reporting and quality journalism - and thus the information of the population and a democratic formation of opinion - are thus made more difficult.
For journalists in the private print media, the opinion corridor is becoming narrow: Their jobs depend on profits and advertising revenues.
Without public support and scrutiny, there is a danger that the media themselves will contribute to the erosion of democracy.
There is an urgent need to adapt copyright law to the changed conditions for the distribution of music, texts, images and films, as well as for education, research and science in the digital age.
The struggle for a modern patent and copyright law is about being allowed to productively reuse knowledge and to reconcile the right to use with the rights of the creators of intellectual works in a spirit of solidarity.
We want good working conditions
and gender justice for media and filmmakers.
We want to modernize copyright law and demand a right to remix, establish new licensing and remuneration models, strengthen the right to private copying and abolish the nonsensical ancillary copyright for press publishers.
We advocate guaranteeing freedom of communication and media in traditional and digital media.
DIE LINKE stands for a public broadcasting system in which permanent and freelance employees have more say and administrations less.
Viewers must have a say in this.
Broadcasting councils must be democratized and quota-based.
A high level of employee co-determination is enshrined in the editorial statutes.
DIE LINKE advocates an immediate expansion of the social exemptions from the broadcasting contribution as well as the exemption of individual groups, including people with disabilities, and non-profit institutions.
Productions that broadcasters have produced themselves or commissioned are to be available in the media libraries for an unlimited period of time.
The public service Internet offerings are to be expanded into an independent public service platform that is characterized by data security and data privacy, makes its algorithms transparent and can also be used by other providers.
DIE LINKE is committed to a genuine reform of copyright contract law that strengthens the backs of authors.
Many creators are compensated for their works with a one-time payment, but the works are exploited again and again for up to 70 years.
Every use of their works, every reprint, every repeat broadcast, subsequent use on the Internet or in merchandising must be remunerated to the creators by the collecting companies.
The collecting societies are to be obliged to provide authors once a year with information on the type and extent to which their works are used.
This is the only way for creatives to assess whether negotiated compensation is actually appropriate.
Joint remuneration rules negotiated by authors' associations with representatives of exploiters must move from being the exception to the rule.
The outcome of such negotiations must be binding on both sides.
The professional associations of creative people must be able to sue for the rights of their members by proxy if necessary.
We are committed to ensuring that major sporting and cultural events are broadcast freely and without encryption.
At the same time, the financial outlay that public broadcasters incur for sports rights as a whole must not increase.
We want to gradually reduce the amount of advertising in public broadcasting.
When awarding contracts, broadcasters must take into account that contractors remunerate their employees and partner companies in accordance with social standards (collectively agreed wage or minimum wage, industry-specific minimum fees, appropriate remuneration for all rights claimed, calculation realism,).
The division of rights between broadcasters and producers must be fair.
We are committed to the concept of peace journalism.
So far, the media too often play a central role in propagating and justifying wars and armed interventions as a means of politics,
even against the majority will of the population.
The promotion of film - like that of the cultural asset of computer and video games - must be strengthened financially.
We are committed to ensuring that projects are calculated in a socially responsible manner and that collectively agreed and minimum wages are paid.
We are committed to minimum wages,
gender justice and equal pay (see Chapter I "Good Work").
Antitrust laws must be tightened to curb media concentration.
We want to strengthen media competence and media education comprehensively: in preschool education, in schools and lessons, in civil society projects and in the world of work.
Particularly for older people, special and gender-appropriate concepts are needed so that they can adequately participate and contribute.
Accessibility in the media and the representation of associations for the disabled on broadcasting councils are important to us.
For an open and free internet: strengthen solidarity, end surveillance
The Internet is a field of social debate.
It offers freer access to information, more direct networking with like-minded people and the practical simplification of organizing everyday life.
At the same time, the Internet has given states unprecedented surveillance tools.
We too have been and continue to be spied on by the NSA, BND and Verfassungsschutz.
Large corporations are increasingly dominating the Internet.
Social networks and other information-sharing platforms are owned by corporations.
Our options are thus limited by their profit interests.
For us, information and communication is not a luxury, but a right.
It is also a question of power who decides on the content of and access to the Internet.
Access to digital technologies and the Internet must be made possible regardless of income and social background.
In Germany, access to the Internet is still a question of social status.
The "D21 Digital Index" shows that almost all people with a household income of more than EUR 3,000 used the Internet in 2016.
For those with less than 1,000 euros at their disposal, the figure is just over half.
Participation in social, cultural and political life must be guaranteed for all people.
The availability of computers and Internet access is part of the subsistence level.
The availability and speeds of the connections advertised by Internet access providers must actually be available: If it says 100 MBit, it must also say 100 MBit.
Instead of maximum data volumes to be achieved, providers must specify the guaranteed minimum volume.
DIE LINKE is committed to ensuring that every household has a right to an affordable, high-speed broadband Internet connection.
The federal government's funding programs must be adapted to the need.
Municipalities that cannot afford their own share of funding programs must receive additional support.
We want to expand our e-govern m ent offerings.
The possibility of encrypted communication with authorities must be ensured.
In the digital world, access to information must be defended.
We demand that data and information collected and created by governments with public money be made freely available and usable to all people.
The "open data" created in this way can be a contribution to the opening and democratization of administration.
Of course, data protection must be taken into account.
We want users to be able to inform, educate, express themselves and participate freely on the Internet.
We want to preserve the open architecture of the network and thus promote its potential for innovation and development.
For us, this includes safeguarding net neutrality.
To ensure network neutrality and good coverage, the telecommunications networks are to be transferred to public and public service ownership.
We want to expand the fiber-optic infrastructure rapidly and across the board (see Chapter VI "Investing in the future").
We support open content licenses that are guided by core values of openness and participation.
When the network is used as a marketplace, the same rules apply as in the commodities market.
If, as in the case of e-books and electronic games, users are no longer sold files for download, but only access, they should be given the right to lend or resell them (digital secondhand).
We want to promote commons-based, self-managed, non-commercial and public alternatives to M ain stream offerings in the form of open technologies and platforms as well as decentralized infrastructures.
The unlawful collection, storage and disclosure of personal data and their aggregation into personal profiles is very widespread today.
This applies to sensor-based data collection, such as geolocation services, as well as to the mass collection and analysis of Internet traffic.
Government security agencies and private-sector corporations are taking advantage of this and collecting enormous amounts of data about users.
We want to end data-intensive, blanket surveillance by intelligence agencies and technology corporations and update data protection.
To ensure privacy on the Internet under the condition of permanent data flow, the right to informational self-determination can only be realized with a right to end-to-end encryption in personal communication - without backdoors.
We oppose any blocking and surveillance infrastructure, because the net should be a free social discourse space.
We oppose state control and censorship just as we oppose economic ones.
We reject net blocks and liability tightening for providers and bans on linking to other websites.
Illegal content must already be deleted immediately.
The users of the network should be fully informed about the collection of personal data.
Companies that violate data protection requirements must be consistently sanctioned.
This includes strengthening data protection officers.
The physical and mental integrity of users must also be protected on social networks.
Companies must report hate speech or bullying as well as insults, defamation and incitement to hatred, including through social bots, and delete them after a court decision.
The automated analysis of large amounts of data (Big Data) should not be contrary to the common good.
We take a critical view of algorithmic processes for automated monitoring, evaluation or behavior prediction of individual people.
We reject it in the evaluation and classification of individual behavior, for example in the context of creditworthiness assessment (scoring), with regard to the utilization of social security systems or in investigative activities (predictive policing).
In the area of civilian cybersecurity, the Bundeswehr and intelligence services have no place; instead, we will strengthen the independence of the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI) and expand its advisory and assistance services.
Surveillance technologies must not be exported.
We repeal the unconstitutional BND surveillance law.
Due to ever-increasing surveillance of digital communications, end-to-end encryption is sometimes the only chance for journalists to communicate confidentially and thus ensure freedom of expression and freedom of the press.
To ensure free research and journalistic work, we want to promote the training of journalists in new technologies for secure digital communication.
We defend the freedom to and from religion and the separation of church and state
Religious minorities are repeatedly denied the freedom to profess a religion or are discriminated against because of their religion.
Anti-Muslim racism is often spread under the guise of criticism of Islam.
Radicalized movements in almost all religions put pressure on believers and non-believers and attack fundamental rights in the name of religion.
We defend the freedom of thought, conscience and faith.
Against a supposed "clash of civilizations," we support the commitment of people of different worldviews and religions to global social justice, democracy and peace.
We advocate the institutional separation of church and state.
The state must be independent of religions
and protect people who are persecuted for ideological or religious reasons.
We oppose all attempts to restrict democracy and equal rights for all by referring to supposedly natural or divine laws.
The human right to free exercise of religion includes the right to publicly profess a religion.
DIE LINKE opposes bans on religiously motivated clothing and rejects any restriction of employee rights on this basis.
When bathing, everyone should wear the swimwear that is popular.
DIE LINKE supports the struggle of the trade unions and churches for the work-free Sunday.
For people who are pressured because of their decision against religiously motivated clothing, because of a change of denomination or leaving a religious community, we want to create facilities for counseling and support.
We want to ensure that leaving all religious communities and churches is free.
We want an ethics class in which all students with their different ideological, cultural and religious backgrounds can discuss ethical issues together.
As part of their educational mission, schools should continue to impart knowledge about religions.
Insofar as confessional religious education is offered as an elective subject at schools, all religious communities should be able to participate.
We want to abolish the military chaplaincy.
In its current form, it does not correspond to the constitutionally given right to religious freedom and is also controversial within the churches.
It must be replaced by a treaty that guarantees religious care by all religious and ideological communities and the free exercise of religion by members of the Bundeswehr.
The right to issue directives to pastors and state funding by the armed forces must be abolished.
The churches shall collect their membership fees independently and on their own responsibility.
We advocate the constitutional mandate to replace state payments to the churches, which has been in place since 1919.
DIE LINKE advocates the legal equality of all religious and ideological communities.
The LEFT is against a ban on the construction of sacred buildings.
Jewish and Muslim holidays should be recognized as state-protected holidays.
We stand with those within the churches who are working to improve labor standards
and fight discrimination.
Sport free!
Sport is not a luxury good, it is there for everyone.
To do this, we need to improve the conditions for access to sport.
The ability to do sport should not depend on income and social status.
Sports clubs are also places of successful integration.
We promote disabled-friendly, inclusive, nature-friendly and environmentally friendly sport.
DIE LINKE stands for a sport without barriers.
People with disabilities must be able to participate in sports on an equal footing with people without disabilities and be supported accordingly; additional expenses must be compensated.
DIE LINKE sees mass sport and top-class sport as a reciprocal relationship.
It aims both to promote mass sport with its positive social and health effects and to support potential sporting careers.
Sport must become a mandatory municipal task.
In the future, sports promotion should no longer take place indirectly through special units in the German armed forces, border guards and police, but should directly benefit the athletes.
Many sports halls, sports fields and swimming pools are dilapidated, some of them are already closed.
Our future program provides for sufficient investment,
to make the facilities barrier-free
and ecologically sensible refurbishment.
Doping, corruption and other manipulations must be fought.
The commercialization of sport for the purpose of profit maximization must be pushed back and the teaching of values such as tolerance, respect and fairness must be strengthened.
Exploitation companies such as Deutsche Fußball Liga GmbH must be democratized so that the profits from professional soccer also benefit the amateurs and all 7 million DFB members (cf. chapter XIV "People and nature before profits").
Daycare, school, university and vocational school sports are to be sustainably improved through quality standards so that young people do not have to rely on gyms if they want to do sports.
Swimming lessons must be guaranteed in general education schools.
Funding for fan projects, initiatives and projects against extreme rights, discrimination and violence, as well as for the integrative effect of sports clubs, is to be increased and made permanent.
We oppose the increasing criminalization of non-racist and non-violent soccer fan and ultra groups, fan support, fan projects, fan representatives and those responsible, as has happened in Leipzig, among other places.
XVIII. For a future worth fighting for! We can't do it without you!
DIE LINKE is the force for social justice
and peace
and fight for a democracy in which people decide, not profit interests.
We name those who benefit from precarious work, poverty wages, rising rents and nursing shortages in hospitals.
We want to disempower the super-rich and redistribute wealth.
We declare war on the prevailing conditions that ensure the unjust distribution of wealth, assets and power.
We stand up against racism and right-wing agitation.
For a social offensive for all
and an immigration society based on solidarity.
We listen.
We want to know what no one else wants to hear.
We work in parliaments and fight for better working and living conditions in everyday life.
We stand for a revolution of justice that eliminates poverty,
creates good pensions, good education, health care, long-term care and affordable housing for all.
These are the social facts that characterize a social democracy.
They must be fought for together.
In doing so, we are sticking to clear lines: A government that wages wars and allows the Bundeswehr to be deployed abroad,
is pushing ahead with rearmament and militarization,
We will not participate in the privatization of services of general interest or social cuts whose policies worsen the performance of public service tasks.
We will present a possible coalition agreement to our members for a decision.
A different policy will not be achieved in parliament alone; it needs pressure.
Pressure from society, from trade unions
and social movements, from social associations.
Pressure from below and pressure from the street.
Without the power of trade unions and major labor disputes, there would be no sick pay, no reduction in working hours, no rights of representation for the workforce.
Without the peace movement, the involvement of German governments in international capitalist wars would be much greater than it is today.
Without the women's movement, the progress in women's equality would not exist.
Without the environmental movement, there would be no nuclear phase-out and no broad environmental awareness.
Without the successful strike at Charité, there would be no broad debate today about more staff in hospitals.
DIE LINKE is part of and an ally in building up this pressure.
And we want to translate it into change in Parliament.
Resistance and protest, the shaping of society in the here and now, and the vision of an alternative that points beyond capitalism form an indissoluble triangle for our politics.
We promise: The members of the LEFT Party commit themselves to a code of conduct.
They stand for the goals and projects presented here.
They declare to actively represent the program of DIE LINKE party; to
disclose their own political biography;
that they do not accept donations or gifts from lobby groups or large companies.
The will of the citizens and the common good take precedence over individual interests!
that they do not cooperate with secret services.
that they use information and knowledge from their parliamentary activities for the general interest.
We are not a backroom party.
Freedom of information instead of secrecy!
that they are also committed to good work for their own employees in the MEPs' offices and parliamentary groups.
and co-determination.
Largely barrier-free
and maintain open constituency offices for the concerns of the population
and to make the resources and infrastructure of these offices available to the local population, social movements or solidarity and aid projects.
Without you, without you, it won't work.
Elections and election campaigns can excite many people if they expect change.
Together we can achieve something: a future worth fighting for.
