On September 22, you will elect a new Bundestag.
This is a directional decision for our country and for each individual.
It is about whether Germany remains a strong and successful country.
A country with a stable euro,
where people have secure jobs
and can provide for themselves and their families.
A country where every person has the chance to make something of their life
and at the same time is well protected in the event of unemployment, illness, nursing care or old age.
A country of cohesion,
where people like to live safely.
All of this can only succeed if Germany continues to be well governed in the future.
On September 22, your personal future is also at stake!
Before the last federal election in 2009, concerns about the future were high.
Germany and Europe experienced the worst economic crisis since World War II.
Today, Germany is once again a successful and strong country, one of the strongest in the world.
This shows: Our joint efforts have developed many things for the better.
Europe and the euro are moving forward.
This also makes our country stronger.
Never before have so many people had a job with us as today.
This means security for people and the chance to participate in social life under their own steam.
Incomes and pensions are rising, prices are stable.
This shows that everyone benefits from the right policies of the CDU and CSU.
Anyone who looks around the countries of Europe knows that this good development of our country cannot be taken for granted.
And there is a great danger of putting the stability of our currency, Germany's economic strength and thus jobs at risk by making the wrong decisions.
The Union is the guarantor of smart policies,
for a solid currency,
stable finances,
economic strength
and secure jobs.
The European debt crisis is not over yet.
Meeting them is a challenge of historic proportions.
As the largest economy and growth engine in Europe, our country has a special responsibility in this situation.
We stand by this responsibility because we know that Germany can only be strong and successful in the long term if Europe is also doing well.
Germany and Europe are experiencing population change on an unprecedented scale.
Our population is the oldest in Europe, we are becoming fewer in number, and society is becoming more diverse as the proportion of people with an immigrant background increases.
At the same time, the population in other regions of the world is growing rapidly.
There are now over seven billion people in the world.
The vast majority outside Europe.
This is not without consequences for our economy.
The major sales markets of the future are no longer just on our doorstep, but in the emerging countries of Asia and Latin America, in Africa and the Arab world.
This opens up new markets and opportunities, but at the same time these countries are also competitors in global competition.
Technological progress, especially digitization, is changing the way we live, work and interact with each other at great speed.
This opens up many new opportunities for sustainable jobs and future prosperity, but industries and companies will also lose out if they do not respond to the changes in time.
For far too long, we in Germany, Europe and beyond have lived at the expense of future generations - this applies both in terms of finances and the environment.
The limits of this action are becoming increasingly apparent.
That is why we need a sustainable economy that safeguards livelihoods and life opportunities for future generations.
In the next four years, we want to continue to set the right course for the future in this changing world.
We invite all people in our country to join us on this path, to help shape it with their ideas and to lead our country together into a good future.
The CDU and CSU are guiding clear ideas and principles along this path:
We want Europe to emerge stronger from the crisis
and the euro remains a strong and stable currency.
For this, we need further efforts and reforms, especially in the states that need our help.
The red-green coalition, on the other hand, is backing the communitization of debt and Eurobonds.
This would be the path to a European debt union, in which German taxpayers would have to assume almost unlimited responsibility for the debts of other countries.
We reject that.
We want to strengthen the social market economy and further embed its principles in Europe and beyond.
It has brought prosperity and social security to our country over the past 60 years.
It strengthens social cohesion
and social balance in our country.
It is thus a prerequisite for a strong center in our country.
Our goals remain work for all - secure and well paid - and security for people.
To achieve this, we are relying on energy, inventiveness and technical progress - and not on red-green redistribution policies.
We stand for the fact that performance pays off.
That's why we're easing the burden on people.
The SPD and the Greens, on the other hand, want to burden people.
Their tax increase plans would particularly affect our strong middle class with its many craftsmen and family entrepreneurs.
This would jeopardize the good economic development of our country and destroy jobs.
We see Germany's opportunities in a sustainable and internationally competitive economy whose core remains modern, industrial production.
Education and research are the foundations for social participation and economic success.
We want the results of our research efforts to be produced in Germany and Europe as well, thus creating jobs, prosperity and social security in our country.
In return, we want to remain a technology-friendly country that says yes to new technologies and deals responsibly with risks.
We shape policy for those who care for their children, grandchildren and families and contribute to good coexistence in our country with their voluntary commitment.
These men and women are the everyday heroes who make our country strong.
They need a reliable state that gives them and their families security and stability.
That is why we want to provide even better support for all families, while the Red-Greens also want to burden families.
What matters to us are the choices families make about how they want to live their lives.
Because as parties with a Christian view of humanity, we trust people and their decisions.
We reject red-green paternalism.
We stand up for a homeland worth living in and good prospects for the future everywhere in Germany, whether in the city or in the countryside.
We want all children to attend a school where they learn what is important for their future.
We want people to be able to live safely and protected from crime.
We want them to be able to travel in a functioning public transport and use proper roads.
We want them to be able to rely on a healthcare system that ensures they receive good care everywhere and at all times.
Dear citizens, together with you we want to lead Germany into a good future.
That is why we have worked with you on this government program.
Thousands have contributed ideas and suggestions and discussed them together with us.
This has resulted in a program that shows how our country can remain successful and strong in the future.
Ten projects are particularly important:
Ten projects for Germany's bright future:
Securing Europe's strong position in the world - strengthening competitiveness
As a leading industrial and exporting nation, Germany will only do well in the long term if Europe does well too.
We are convinced that Europe is indispensable for a life in peace, freedom and prosperity.
That is why we want Europe to emerge stronger from the crisis.
To ensure that the euro remains a strong and stable currency, we need further efforts and reforms, especially in the countries that benefit from assistance.
We need sound fiscal policies throughout Europe,
growth promotion through structural reforms
and more investment in education and research.
That is why we want to advocate new priorities to strengthen competitiveness.
We will also promote the introduction of our successful dual training system in schools and companies in other European countries because it can open up a good professional future for young people.
Our goal remains: To lead Europe out of the crisis stronger together with our partners.
That is why we will work with our partners to ensure that the European Union - its member state s - pools its strength and efforts
and places the sustainable strengthening of economic performance at the center of its actions.
Only in this way can we achieve our goal in the long term: Growth and employment for the benefit of Europe's citizens!
Sound finances - stop new borrowing, repay debts and invest in the future
Frugal budgetary policy is the basis for stable economic conditions and sustainable growth.
That is why we enshrined the debt brake in the Basic Law and have complied with its rules from the outset.
We will spend less money in the federal budget in 2014 than in 2010.
At the same time, our successful economic and employment policies have increased revenues at all levels of government, enabling us to consistently reduce new debt.
By reallocating resources in the federal budget, we have created scope for new priorities.
For example, we have been able to spend more on education and research than any other federal government before,
advance the expansion of daycare facilities,
and sustainably relieve the burden on municipalities.
This shows that saving and investing are not contradictory, but two sides of the same coin.
In this way, our policy creates confidence and encourages entrepreneurs to invest in the future of their businesses.
This has also increased our country's economic strength by more than eight percent since 2009.
We will therefore resolutely continue this course of consolidation for stability and growth in the future.
With sound finances, we create the conditions for a stable currency, growth and secure jobs.
Thanks to our successful financial policy, a sustainable balanced budget is within reach.
By continuing this successful course and further increasing tax revenues, we will be able to reduce debt in the coming legislative period
and at the same time above all family support
and increase important future investments in education, research and infrastructure.
Full employment and collectively agreed minimum wage
In Germany today, there are nearly 42 million men and women who have jobs.
Since the end of the Red-Green government, the unemployment rate has almost halved.
Today, more people than ever before in our country can provide for themselves and their families through work and shape their lives according to their wishes.
We are working for even more jobs.
Our goal is: full employment!
To this end, we rely on diligence, new ideas and technical progress as the basis for maintaining and creating new jobs.
And to achieve this, we rely on active social partnership in the companies and between the collective bargaining partners.
We reject wage setting by politicians.
But it is up to politicians to create the conditions that give people everywhere in Germany the chance to earn a decent wage.
That is why we want to make the collective bargaining partners legally responsible for the areas in which there are no collective agreements.
They are to jointly set a collectively agreed minimum wage.
Strengthening economic power - promoting small and medium-sized enterprises and start-ups
We want reliable framework conditions for companies in Germany in the future as well.
That is why our goal remains to keep non-wage labor costs stable.
That is why we reject tax increases.
The proposals of the SPD and the Greens threaten the competitiveness of German SMEs in particular and thus thousands of jobs in our country.
We do not want to endanger businesses, but on the contrary encourage as many people as possible to start businesses and create jobs.
For this, start-ups in particular need access to favorable financing options and must not be slowed down by unnecessary bureaucracy.
Performance must be worthwhile - relieving the burden on citizens
Unlike the Red-Green coalition, we do not want to punish the top performers in the middle of our society with tax increases for their efforts and daily work, but rather to relieve them.
We want wage increases that serve to compensate for price increases to no longer be automatically absorbed by a higher tax rate.
By mitigating this so-called "cold progression", we are creating more fairness in benefits and helping people with small and medium incomes in particular.
Ensuring prosperity and growth- investing in the future of our country
The basis of our prosperity is bright minds, ideas and technical progress, which result in products and services that we sell worldwide.
To achieve this, we need investments in education,
research
and infrastructure.
We want to further increase the share of gross domestic product spent on research and development.
In the future, this should also include tax incentives for research that support entrepreneurial efforts for new ideas and technologies.
As one of the most successful countries in exporting goods and services, we depend on efficient road and rail connections.
We therefore want to strengthen our country's infrastructure and rehabilitate and expand the federal trunk roads with a 25 billion euro investment program.
The energy transition is one of the greatest challenges facing our country.
We want to secure jobs and value creation in our own country by building up a domestic and locally organized energy supply.
At the same time, we will continue to ensure affordable energy costs for consumers,
but also for our industry, so that it remains competitive.
In this way, we enable SMEs and industry to grow and create new jobs.
Seizing the opportunities of digitization - making Germany fit for the digital future
The Internet and digital technology are shaping our lives.
Smartphones and tablets have become an integral part of everyday life.
The Internet is a growth driver for our economy.
To make even better use of the opportunities offered by the Internet for our country, we want to start with the education of our children.
In a joint pact between local, state and federal governments, we want to ensure that our schools are equipped to the highest standards.
This includes, for example, modern computer equipment, digital learning opportunities and better networking of schools.
When the classroom finds its way into the digital world, a new educational world opens up in which children learn about the new technical possibilities as a matter of course.
To ensure that everyone in the city and the country can take advantage of the opportunities offered by high-speed Internet, we want to make fast Internet available nationwide by 2018, enabling people to use Internet TV and conduct banking transactions, deal with public authorities or use telemedicine services.
This is an important step toward Germany becoming the No. 1 digital growth country in Europe and securing a strong role in attractive future markets.
Better support for families - introduce family splitting and allow time for family
We want strong families in Germany.
In the family, people seek and find love, security and mutual help.
We will continue to strengthen marriage and the family.
That is why we want to retain the existing spousal splitting system
and supplement it with a family splitting system.
To this end, we will gradually raise the tax allowance for children to the level of the allowance for adults.
We will also increase child benefit
as well as the child supplement.
We want all mothers and fathers whose children were born before 1992 to have their child-rearing achievements taken into account with an additional pension point in their old-age pension scheme, thus giving them better recognition than before.
In addition to money, families need time for each other.
In our often very hectic and stressful professional times, this is often the most important thing for people.
With a new lifetime policy, we want to open up opportunities to better enable career breaks for raising children, for further education, but also for caring for one's own parents or relatives.
More and more people are asking themselves what constitutes a good life.
This includes time for family and friends, learning new languages and cultivating one's own interests, a sense of belonging, home or simply the knowledge that one is needed.
We want to better and more specifically promote quality of life through political action and regularly report on quality of life and its improvement.
Safe Germany
We want everyone in Germany to be able to live freely and safely - at home, in the streets, in squares, on buses or trains, by day or by night, as well as in the face of the dangers associated with Islamist terrorism, for example.
We stand for framework conditions that enable our security forces to continue to combat this danger in the best possible way.
That's why we want to increase the use of video technology at hotspots such as train stations to prevent violence and theft and to help solve crimes.
In view of the rising number of residential burglaries and an insufficient clearance rate, we want to increase the pressure on gangs and individual perpetrators, especially when they operate across borders.
In addition, we will also provide tax benefits for expenses incurred to secure one's own home.
Livable Homeland - Strong Communities, Creating Affordable Housing and Strengthening Infrastructure in Rural Regions - Preserving and Developing Cultural Heritage
We want to ensure a livable homeland for people in the city and in rural regions.
The prerequisite for this is efficient cities and municipalities.
That is why we will continue to strengthen the financial power of the municipalities.
Part of this, especially in cities, is ensuring that there is enough affordable housing.
The best way to do this is to build new housing.
We want to improve the framework conditions for this with targeted incentives such as better tax options and subsidies.
In order to be able to respond flexibly to rent developments in metropolitan areas, we have given the federal states the option of reducing the limit for rent increases from 20 to 15 percent within three years in areas with a shortage of housing.
When re-letting existing apartments, we also want to open up the possibility of limiting rent increases in tight markets to 10 percent above the local comparable rent in the future.
Rural regions must remain a livable home in the future .
This includes a strong agricultural sector,
good educational facilities,
Childcare services
and a broad voluntary commitment.
High-quality medical care should also continue to be readily available to everyone.
To this end, we want to further improve the provision of care by physicians and hospitals, especially in rural regions, and to this end, for example, increase the attractiveness of the family doctor profession.
Germany is a cultural nation.
We will preserve the rich cultural heritage of our country and want to develop it further at all levels.
Together with you, we want to work to ensure that Germany remains successful.
For this we ask for your trust.
Dr. Angela Merkel Horst Seehofer
1. Germany's future in Europe
The CDU and CSU want a strong Europe.
Our lesson from history was and is the desire "to serve the peace of the world as an equal member in a united Europe," as our Basic Law states.
This commitment to Europe is a matter of reason for us, but also a matter of the heart.
CDU and CSU are the German European parties.
Under our leadership, the beginnings of closer economic cooperation have grown in 60 years into an internationally respected and influential association of states.
The European Union is a unique community of values and law in the world.
It stands for freedom and human rights,
for tolerance and peaceful coexistence both internally and externally,
for prosperity
and social security.
The fact that our everyday life in Germany and Europe no longer knows any walls or barriers, that we can travel freely in Europe, live, work and learn everywhere, shows the outstanding success of European unification for the people on our continent.
This success obliges and encourages us to continue on the path that stands for a peaceful and democratic unification of Europe.
We want a Europe that acknowledges and lives by its Christian-Western roots and the ideas of the Enlightenment.
We stand by our goal of making the responsibility before God emphasized in the Basic Law clear in the EU Treaty as well.
For many in Europe and around the world, Germany is now a role model when it comes to good policies for stable and sustainable development.
The social market economy and the wise political decisions to develop it further serve as a model for others to follow in their own efforts.
Our balanced economic structure with a strong SME sector, efficient industry and our active social partnership between trade unions and employers' associations is regarded as a model worldwide.
These successes are earning us recognition around the world.
According to a survey by the British broadcaster BBC, Germany is the most popular country in the world in 2013.
Thanks to the successful policies of the CDU and CSU, Germany has become Europe's anchor of stability and engine of growth.
That is why we have a special responsibility in solving the debt crisis in Europe.
We accept this task because we know that a common currency strengthens Europe's economic power and that Europe is our future for living in peace, freedom and prosperity.
Maintaining Europe's strength in a changing world
Our generation will decide whether we in Europe will jointly master the challenges of the 21st century.
Of the more than seven billion people in the world today, only just over one in a hundred lives in Germany.
Today, the European Union still represents about seven percent of the world's population.
By 2050, the global population will rise to more than nine billion people, while the German and European populations will continue to decline.
China alone already has more inhabitants than Europe, North and Central America combined.
Trade flows and economic powerhouses are also shifting.
China has replaced Germany as the world's leading exporter and continues to grow.
Emerging markets such as India, Brazil and many others are playing an increasingly important role.
In view of these shifts in economic weights, we can only secure our prosperity if Europe remains a competitive continent, aligned with the best in the world.
That is why we are fighting for a strong and competitive European Union that emerges stronger from the debt crisis.
There must be no going back to old mistakes.
Over the next four years, we want to continue to set the right course by working with our partners at European level to ensure that strengthening and promoting economic performance forms the basis for employment, social security and sustainability at all levels.
Together, we Europeans can then continue to make our contribution to solving the major global challenges.
Successfully launched reforms
Since the outbreak of the euro sovereign debt crisis three years ago, we have successfully consolidated the cohesion of the monetary union and launched important reforms for lasting stability.
Together with our European partners, we have implemented German-style debt brakes in the euro countries and tightened up the Stability Pact.
At the same time, we have paved the way to greater competitiveness with structural reforms,
sustainable growth
and employment.
Both belong together and form the basis for regaining lost trust.
New debt in the euro zone has been halved in this way over the past three years.
Our partners have initiated important economic reforms.
The euro sovereign debt crisis has been defused as a result, but it is far from resolved.
To ensure that the euro remains a strong and stable currency, we must stay the course and not slacken our efforts.
Assistance only for own services
We are committed to solidarity with our European neighbors.
However, those who need help must contribute to solving the problems with their own efforts.
This includes reducing mountains of debt
and increasing the country's own competitiveness through reforms and future investments in education, research and technology.
That is why we want to ensure that European Union funding is more strongly focused on projects that increase competitiveness and create jobs.
This is particularly true of measures to combat high youth unemployment in many European crisis countries.
Europe must ensure stable money
We stand for a strong euro and stable prices.
Both are central to the success of our economy and the creation of new jobs.
Almost 40 percent of German exports go to the euro zone, 60 percent to the EU as a whole, securing millions of well-paid jobs in our country.
A common currency is an indispensable tool in international trade and global monetary policy.
We therefore advocate the further reduction of new debt and strict compliance with national debt brakes.
In addition, we are committed to balanced budgets in all EU member states
and defend the independence of the European Central Bank, which we pushed through following the example of the German Bundesbank.
This has led to a high degree of price stability despite the crisis.
We want all euro states to defend the euro together.
No debt union, no transfer union
During their time in government, the SPD and the Greens have broken the Stability and Growth Pact four times and weakened its rules.
Unfortunately, they have learned nothing.
The Red-Green coalition is counting on the communitization of debt through the introduction of Eurobonds.
This would be the path to a European debt union in which German taxpayers would have to cover the debts of other countries almost indefinitely.
We reject that.
This would invalidate the principle of "no performance without consideration".
We do not want any euro state to be able to continue running up debts at the expense of its neighbors and shirk uncomfortable reform efforts.
Strengthening the Economic and Monetary Union as a Stability Union
We want to further strengthen confidence in the stability of the euro and the future of Europe.
This will require further reforms and efforts on the road to the Stability Union.
In doing so, we are focusing on three central fields of action:
European Banking Union
We want effective European banking supervision at the European Central Bank for the large, systemically important banks,
as well as procedures for the resolution of over-indebted banks.
For the other financial institutions, not least the savings banks and cooperative banks, the existing tried and tested banking supervision will remain in place.
We will ensure that the disbursement of money from the euro bailout fund to restructure banks is conditional on the ability of European banking supervision to work.
Savers must be able to rely on a functioning deposit guarantee system in every country of the EU.
This is ensured via the unified minimum standards of the national deposit insurance systems.
We reject a Europe-wide deposit guarantee scheme because this would communitize the liability risk and German savers would have to be liable for deposits in other countries.
Compliance with strict budget rules
We advocate strict implementation of the rules of the strengthened Stability and Growth Pact and the Fiscal Compact.
Anyone who violates the agreed limits of the Stability and Growth Pact must expect sanctions.
To this end, we want to strengthen the European Commission's ability to monitor and review national budgets.
In addition, we are committed to developing a debt restructuring procedure within the euro zone for countries that can no longer bear their debts.
Strengthening competitiveness throughout Europe
We want an economically strong and successful Europe that will continue to succeed in global competition in the future.
90 percent of global growth takes place outside Europe.
We want to seek and exploit our opportunities with good and competitive products and services in order to be successful in these markets.
We therefore want to make Europe more competitive in order to enable sustainable growth in the long term
and to be able to preserve and further develop our social model.
To do this, we need greater economic policy coordination on how we can improve Europe's competitiveness.
To this end, we want to adopt a Competitiveness Pact in which the nation states agree with the European Commission on concrete measures to improve their situation in a targeted manner.
In doing so, our goal is to strengthen the weak and make the performance of the best the benchmark for all.
By investing in education, research and future technologies, we want to secure Europe's opportunities on the international markets.
We will also support other European countries in introducing dual training in schools and companies because it can open up a good professional future for young people.
Further steps on the way to a common European labor market lie in better teaching of languages and improved transferability of educational qualifications and social security.
We want to continue and expand the EU Youth Initiative we launched.
It launches investments and measures to combat youth unemployment in Europe.
Europe needs a strong Franco-German partnership
The challenges facing Europe are great.
Trusting cooperation between the partners is essential for joint success.
As far as possible, we want to move forward together with all EU partners and, to this end, keep finding ways to bring together the different positions.
But we also know that European integration needs a motor.
That is why the Franco-German partnership is of particular importance.
We are aware of this responsibility and want to continue to live up to it in the interests of Europe.
Poland is one of our most important partners among the new EU member states.
We want to deepen our partnership with Poland and use the diverse neighborly relations to expand personal encounters between people and further develop the lively economic relations.
The cooperation of France, Poland and Germany in the Weimar Triangle also serves this goal.
Unity in diversity
For the CDU and CSU, the nation states and the regions are defining components of a Europe of unity in diversity.
We do not want a centrally organized and governed Europe.
The CDU and CSU want a Europe that serves its citizens.
A Europe in diversity ensures quality of life in the regions and respects different ways of life.
To improve comprehensibility and in the interest of greater proximity to citizens, all European decisions should be accessible to citizens in an appropriate manner.
The information must be simple, understandable and easy to find.
The Internet in particular offers good opportunities here.
German is the most widely spoken native language and one of the three procedural languages in the European Union.
We are committed to further strengthening the German language in Europe.
Our aim is for it to be treated on an equal footing with English and French in EU authorities and administrations.
Europe lives from the encounter of its people
We want citizens to be able to experience Europe directly and enrich their professional and private lives.
Therefore, we are committed to the learning of foreign languages
and to exchange programs for young people, workers, students and researchers in Europe.
The European sense of community can be strengthened in this way.
We want to initiate partnerships between German and European cities and fill them with new life in order to strengthen the European idea as well as the understanding for each other.
Such partnerships also enable the exchange of experiences and organize assistance for regions and countries facing particular challenges with regard to their competitiveness, strengthening education and science, or combating youth unemployment.
2. secure Germany's prosperity
2.1 Social market economy - the basis of our success
Our guiding principle is the social market economy.
It brings prosperity and social security to our country.
Because it is built on two pillars: On capable, responsible citizens
and on a reliable state.
Social market economy does not patronize citizens, but trusts them to do something.
And it relies on a state that will still be able to fulfill its role as a guardian of order tomorrow.
Thus, Social Market Economy uniquely combines the advantages of a market economy with a commitment to social justice and ecological responsibility.
It is therefore the best economic order for free people and a society based on solidarity.
Thanks to the social market economy, Germany is economically strong and has one of the most secure social systems in the world.
Whereas Germany was the tail end of Europe under the Red-Green coalition, today our country is once again the engine of growth.
With responsible policies under the leadership of the CDU and CSU, we want to continue to lead our country into a good future.
We stand for a policy that opens up opportunities for advancement and a good future for everyone in our country.
We are convinced that jobs,
stable finances
, and good education
and research are the best foundation for a good future.
We reject left-wing policies of redistribution and paternalism.
Tax increases and the communitization of debt in Europe would set us back, destroy jobs and future opportunities.
Politics in the social market economy is regulatory policy.
It needs a reliable state that guarantees framework conditions for functioning competition, legal certainty and good economic development.
The public sector has an important role to play here.
The CDU and CSU are convinced that an efficient civil service and the professional civil service make important contributions to the prosperity of our country.
We want to continue to create the conditions for this and be a reliable partner for employees and civil servants.
We are convinced that no other economic and social model will be more successful in securing our prosperity in the future.
That is why we see the social market economy in Germany as an opportunity society:
prosperity for all through opportunities for success and advancement for everyone.
For an opportunity society, we need a curious and imaginative Germany in a rapidly changing world.
Unlike the Red-Green coalition, we are therefore committed to new technologies and want to continue researching them.
We trust people to take advantage of the opportunities offered by new developments and to deal responsibly with risks.
We are open to new things, not fundamentally against them.
We want a society and economy that focuses on a growth of ideas and new solutions that help to better reconcile the environment and the economy.
Such solutions can include new forms of mobility in large cities or an environmentally friendly, secure and affordable energy supply.
These are solutions that can not only make Germany more future-proof and livable.
They are also solutions that make sustainable growth a decisive competitive advantage for our economy by providing answers to global challenges and thus forming the basis for new export successes and jobs in our country.
If ideas are to be turned into new products and jobs, we need capable and well-trained employees.
And in the same way, we need people who are willing to take on entrepreneurial responsibility and personal risks.
This is what we want to encourage people to do.
We want to support people with courage to develop their business ideas into companies and create jobs.
Because responsible entrepreneurship strengthens our country.
These include, above all, the many private company owners in the skilled trades and small and medium-sized enterprises, who are personally liable and accountable for their economic commitment.
They stand not only for their own success or failure, but also for social responsibility towards their employees and society.
We expect this attitude and acceptance of responsibility from all entrepreneurs and companies.
Conversely, the state supports their work and commitment through good framework conditions, social stability, education and the rule of law.
Everyone must make their contribution to this - also in the form of taxes and contributions.
In the same way, anyone who has chances to win must also be liable for the losses.
This connection between decision-making responsibility and liability has been disregarded for too long in the international financial markets.
That is why we advocate more effective regulation in Europe and internationally.
Under the leadership of the Union, Germany is both a role model and a pacesetter.
At the European level in particular, we have achieved a great deal that still needs to be enforced internationally.
2.2 SMEs and industry give our country strength
Small and medium-sized enterprises remain the backbone of our economy and one of the guarantors of our prosperity.
Its businesses and companies are not only the largest employers in the country, but also sources of impetus and idea factories.
But it is not only economic success that is important.
The principles of the social market economy are brought to life in SMEs in particular:
The partnership between employers and employees, for example, or responsible entrepreneurship.
This is particularly true in the numerous family businesses, the liberal professions and the skilled trades.
Master craftsmen's businesses in particular are also the ones that have been adapting traditions as well as skills to the challenges of the times, in some cases for centuries, and passing them on to the next generation.
In this way, they offer employment prospects for young people and, as important bearers of tradition, help shape a progressive Germany.
We have decisively improved conditions for SMEs since 2005.
Under the Red-Green coalition in 2005, 90 percent of those surveyed gave a negative assessment of the policy for Germany as a business location.
Today, 80 percent of the SMEs surveyed rate our location policy positively.
This success confirms our policy and encourages us to further strengthen our country as a competitive location for industry and SMEs.
We want our attractive economic structure of large-scale industry and medium-sized businesses, in which manufacturing companies and service providers work hand in hand, to be maintained and expanded.
It is precisely this structure that has given our country stability during the crisis.
Strengthening market opportunities for SMEs at home and abroad
Medium-sized businesses and industry benefit from fair and functioning competition.
We will therefore take decisive action against abuse of power and threats to competition.
In view of the opportunities for our economy on the world market, we want to continue to promote German products and research results.
This applies above all to patents and standards. We also want to continue the German government's foreign trade initiative and the "German Mittelstand" campaign.
We want to make the Central Innovation Program for SMEs permanent.
It is important to facilitate access to research results and to promote innovations as unbureaucratically as possible, especially for small companies.
Improve tax framework and financing conditions
Medium-sized entrepreneurs think, plan and act for the long term.
A reliable tax policy is indispensable for this planning security.
We therefore consistently reject tax increases.
The tax plans of the SPD and the Greens are an attack on the substance of companies.
They threaten the competitiveness of German SMEs and thus thousands of jobs in our country.
This is irresponsible.
Instead, we want to strengthen the competitiveness of our companies with reliable framework conditions and a targeted subsidy policy.
For us, this includes the introduction of tax-based research funding.
In this way, we want to further increase the research efforts of small and medium-sized enterprises in particular and make a contribution to increasing competitiveness, especially in view of international competition.
We also want to improve the tax framework for investors who use their money to support young, high-growth companies, especially in the high-tech sector.
We will also expand the tax incentives for better equity capitalization by reducing disadvantages compared with debt financing.
Equity plays a major role, especially for medium-sized and family-owned companies.
Entrepreneurial decisions should also be based primarily on economic rather than tax considerations when it comes to financing.
This promotes sustainable economic development and responsible entrepreneurship.
For the same reason, the tax burden on business transfers must not be too high.
We want to promote the continuation of businesses, for example in family hands, and not push entrepreneurs into sales or business closures.
We will take the concerns of SMEs into account when implementing the stricter capital adequacy requirements ("Basel III").
Our concern is to ensure that the special financing structure of small and medium-sized companies does not lead to disadvantages in their credit supply.
Keeping non-wage labor costs stable
For us, the following applies: Right of way for work!
That is why our goal remains to keep non-wage labor costs, which are financed equally by employers and employees, stably below 40 percent.
Relieving the burden on companies - reducing bureaucracy
An efficient and citizen-oriented public administration is a key locational advantage.
Excessive bureaucracy, however, is a brake on growth.
We want companies to spend their money on new ideas and jobs, not bureaucracy.
We therefore want to further reduce superfluous bureaucracy.
Since 2006, our companies have been relieved of bureaucratic costs amounting to 12 billion euros a year, thus achieving the goal of reducing bureaucratic costs for business by 25 percent.
This is a growth program at zero cost.
Simpler, targeted laws without new bureaucratic burdens help everyone.
We want to strengthen the Standards Control Council as a proven "bureaucracy MOT".
We will set new concrete dismantling targets.
In the future, the bureaucratic costs of local authorities and public administration are also to be included.
Likewise, we want to reduce the burden of implementing laws.
For example, we will shorten the retention periods for tax documents,
reduce statistical reporting requirements
and ensure faster procedures in public procurement law.
We also want to anchor a bureaucracy review at the European level.
The European Union should limit itself, especially in matters of bureaucracy, and avoid unnecessary rules and regulations.
Industry, small and medium-sized enterprises, agricultural businesses, the liberal professions and the skilled trades must be relieved of unnecessary regulations.
To this end, we need an early warning system at European level, especially for measures affecting small and medium-sized enterprises.
In addition, we are committed to ensuring that all future EU legislation examines whether small and medium-sized enterprises are exempt from certain regulations.
Fair competitive conditions for key industries
We want to retain and expand our key industries in Germany.
The technological leadership of our companies is the prerequisite for the success of German products on the world markets.
We therefore want to invest specifically in important future technologies, such as microelectronics and aerospace, and thus further strengthen and expand the competitiveness of our country.
We work against harmful distortions of competition and for fair competitive conditions for our companies in all countries.
Small and medium-sized enterprises also need a fair playing field in global competition.
Therefore, when creating the framework conditions at the national level, we will keep in mind the impact on its international competitiveness.
Securing skilled workers for tomorrow's prosperity
One of the biggest challenges facing our economy is the need for well-trained employees.
There are already industries and regions that could be more successful economically if there were sufficient skilled workers.
This is why the CDU/CSU-led federal government has begun implementing its skilled labor concept.
The focus is on the qualification of employees.
Dual training as a success factor
Dual training in schools and companies offers our young people good opportunities on the labor market.
This provides them with the best possible training and prepares them for their future profession.
In turn, this gives training companies the opportunity to recruit young people as junior staff at an early stage.
Together with employers and trade unions, we want to secure and develop this strength in the long term.
The youth training councils also play an important role for us, representing the interests of the trainees and thus contributing to the ongoing improvement of training work in the companies.
We want to bring the brightest minds to Germany
In view of the shortage of skilled workers, we need more highly qualified people from other countries who are willing to perform.
You are welcome to join us.
We want to make our country even more attractive for them and their families to live and work in.
Citizens from EU countries can and should take advantage of the opportunities offered by freedom of movement within the European Union.
We want to further reduce bureaucratic obstacles that stand in the way of these goals.
For highly qualified people from non-EU countries, we have already opened the doors to the German labor market with the "Blue Card".
We want to regularly review and further develop the acceptance of the "Blue Card".
In addition, we want to achieve a targeted approach to highly qualified people in their home countries.
To this end, we want to strengthen cooperation between the Federal Employment Agency and German missions abroad and foreign chambers of commerce, among other things.
With the establishment of corresponding offers, they are to develop into contact points for students, university graduates and highly qualified people abroad.
To reduce language barriers, we want to improve opportunities to learn German.
Raw materials - securing supplies through cooperation and strategic partnerships
Many sectors of our economy rely on raw materials that are not available in our country.
To secure a stable supply of raw materials, we rely on strategic partnerships
and the abolition of export restrictions that currently exist in numerous countries.
We want to anchor the issue of raw material supply and availability more firmly than before in negotiations within the World Trade Organization and in free trade agreements with other countries.
In the interests of a secure and sustainable supply of raw materials, we also want to work towards the responsible use of raw materials in the producing countries.
This applies above all to respect for human rights and compliance with internationally recognized social and ecological standards.
We welcome the initiatives of German industry to build a raw materials alliance.
It is intended to ensure the long-term supply of raw materials to our economy.
We want to accompany this development with increased research efforts to secure raw materials
and, to this end, strengthen international cooperation with important raw material countries in the scientific field.
Efforts to reuse and increase the use of domestic raw materials also serve to reduce dependence on imports.
This also includes the use of domestic lignite as a basic material for the chemical industry.
Green light for the world's largest market - Free trade between EU and USA
Free trade strengthens global prosperity.
The CDU and CSU reject trade restrictions and want to strengthen international free trade - for example, by continuing the so-called "Doha Round," which negotiates a further opening of markets and greater inclusion of developing countries in world trade.
In particular, however, we want to achieve a comprehensive partnership for trade between the two strong economic areas of the EU and the USA.
A North Atlantic Free Trade Area creates the world's largest economic area.
In this way, it ensures growth and employment on both sides of the Atlantic and improves access for our companies to the world's largest free market.
In doing so, we will ensure that the strengths of our companies and markets are preserved.
2.3 Record employment - work for all
Never before have so many people in Germany had jobs as today.
This is a joint success of which we can all be proud.
Almost 42 million people are employed in Germany.
That is almost three million more than in 2005.
Since the end of the red-green government, the unemployment rate has almost halved.
Particularly pleasing: There are sufficient training places for our young people.
This gives our country good prospects and people the prospect of a secure future.
Once again, it is clear that good cooperation within the companies is an advantage for our country as a location, which we want to preserve and continue to promote.
Employers and trade unions have made responsible decisions with both the competitiveness of companies and the participation of employees in the good economic development in mind.
During the Red-Green government, the gap between lower and upper incomes had widened.
In recent years, this trend has been halted and the gap is beginning to close again.
We want to continue this development.
Our goal is full employment.
We want to help open up good opportunities for even more people to shape their own lives, and for them to be able to earn an overall income with which they can provide for themselves and their families.
Good work provides security and needs strong collective bargaining partners
Secure job prospects make life decisions such as marriage or starting a family easier.
That is why we want to create the conditions for young people in particular to have a good chance of finding a permanent job through a smart economic policy.
This must continue to be the rule.
However, we also see other forms of employment relationships, such as temporary work and fixed-term contracts, as an opportunity to create career prospects and, for example, to manage peaks in orders.
In this context, we also consider contracts for work and services to be an important instrument in the labor market.
However, this is precisely why we want to work with the social partners to ensure that they are not abused to undermine existing labor rules and wage floors.
Overall, we are convinced that the responsibility for good cooperation between employees and employers lies first and foremost with the collective bargaining partners and in the companies.
The interaction between trade unions, works councils, staff councils and employers has proven its worth, as has the autonomy of collective bargaining, especially during the financial market and economic crisis.
For us, social partnership, collective bargaining autonomy and co-determination remain essential foundations of our social market economy.
Collective bargaining unit
The principle of collective bargaining unity, i.e., that only one uniform collective agreement may be applied in a company, has proven its worth over decades.
We want to implement the adjustment made necessary by a court ruling with a law on collective bargaining unity and thus strengthen the collective bargaining partnership.
Decent pay for good work - collectively agreed minimum wage
For us, if you work hard, you have to be paid properly.
That is why we have worked with the collective bargaining partners to create minimum wages in numerous sectors with a total of four million employees and want to make the collective bargaining partners legally responsible for those areas in which there are no collective agreements.
They should jointly set a collectively agreed minimum wage in a commission, whereby the different situations in the regions and industries can be taken into account.
We reject wage setting by politicians.
But it is up to politicians to create the conditions that give people everywhere in Germany the chance to earn a decent wage.
Equal pay for equal work in the same place
Temporary work, mini-jobs and part-time employment have long been part of the labor market.
They enable many people to enter the world of work or the chance to earn extra money without a lot of red tape.
For companies and businesses, they offer the opportunity to react flexibly to the order situation.
However, this flexibility must not lead to abuse.
Companies and businesses have a responsibility here.
The CDU and CSU are in favor of consistently implementing the principle of "equal pay for equal work in the same place" for temporary workers.
We want to support the collective bargaining parties on their way to implementing this principle in practice, taking into account suitable transition and familiarization periods.
All are needed
For us, the following applies: Everyone is needed, no one should be excluded.
That's why we also want to help those with weaker performance to enter or re-enter the workforce.
Young adults without vocational training in particular need special support.
We want to make further efforts to ensure that as many people as possible can catch up on or complete their education.
Another important task is to make the long-term unemployed fit for the primary labor market.
That is why we will commission the Federal Employment Agency to set a focus here.
By reducing bureaucracy, setting clear targets, giving priority to training and then improving placement, the long-term unemployed should be able to find a job more sustainably.
In particular, single mothers and people without vocational qualifications are given new opportunities.
We will also continue the "Perspektive 50plus" program, which aims to get older people back into work, due to its success.
Human working world
The modern world of work opens up many new opportunities for employees.
But we also see with concern the increase in mental illness as a result of stress, overwork and the pressure of constant accessibility through e-mail and mobile communication.
We want to help keep employees mentally and physically healthy.
New preventive concepts are needed for this.
We are convinced that here, too, the best solutions must be found by employers and employees in partnership.
Further improve employee participation
Employee participation in profits and capital is a key concern for us.
We want to further improve the conditions for this by reviewing the current tax and social security framework and gradually making it more attractive.
We are convinced that companies that give their employees a share in their success are more productive and therefore more competitive.
This is because partnership in practice strengthens the bond between employees and their company, promotes togetherness and opens up a new source of income for employees.
In addition to employee wealth creation, employee share ownership is also becoming increasingly important in view of demographic change:
On the one hand, it is an important instrument for retaining qualified skilled workers in the company.
On the other hand, company successions can be simplified through employee share ownership, in which previous entrepreneurs hand over the business or parts of it to the workforce.
This can secure companies and jobs.
We want to examine how effective assistance can be provided in such cases - for example, through loans from KfW.
2.4 Solid finances - Germany's strength
A reliable state needs sound finances.
Our successes in recent years show that growth makes for rising tax revenues.
To do this, you don't have to raise taxes like the Red-Greens. Rather, the right thing to do is to manage government revenues carefully.
That is why we limited spending,
introduced the debt brake and complied with its rules on gradually reducing new debt from the outset.
For the first time in 40 years, we want to present a budget without new debt in the next legislative period.
This is also a strong signal for Europe.
The debt brake is followed by debt repayment
We will begin to repay the debt accumulated over decades.
We must not leave our children and grandchildren an ever-growing mountain of debt.
At the same time, we want to gradually reduce total government debt to a maximum of 60 percent of economic output.
We are thus firmly committed to compliance with the European Stability and Growth Pact.
Making state and local government finances fit for the future
State and local governments need a reasonable level of funding to be able to perform their tasks.
With the Lnder fiscal equalization scheme, the Basic Law provides for an appropriate balance between financially strong and financially weak Lnder.
We stand by an appropriate fiscal equalization system for the federal states, just as we stand by the obligations of the Solidarity Pact.
For the future, we want to organize the Lnder financial equalization system in such a way that the donor Lnder are not unduly burdened and deprived of the fruits of their successful policies, that it is more worthwhile than before for the recipient Lnder to improve their situation, and that structurally weak regions in the new and old Lnder are supported according to uniform criteria.
We will set up a third Federalism Commission for this reorganization of federal-state relations.
We are convinced that there is a particular strength in our country's diversity and in its ability to respond flexibly to different challenges.
This is what federalism stands for.
We want to strengthen and develop it further.
This also includes the commitment to give priority to locating new federal authorities in the new federal states until there is a more or less equal distribution of locations throughout the federal territory.
In the same way, we are fully committed to the agreements of the Bonn/Berlin Act.
The federal city of Bonn is the second federal political center.
We want to strengthen Bonn as a German location for the United Nations, as the headquarters of international non-governmental organizations and as a location for international congresses and conferences.
2.5 Responsible tax policy - performance must be rewarded
Strong shoulders have to carry more than weak ones.
This is already the case today because of our progressive tax system:
in 2011, for example, the top five percent of taxpayers bore 41.5 percent of the income tax burden.
The top 25 percent of taxpayers shouldered 76.9 percent of income tax revenue.
Anyone who overtightens this screw endangers cohesion and weakens people's willingness to perform.
Relieve the middle class - reduce cold progression
Performance must be worthwhile.
We therefore want to further relieve the burden on the top performers in the middle of our society.
To this end, we want to reduce the so-called cold progression.
This ensures that wage increases that merely serve to offset price increases are no longer eaten up by a higher tax rate.
The SPD and the Greens want the state to continue to earn money from compensating for inflation.
But we think the money belongs to the workers.
No to wealth tax - No increase in inheritance tax
Most people believe that they would not be affected by a wealth tax.
This is a mistake: Anyone who wants to introduce a wealth tax must first determine the wealth situation of all 80.2 million people in Germany.
This is the only way to ensure that no assets remain undiscovered.
The SPD and the Greens like to keep quiet about this access to all Germans and instead pull the wool over people's eyes.
It is clear, however, that German companies would be among those to suffer.
In Germany, there are around 1500 companies that are world market leaders with their products.
These companies make us one of the leading export nations with their top-quality products.
The vast majority of them are medium-sized companies: 70 percent of them are family-owned, and more than 90 percent belong to the manufacturing sector.
Their work requires expensive production facilities in a high-price location like Germany.
The companies therefore have correspondingly high corporate assets, which would be particularly affected by the Red-Green plans for higher inheritance tax and new wealth taxes.
This deprives these companies of the opportunity to invest in new jobs, in training and further education, in research and development - or to pay Christmas bonuses.
In Germany, inheritance tax also predominantly affects corporate and real estate assets.
If heirs have to sell parts of the assets to pay the inheritance tax, this can have devastating consequences for employees and tenants.
Re-introducing the wealth tax and increasing the inheritance tax therefore damages our competitiveness and destroys jobs.
That is why the CDU and CSU firmly reject both.
Further develop corporate taxation in a growth-friendly manner
The Union stands for growth-friendly corporate taxation.
We have further developed the 2008 corporate tax reform with numerous crisis-proof measures.
However, it remains important that German corporate tax law keeps pace with international developments in the future.
It is the declared goal of the Union to ensure that Germany remains an internationally attractive industrial location.
We will continue to work on aligning corporate taxes in Europe.
Companies should compete on products and services, not with the help of tax firms.
Effectively combat tax evasion
Tax evasion is criminal and causes serious damage to our community.
Evaded taxes are not available to the state for the construction of roads, the renovation of schools, kindergartens, the police, and are thus at the expense of all citizens.
We will continue to fight tax evasion resolutely and enforce tax claims across national borders.
The most important goal remains the collection of taxes - no one may evade.
Those who do it anyway must face the consequences of the law.
We will continue to vigorously pursue tax crimes.
To this end, we are working at the state level to establish focal prosecutor's offices.
At the international level, we want to improve cooperation between tax investigation authorities, for example through agreements on the exchange of information.
At the beginning of 2011, the CDU/CSU-led federal government massively tightened the rules on voluntary self-disclosure to avoid prosecution with the Anti-Money Laundering Act.
Together with the federal states and experts from science and practice, we are examining the extent to which even further tightening is sensible and possible.
As early as 1996, the CDU/CSU-led German federal government laid the foundation for the model agreement on the mutual exchange of information, which has been in force internationally since 2005, with an initiative at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).
Since the model agreement came into force, the Union-led federal government has signed 42 such agreements with other states - 36 in this legislative period alone.
A CDU/CSU-led federal government will continue to ensure that tax havens are dried up through better international cooperation.
Better coordinate tax enforcement
Tax enforcement is to remain the responsibility of the states.
Our tax investigators are doing a good job.
In view of the often very complicated auditing processes at internationally active companies, we want to provide them with special support.
That is why we advocate greater cooperation among the states in tax enforcement.
We will examine the extent to which skills and experience can be pooled - for example, in the form of a coordination office at the Federal Central Tax Office.
Appropriate taxation of large international corporations
Anyone who is economically active in Germany should also pay taxes here.
Excessive and aggressive exploitation of differences in the tax systems of the various countries must be counteracted.
Together with partners such as the United Kingdom and France, Germany, under the leadership of the Union, has successfully worked to make faster progress at the intergovernmental level as well.
As a result of this commitment, the issue of joint action against excessive international tax structuring is now high on the agenda of deliberations by the G8, the G20, the International Monetary Fund and the OECD.
2.6 Strict rules for the financial markets
Social market economy means: The economy must serve people.
We must also enforce this for the financial markets.
For us, the first thing is that the connection between decision-making responsibility and liability must apply in the financial market in particular.
Anyone who wants the freedom to make high profits with risky business must also be responsible for it if it goes wrong.
Second, we say: We want rules for every product and every player in every financial market.
We have made good progress in building these rules.
Germany is not only a pioneer in national implementation, but also a driving force internationally.
Control shadow banks
We will pay particular attention to the so-called shadow banks.
We want to avoid special purpose vehicles, money market funds or hedge funds conducting traditional banking business outside the regulated banking sector.
Otherwise, new risks will arise that all previous and future regulatory measures are precisely intended to avoid.
Introduce financial transaction tax worldwide
Together with ten other EU countries, we have agreed to introduce a financial transaction tax as quickly as possible.
While others are just talking, the CDU/CSU-led federal government has been acting.
During implementation, we will ensure that distortions of competition are avoided and that the interests of Germany as a financial center are safeguarded.
Only as a strong and competitive financial center can Germany continue to actively shape the regulation of international financial markets.
Our goal remains to introduce the tax not only in Europe, but worldwide in the long term.
Preserving the universal banking system - securing SME financing
Our banking structure with cooperative banks, private banks and savings banks has proved stable, especially during the financial market crisis.
We want to maintain and strengthen this structure.
This is because it not only secures financing for small and medium-sized enterprises, but also provides people with a wide range of banking services for their everyday lives on site.
At the same time, we want to avoid risks from banks' proprietary trading activities jeopardizing investors' savings and credit transactions.
We have therefore ensured that certain highly speculative transactions are separated from the deposit and lending business.
2.7 Sustainable growth creates quality of life
Growth has improved the lives of many people in our country, but also worldwide, in an unprecedented way and made prosperity possible.
In the social market economy, growth is not an end in itself.
The market economy and growth must serve people.
In this sense, the social market economy must always be developed further.
This includes safeguarding the social and economic development opportunities of future generations to a greater extent than in the past.
That is why we want growth that combines economy, ecology and social issues.
This is especially true in light of the challenges ahead, such as global climate change, feeding an ever-growing world population, and the economic and financial crisis.
Sustainable growth does not simply mean creating "more", but above all "better".
We want an economy that is a pioneer in sustainable products, smart solutions and strategies to improve the compatibility of the environment and the economy.
Achieving sustainability in all areas of life and worldwide
Our understanding of growth and prosperity points beyond the day and must fulfill three aspects of sustainability:
1. Sustainability must be anchored in an interconnected and globalized world, including internationally.
An international regulatory policy of sustainability must work to initiate and accompany in partnership the transition to the age of energy-efficient, environmentally friendly production, stable finance and high social standards, locally and globally, in developed industrialized countries as well as in developing and newly industrializing countries.
2 Economically and financially sustainable growth requires, above all, an end to debt policies.
In the wake of the international financial crisis, there is now a historic opportunity to implement a sustainable fiscal policy in Germany, Europe and the world.
Man is part of the creation.
Protecting them is our mission.
The principle of sustainability is an integral part of our policy.
We want to preserve and leave our descendants a world that is still worth living in tomorrow.
A decisive factor for ecological sustainability is that a significant decoupling of economic growth and resource consumption has already been achieved.
We must continue along this path.
Enabling people to participate and thereby strengthening social cohesion - that is social sustainability.
Every person should be able to participate according to his or her abilities, to contribute and to make a contribution for the good of all.
In particular, this means continuing to promote education in all phases of life,
it means getting even more jobseekers into work,
and it means increasing people's willingness to volunteer even more than before.
New benchmarks for measuring prosperity
This understanding of prosperity cannot be represented by gross domestic product (GDP) alone.
It's a good metric to measure economic performance, and it's still necessary for that.
But that's all it can measure.
Therefore, we believe that we need a new instrument that does justice to this comprehensive understanding of prosperity and quality of life.
Against this background, we welcome the proposals of the German Bundestag's Commission of Inquiry on Growth, Prosperity and Quality of Life.
In addition to gross domestic product, the survey will also include government and household debt, employment rates, educational attainment and training rates, health, democratic participation, air pollution and biodiversity in a national and international perspective.
This would allow a comprehensive mapping of wealth.
As a step in this direction, we want to increasingly present the benefits of government measures in terms of sustainable development in the future.
In this way, we create the prerequisite for a consideration that goes beyond pure cost calculations.
3. seize Germany's opportunities
3.1 Education Republic of Germany
Education starts at home, with the youngest children: mother and father begin what daycare centers, schools, companies and universities continue.
But that is far from the end of the story: Lifelong learning is becoming increasingly important for our country and its people.
That is why we launched the Education Republic of Germany and intend to continue its expansion in the coming years.
Every child deserves the best starting chances to develop his or her abilities in the best possible way.
We want to link schools and training with digital learning,
ensure first-class school and study conditions
, and launch a "National Initiative for Continuing Education".
Education therefore remains at the heart of everything we do.
Since 2005, we have increased spending on education year after year.
Federal aid to higher education alone has doubled in the past eight years.
We want to further increase public and private spending on education.
Equal educational opportunities from the start
Children are born explorers and discoverers.
From childhood, they want to find out how the world around them works.
We support them in this with good early childhood education and upbringing.
Unfortunately, there is a growing number of children who learn German inadequately at home from their parents.
That's why we advocate for language testing for all children over the age of three.
Where language skills are found to be insufficient, mandatory language support is to be provided in daycare centers and at school.
The best possible school for our children
We are committed to providing a diverse and permeable educational experience.
The concept of the red-green uniform school is an aberration.
It fails to recognize that each child is unique and thus fails to address the needs and interests of our children.
Our focus is on the individual child.
We want to encourage and challenge each child according to his or her possibilities.
To this end, we rely on good and trusting cooperation with parents.
The CDU and CSU stand by the future of the Gymnasium,
high-performing schools to prepare students for vocational training in particular,
and the equivalence of general and vocational education.
Instead of a one-size-fits-all approach, we want our children to have a variety of educational paths that open up a wide range of career and life opportunities for them.
For us, the goal is: No graduation without connection.
Pact for a good education
Day after day, our children go to school in the morning - from elementary to vocational school.
It is the most important place of learning.
We want to improve the chances of a successful school career.
We want to create the conditions for this with an education pact between the federal, state and local governments.
These include:
Expansion of all-day care
High-quality all-day schools support this goal.
This is why we want to ensure that all-day care is tailored to the needs of students, including the involvement of extracurricular forces such as clubs or voluntary structures throughout Germany.
At the same time, we are also making a decisive contribution to improving the compatibility of family and career.
School 2.0
The rapid development of information technologies offers new opportunities in education.
The use of digital media in our schools must better keep pace with digital development.
In view of the great opportunities digitalization offers for later working life, we want our children to learn how to use the new technical possibilities responsibly and sensibly as early as school, while at the same time opening up new, interesting ways of imparting knowledge.
We want to ensure that our schools are equipped to the highest standards.
This includes, for example, modern computer technology, digital learning opportunities and better networking of schools.
When the classroom finds its way into the digital world, a new educational world opens up in which children get to know the new technical possibilities as a matter of course.
Digital education must become a much more important part of teacher training and continuing education than it has been in the past.
Good teachers
Good school is good teaching and the basis for good teaching is excellently trained and highly motivated teachers.
We want student teachers to become teachers who take up this profession with conviction and put their heart and soul into it.
To give them an excellent education, we will provide half a billion euros for a "quality initiative in teacher training" to support good training concepts at universities for modern teaching at the cutting edge.
Serving children is among the most important tasks for a good future of our country.
That is why we want the work of teachers to be better recognized by society.
Strengthening media and information literacy
People should be able to assess the opportunities and risks of digitization for themselves and move safely in the digital age.
That's why we want to improve media and information literacy.
We want to equip people of all ages with the necessary knowledge that forms the basis for independent action both online and offline.
Independent and private schools guarantee diversity
In addition to public schools, independent and private schools enrich our educational landscape and promote competition between schools.
They are an expression of great civic and church commitment.
We reliably stand by our support of these schools.
Religious education belongs in the canon of subjects
Religious education must be anchored as an independent subject in our schools.
Anyone who, like the Greens, calls for the abolition of denominational religious instruction is paving the way for an erosion of the Christian values that shape our society.
We are firmly opposed to this.
Other subjects such as philosophy or ethics are no substitute for religious education and hardly fulfill the mandate of our Basic Law.
On the basis of the constitution, we also advocate Islamic religious instruction in schools.
More cooperation between federal and state governments
The CDU and CSU stand for goal-oriented cooperation in education policy and for clear responsibilities between the federal and state governments.
People should know who is responsible for the decisions.
The Lnder bear the central responsibility for education.
However, we need better comparability of degrees between countries.
Particularly in view of the many families and their children who change their place of residence between the states every year for professional reasons, we need common examination standards that ensure the equal status of the degrees.
We will therefore continue to advocate for national educational standards.
Together with the countries, we want to look for opportunities for better cooperation and reduce existing obstacles to better cooperation by mutual agreement.
Strengthen vocational training
Those who can show that they have completed vocational training have the best chances on the job market.
Our goal is therefore to ensure that every young person who is willing and able to undergo training continues to receive a training offer that leads to a recognized qualification.
Our dual training system in companies and vocational schools is regarded as a model for this worldwide.
It is an important reason why we have the lowest youth unemployment rate in all of Europe and why it is nowhere easier for young educated people to find a job than in Germany.
We want even more young people to be able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by dual training and want to create the conditions for this together with the business community.
This is especially true for people with a migrant background, in part-time education or with a disability.
Students who drop out of university are to be specifically encouraged to take up vocational training and have their examinations recognized.
Facilitating the transition from school to work
The transition from school to training is difficult for quite a few young people.
For some, their school career did not go as they had hoped and they end up lacking the qualifications to meet the requirements for an apprenticeship.
For other young people, there are special support needs.
This may be the case for young people with a disability.
In other cases, it is a lack of or insufficient support from the parental home or an immigrant background that leads to difficulties.
In view of the opportunities available to these young people and the high demand for skilled workers in our economy, we want to make additional efforts to pave the way for as many of these people as possible into working life without detours or holding patterns.
Unbureaucratic support must be available to young people with disabilities in particular.
To this end, we want to further expand practical vocational orientation in all types of schools
and create more opportunities for practical learning that combine on-the-job work experience and classroom instruction.
Longer vocational preparation internships for weaker young people can also make an important contribution to a successful start to working life.
We want to provide more support for such measures.
To this end, we want to build a bridge between the training company and the trainee with the "accompanied training" program, especially for small and medium-sized companies in the skilled trades and SME sector.
The support services provided can contribute to successful training for both parties.
Making universities fit for the future
A broad and diverse range of outstanding universities is indispensable for our country.
We are rightly proud of our outstanding universities, whose achievements in research and teaching contribute significantly to our reputation in the world.
Scientific successes, translated into products, create jobs and secure our prosperity.
For us, it is crucial that our universities can compete with the best in the world in every respect.
To this end, we rely on a diverse higher education landscape that takes into account different requirements and interests.
Thus, dual study programs and distance learning offers make it possible to combine work and study well.
Private universities also enrich this diversity.
We are a reliable partner for them.
Studying must not depend on parents' wallets - improve student financing
We want everyone to be able to pursue their talents and get a good education regardless of their parents' money.
That is why we will continue to expand student financing and adapt BAfG to the cost of living and changes in educational pathways.
Trainees who can only complete their studies or schooling part-time because they have children who need looking after are to be given better support conditions.
This also applies to students who have already completed vocational training and have experience in professional life and want to gain further qualifications at the university.
In addition to the tried-and-tested BAfG, we also want to further promote scholarships as a good way of financing and an important part of supporting gifted students.
The new Deutschlandstipendium has gotten off to a good start.
In doing so, we are not relying solely on the state for the further expansion of a scholarship culture.
Private sponsors from the business community are also expected to make an increased contribution.
The Higher Education Pact makes good study conditions possible
More and more young people are studying in Germany, and the challenges in terms of content are increasing in the face of ever greater internationalization.
Our universities are coping excellently with these new tasks, and yet we need further efforts to increase the universities' performance and prepare them for further increases in the number of new students.
We want to tackle this task together with the university faculty, student body, academic and non-academic staff of the universities.
An important step is the continuation of the Higher Education Pact.
A particular focus will be on improving study conditions.
The "Quality Pact for Teaching" and the "Quality Initiative for Teacher Education" are important steps in this direction.
We also want to further advance the internationalization of universities.
The goal must be to attract the best students and researchers worldwide to our universities.
To this end, we want to further expand English-language courses of study as well as courses offered jointly in international cooperation.
Studying with a child must become easier
Study and parenthood should not be mutually exclusive.
We want young people not to have to choose between studying and having children, but to be able to combine the two.
This includes affordable housing, a flexible organization of everyday university life, such as child-friendly office hours, childcare in the library or children's meals in the cafeteria.
In a competition, we want to identify particularly family-friendly universities with good ideas and award them for this.
In addition, family policy elements must be taken into account more strongly in student financing and applied consistently in the Act on Temporary Academic Contracts.
Top talent for science
The employment situation of young scientists has developed positively.
With more than half a million employees, more people than ever before are employed at German universities.
This is a strong signal for the future.
At the same time, this raises expectations that scientific careers will be easier to plan.
Together with the universities, we want to set new priorities here, especially for mid-level academics, for example with a support program for reliable career paths at universities.
We want to reduce fixed-term contracts for mid-level academic staff.
Online university: The Internet revolutionizes learning
The Internet is leading to entirely new forms of teaching at universities.
New online study models are being developed around the world, ranging from subject-specific courses to global platforms.
A large future market is emerging here that will permanently change higher education.
We have to be there when the Internet university of the future is created.
That's why we want to support universities on the path to attractive and competitive digital learning offerings and
encourage them to develop strategies for quality assurance, funding, student support, and credit transfer.
Securing future opportunities through lifelong learning
The knowledge available in the world today doubles every four years.
In view of this rapid development, our country is more dependent than ever on well-trained specialists.
To this end, we want to work with business and employees to create a new awareness of "lifelong learning".
With attractive conditions, we want to convince employees to devote even more time and energy to their professional development.
To this end, we want to make lifetime accounts more attractive, further develop education savings and thus open them up to as many families as possible, and introduce improved opportunities to promote further training measures.
As part of a "National Initiative for Continuing Education," we will work with the social partners, government stakeholders, employment agencies, universities and private providers to agree on common goals and develop new ideas on how, for example, in-company continuing education can be a regular part of everyday working life.
3.2 Shaping population change - responsibility for all generations
The prospects for a long, healthy and fulfilling life in our country have never been greater.
Life expectancy is rising steadily.
At the same time, however, fewer children are being born and the population is falling.
The consequences include: Fewer and fewer workers have to care for more and more people who are not in the labor force.
The number of students is declining, and companies are facing a shortage of skilled workers.
For the elderly - and people with disabilities - there are too few accessible apartments and houses, while in some places housing is vacant.
All of this makes population change one of the greatest challenges facing our country.
We see overcoming it as a national task that affects all social groups.
We must work together to find solutions to urgent issues:
These include school and medical care in rural areas,
the future of pensions,
securing skilled workers,
better opportunities for women and older people in the labor market and the
successful integration of immigrants.
In the CDU/CSU-led federal government, we have responded to these challenges with a comprehensive demographic strategy, which we will continue to develop together with the states, local authorities and social partners.
It is clear to us that we can only master these tasks if we tackle them together, as a whole society.
And only together can we also take advantage of the opportunities that arise.
Germany must be a good home for strong families
Our society needs strong families.
They are the foundation of our society.
And it includes all generations.
That is why we want to strengthen families.
Above all, we say yes to children.
They are an enrichment for our country.
We want to encourage young women and men to choose to have children.
Strengthening social cohesion
The CDU and CSU stand for good cooperation between the generations.
We therefore want to continue building bridges between the generations in the future and are
firmly opposed to any form of discrimination against people on the basis of their age.
The wealth of experience of our older citizens in particular is a great, hitherto often unused strength for our country, which we want to develop more fully.
We will therefore continue to promote intergenerational projects such as the successful multigenerational houses, where people of different ages meet and support each other.
We want to develop these multigenerational houses into community centers.
They offer a wide range of services for all age groups and are hubs for various services and points of contact for civic engagement.
Following the basic idea of "caring communities", neighborhood helpers are to be better linked with professional services.
For example, caring for elderly citizens is becoming more of a community task.
Voluntary commitment, self-help and neighborhood assistance are then combined with family and professional care.
Making greater use of the skills of older people
Business increasingly appreciates the value of older workers.
In terms of the employment rate of 55-64 year-olds, Germany now ranks second in the EU at over 60 percent. In
no other age group has employment risen more sharply.
We want to continue this development.
To this end, we want to advocate for a new image of old age.
Joint teams of older and younger employees often have more and better ideas, combine different skills and promote cohesion within the company.
We want to promote these mixed-age teams.
We encourage the company and collective bargaining partners to include more continuing education pacts in collective bargaining agreements and company agreements.
Together with the collective bargaining parties, health insurers and other partners, we also want to strengthen occupational health management and develop new attractive offerings.
In this way, we want to give older workers more opportunities for good employment.
Finally, we are committed to putting rigid age limits to the test.
As more and more older people want to remain active in their careers even in retirement, we will work with the collective bargaining partners to create better opportunities for this.
The public sector should serve as a model here.
Respond flexibly to regional differences
Population change is creating greater disparities between growing cities and more sparsely populated regions.
We must learn to deal with these differences and develop the willingness to provide the right answers to them with flexible approaches.
Our goal is to create the conditions for good care for the population everywhere.
To achieve this, we are relying on new answers that deal flexibly and intelligently with the new challenges, for example by increasingly relying on digital and mobile solutions.
Introduce demography check for laws and public investments
We will review all proposed legislation, policies and investments to determine their impact on future generations.
The aim is to ensure that investments in schools or roads, for example, are planned in such a way that they can be used sensibly and financed even if the population changes.
Finding the best solutions for the future in competition
We will use a competition to support regions that are seeking answers to changes in the population structure.
Our goal is to find and implement the best ideas.
The solutions found in the process can become a model for others who, in a few years' time, will face the same challenges as the regions that are already being affected by the effects as pioneers.
Making proactive use of opportunities for change
Germany is ideally placed to become the lead market and lead provider of new products and services tailored to the needs of the older generation.
We are convinced that the quality of life for all people in our country will increase if we succeed in setting new accents here.
After all, many things that are good for older people are also good for young families.
Buses, streetcars, subways and trains with low entrances are just as important for walkers and wheelchairs as they are for strollers.
Germany is already feeling the effects of an aging society more clearly than other countries.
Most regions of the world, especially in Europe, Asia and North America will follow in the near future.
Our country can therefore be a pioneer in coping with demographic change and secure a lead in the relevant markets by setting the course early on.
Population change offers a great opportunity for our country to be a pioneer in new social and technological developments and to continue to make our country worth living in.
3.3 Technical progress and research move our country forward
From Johannes Gutenberg to Gottlieb Daimler and Carl Zeiss to Max Planck:
Germany has not only always been a land of poets and thinkers.
But it has also always been a land of explorers, researchers and inventors.
Germany is a curious country.
And if we want to stay ahead in the international competition of ideas, we must remain so as a whole society - open to the world, technology-friendly and thirsty for knowledge.
Because in the future, too, the following will apply: We will only be able to sell our products as much more expensive than others in the world if they are better.
Politics has the task of developing the best framework conditions for science and technology.
Because we know: Today's investments in research and development mean jobs, prosperity and quality of life for people tomorrow.
It is therefore a good thing that Germany has never spent as much on research and development as it has in this legislative period.
We have almost reached the target of three percent of gross domestic product.
We want to continue on this successful path!
Securing tomorrow's prosperity - planning security and new instruments for successful research
Because the share of new products in sales is increasing more and more, it is important that ideas quickly become new products.
That's why we want to focus our research funding even more strongly on this:
We will support projects along the entire value chain from laboratory to prototype.
To implement new findings, we also want to increasingly facilitate cross-divisional and cross-thematic projects.
We will reliably support research institutions so that they have security for their planning and investments.
With tax incentives for research, we are creating a new instrument to help our companies drive forward their own research.
In this way, they can continue to be successful in international competition.
Strengthen science institutions and university research
Germany's science sector is excellently positioned and a magnet for researchers from all over the world.
Its strength lies in its diversity, covering everything from basic research to applications.
This is especially true for universities and colleges as the heart chambers of science.
This also applies to the Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft, the Helmholtz Association, the Leibniz Association, the Max Planck Society and the German Research Foundation.
The scientific academies, the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation and the German Academic Exchange Service also occupy an important place in Germany as a center of science.
The Excellence Initiative has succeeded in putting German universities on the map of the world's best universities.
At the same time, the Higher Education Pact will strengthen universities in research and teaching and create 625,000 new study places.
We know that good research needs reliability:
That's why we will extend the Pact for Research and Innovation until 2020.
Second, we will guarantee non-university research institutions solidly growing budgets at the rate of five percent per year through 2020.
In this way, we create reliable career prospects for young scientists.
We want to further develop the successful Excellence Initiative together with the scientific community and set the course so that funding can be continued beyond 2017.
We support research-intensive universities through project funding, but also through so-called program allowances.
These cover additional project-related costs and are essential for good university research.
Expand cooperation between universities and research institutions
Smart policy always means examining how efficient facilities can be made even better.
We want to continue to enable outstanding research achievements at the top and across the board.
To enable the federal government to play a greater role in this task in the long term, we want to strengthen the possibilities for cooperation between the federal and state governments by amending the Basic Law.
We expect this to provide additional impetus for research and training that will secure our country's technological performance.
Supporting science with a contemporary copyright law
Science, business, art and culture need intellectual property protection.
At the same time, we want to simplify the use of digital study materials at universities with a reliable, modern copyright law.
Scientific findings that are created with government funding should become freely available to all citizens after a reasonable period of time.
To this end, we will develop a so-called "open access strategy" together with the scientific community.
High-Tech Strategy 2020
With our High-Tech Strategy 2020, we are bundling research and innovation activities and focusing them on the major challenges and markets of the future:
Environment and energy, health and nutrition, mobility, security and communications.
Germany should be a pioneer and a provider of ideas here.
We provide targeted support for mergers of leading companies and research institutions that pool their strengths in a region.
With a new "Open Innovation" initiative, we want to create opportunities for small, idea-rich companies in particular.
"Open innovation" means making existing knowledge in organizations accessible to outsiders in order to drive new ideas forward.
But our view goes beyond the year 2020.
We want to set the course for our country to continue to be successful in the coming decade.
In an increasingly globalized and knowledge-based economy, the share of research-intensive industries will continue to grow.
That is why we will continue to develop the High-Tech Strategy in the coming legislative period and prepare it for the challenges of the future.
Advancing research in Europe - networking our science system internationally
Good research conditions are an important basis for growth and prosperity - this applies to Germany as well as to Europe.
That is why we will step up our efforts to create a European Research Area and bring the successful recipe of the High-Tech Strategy to Europe.
The driving force behind this new research development is to be the EU's Horizon 2020 program, which will bundle all research activities in Europe from 2014.
We want to ensure that German scientists and companies are given the best conditions to take advantage of the opportunities offered by this program.
To this end, we will establish a cross-border network of innovation regions.
On the other hand, we want to establish close contacts with strong scientific institutions in the new EU member states.
Promoting enthusiasm for technology and attracting talent for the future
Research should be open and understandable for all citizens.
With the "House of Little Researchers" and school laboratories in all regions of Germany, we are already promoting an interest in technology, nature and science among children.
They are the young scientists of the future.
We want Germany to remain a technology-friendly country where people can reasonably assess the risks and opportunities of new technologies.
That's why we also want science to make even more efforts to inform people:
About new technologies, the value of science, as well as the limits of knowledge.
Through "Science Showcases," in particular the "House of the Future" in Berlin, and science dialogs, we want to engage in conversation with many people about the prerequisites for good science.
Observe safety and ethical boundaries
Freedom of research means freedom in responsibility for ethical boundaries.
Man is not allowed to do everything he can.
We reject research such as consumptive embryo research on ethical grounds.
Animals are fellow creatures for us, which is why we will continue our exemplary global research to develop alternatives to animal testing.
In addition to the best research conditions, we also want to support good humanities and social science accompanying research in order to strengthen the responsible handling of research and its results.
3.4 Secure, affordable and clean energy
The energy turnaround is one of the great political, economic and scientific challenges and of crucial importance for the future of our country.
Consumers and the economy need a secure, affordable and clean energy supply for the long term.
With a supply that relies on renewable energies and lower energy consumption, we simultaneously protect our environment and promote climate protection.
We have already achieved a great deal along the way.
Today, every fourth kilowatt hour of electricity is generated from renewable energies.
This makes us less dependent on oil and gas imports.
At the same time, we are securing jobs and value creation in our own country by expanding an energy supply based on renewable energies.
That's why we want to advance the energy transition decisively, swiftly, and with a sense of proportion.
Germany remains an industrial location - with reliable framework conditions and affordable energy prices
The transformation of the energy supply needs stable and reliable conditions.
Planning certainty is the basis for investments in the construction of new offshore wind farms or modern power plants.
Consumers and businesses need clarity on the development of energy prices.
That is why we focus on market-based solutions with fair competition, openness to technology and new technological developments.
The energy turnaround is a long-term task and involves major financial efforts.
We want to implement them in a way that is economically responsible.
Our goal is for Germany to remain a competitive industrialized country.
Affordable energy is particularly important for this, especially for energy-intensive industries competing with foreign competitors.
Almost one million employees and their families would be the losers if their companies were unable to compete internationally.
That is why we want to continue to provide targeted relief for these companies in the future to compensate for disadvantages caused by different international framework conditions for taxes and duties.
The Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG) has accelerated the expansion of renewable energies and secured Germany a leading position in this field.
Following the rapid development in recent years, it is important to dovetail the next steps closely with the accelerated expansion of the power grids and the other energy sources:
Skillful interlocking of different elements and energy carriers stabilizes the supply and relieves consumers of costs.
To this end, we want to further develop the Renewable Energies Act.
Our goal is to create reliable framework conditions in the coming years that provide security for investments and planning.
Against this background, we will not make any retroactive interventions in existing plants.
After the previous start-up financing, the focus must now be on achieving competitive prices for renewable energies so that they can hold their own in the market without government aid.
At the same time, they are to assume more responsibility for a stable power supply.
Guaranteeing security of supply - expanding grids and storage facilities
To ensure that electricity will always be available at any place and at any time in the future, we are driving forward the expansion of electricity networks and developing new storage technologies.
Of particular importance is the construction of the large power lines that transport electricity from the windy regions on the North Sea and Baltic Sea to the urban centers in the south and west of our country.
We want to use modern information and communications technology to develop the regional grids that bring electricity to consumers locally into smart grids.
The goal of these "thinking grids" is to ensure that electricity is consumed as much as possible when a lot of energy is produced and available in the grid.
This makes electricity cheaper for consumers because they use it when it is offered at a low cost.
At the same time, the networks are utilized more evenly and are therefore more stable and less prone to failure.
The use of renewable energies has so far been largely dependent on the sun shining or there being sufficient wind.
Neither is always the case.
Nevertheless, we need reliable electricity at all times of the day and night.
Therefore, the preservation and expansion of storage facilities is of particular importance.
We are committed to ensuring that existing and future storage facilities, such as pumped-storage plants, but also hydrogen ("power to gas") or compressed-air storage facilities, can be operated economically by means of suitable legal framework conditions.
Electric vehicles, for example, can also absorb excess wind energy during periods of low consumption.
They are therefore also an important part of the energy transition.
We want to support the development of new storage technologies through measures under the High-Tech Strategy.
Tomorrow's energy supply is diverse
The energy supply of the future will be more diverse.
We want to use the diversity of onshore and offshore wind energy, solar and bioenergy, hydropower and geothermal energy, link them intelligently and ensure a healthy mix of energy generation types.
We need larger internationally positioned energy suppliers, the many municipal utilities and private energy producers as well as the scientific community in equal measure.
That's why we encourage everyone to pull together in the interest of our country.
Until the interplay of renewables, grids and storage technology can secure our energy supply in a few decades, we will need modern coal and gas-fired power plants to effectively compensate for fluctuations in renewables.
To ensure that this happens in an environmentally and climate-friendly way, we want to accelerate the construction of new, efficient power plants.
To this end, we want to create stable and reliable conditions for investors so that the operation of such reserve capacities is economically viable.
By using state-of-the-art technologies, domestic lignite can also play an important role.
With regard to the extraction of gas by means of so-called fracking, the CDU and CSU are clear:
Dangers to people and our drinking water must be ruled out.
Security is an absolute priority for the Union.
We reject gas extraction using chemicals that are hazardous to health.
Energy transition needs local acceptance
We want to ensure that citizens can also participate financially in the expansion and use of the networks.
This increases the acceptance of the necessary investments and facilitates financing.
Above all, those whose land or region is directly affected by a network expansion should be able to acquire shares in the network and regularly share in the profits via a "citizen's dividend."
We welcome and support the many forms of energy cooperatives, citizen networks, citizen wind farms or joint solar projects with which citizens participate directly in the energy transition.
When it comes to the necessary construction of new power lines, we want to ensure that local citizens are involved at an early stage and seek dialog.
When lines are laid close to residential areas, we also want to lay underground cables - where this is possible and justifiable after weighing up the costs and benefits.
Increase energy efficiency and promote energy conservation
Every kilowatt hour that is not consumed does not have to be generated in the first place.
That's why saving energy is key to the success of the energy transition.
Most of the energy in Germany is needed in buildings - so that it is warm in winter, we are not sitting in the dark or the refrigerator is running.
With better information about economical appliances, heating systems and advice on how to insulate our homes sensibly, we want to point out the great savings opportunities.
In doing so, we pursue the principle of technology openness: we do not want to dictate to anyone which technology should be used.
In this way, we aim to reduce energy consumption by 20 percent and electricity consumption by at least ten percent in buildings by 2020.
We want to provide financial support for investments in energy-saving measures.
Implementation should be worthwhile for owners and tenants.
To this end, we will continue the successful CO2 building refurbishment program.
By means of a tax incentive, we want to trigger additional incentives for private investment in building refurbishment.
This also strengthens the skilled trades, which implement the measures on site.
European energy supply - stronger in the Verbund
Fluctuations in electricity generation can be better balanced if electricity can flow freely across borders and its Europe-wide storage capacity is improved.
We therefore advocate a single European energy market.
In northern Europe, for example, large hydropower plants can contribute to electricity storage.
In southern countries with many hours of sunshine, the expansion of photovoltaics is a promising option.
We are committed to closer coordination within the EU
and further expansion of the European electricity network.
For the European exchange of electricity, we need sufficient and, above all, efficient border interconnection points between the individual countries.
We are committed to improving the safety of all nuclear power plants in the European Union.
Risks do not stop at borders.
That's why we want to promote our energy policy course to our European neighbors as well.
We advocate the introduction of legally binding requirements for all nuclear power plants in the European Union based on our stress tests.
Solving the repository issue - out of responsibility for our children and grandchildren
We have decided to finally phase out nuclear energy by 2022.
Finding a suitable repository for the safe storage of high-level radioactive waste is our responsibility to our children and grandchildren.
Like the issue of phasing out nuclear energy, we also want to solve the search for a final repository together with the citizens.
To this end, we have initiated the Site Selection Act and the establishment of a commission consisting of representatives of the federal government, the states, science and social groups.
By 2015, it will define objective criteria that a repository site must meet.
We stand for an open-ended search for a repository site based solely on objective suitability criteria.
We acknowledge the responsibility of the federal government for the safe retrieval of the nuclear waste stored in the Asse II shaft.
At the same time, we are taking responsibility for the region by providing the Asse Fund with funds to compensate the region for disadvantages.
3.5 Mobility for all - by road, rail, water and air
We want Germany to remain mobile.
After all, mobility, the free movement from one place to another, is a basic human need.
And in the globalized world of the 21st century, it is one of the crucial prerequisites for sustainable prosperity.
After all, more than almost any other country, Germany derives its economic strength from international trade, especially from the export of our goods and commodities.
Roads, bridges, railways and canals are the arteries of our country.
To keep Germany mobile, we need a strong transport infrastructure.
However, this has been put under massive strain in recent decades.
And the burden will continue to rise, especially due to the further increase in freight traffic.
To ensure that Germany continues to have a modern, high-performance transport infrastructure in the future, we intend to make this challenge a particular focus of our policy in the next legislative period through additional spending.
We stand for a reliable state that ensures efficient roads, railways, waterways and competitive airports as
well as clean air and an intact environment.
We don't want a patronizing state that tells people how to get around.
That is why we reject a general speed limit on German highways.
Restrictions must specifically address traffic conditions or time requirements.
A reliable transport policy for the 21st century must think from the concrete needs of people and the economy.
We want to ensure that people are less stuck in traffic jams, that trains run more punctually, that our goods get safely and quickly to where they are needed,
and that the noise and exhaust pollution caused by traffic is reduced.
We oppose an ideological transport policy that unilaterally favors certain modes of transport and deliberately disadvantages others.
We also take account of regional differences in Germany:
In many rural regions, having your own car remains indispensable.
In cities, in particular, there are completely new opportunities for integrating the various means of transport with their respective strengths with the latest technology.
The expansion of the transport infrastructure offers great opportunities for people in Germany - we want to take advantage of them.
Expanding infrastructure as a locational advantage
We want to meet growing transport needs by investing in our infrastructure.
To this end, we will significantly increase funding for our transport routes.
For example, we will be placing particular emphasis on a 25 billion euro investment program for the maintenance and expansion of federal trunk roads in the coming legislative period.
In this way, we create planning and financing security and make an important contribution to greater competitiveness with a modern infrastructure.
We will also make greater use of the opportunities for cooperation between public and private financiers in so-called public-private partnerships (PPP) if this can save costs and enable projects to be implemented more quickly.
Consolidating our role as an export nation - expanding European transport axes and strengthening air traffic
As a successful export nation, we need a well-developed road and rail network as well as efficient airports and waterways.
This includes the major European transport axes, more than half of which pass through our country.
Together with the EU, we want to further expand these transport axes.
Equally indispensable for growth and prosperity is competitive air transport.
The CDU and CSU will create reliable framework conditions for the German aviation industry so that it can hold its own in a tough international competitive environment.
This includes working for fair international competitive conditions, also with regard to the overall tax burden.
We will therefore examine whether the abolition of the aviation tax is necessary and justifiable in the next legislative period.
Finalize the Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan
For the construction of transport routes, all planned construction measures are listed in the Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan.
We will swiftly complete the new Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan (BVWP 2015).
We will involve the citizens in the preparation process and make the determinations comprehensible.
We want investments in transport to be made primarily where they will bring the greatest benefit.
Eliminating bottlenecks and closing gaps to avoid congestion play an important role here.
In this context, the preservation and upgrading of existing roads has priority over new construction.
Support local public transport - strengthen bicycle traffic
Well-functioning local public transport is of enormous importance to people in their everyday lives - in the big cities as well as in the countryside.
The CDU and CSU will ensure that the federal government remains a reliable partner for the municipalities in financing municipal transport.
Together with the federal states, we want to ensure a good infrastructure.
Everyone can contribute to the reduction of traffic-related environmental pollution on their own responsibility.
The bicycle plays an important role as an environmentally friendly means of transport
We want to further increase the share of bicycle traffic as an attractive and environmentally friendly alternative to the car.
We will therefore expand the network of bike paths
and better integrate the bicycle with other modes of transportation.
The increasing use of electric bicycles (pedelecs) is creating new opportunities here.
Increase traffic safety
Road safety is a priority for us.
Every accident victim is one too many.
We therefore want to further reduce the number of road accident victims significantly and thus continue the downward trend of recent years.
That's why, on the one hand, we rely on technical measures such as more traffic lights or hazard warnings.
This is especially true near schools and kindergartens.
On the other hand, we want to make previous accident blackspots safer through construction measures.
We want to increase the safety of pedestrians and cyclists, among other things, with better pedestrian and bicycle paths.
Expanding Germany as a logistics location
For us as an exporting country, the smooth transport of goods is a crucial prerequisite for economic success.
The logistics industry has become an important growth driver for our economy.
We aim to consolidate and expand our strong competitive position on the international markets by extending and improving our logistics and value chains.
We will continue and further develop the measures listed in the German government's Freight Transport and Logistics Action Plan.
Wherever it makes sense, we will promote the shift of traffic to rail and waterways.
In particular, we will promote transhipment facilities for combined transport.
Rail transport - environmentally friendly and service-oriented
Rail transport is an essential backbone of our transport system.
The CDU and CSU want to strengthen and expand it.
This includes tightly scheduled trains, punctuality, modern stations and a well-developed and coordinated local and long-distance network.
We are committed to competition-oriented rail regulation that regulates access to rail lines and stations, ensures appropriate regulation of charges, and at the same time includes abuse control by the Federal Network Agency.
We will continue to develop the service and financing agreement between the federal government and Deutsche Bahn AG for the maintenance of existing federal rail lines.
The CDU and CSU want to keep the rail infrastructure in the hands of the federal government.
The path we have taken toward market liberalization and competition on the railways has proven its worth.
We are sticking to the successful model of the integrated Deutsche Bahn AG Group.
We want to safeguard the competitive opportunities of private railroads.
Maritime economy - strengthen shipping and ports
Efficient seaports are growth drivers for our coastal regions and important pillars for Germany as a business location.
In addition, inland ports with their road and rail connections are also among the core elements of a transport policy for the 21st century.
We will sustainably strengthen the overall system of seaports, inland ports and waterways.
Priority is being given to expanding access routes and hinterland connections to the North Sea and Baltic Sea in line with demand, and
to eliminating capacity bottlenecks in the ports.
We will strengthen the competitiveness of shipping under the German flag
and continue the successful work in the "Maritime Alliance for Employment and Training".
German shipbuilding occupies a leading position worldwide.
Germany is the world's third-largest shipping location.
That is why we will continue the proven support instruments for the shipyard industry and the support for shipowners.
Sustainable mobility
We are committed to an integrated approach that takes equal account of vehicle technology, fuels, infrastructure, intelligent transport systems, driving behavior and the networking of transport modes.
The expansion of alternative drive concepts offers great opportunities for Germany as a business location - also because it makes us less dependent on petroleum as a fuel and, if renewable energies are used, contributes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
We want to make Germany a lead market and lead supplier for environmentally friendly drive technologies.
The goal is to have one million electric vehicles on our roads by 2020.
To achieve this, we want to develop and produce all links in the value chain, from raw materials to battery manufacture to the vehicle.
The CDU and CSU are committed to technological openness in the further development of drive technologies.
This is because other technologies, such as hydrogen, natural gas or hybrid vehicles, may also play a more important role in the future.
We are counting on the long and impressive experience of our automakers to help these technologies achieve a breakthrough.
We want to accompany the development by, among other things, launching pilot projects for charging stations or providing tax and financial incentives.
Traffic 2.0 - using new ideas
New tech ideas can be a valuable aid to commuters and travelers in planning their daily lives.
Intelligent traffic control systems are also essential for a high-performance transport infrastructure.
We want to develop and use these systems, for example, to improve the performance of our traffic routes, avoid traffic jams, or provide information for travelers on where and when which train or bus is ready and where a traffic jam is obstructing traffic.
We want to ensure that, on the one hand, a common database of the transport modes is provided for these services.
On the other hand, we want to better network traffic information and ticketing systems and provide citizens with "digital mobility support".
According to the principle of "Open Data", in which data is made available for free use, transport companies and public authorities are to make their contribution to this.
We also see new opportunities for better managing traffic flows and increasing safety in the implementation of the Galileo satellite navigation system in practical and economically viable offerings for users.
3.6 Founders create the future
The future of our country lies in an efficient economy that continues to develop products and services that are in demand at home and abroad with a wealth of ideas and creativity.
For this very purpose, we need start-ups that want to realize their ideas and create jobs and prosperity along the way.
Whether this succeeds depends crucially on having enough people in the future who have the courage and drive to become self-employed and start their own business.
So far, it is mainly people under 40 who dare to take this step.
In the course of population change, however, this age group will decline particularly sharply in the future.
It is therefore all the more important to create suitable framework conditions in Germany with appropriate financing models that will lead to more start-ups, including by older people.
We therefore want to expand start-up financing.
For start-ups, we want to open up easier access to venture capital, which investors use to invest in young companies in which promising ideas are being implemented.
We also want to facilitate access to so-called "business angels", who provide young companies with advice and capital during the start-up phase.
The following figures underscore the need for action in this area: In the USA, business angels recently provided an investment volume of 20 billion US dollars per year.
Per capita, this is 260 times as much as in Germany.
For venture capital as a whole, the corresponding investment rate is still 24 times higher than ours.
We therefore want to make these forms of financing more attractive from a tax perspective than they have been in the past, in order to achieve a new impetus in business start-ups.
We want to extend the program to promote venture capital with the help of investment grants and double it to a total of 300 million euros.
In order to ensure that the grants benefit the young entrepreneurs in full and can develop their effect, this support is exempted from income taxation.
We will also work in Europe to further strengthen the framework conditions for young, innovative companies.
In addition, we want to preserve and further develop the good framework conditions for crowdfunding and crowinvesting as a new instrument for early-stage financing of technology start-ups.
Here, small investors can acquire silent participations via the Internet and thus, as a swarm, collect a larger amount of capital in total.
High-tech start-ups in particular play a major role in the transfer of new knowledge into new products and companies.
We therefore want to support university start-up strategies with the further development of the EXIST initiative, so that students and graduates can better turn their research successes into market successes.
We want to make Germany a strong location for IT start-ups.
Therefore, we want to support the founders of "start-ups" in such a way that they get the best conditions for the implementation of their business idea with us.
To support this, we want to promote programs to link traditional industry more closely with the start-up scene.
Founders should be able to concentrate on developing and implementing their business idea.
That's why we want to relieve them of as much red tape as possible during the start-up and initial growth phase, thus making the conditions for business start-ups easier.
By amending insolvency law, we have created the basis for giving company founders a better second chance than before, even in the event of failure.
3.7 Digital growth country No. 1 in Europe Internet and digital society
We want to make Germany the number 1 digital growth country in Europe by the end of the decade.
The Internet and digital technology are already shaping our lives today.
While the first cell phones came onto the market 20 years ago, smartphones and tablets are now an integral part of everyday life.
New, exciting trends are already making our everyday lives easier.
This includes the sharing economy brought about by the Internet.
So-called "smart homes" will shape our homes and our private everyday lives in the near future.
3D printers will soon make it possible to produce simple everyday items at home:
For example, clothing, jewelry, spare parts for the broken dishwasher, toys for the little ones or accessories for the latest smartphone.
In addition, there are intelligent transport systems and power grids, for example.
Meanwhile, in the economy, the fourth industrial revolution has begun.
After the invention of the steam engine, after industrialization and after the invention of the computer, the so-called Industry 4.0 is now starting with the "Internet of Things.
With the help of new technologies, in the future, for example, individual components in car production, containers in logistics, but also everyday objects such as refrigerators can be controlled not only via the Internet.
They can also independently connect with each other or with other products.
These developments offer great opportunities for the people and companies in our country, which we want to exploit together with them.
However, all these developments also require smart answers as to how we can use them for digital Germany and for good working conditions.
Politicians and social partners, but also civil society, must seek and develop these answers together.
In addition to individual decisions on the right framework conditions, we also need a broad social debate.
Fast Internet for all - driving forward broadband and wireless network expansion
Access to high-speed Internet is of central importance today.
We want to ensure nationwide broadband coverage by 2018, making it possible to use Internet TV and handle services such as online banking, administrative procedures or telemedical services online.
To this end, we want to ensure that broadband expansion remains eligible for funding from the European Union.
With a view to the special challenges of rural areas, we support the creation of a European coordination body (Connecting Europe Facility) to support digital networking.
We do not emphasize any technology in the rollout, as this would jeopardize the further spread of broadband infrastructure in its diversity.
Only by using all suitable technologies, the wired infrastructure as well as high-performance mobile technologies, can we achieve this goal together with companies, states and municipalities.
To increase the performance of the radio network for mobile Internet use, we want to make better use of the broadcasting frequencies that will be freed up when we switch from analog to digital technology (so-called "Digital Dividend II").
We see a special task for policymakers to ensure that rural areas are provided with sufficient and equal high-speed Internet through suitable framework conditions.
Access to wireless internet - expand WLAN network
One in four people already access the Internet on the move.
Therein lies a great opportunity for new services and business ideas.
That is why we also want to create the conditions in Germany so that mobile Internet via WLAN becomes available to everyone, especially in cities.
We are committed to creating a legal basis for the use of these open networks and their providers.
Digital economy - Industry 4.0
The Internet industry has now become a growth driver of our economy:
It is one of the largest private employers in Germany.
With its comprehensive solutions, information and communications technology (ICT) has already become the key technology of the 21st century.
It is a source of new ideas and a driver for new industrial products.
The competitiveness of German industry therefore depends to a large extent on the successful fusion of ICT with classic industrial goods, so-called Industry 4.0.
Particularly in the traditional sectors of the economy, digitization is increasingly becoming a growth driver.
Keywords such as "cloud computing," "big data," "smart grids," and "e-health" conceal a global development with tremendous momentum that will permanently change our economy and our society.
In the interest of future growth and employment opportunities, we want to set the course for German companies to play a formative role in this development.
Digital technologies open up many new possibilities:
For private Internet users, for a human working world, all the way to industry.
We want to explore these perspectives and use them for society.
That is why we are specifically addressing the topic of digitization in our research.
To this end, we will step up research into new developments such as "cloud computing" and "big data" and develop future concepts for Industry 4.0.
Data Policy
We want to move toward a responsible data policy.
It should continue to protect people's privacy.
At the same time, it should enable the responsible use of data for the implementation of new innovative projects.
When machines and everyday objects begin to exchange information with each other in a global digital network in the future ("Internet of Things"), this should take place on the basis of up-to-date data protection.
We will therefore work to ensure that the revision of European data protection law takes this current development into account.
When software, storage and computing capacities are accessed via the Internet as part of so-called "cloud computing", answers must be found to the associated questions.
We want to develop Germany into an attractive data location that specifically promotes the use of data
while at the same time ensuring that users' interests in the protection of their data are safeguarded.
The Data Privacy Foundation we established is intended to make an important contribution to informing citizens about how data is handled.
Cross-sectional task of digitalization
We see that greater use of digital technologies is associated with many issues that affect very different areas.
To find the right answers for this cross-cutting political task, we need a networked strategy.
With digitization, legal requirements are changing in many areas, for example in data protection and copyright.
Specific network policy issues must also be examined to determine whether the legislature needs to act, for example to safeguard net neutrality.
With modern legislation and appropriate structures in politics and administration, we want to ensure that a suitable legal framework for the digital society is created in Germany.
Proposed legislation is to be examined to determine whether it meets the requirements of ongoing digitization.
We need a regular stocktaking of where we stand in Germany's digital society.
That is why we want a digital white paper that presents the state of digitization and thus creates a basis for intensive social debate.
3.8 Future East - Opportunities for the whole of Germany
Almost a quarter of a century has passed since the fall of the Berlin Wall.
An entire generation of young people has already grown up in reunified Germany.
These cohorts were able to enter life freely because their parents and grandparents brought down the dictatorship of the SED with a peaceful revolution.
This young generation is experiencing how Berlin, Brandenburg, Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, Saxony, Saxony-Anhalt and Thuringia are developing into strong regions in the center of Europe:
With modern companies, efficient research structures and successful company settlements.
Young people from East and West have received a good education in excellent educational and higher education institutions.
Nevertheless, the consequences of the division can still be felt today.
Unemployment is significantly higher than in western Germany.
The consequences of the negative population trend are particularly evident in rural, structurally weak regions.
The number of large companies with their own sites between the Oder, the Baltic Sea, the Harz and the Ore Mountains remains low.
That is why it remains right to strengthen the economic forces in the new states.
That is also why we want to continue to support the creation of new, highly qualified jobs.
For the CDU and CSU, one thing is clear: We will continue to give special priority to the challenges facing the new federal states in our policies in the coming years.
Solidarity pact helps
We want to achieve stable and positive economic development in the new states.
The funds from the Solidarity Pact II are indispensable for this.
We stand by our commitments and will reliably fulfill the requirements of the Solidarity Pact.
At the European level, too, we are working to ensure that reconstruction in the east continues to be supported.
Economic development remains on the agenda
The east of our country is still suffering from the destruction of its economic power by socialism.
One symbol of this is that there are still too few corporate headquarters there, despite the great industrial tradition.
We want to help overcome that.
We will also continue to support the international integration of companies.
Our goal remains to increase competitiveness by promoting research and development tailored to the special needs of the new states.
We want to continue working for reliable funding under the joint task "Regional Economic Structure"
and for competitive aid rates for key industries such as the shipyards on the Baltic coast and microelectronics in Saxony.
Germany Trade & Invest will continue to support the economic development agencies of the new federal states in opening up international markets and attracting suitable investors.
Increase research in the new federal states
Since reunification, eastern Germany has become an attractive location for science, whose performance has sustainably promoted and strengthened the upswing in the new federal states.
We want to continue this success story with the "Enterprise Region" program and the "Twenty20" initiative.
We also want to improve cooperation between industry and science in promising future technologies.
In this way, we want to create new jobs and growth in Berlin, Brandenburg, Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, Saxony-Anhalt, Saxony and Thuringia.
Aligning infrastructure on a pan-German and pan-European basis
The expansion of infrastructure is a central prerequisite for good economic development in the new federal states.
In order to complete the reconstruction of the East, the last major infrastructure imbalances between East and West must be eliminated.
We therefore want to create efficient links between the sea and inland ports, airports and economic centers and the national, European and international transport network.
Our goal remains to network the new countries in the best possible way.
The Trans-European Networks with the important axis from the Baltic Sea to the Adriatic and the Black Sea must be implemented with vigor.
Good cooperation between the new Lnder in particular and the countries of Central and Eastern Europe offers special economic opportunities that are beneficial to Germany as a whole.
That's why we want to use them.
Do not accept population change, but shape it
Population change is taking effect earlier and more profoundly in eastern Germany than in the western states.
In some regions of the new Lnder, population density will have halved by 2020 compared with 1989.
The country cannot leave this unchanged.
A wide range of experience has already been gained here in this process of change and conclusions have been drawn.
We therefore support the increasing cooperation between municipalities and other responsible parties.
We want to strengthen local communities and actors and see them as important keys in coping with the consequences of population decline.
Many of these experiences have been incorporated into the German government's demographic strategy.
We now want to implement concrete projects based on these findings.
In the new federal states in particular, we want to test and demonstrate how a society with a smaller population and a higher proportion of older people can maintain an efficient infrastructure.
We rely on sensible new technical possibilities
as well as new forms of mobility,
Education,
care and the entire social and family-related infrastructure.
The knowledge gained will also be helpful for the affected regions in western Germany.
Pension harmonization making progress - further consideration of special features
One of the key decisions taken by the CDU and CSU to complete German unity was to include East German pensioners and employees in the all-German pension insurance scheme.
This is an impressive all-German solidarity achievement.
The pension adjustment this year shows that an equalization of pensions in East and West can be achieved with the current law.
The strengthened economy in the East is also expected to lead to further adjustment steps in the coming years, which will result in the current level of 92 percent of the Western level developing rapidly.
We do not want to jeopardize this.
Therefore, we adhere to the pension calculation according to current law.
Continuing to come to terms with SED injustice
We are committed to ensuring that the Federal Commissioner for the Records of the State Security Service of the former GDR can continue to perform his duties without restriction in the future.
We owe the comprehensive disclosure of what happened not only to the victims and their relatives, but also to future generations.
In our view, the work of the Stiftung Aufarbeitung der SED-Diktatur (Foundation for the Reappraisal of the SED Dictatorship) is indispensable both for research and reappraisal and for supporting the victims.
Last but not least, it serves to impart knowledge.
The young generation in particular needs to know how the dictatorship in the GDR functioned.
We therefore want to ensure that the Stiftung Aufarbeitung can continue its commendable work in the coming years.
To date, almost 50,000 victims of the SED regime have been able to benefit from the honorary pension created by the Union-led federal government.
In the current legislative period, we have implemented numerous improvements for the benefit of SED victims.
In the next legislative period, we will examine whether it is possible to adjust victim pensions in light of the pension increases of recent years.
Culture
With the Freedom and Unity Monument, which will be erected on Berlin's Schlossfreiheit, we permanently commemorate the gift of German unity.
At the same time, we will give the non-violent resistance of the fall of 1989 in Leipzig its own face and commemorate the people striving for freedom at the Monday demonstrations with a memorial.
With the "Invest Ost - Investitionen fr nationale Kultureinrichtungen in Ostdeutschland" program, we have created cultural "beacons" in many regions that are receiving nationwide attention.
The CDU and CSU are in favor of continuing the program.
4. strengthen Germany's cohesion
4.1 Supporting families - in every life situation
Marriage and family are the foundation of our society.
Family and children are part of a happy life for the vast majority of women and men in our country.
In the family, people seek and find love, security and mutual support.
Even in marriages that remain without children, men and women assume lasting responsibility for each other.
We are committed to the constitutional requirement of special support for marriage and the family.
We reject discrimination against other forms of partnership, including same-sex civil partnerships.
We know that even in such relationships, values are lived that are fundamental to our society.
The CDU and CSU want to strengthen marriage and family and help people realize their desire for children and family by providing good framework conditions.
Better financial support for families
This includes financial relief and support for families, which we want to further improve.
The CDU and CSU are committed to marriage as the core of the family.
That is why we will preserve the spousal splitting system.
In addition, we want families with children to receive even better support.
For this reason, we want to gradually raise the tax allowance for children to that applicable to adults in the sense of family splitting.
At the same time, we will increase child benefits and the child supplement.
We pay special attention to the needs of single parents, which we want to address in a targeted manner.
Family-friendly working environment
An equally central issue for families is the time factor.
Parents need time for their children.
For the CDU and CSU, sustainable family policy therefore means allowing more time for family.
We want a family-friendly working environment.
That's why we support companies in better adapting workplaces to the needs of families.
These include flexible working hours,
part-time work and teleworking,
as well as company daycare centers and cooperation with childcare facilities offering flexible care hours.
We are convinced that models in which both parents work a so-called full-time part-time - i.e. a good 30 hours per week - are possible even more often in Germany.
A family-friendly working environment also includes ensuring that family-related leave does not become a career barrier and that it is easy to return to work.
That's why we want to work with employers to find ways for employees to maintain and improve their expertise and skills through continuing education measures, even during the family phase.
We want to support this through a "re-entry BAfG", especially in sectors of the economy where expertise and professional knowledge are constantly subject to innovation.
Better reconciling family and work can also be made easier by providing household support.
To this end, we will further facilitate the use of household and family support services for families.
Support for children of chronically ill parents
We want to improve support for children of mentally or physically chronically ill parents.
One possibility here may be to promote sponsorship programs.
Freedom of choice for families
We are convinced that parents are best able to decide how to organize their family life situation, their professional activity and the daily life of their family.
That is why all mothers and fathers find our recognition and support.
The aim of our policy is to create the conditions for them to be able to implement their ideas.
The best interests of the child must be at the center of all efforts.
Most parents want to care for their child at home, especially in the first year of life.
To make this more possible, the CDU and CSU introduced parental allowance.
We want parents to have even more freedom to organize their parental leave.
That is why we want to introduce a partial parental allowance that can be drawn for up to 28 months.
In the future, we want to give all working grandparents the opportunity to take a break from or reduce their working hours so that they can take care of their grandchildren.
Young parents in particular, who still have to find their feet in the job market, are to be relieved of time constraints in this way.
We have created the legal right to a childcare place for children under the age of three.
This makes it clear: For us, the will of the parents is decisive.
We are continuing to resolutely drive forward the expansion of daycare centers.
We also want to continue working together with the states, cities and municipalities to expand childcare.
This also includes, for example, setting up 24-hour daycare centers and other flexible childcare options to make it easier for parents with changing working hours to reconcile family and career.
We support those parents who do not want to use publicly funded childcare for their children even in the second and third year of life with the childcare allowance, thus making an important contribution to freedom of choice.
The promotion of language skills is also central to us.
That is why we want to continue to support priority daycare centers and the training of educators.
We want to further improve the quantity and quality of child minders and daycare services.
It is also important to further expand qualified childcare facilities for school children.
Lifetime policy - Allowing more time for family and education
With a new lifetime policy, we want to open up better opportunities to take time off work to raise children, for further education, but also to care for one's own parents or other relatives.
The family caregiver leave introduced by the CDU and CSU was a first major step along this path.
We also see that in a growing number of companies and industries - such as the chemical industry - agreements have already been reached to improve the compatibility of professional and personal tasks.
We encourage the collective bargaining parties to follow these examples and seek individual, sector-specific solutions.
We want to support these efforts by examining how the attractiveness and spread of lifetime working accounts can be increased.
4.2 Women - making greater use of competencies and opening up opportunities Making better use of women's competencies
The proportion of working women in our country has increased significantly since 2005, more than in any other country in the European Union.
This is a good development for Germany.
Because we are convinced that we have a better chance of remaining an economically successful country if women and men, younger and older people, natives and immigrants alike contribute their skills and abilities to the companies.
Our goal is equal opportunities for all - regardless of gender, age or skin color.
This includes ensuring that women and men receive the same pay for the same work.
That is why the CDU and CSU support the enforcement of women's right to equal pay for equal work.
We will also examine the possibility of introducing statutory transparency obligations in order to achieve equal pay for women and men.
Particularly among young women starting vocational training or university studies, we want to promote professions that have so far been regarded as typically "male professions".
This can also lead to better opportunities on the labor market.
Better pay in occupations that are particularly common among women can lead to greater wage equality.
The CDU and CSU have introduced a minimum wage in the care sector, thereby also contributing to greater wage equality.
The goal must be to further enhance the value of work in nursing, care and early childhood education, including in terms of pay.
Women in particular are often employed part-time, although they would like to work on a larger scale.
The CDU and CSU want to change this together with the social partners in the interests of employees and companies.
In doing so, we will place an emphasis on facilitating the return from a family phase or from part-time to full-time employment.
We want to enable women and men to return to full-time work after a period of child-rearing or caregiving by means of a legal entitlement.
Increase the proportion of women in management positions
We want more women to take on management responsibility - in middle and senior management positions as well as on executive and supervisory boards.
That is why we want to regulate by law the increase in the proportion of women on corporate boards of management and supervisory boards.
The federal, state and local governments must set a good example, for example in public-sector companies, in administration and in appointments to supervisory and administrative boards.
With a mandatory "flexi-quota," we will require companies listed on the stock exchange or subject to co-determination to set a binding quota for women on the executive and supervisory boards.
This is to be publicly reported and may not be subsequently adjusted downward.
At the same time, we will legislate that a fixed quota of 30 percent for women on supervisory boards of listed companies subject to full co-determination will apply from 2020.
4.3 Diversity enriches - creating a welcoming culture
Germany is a successful integration country.
Anyone who shares our common values, who wants to lend a hand and move our country forward is welcome.
Successful immigrants demonstrate the opportunities associated with successful integration.
The vast majority of the approximately 15 million people with a migrant background who live and work in our country make a significant contribution to the prosperity and cultural diversity of our country.
The CDU and CSU want to specifically promote the desire for advancement and the willingness to help shape the lives of people who come to our country.
Welcome culture for bright minds
In the international competition for bright minds, we want to attract more highly qualified people from other countries who are willing to perform.
Our country must become even more attractive for them and their families to live and work in.
We need a culture that enables fast and successful integration.
Such a welcoming culture must become visible and tangible - starting already in the countries of origin.
In order for new immigrants to be able to prepare themselves well for life in Germany, we need sufficient information services, for example on entry, school and career, and language acquisition.
We want town halls to become "welcome centers" that support new immigrants in practical and legal matters for a successful start to life in Germany and a successful start to everyday working life.
Better use and promote knowledge and skills
In many cases, people with a migrant background have completed vocational or university training in their home countries.
However, this potential is still too often lying fallow, while our labor market is increasingly lacking qualified specialists.
An important step to counteract this is the recognition law for vocational qualifications acquired abroad, which was pushed through by the CDU and CSU and which will now be recognized more easily and quickly.
At the same time, we want to step up efforts to subsequently improve the professional qualifications of migrant people so that they have even better opportunities on the labor market and can make an even greater contribution to the economic development of our country.
Attracting more people with a migrant background to the public sector
We encourage more young people with a migrant background to choose a career in the public sector, especially as teachers, police officers or in the judiciary.
Improve educational opportunities and promote language skills
Children and young people from immigrant families have achieved significantly better school and educational qualifications in recent years.
However, compared to their nonimmigrant peers, they still often have problems in school and vocational training.
We want these children and young people to continue to catch up and achieve better school and educational qualifications.
This also means that parents should play a more active role in their children's school preparation and careers.
We want to support them in this through special parenting programs.
The key to successful integration is a good knowledge of German.
We will continue to consistently promote early learning of the German language.
German as a common language creates identity and strengthens cohesion in our society.
We expect immigrants to learn the German language.
Those who refuse to learn German have no future chances in our country.
Consistent policy of demanding and promoting
Successful integration requires the interaction of the immigrant and native populations.
The CDU and CSU continue to pursue a consistent policy of demanding and promoting.
This is how we continue to reduce integration failures and deficiencies.
Our roadmap for this is the National Action Plan on Integration.
Naturalization: Commitment to our country and our values
The will to naturalize is the commitment to our country and the values of our Basic Law.
Accepting our citizenship - combined with giving up your previous citizenship - is a strong sign of belonging.
It brings full civic rights and obligations.
It cannot replace integration and is not a means, but the strongest expression of successful integration.
We reject a general right to vote for foreigners in municipal elections.
Instead, we encourage those who have been living and working here for years and are well integrated to take advantage of the opportunity to become German citizens.
We reject a general acceptance of dual citizenship.
Multi-statehood is often associated with problems of law enforcement, even in civil disputes.
Children born in Germany to foreigners with an unlimited right of residence acquire German citizenship at birth in addition to the citizenship of their parents.
Later, they will have to decide which one to keep.
This so-called option model has proven its worth so far.
Most young adults opt for German citizenship.
We welcome this yes to our country.
Integration also requires consistency
Diversity needs cohesion.
That is why we have placed integration policy at the center of political action and created comprehensive offers for successful integration.
At the same time, the CDU and CSU are taking a firm stance against those who refuse to integrate, also in the interest of the vast majority of law-abiding immigrants.
Those who want our support must demonstrate a willingness to integrate through their behavior.
Those who evade their obligations must expect consequences for their residence status and benefit entitlements.
If religiously or culturally transmitted traditions lead to a disregard of our legal system, we must not accept this.
We resolutely oppose the isolation in parallel societies and Islamic special courts outside our legal system.
We also expect the Muslim associations to take more visible countermeasures.
The CDU and CSU are therefore calling on Muslim associations to work closely together.
Protection for the vulnerable
The CDU and CSU stand for an immigration policy geared to the needs and interests of our country.
The member states of the European Union must retain the competence to decide on immigration under national responsibility in the future.
At the same time, we advocate the protection of politically persecuted persons, in accordance with our Basic Law and the responsibility arising from our Christian image of humanity.
Anyone who is politically persecuted and in need of protection must be able to rely on Germany.
That is why we are committed to the fundamental right to asylum.
In the interests of those affected, we also advocate speedy proceedings at immigration authorities and administrative courts.
We will continue to help refugees in the future.
In this context, we also advocate new forms of protection, such as the admission of refugees from third countries if it is not possible for them to return to their country of origin in the near future or if they cannot be permanently integrated into the country that first admitted them.
In doing so, we continue to build on our close and trusting cooperation with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, just as we do in helping refugees worldwide.
We reject immigration aimed at abusing European freedom of movement and exploiting our country's social security systems.
A European solution is needed to improve the situation in the countries of origin and prevent abuse.
In particular, the living conditions and integration of people in their home countries must be significantly improved so that they have prospects there.
4.4 Every talent counts - people with disabilities
An inclusive society is a central goal of the CDU and CSU.
In this context, we will continue to advocate for the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in Germany.
We work to ensure that people with disabilities and health impairments can master and shape their everyday lives as independently as possible.
We want people with and without disabilities to live, learn, work, celebrate and shape our country together as a matter of course.
This requires accessibility in housing and road construction, in public transport, in communication, in sports, in leisure and in culture.
In an aging society, the proportion of people with health impairments who want to do exactly what everyone takes for granted will also increase: work, shop, play sports, travel, go to the movies, visit museums and exhibitions, or surf the Internet.
On the way to an inclusive society
We have already achieved a great deal along the way: We have laid the foundations for making public transport throughout Germany barrier-free by 2022.
From 2016, every long-distance bus registered for the first time must be equipped with at least two spaces for wheelchair users as well as boarding aids.
We have also set standards for the first time on how buildings can be designed to be barrier-free.
We will continue to work on making life easier for people with disabilities and health restrictions in everyday life and on removing the many small and large hurdles that still stand in the way here.
We want to involve people with disabilities as experts in their own right in all matters that affect them.
Education: Advancing the inclusive school
The support of children with disabilities and their families is particularly close to our hearts.
We want to include disabled children more in mainstream education, but not forego individual support.
Our approach is: "As much inclusion as possible - as much special support as necessary".
We will therefore continue to advance the inclusive school.
For us, inclusive school means that we put the individual at the center:
Every student must be encouraged and supported in the best possible way.
The prerequisites for this are accessibility, well-trained teachers and sufficient support teacher hours.
At the same time, we are in favor of maintaining special schools where this is in the interest of children with special needs.
Better opportunities on the labor market
Being able to contribute to one's own livelihood through work has a special significance for people with disabilities.
Our inclusion policy has already led to significant improvements on the labor and training market, including through the "Job 4000" initiative and the "Initiative Inclusion" program.
In the future, we want to involve small companies in particular even more, as they in particular can offer a familiar, often almost family-like working environment.
Where possible, we want to support routes into in-company training.
Wage subsidies are also to be used to build new bridges into the labor market for older severely disabled people.
The CDU and CSU have supported the legal right to the personal budget.
This means that people with disabilities receive money instead of benefits in kind and can thus determine their own lives to a greater extent.
We want this entitlement to benefits for participation in working life to be maintained even if they are trained and employed on the primary labor market.
We also want to review the supplementary earnings limits so that additional benefits are also worthwhile for people with a disability.
We want to reorganize integration assistance for people with disabilities.
Making it easier for them to participate in social life on an equal and self-determined basis is a task for society as a whole.
Accessible tourism
Accessibility is to become a quality feature of German tourism.
It is a basic prerequisite for the self-determined and equal participation of people with disabilities.
We want to help to better network and market existing offers and to
better qualify employees in accessibility issues.
The goal must be accessibility throughout, from booking to arrival and departure to accommodation.
Inclusion in sport
The CDU and CSU want to further promote disabled sports at all levels.
In doing so, we are increasingly advocating for the possibility of people with and without disabilities participating in sports together.
In the case of sports facilities, we will ensure that they are built barrier-free.
We want to advocate for greater public awareness and media coverage for disabled sports.
4.5 Everyday Heroes - Promoting Volunteerism and Sports
Volunteering makes our country strong.
One in four people in our country is involved in voluntary work and thus makes an important contribution to cohesion in our society.
Without this commitment, many things in Germany would not be possible - from rescue services to nature conservation.
Especially in an aging society, the importance of volunteering will continue to grow.
Strengthening honorary office - further improving framework conditions
We want to continue to support those who are willing to volunteer.
To this end, we want to further improve the tax framework.
We want to relieve volunteers and associations of bureaucratic burdens
and further develop successful models such as the Federal Volunteer Service and multigenerational houses.
Volunteers in the volunteer fire department, rescue services, the Federal Agency for Technical Relief and aid organizations are often on standby around the clock.
Without their commitment, there would be no help in the vast majority of cities and towns when fires break out or severe storms leave their mark.
The flood disaster in June once again impressively demonstrated the importance of this commitment.
That is why we support those who work sacrificially and unpaid for the safety of their fellow men in their work.
We will continue to ensure that they have access to good technical equipment for their often dangerous missions.
We want to continue to help attract young people to volunteer work in the future.
To this end, we want to conduct targeted advertising campaigns and make it clear how valuable and meaningful such commitment is.
Our community depends on the commitment of its citizens.
We need the broad expertise of city and town councils, local leaders and volunteer mayors on the ground.
We want to continue to support their efforts.
That is why we want to ensure in the long term that expense allowances for these elective offices do not reduce the pension.
The CDU and CSU are pushing for more recognition of volunteer work and years of volunteering in professional biographies.
In the future, universities are to take the performance of voluntary military service, federal volunteers, and youth volunteers into account more than in the past when awarding university places.
We want to further expand the German Commitment Award.
The idea of the Ehrenamtskarte is to be used nationwide and extended to the commitment of student, trainee, parent and employee representatives.
Strengthen volunteer services
We have achieved a great success with the Federal Volunteer Service.
Today, more people than ever are involved in volunteer services.
The CDU and CSU want to develop this policy further.
In doing so, we want to maintain the diversity of volunteer services, further develop the offers and adapt their support even better to the needs of volunteers and assignment sites.
In the future, small, non-associated and municipal institutions should also be given the opportunity to host volunteers.
We want to expand the opportunity to do voluntary service abroad.
Youth policy is social policy for the future
Youth policy is active policy for the future.
Our country needs the ideas and commitment of young people for a good future.
The CDU and CSU want to continue to be advocates for young people, taking their interests seriously and thus emphasizing that intergenerational justice is the yardstick of our actions.
Population change means that the proportion of young people in our country is declining.
It is therefore all the more important that as many young people as possible get involved and want to help shape the future.
We want to encourage and enable young people to do this.
We want to drive forward the development of an independent youth policy.
It is aimed at all young people and relies on their active participation.
We want our policies to help young people develop their talents, find their place in society, but also deal with openness and uncertainty.
The youth associations have an important role to play here:
Here, our young people practice democratic rules of the game from the very beginning:
they learn to negotiate compromises, to share and to take responsibility for themselves and others.
This makes youth associations important partners in a successful youth policy and indispensable for the development and educational path of young people.
We support them in responding to the changing needs of young people as well: for example, youth associations must align their offerings so that they also fit into the everyday lives of young people at all-day schools.
The Child Welfare and Youth Plan has proven to be an important tool to support the work of youth associations.
In the coming years, we will continue to support the diverse youth work in youth associations, youth rings of open youth work, municipal youth work and youth education centers, as well as international youth exchanges.
The work of the pupil, youth training and student representatives is important because young people learn to stand up for their interests at school, at work or at university and to help shape everyday life there.
We want to continue to support them.
We welcome the work of student, youth and student organizations in political parties.
Here, the interests of young people are bundled and they are given a powerful voice in the political opinion-forming process of the parties.
Sport strengthens the cohesion of society
More than 27 million people are involved in around 90,000 sports clubs.
The clubs do an invaluable amount for youth care, for health care and in the integration of migrant people.
Sport conveys the will to perform, endurance, determination and fairness and strengthens the cohesion of people in our society.
In a society with fewer and fewer young people, we need new concepts to promote young sports talent.
Sports, school and vocational training must be more closely coordinated to achieve this.
With increasing all-day schooling, clubs in children's and youth sports are facing new challenges.
To ensure that they can continue to perform their sporting and social duties in the future, the CDU and CSU promote cooperation between sports clubs and schools on a partnership basis.
At the same time, we want to strengthen school sports in extracurricular activities.
We want to promote the development of movement in children and young people.
We attach great importance to the German Sports Youth and the German Olympic Academy with regard to the values education and training of young people.
We are committed to the principle of performance in sport and to top human sport that serves as a role model for popular sport.
We will continue to promote sport in the Bundeswehr, the Federal Police and customs and strengthen the "dual career" concept so that top athletes can better reconcile their sporting and professional careers.
Good sports facilities are a prerequisite for an attractive range of sports at schools and during leisure time.
We want to continue federal funding for the construction and maintenance of sports facilities.
We will continue to support sports associations in their fight against doping.
We will work to ensure that the work of the National Anti-Doping Agency is secured in the long term.
The CDU and CSU will continue to support the staging of major sporting events such as world and European championships in Germany.
We want to further improve the tax framework for this.
We want to strengthen the position of clubs and associations so that they can protect their legitimate interests in the marketing and exploitation of sporting events and thus continue to be in a position to stage high-quality sporting events in Germany.
The CDU and CSU are committed to taking decisive action against corruption, match-fixing and betting manipulation.
We will continue to combat dangerous developments of violence, abuse and extremism in and around sports.
4.6 For a good life in old age - secure pension
The CDU and CSU are committed to ensuring that the statutory pension remains stable and secure in the future.
In the future, too, we want pensions to develop in such a way that pensioners can reliably participate in the general income trend without depriving the younger generation of opportunities for development and prosperity.
The successful employment and economic policy of the CDU and CSU leads to stable and secure pensions.
The intergenerational contract between young and old is thus on a solid and reliable footing.
The gratifying development of wages and salaries directly benefits pensioners.
At the same time, the CDU and CSU have significantly eased the burden on employees and companies by reducing contribution rates in 2012 and 2013.
We want lifetime achievement to continue to pay off in the future.
as well as private and occupational pensions are worthwhile for people.
After all, the foundation for financial security in old age will continue to be laid during working life.
Making the three pension pillars fit for the future
For us, future-proof old-age provision is based on three pillars: statutory pension insurance, private pension provision and occupational pension provision.
Statutory pension insurance remains the mainstay.
We have strengthened it by adopting the pension at 67.
We will phase them in by 2029.
We want to strengthen private and occupational pension provision.
Our goal here is to ensure that occupational pension plans are also attractive to small and medium-sized companies and their employees.
We will prevent European law from interfering with company pension schemes and will work to preserve our tried-and-tested system.
Better recognition of child-rearing - raise mothers' pensions
The CDU and CSU have introduced and gradually improved the child-raising period in the pension system.
From 2014, we want all mothers and fathers whose children were born before 1992 to receive an additional pension point for their child-rearing achievements.
With two children, this corresponds to an average of 650 euros more pension per year.
This better recognition is possible due to the good financial situation of the pension insurance and available funds from the federal subsidy.
Valuing care - better valuing care periods in pensions
We also want to take better account of periods of care in statutory pension insurance.
Anyone who accompanies, cares for and nurtures a close relative in need of care is performing a great human service that we want to better recognize.
Respecting life's work - improving pensions and strengthening pension provision
We want lifetime achievements to pay off in pensions.
Anyone who has worked for decades, paid into the intergenerational contract and made additional provisions must have an adequate pension in old age and must not have to rely on basic security.
Those who have been insured for 40 years and have made private provision are to receive a pension supplement of 850 euros.
We want to give greater recognition to the achievements of people who have raised children and/or cared for relatives.
We also want to pay special attention to the employment biographies of people in the new federal states.
We want to continue to ensure that lifetime achievements as well as private and occupational pension provision are recognized through allowances in old age.
Anyone who has made provisions for their old age must be in a better position than someone who has not.
This will enable even low-income earners to draw an adequate pension from their own resources.
Working in retirement - making supplementary income rules more flexible
More and more older people want to remain professionally active in retirement.
We want to support this, not least because our economy depends on experienced skilled workers.
In this way, we want to achieve improvements for older people in the flexible transition to retirement.
To this end, we want to further develop the supplementary earnings regulations for early retirement pensions.
We will improve the situation for recipients of reduced earning capacity pensions by significantly increasing their pension entitlements, thus providing them with a secure pension.
We want to improve employment opportunities for older people through better healthcare services.
and also by better adapting rehabilitation services to the changing age structure of our society.
Introduce compulsory old-age provision for the self-employed
There are around 2.6 million self-employed people in Germany without their own employees.
Many of them are often inadequately insured for old age or illness.
We want to improve their social protection and introduce compulsory old-age provision for all self-employed persons who are not already covered elsewhere.
They should be able to choose between statutory pension insurance and other types of provision.
We will develop solutions that take into account those who are already self-employed today and do not overburden the self-employed in the start-up phase.
Creating more transparency in old-age provision
We want every citizen to be well informed about pension issues and to be able to better understand in the future what entitlements they have saved in the various pillars of old-age provision.
That is why we are committed to an independent and overarching information platform on which all entitlements from statutory pensions, company pensions and private pension plans are summarized in a secure, simple and clear manner.
Any gaps in supply that may exist can thus be better revealed.
Insured persons can better recognize whether they are doing enough for their old-age provision.
4.7 Healthy country - good care for all
The CDU and CSU want everyone in Germany to continue to have access to good medical care in the future, regardless of their income, age or health condition.
We stand for an efficient healthcare system that combines humanity, quality and affordability and contributes to a high quality of life in Germany.
We also stand for a health care system based on solidarity, in which help for the sick and elderly and personal responsibility are two sides of the same coin.
We ensure a healthcare system in which people can trust that all those involved in medicine and care will carefully fulfill their responsibilities to patients.
Medical care
The growing number of older people in our country, as well as rapid advances in medical research, require ongoing adjustments to our healthcare system.
The CDU and CSU want to ensure easily accessible care by doctors and hospitals, especially in rural regions, and to this end, for example, increase the attractiveness of the family doctor profession.
We want doctors to be available everywhere in our country at all times.
With the Healthcare Structure Act, we have created important incentives that make it more attractive for physicians to participate in the care of regions with too few physicians.
We also compensate pharmacies in rural areas for part of their additional burden by means of a so-called emergency service flat rate.
We will continue along this path.
To ensure care in sparsely populated areas, we are also focusing on new solutions such as the expansion of telemedicine.
We want to create the necessary technical and legal conditions for this.
Hospital Care
Hospitals make an important contribution to our healthcare system.
Patients benefit from the high quality in international comparison.
We want everyone to continue to be able to rely on the high quality of our hospitals.
With a view to providing easily accessible medical and nursing care, especially in rural regions but also in structurally weaker urban areas, we will work with hospitals to coordinate service offerings even better.
For a high-quality healthcare system that serves people
Through successful reforms, the CDU and CSU have kept contributions to statutory health insurance stable.
Health insurers and the health fund have built up substantial reserves.
We have strengthened competition by extending the ability of health insurers to structure premiums via premium refunds as well as additional contributions.
Health insurance funds whose reserves exceed the statutory minimum by several times are to be required to refund premiums to their members in the future.
We are committed to competition among health insurers.
We reject a state-run one-size-fits-all insurance system.
Private health insurance, with its individual capital reserves to cushion rising costs in old age, makes an important contribution to the sustainability and implementation of innovations in the healthcare system.
The CDU and CSU are counting on those involved in the self-administration of our healthcare system to act responsibly and in partnership
, avoiding unnecessary bureaucracy.
Increasing the attractiveness of the healthcare professions
The core of our free health care system is the free choice of doctors and hospitals, the freedom of therapy and the independence of the independent health care professions.
The employees in the clinics, practices and outpatient services, self-employed general practitioners, specialists and dentists, pharmacists, self-employed health care craftsmen, midwives and health care providers stand for high-quality, patient-oriented care.
We want to preserve and further develop this level of care in order to maintain the high quality in Germany.
We want to further increase the attractiveness of the healthcare professions.
This includes good training opportunities as well as the further development of occupational profiles in the healthcare sector.
In addition to grade point average, the allocation of places for medical studies is to take into account the personal suitability of applicants for the medical profession as well as their commitment to institutions that provide a service to people, such as emergency medical services.
Increased consideration will also be given to applicants who commit to practicing in a region where there is a shortage of physicians after completing their medical degree.
Freedom healthcare for the patients
The Patients' Rights Act represents a major step toward more rights for patients.
We want to further strengthen patients' rights.
In particular, they need to be well informed in order to make self-determined decisions.
That is why patients and insured persons need easy access, for example via appropriate portals on the Internet, to independent, reliable and comprehensible information about insurance and treatment options.
Notes on performance, quality and price help to better assess costs, benefits and risks.
We want to introduce reporting and management systems to help prevent errors and ensure quality.
Health promotion and prevention
In an aging society, health promotion, personal responsibility and preventive care continue to gain in importance.
They are a task for society as a whole and cannot be solved by the social security systems alone.
It is the responsibility and interest of each individual to prevent disease and maintain health through a health-conscious lifestyle.
The aim of the CDU and CSU is to further strengthen preventive care and rehabilitation.
In the area of health promotion, we want to focus on company measures as well as on daycare centers and schools.
The CDU and CSU advocate exhausting all appropriate options to make medical services as effective and economical as possible.
Further expand the health care industry
The healthcare industry is one of the most innovative sectors in Germany.
The high value added and export orientation of the industry offer good conditions for continuing to make an important contribution to prosperity in our country in the future.
In view of advances in medical technology, an aging population and increasing health awareness, this sector of the economy will continue to grow and create jobs.
This also applies to telemedicine, in which we see a good opportunity to further develop our efficient healthcare system at a high level.
Medical research
Many people are affected by one of the major common diseases: Cancer, metabolic disorders, cardiovascular disease, dementia or lung disease.
We want the latest and best therapies and medicines to be developed in Germany to combat these diseases.
We rely on the research-based drug manufacturers, their long experience and great efforts to help new therapies achieve a breakthrough.
We will establish further German Centers for Health Research
and invite tenders for new integrated research and treatment centers.
Major advances in biotechnology and genetic engineering are opening up new opportunities to tailor therapies more closely to patients' individual requirements.
This is associated with great opportunities for better healing processes, which we want to tap into as quickly as possible by stepping up our efforts.
To ensure that research takes better account of everyday medical conditions, we will expand health services research.
Dignified and reliable nursing and care
The CDU and CSU continue to place the dignity of those in need of care and humanity in dealing with them at the center of their care policy.
We see nursing care as an important service for our fellow human beings.
The long-term care insurance introduced by the CDU and CSU has proven its worth.
In the future, it must continue to make a reliable contribution to providing security in the event of a need for care and to offering dignified nursing and care.
To this end, we want to further develop long-term care insurance.
At the same time, however, it does not absolve individuals from exercising their own responsibility and initiative.
With the state subsidy for private supplementary long-term care insurance, we support people in making their own provisions for the event that they need long-term care.
We want older people and those in need of care to be able to live independently and in a self-determined manner and - as far as possible - to participate in social life.
We want them to be able to manage their everyday lives in their own homes largely without outside help.
We therefore want to further promote the development of age-appropriate support services.
They are increasingly important for a healthy and independent life in old age.
With the increasing number of older, often permanently ill people and the simultaneously changing structures in the immediate family living environment, the expectations of an easily accessible range of facilities and services for older people are also changing.
That is why we will use the structural change in our hospital landscape - especially in rural regions - to develop care offerings, facilities and structures that ensure good long-term care for older people.
We have provided additional funding for increased services that will benefit people with dementia who are receiving care at home, family caregivers, and support for new living groups.
Care services can now also be adapted more flexibly to specific care and support situations.
We have strengthened the principle of "rehabilitation before care" with numerous measures.
We have ensured that the interests of those affected are given greater consideration in matters of appraisal, quality development and the transparency of quality results.
Our goal is to ensure a high level of care services.
At the same time, we want to prevent an increase in co-payments to the detriment of those in need of care, their relatives and social welfare agencies.
We know that the current requirements for the need for care often do not adequately cover the assistance and care needs of people with dementia in particular, but also people with mental disabilities and mental illnesses.
That is why we want a better graduated determination of the need for care that takes into account the degree of independence of those affected.
Our policy of stabilizing the social security systems as a whole and thus limiting additional wage costs,
as well as a moderate increase in the contribution to long-term care insurance, will make it possible to implement these improvements in the coming years.
Supporting family caregivers
Members of one's own family have a special responsibility and importance in caring for their loved ones.
Their often self-sacrificing commitment deserves recognition and appreciation.
That is why we have further improved the framework conditions for family caregivers, for example by entitling them to half of the care allowance during short-term and preventive care or by making it easier for them to take advantage of preventive or rehabilitation measures.
Family members providing care will also be better protected for their own old age, as the periods of care for two or more dependents at the same time will be added together for pension purposes.
We have improved the possibility for employees to care for family members at home.
Today, more than 70 percent of care is provided at home within the family.
We will continue to promote the compatibility of care and work in the future and further strengthen the willingness of companies to participate in programs to reconcile care and work.
We will continue to expand palliative care services.
We support the commitment to dying with dignity, for example in hospices or through outpatient and volunteer end-of-life care.
The CDU and CSU reject active euthanasia and are committed to making commercial and organized assistance in suicide a punishable offense in the future.
4.8 Repatriates and expellees - an asset to our country
The CDU and CSU are committed to the history of all Germans, including solidarity with those Germans who, because of their ethnicity, had to suffer a particularly difficult fate as a result of the war.
In order to keep alive the memory of the suffering of the displaced persons, we want to expand the World Refugee Day on June 20 to include the commemoration of the displaced persons and to celebrate it on a national level in the future.
The successful integration of millions of expellees and later millions of repatriates is an expression of the solidarity of all Germans.
Without the displaced persons, the reconstruction of our country after the Second World War would not have been so successful.
With their skills, diligence and cultural tradition, Aussiedler are an asset to our country.
The cultural heritage of the expellees and repatriates is today a self-evident and valuable part of our identity.
We have made it easier for the relatives of ethnic German immigrants to join them, thus taking into account the importance of family cohesion for the ethnic German families concerned.
Family separations can thus be avoided.
We are initiating further measures to make this easier.
We continue to advocate the right to resettle in Germany.
We want to continue our policy of solidarity.
The CDU and CSU are committed to offering German families from Eastern and Southeastern Europe and the successor states of the Soviet Union, who have lived here for decades, better opportunities to cultivate and present their cultural heritage.
We welcome the self-responsible commitment of ethnic Germans, especially in the social field, and want to support social aid organizations of Russian Germans.
We want to sustainably promote the professional integration of the numerous skilled workers among the ethnic German immigrants.
With the Recognition Act, we have created the possibility of a re-examination of their acquired degrees.
Cultural heritage of the German expellees
The German cultural heritage in Eastern Europe today unfolds a unifying force in many places.
Together with the expellees and their associations, we want to anchor the cultural heritage of the historical German eastern and settlement areas as an integral part of the German cultural nation and part of the European identity.
We have therefore given it significantly more support and want to place it on a future-proof footing.
We want to press ahead with the expansion of the documentation center of the "Foundation Flight, Expulsion, Reconciliation" in Berlin.
The center is intended to document the fate of displaced persons and the background of flight and expulsion in the 20th century, as well as to contribute to outlawing expulsions worldwide in the present and in the future.
We want to continue supporting other projects that promote reconciliation and international understanding, such as the Sudeten German Museum in Munich.
National minorities
The four national minorities in Germany - Danes, Sorbs, Frisians, German Sinti and Roma - belong with their traditions as well as the Low German language to the cultural diversity of our country, which must be preserved.
Therefore, existing subsidies are to be continued.
CDU and CSU stand by the side of the German ethnic groups in Eastern Europe and the successor states of the Soviet Union.
They perform an important bridging function.
Keeping the German language alive is of central importance.
That is why we want to improve German language services and educational institutions on site in particular.
We continue to work to ensure that those who wish to remain in their current homes are offered a perspective to stay.
5. protect Germany's livable homeland
5.1 Ensuring an intact environment
Protecting our environment is of central importance to us.
We are aware that we not only have a responsibility for today's generation, but also for ensuring that our children and grandchildren can grow up in a good and healthy environment.
Advancing environmental protection together with people and business
We want to advance environmental protection together with the people, not against them.
In protecting the environment, we rely on market-based incentives and follow the proven guidelines of environmental policy:
the precautionary principle, the polluter-pays principle, and the principle of cooperation with all social groups and affected citizens.
The German environmental economy and technology occupies the top position worldwide.
In order to further advance climate and environmental protection, we want to expand this leading role even further.
This creates jobs.
Environmental technologies thus strengthen our economy
and help to save scarce raw materials and energy.
Climate protection - achieving even more together
Climate protection is one of the great challenges facing mankind.
Global warming has consequences worldwide and therefore requires joint action.
As a leading industrialized country, Germany has a special responsibility in this regard.
We accept this responsibility because we know that sustainable growth is only possible in harmony with our environment and our natural resources.
Germany has more than fulfilled its climate protection obligations.
We want Germany to remain a global driving force for effective climate protection in the future.
That is why we are committed to raising the European climate target:
We want to achieve a 30 percent reduction in emissions of climate-damaging greenhouse gases in Europe by 2020 compared to 1990.
Since the technical prerequisites for this vary widely within the EU, we want Germany, as a high-tech country, to make full use of its greater technical possibilities and make a greater contribution to this with a national reduction target of 40 percent.
At European level, we continue to attach importance to the targets agreed by the EU member states with a view to 2020:
The reduction of greenhouse gases, the
increase in energy efficiency by at least 20 percent
and the expansion target for renewable energies of 20 percent of total energy consumption.
We want to achieve these ambitious goals as economically as possible.
To this end, we also rely on Europe-wide, market-based emissions trading.
We want to eliminate existing weaknesses in the current trading system and create effective incentives so that climate-damaging greenhouse gases can be avoided.
At the same time, we will give due consideration to job preservation and the competitiveness of our economy.
We also want to use the revenues from certificate trading for the energy transition.
Renewable energy supply and energy saving are the best climate protection.
Ultimately, however, climate protection can only succeed if all countries participate.
We therefore advocate the gradual inclusion of further countries in emissions trading.
Our long-term goal is to develop a global trading system.
At the same time, we want to take other opportunities so as not to lose time.
In this way, we want to implement the idea of an "energy transition club" that unites all pioneers of an environmentally and climate-friendly energy supply.
Together with these countries, we want to work for a new binding climate agreement that follows on from the so-called Kyoto Agreement.
We want to shape the framework conditions in such a way that investments in climate-friendly projects and products are worthwhile for private investors.
Decoupling growth from raw material consumption
In 2050, more than nine billion people will live on earth.
At the same time, this will significantly increase the demand for water, food, energy and raw materials.
In order to still be able to adequately satisfy these needs without overtaxing our planet, we need a decoupling of global economic growth from the consumption of raw materials and natural goods, as well as more responsible consumer behavior.
In Germany, we have already made considerable progress in decoupling growth and raw material consumption.
The consumption of raw materials, measured in terms of the total value of all goods and services produced in Germany, has been reduced by almost 50 percent over the past 20 years.
This saves raw materials and thus a lot of money.
We want to exploit all opportunities to further reduce raw material and energy consumption and further develop appropriate incentives and advisory services for companies.
We also want to raise consumer awareness of the need for responsible and sustainable use of energy and raw materials, as well as goods and services.
We want to continue on the path to a true circular economy.
Our goal is not waste, but recycling.
After recycling rates have already risen further in recent years, we have achieved a further important success with the revision of the Closed Substance Cycle Waste Management Act.
In order to recycle even more recyclable materials in the future and to offer citizens a simple and convenient system for collecting recyclable materials, we want to further develop the packaging garbage can into a standardized recycling garbage can.
We want private and municipal waste management companies to remain involved in this process.
Stemming the loss of biodiversity - keeping our homeland livable
We want to preserve the natural wealth and biodiversity of our homeland.
CDU and CSU stand for a nature conservation policy that adapts to the natural conditions on the ground.
For us, good cooperation with all stakeholders is a prerequisite for a successful nature conservation policy.
We want to invite all volunteers in the environmental and nature conservation, but also, for example, agriculture, tourism or fishing associations to participate.
We want to strengthen the successful federal "Biological Diversity" program.
The so-called "Green Belt" along the former inner-German border is today one of the most nature-rich areas in our country, providing a safe home for many - often endangered - animal species.
We want to add to the protected areas where possible and, in return, secure additional areas owned by the federal government for nature conservation.
Protection from noise and harmful substances - for the sake of our health
Every second person in Germany feels disturbed by noise.
We want to change that.
Above all, we want to better protect people's nighttime rest.
Therefore, we will improve noise protection through a uniform noise protection program
and adapt and standardize the calculation bases for noise pollution values.
Particularly in the expansion and rehabilitation of roads and railroad lines, we want to ensure that the noise impact on the population is permanently reduced.
Noise abatement programs and technical innovations such as whisper asphalt contribute to this.
Even in large-scale projects such as airports, the focus for us as a union is on people.
Competitiveness and noise protection must be reconciled.
We will therefore continue to develop the Aircraft Noise Act and work to reduce the noise impact on people, for example by using quieter aircraft.
We want healthy products in all areas.
We want to avoid harmful substances in all packaging materials, clothing and everyday products as far as possible.
To further improve air quality, we are committed to reducing pollutants at the source.
We also want to reduce particulate pollution in cities and continue to promote particulate filters to this end.
Water is vital - protecting drinking water, waters and oceans
Drinking water is a crucial foodstuff.
Our drinking water is safe and is one of the best controlled foodstuffs in Germany.
For us, the supply of drinking water and the disposal of wastewater are part of the provision of public services.
We will permanently ensure that cities and municipalities can decide for themselves whether to perform this task independently or in partnership with private companies.
Rivers and lakes have become much cleaner in recent years.
The Elbe - one of the world's most polluted rivers before reunification - is now home to salmon again.
We want to further improve water quality so that species richness continues to increase in other rivers and water bodies.
Our oceans are heavily polluted by pollution of various kinds.
In particular, severe overfishing and the misuse of the oceans as a dumping ground rob countless aquatic animals of their livelihoods and threaten to destroy the entire marine ecosystem in the long term.
The polar oceans in the Arctic and Antarctic also deserve our special protection:
with their unique fauna and special natural balance, they are important climate engines for our planet.
We therefore want Germany to work within the community of states for better protection of the oceans worldwide.
We want to set a good example and take greater responsibility for the two seas on our doorstep:
The Baltic Sea and the North Sea with the particularly sensitive Wadden Sea World Heritage Site.
For us, marine conservation is a cross-cutting issue that affects many political decisions.
Therefore, we want to enforce the consideration of marine environmental protection and marine nature conservation in all policy areas.
Further advancing flood protection
We are committed to preventive flood protection with a sensibly networked bundle of measures for natural flood retention, technical flood protection, e.g. through dikes and retention basins, as well as close cooperation between the federal and state governments and at the international level.
The best protection against flooding is to give the water bodies more space again so that they can spread undisturbed.
That is why we want to restore natural floodplains wherever possible and leave river valleys with their original character.
Where this is not possible, we must protect people as best we can.
We want to create the conditions for technical flood protection measures to be implemented quickly.
Reduce land consumption
We want our natural soils to be preserved for nature and agriculture.
That's why we want to curb the sealing of the landscape and reduce land consumption for residential, commercial and road construction from almost 90 hectares today by two-thirds to 30 hectares per day by 2020.
We want urban planning concepts to take this into account.
5.2 Reliable state in city and state Strong municipalities - an asset for our country
Germany needs strong cities and strong rural areas.
We are proud of the regional diversity of our country.
We feel at home there.
That is why the CDU and CSU are doing their utmost to support all regions of our country.
In our decisions at the federal level, we always have the municipalities in mind.
We know that our federal and European policy decisions must be implemented and lived on the ground in the communities, by the honorary municipal and city councils, the district council members, the mayors, the district councils and the administration.
Attention to community concerns will therefore continue to determine our actions in the future.
Local self-government is a supporting foundation of our democracy, which we want to strengthen.
Local politics means the honorary and full-time shaping of one's own homeland.
We trust those responsible to find the right solutions on the ground for the good of their cities, communities and counties.
CDU and CSU are reliable partners for local authorities
We invest in infrastructure, in
excellent science and research facilities,
in a good childcare infrastructure for young families and in an
attractive range of sports and cultural activities.
We remain committed to key local infrastructure projects that drive the economy,
create new jobs and
protect the environment.
The Greens, on the other hand, put on the brakes and obstruct everywhere when it comes to new stations, tracks or roads.
By taking this stance, they are accepting that regions will be economically weakened and disconnected from the development in other parts of our country.
We want our cities and regions to continue to have all the prerequisites to contribute to the success of our country.
Making municipal finances crisis-proof and future-proof
Solid finances are a prerequisite for good municipal development.
To this end, we have launched a large number of support programs for the benefit of municipalities, cities and counties.
The biggest help, however, is that the federal government contributes significantly to municipal spending on social services.
For example, in the future it will assume the full cost of basic benefits for old age and reduced earning capacity.
This means a relief of 50 billion euros by 2020 alone - an enormous relief, which the federal states must pass on to the municipalities without restriction, so that there is a strengthening of the possibilities for shaping the local situation.
We want to further develop integration assistance for people with disabilities and transform it into a federal benefits law for people with disabilities.
We want the federal government to gradually contribute to the costs and provide effective and lasting relief for the municipalities in this way.
This strengthens the financial power of the municipalities and gives them financial leeway for their diverse tasks.
We advocate that the federal and state governments live up to their responsibility toward the municipal level and want to work together to ensure the reliability of the municipalities' financial resources.
We will also make this issue the subject of the planned Federalism Commission.
We will work to ensure that the special responsibility towards the municipal level is also adequately taken into account in Europe.
Strengthen cooperation between municipalities
Population change is one of the biggest challenges facing municipalities.
This is particularly true in rural regions.
We want to support our municipalities and cities in this and
want to improve the opportunities for municipalities to work together.
Good and trustful cooperation between neighboring municipalities and counties can help to find better and more economical solutions for common tasks.
Where existing regulations or tax issues stand in the way of meaningful collaboration, we aim to provide relief.
Support conversion of abandoned Bundeswehr sites
When barracks are downsized or closed, the transformation of the Bundeswehr becomes very tangible in the communities.
Smaller municipalities in particular are quickly at the edge of their financial capacity if they are to take over larger properties or if larger investments are required for subsequent use.
We want to help the municipalities in this task, for example by providing them with grants for necessary investment to develop the sites.
To this end, we will launch a funding program worth 100 million euros.
The city hall should get closer to the people
The CDU and CSU stand for policies that are close to the people.
We want to make politics and administration transparent and comprehensible in order to inform and involve citizens better than before.
New administrative modernization projects can help provide people with better public services.
A key project for this is a local administration that is close to the citizens
and the use of the many possibilities of "e-government," with which official matters can be handled conveniently and at any time from home via the Internet.
Mobile citizens' offices can also play an important role in the future, enabling the administration to reach citizens when there is no town hall or public authority location on site.
Making our cities attractive for all
More and more people are drawn to the cities.
Its attractiveness as a place to live and work remains unbroken.
They are points of attraction for companies as well as for people from all over the world who study or work in our country or come to us as tourists.
We are intensively committed to our cities - both metropolitan areas and towns in rural areas - because we want people everywhere in Germany to be able to live well.
We want our cities to be livable for families with children.
They should find good housing and living opportunities there.
Families need affordable housing of sufficient size with a child-friendly environment.
This must be taken into account in urban planning.
We want to create more affordable family housing with targeted incentives in tax law and subsidies.
Families need space:
We have ensured that children's noise from daycare centers and playgrounds in residential areas will no longer be a cause for complaint in the future.
We want to send further signals for a child-friendly society.
We are also promoting this to local authorities and employers.
The everyday life of young parents should become more relaxed.
We want to try out a "family cycle":
Offices and authorities, schools, childcare facilities, service providers, employers and transport companies should take better account of the time needs of families and coordinate their opening and office hours.
With the Family Pact, municipalities have the opportunity to add another chapter to their family-friendliness.
We want to promote this and use pilot projects in cities and rural areas to show how a family cycle can be implemented with as many partners as possible.
Modern and sustainable urban development
Cities are vibrant places for old residents and new citizens, and for all generations and needs.
We focus on attractive city centers with good living, cultural, working and shopping opportunities.
We want to continue and further develop the proven instrument of urban development funding.
Our goal remains livable city centers and attractive urban neighborhoods, even in the wake of declining population figures and changing structures.
Where necessary, we will also define new funding priorities for this purpose.
Cities, with their population density and as business locations, have a special role in environmental protection.
We want to align climate and environmentally friendly urban planning with this.
We want to strengthen municipal environmental and climate protection.
Our goal is the CO2 neutral, energy and climate adapted city.
As part of the German government's high-tech strategy, we will be launching new research projects in this area.
Organizing urban traffic intelligently
We support a coexistence of the different transport systems.
Destinations in the city must be easily accessible on foot, by car, by bicycle and by public transport.
We are also focusing on new mobility concepts such as electric mobility, car sharing and rental bikes.
We are continuing to promote the growing attractiveness of bicycle traffic and, in addition to expanding bike paths, are focusing
above all on improving safety for cyclists.
Cities as think tanks - strengthening cultural centers
The great diversity of culture plays a special role in cities.
We want to set the right course so that art and artists can flourish and as many people as possible have access to cultural offerings in the cities.
For many cities, the creative industries have become an important part of their economic strength.
We want to secure and strengthen the foundations for their work.
Coexistence of cultures
Many people of different cultures and nations live in our cities.
This makes our lives more diverse and richer.
We promote a good and tolerant coexistence of people.
We want to solve emerging problems through sustained efforts in the area of integration.
A lively coexistence of old and new citizens in our cities can help to avoid misunderstandings from the outset.
Therefore, we promote a balanced allocation of rental housing by the municipal housing companies.
Destination city strengthen
Our cities are cosmopolitan, hospitable and offer high tourist standards.
For many people from all over the world they are an occasion to visit our country.
Germany is more popular than ever as a travel destination.
City tourism contributes significantly to this and is an important pillar for regional economic development.
We want to further strengthen the German National Tourist Board and thus do justice to the growing importance of tourism as an economic factor.
Strong rural regions - good home
With the CDU and CSU, rural areas have also regained their status in federal politics.
Together with the cities, the rural regions are the face of our country.
They are home to more than half the people in our country.
The economy in the rural regions is strongly influenced by agriculture and forestry, but many crafts and commercial enterprises are also at home here.
Among them are many modern and efficient companies that are often even among the world market leaders in their industry.
Rural regions play a major role in the demographic strategy.
We have geared numerous funding instruments, such as the village renewal and urban development programs, more closely to the needs of rural areas.
With the so-called "Versorgungsstrukturgesetz" (Health Care Structure Act), we are making it easier for physicians to settle in rural regions and thus secure medical care.
Preserving our homeland - creating good opportunities for tomorrow
We want reliable support for rural regions so that they remain a livable home in the future.
We want to strengthen the infrastructure so that, for example, educational institutions or childcare services remain easily accessible in rural areas.
A strong agriculture that produces good and healthy food will continue to be an important basis for the economic development of rural regions in the future,
as will crafts and small and medium-sized enterprises.
We will network and bundle funding programs such as the Joint Task for Agricultural Structure and Coastal Protection (GAK), the Joint Task for Regional Economic Development (GRK), and regional funding even more closely.
The GAK is to be expanded into a support instrument for rural areas.
We also want to make greater use of regional budgets and thus place more decisions in the hands of local people.
Livable and attractive rural areas for citizens and the economy
We want rural areas to be attractive for people and companies alike.
We will continue to improve the framework conditions for start-ups,
provide investment incentives
and stimulate growth.
The energy transition is a great opportunity for rural areas.
If the added value remains in the regions, people can participate directly financially, for example when they provide land for transmission lines and energy plants.
We want a lively togetherness in villages and communities.
Given the change in the population structure, this is a particular challenge.
That is why we are also concerned with supporting the community and local culture,
to strengthen associations and voluntary work
and a family-friendly expansion of childcare places so that young families can also find prospects.
Rural women, rural youth, fire departments, sports clubs, social associations, church groups and associations of democratic parties are a strong pillar of commitment in rural regions.
We will continue to reliably support them and involve them in the decision-making processes.
This also applies to the rifle association, with its deep roots in the life of the homeland, and to the many local and other associations that preserve and cultivate customs.
The cultural diversity present in the regions plays a crucial role in strengthening the cohesion of rural communities.
That is why we will continue to promote the great voluntary commitment, especially in the area of local culture.
Ensure good supply and accessibility
Against the background of population change, ensuring comprehensive medical, nursing and social care
as well as good accessibility to these facilities is a major challenge.
We will make further efforts and, for example, create the legal and technical conditions for better provision of telemedicine services and mobile health services.
We also attach great importance to the nationwide provision of postal services.
It is important to us to safeguard mobility in rural areas so that the regions continue to be attractive as places to live for families and as locations for businesses.
We will ensure that rural areas remain connected to our country's major transportation axes, as well as to attractive rail and bus services.
Where regular public transport can only be maintained to a limited extent, we rely on new approaches such as on-call buses, senior citizens' and youth cabs, ride-sharing services and combined passenger and freight transport.
We want to improve the framework conditions for mobile service offerings (for example, rolling sales stores, pharmacies and banks).
We want to offer the growth driver Internet nationwide and ensure that people in rural areas have the same access to fast Internet as people in the big cities.
Rural area as a vacation destination
Germany's charming landscapes are a flagship and attraction for many people around the world.
The numerous nature reserves, national parks, nature parks and biosphere reserves are attractive vacation regions.
They are to be promoted more aggressively with the help of programs at both federal and EU level.
In this way, offers, for example, for nature travelers, hikers, boating vacationers and anglers, health vacationers and for families with children can contribute to the upgrading and revitalization of rural areas and thus also strengthen the tourism industry.
This also includes farm vacations as a nature-oriented and particularly popular form of family vacation.
5.3 More housing for affordable rents
We attach great importance to the quality of life and housing for people in Germany.
Sufficient and affordable housing of attractive quality is essential for this and an important goal of our policy.
Since 2009, the number of newly built apartments has increased significantly.
We want this trend to continue.
For us, this also includes the continued promotion of owner-occupied property.
It is not only an important contribution to relieving the demand for housing, but also a sensible instrument with a view to old-age provision.
Preserving people's quality of life - creating more living space
Building enough apartments in areas with housing shortages protects against excessive rent increases.
Housing starts are on the rise again, but are not yet sufficient to meet the increased demand everywhere.
This is particularly true of metropolitan areas and university locations, but also of a number of medium-sized cities.
We want to improve the framework conditions and create more affordable housing with targeted incentives.
Specifically, we want to reintroduce declining balance depreciation for rental housing.
Strengthening social housing
To help lower-income households with housing costs, we want to strengthen social housing.
For years, the number of apartments with a rent and occupancy obligation has been falling.
We want to reverse this trend and support the states in providing social housing.
In return, the federal states are expected to pledge to earmark these funds for social housing.
Creating student housing in our college towns is explicitly part of this.
The main purpose is to convert unused space into student housing, as well as to encourage the construction of additional student housing.
The federal government and several states already support these measures under existing KfW programs and social housing promotion.
Locally, there is a wealth of opportunity to support housing.
These include, for example, alliances with municipal housing companies, the development of special subsidy models, especially for families and age-appropriate housing, and the discounted sale of municipal land to housing investors.
Together with the states and municipalities, we want to help bring such initiatives to life, for example by making available unused land owned by the public sector or real estate that is no longer needed, such as former barracks or administrative buildings.
Housing must be affordable
One of our key concerns is affordable housing for low-income households.
The federal government and the public sector are fulfilling their social responsibility to a considerable extent here.
Every year, around 17 billion euros are spent on housing costs for low-income households.
The housing allowance and the reimbursement of housing costs under the basic social security scheme ensure that low-income households are able to pay their rent.
More occupancy rights are to be acquired for these households.
In order to help people with low incomes directly and make good housing possible, we want to further improve the benefits of housing assistance.
We want to adjust the benefit amount and the maximum rent amounts to the development of existing rents and advocate for a regulation that ensures an adjustment of the housing benefit to the development of housing costs in the future.
We will also support households that do not receive housing subsidies.
Social rental law protects against unreasonable rent increases.
In order to be able to react flexibly to the development of rents in conurbations, we have given the federal states the option of reducing the limit for rent increases from 20 to 15 percent within three years in areas with a shortage of housing.
To ensure that housing in cities with tight housing markets remains affordable, we will also give the federal states the option of limiting rent increases in areas with tight housing markets to ten percent above the local comparable rent when existing apartments are re-rented.
This rule does not apply to first-time rentals in new buildings.
Clear rules for tenants and landlords
The range of services in the real estate sector has grown.
This is often associated with new requirements for home or apartment owners and home builders.
Tenants and buyers are also making increasing use of professionalized service offerings.
We therefore want to expand consumer protection in construction and services in the real estate sector.
This applies, for example, to construction contract law and housing management.
We want to create a clear, uniform federal framework for brokerage services in order to achieve greater legal certainty.
Landlords and tenants should be able to continue to act as principals.
Owning your own home secures your retirement provision
We support the desire of many people to live in their own homes.
Young couples with children in particular often go to the limits of their financial possibilities for this in the start-up phase of their family, so that they can shoulder what is often the biggest purchase of their lives.
The state helps with home savings with the housing subsidy and the employee savings allowance.
With the introduction of the state-subsidized homeowner's pension - as a new form of home savings - the CDU and CSU have launched an important measure to facilitate the acquisition of property.
This financial cushion helps to solidly finance the desire to own four walls.
The growing savings amounts show that the instrument is being accepted and lead us to expect a further increase in home ownership in the coming years.
The CDU and CSU also see home ownership as a conscious decision by people for the region and as part of old-age provision.
That is why, in view of the declining population figures in some regions, we want to create the possibility that the acquisition of existing properties, i.e. already existing apartments and houses, is better supported than new construction.
This is an important signal for the appreciation of real estate in often difficult markets.
There's no place like home - even in the future
Increasing life expectancy brings new challenges to urban development and housing.
Our goal is to enable people to live in their home environment for as long as possible.
To achieve this, we want more intergenerational housing that meets the everyday needs of families with children through to those of senior citizens.
The conversion of existing housing can also contribute to this.
Similarly, we see that community living arrangements are also becoming increasingly popular among older people.
We want to support that.
Services close to home relieve people in their everyday lives and are to be expanded in a targeted manner.
We will support research and development in this area for the improved technical equipment of generation-appropriate housing.
The urban redevelopment programs have proven their worth.
We want to combine them into a unified, upgraded and integrated urban redevelopment program.
The program should involve all stakeholders, especially housing associations, private property owners and tradespeople.
5.4 Good food - sustainable agriculture
German farmers and foresters produce high-quality food and feedstuffs, renewable raw materials and a large proportion of renewable energies.
In this way, they not only ensure the livelihood of people, but also shape our homeland by maintaining the cultural landscape and preserving traditions.
The CDU and CSU want a strong agricultural and forestry sector that is broadly anchored in society.
We want as much as possible of what we eat and the renewable raw materials we need to come from the fields and stables of our farmers and from our local forests.
We are guided by clear principles for a reliable and sustainable agricultural policy: We have confidence in the domestic agricultural and forestry sector and remain a reliable partner for it.
At the same time, we promote openness, information and dialog in view of changing consumer wishes and increased social demands.
We take the problems, questions and concerns of citizens regarding agricultural production in the field and in animal husbandry, especially in environmental and animal protection, very seriously and solve them together with the farmers.
Our guiding principle is entrepreneurial farming, supported by local farmers and their families.
Especially the regional roots,
sustainable management,
Ownership and responsibility for the business,
but also for society and the environment are important to us.
We reject an agriculture determined by capital investors.
We stand by the diversity of our agriculture - conventional and organic farming methods are on an equal footing.
We promote full-time, part-time and supplementary farms because they all make an important contribution to our high-performance agriculture.
Sustainable implementation of EU agricultural policy 2014 to 2020
The EU's agricultural policy is of great importance for German agriculture.
We want the money from Brussels to reach farmers and be used as efficiently as possible.
To this end, it is important to maintain both pillars on which the EU's agricultural policy is built.
From the first pillar, farmers receive direct payments for their services to society that are not compensated via the market, such as landscape management and environmental, animal welfare and consumer standards in Europe.
The second pillar supports development in rural areas and the implementation of measures for environmentally sound agriculture.
We reject Red-Green considerations to cut direct payments to farmers.
To strengthen rural agriculture and family farms, we want to support the first hectares of each farm with a higher amount of direct payments in the future.
In particular, we will support young farmers and encourage young people to take up farming as a profession.
Our goal is to dovetail the environment and agriculture even more closely.
We stand by the so-called "greening", i.e. the even stronger linking of direct payments to environmental performance.
There will be no compulsory set-aside of agricultural land with us.
Through the second pillar, we will continue to promote sustainable developments in rural areas, which depend particularly on a strong agricultural and forestry sector.
That is why we will expand agri-environmental programs and enable investment in farms.
We will continue to provide an effective safety net to protect our farmers from extreme market downturns.
We will implement the decisions from Brussels with as little bureaucracy as possible.
Good animal husbandry and best animal welfare
Species-appropriate animal husbandry and a high level of animal welfare are of central importance to us.
We want stables where animals have good housing conditions.
That's why we are promoting new animal-friendly housing and increasing research funding to improve husbandry practices.
Likewise, we will press ahead with measures to reduce the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry.
Expertise and qualification are indispensable prerequisites for animal husbandry.
We advocate for uniformly higher animal welfare standards with a reduction and firm limitation of animal transport times in the EU.
We appreciate the important work of beekeepers.
We will expand research projects to protect bees.
Strengthening milk producers in competition
We want Germany to remain the number one dairy country in Europe even after the milk volume regulation expires in 2015.
To this end, we will support milk producers in the development of their farms, strengthen their position on the market and in the value chain, and promote cooperation between producers and processors.
We will also support dairy farmers in developing additional income opportunities, such as manure utilization in small biogas plants.
Furthermore, we also want to recognize grassland farming in greening and are examining the introduction of a roughage premium.
Market and consumer orientation on regional and international markets - Federal regional program
German agriculture should be able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by both domestic markets and the European and rapidly growing global markets.
To this end, we will continue to support the German agricultural and food industry in opening up export markets.
Strengthening regional markets is particularly important to us.
More and more people are basing their purchasing decisions on where food comes from.
For this, they need reliable and quickly recognizable information.
We will launch a federal regional program to create transparency in the purchase of regional foods.
As one element, we will introduce the "regional window" developed by the German government for food packaging nationwide.
We will continue to provide reliable support for German organic farms.
Our goal is to satisfy the great demand for organic products with domestic products.
Improve protection of agricultural and forestry land
We want to preserve as much agricultural and forest land as possible.
That is why we want to design the construction of new buildings and roads in such a way that as little undeveloped land as possible has to be used for them.
Where the use of new land is unavoidable, we want to concentrate the necessary nature conservation compensation more on environmental measures in agriculture and forestry, the upgrading and maintenance of existing compensation areas and nature reserves, and the unsealing of built-up areas.
We want to expand the possibilities for the payment of substitute money.
With the payments, we want to create a fund from which the deconstruction of built-up but no longer used land into a near-natural state can take place.
Promote competitiveness and qualification
Investments in new machinery, equipment and products
as well as the training of employees and their further qualification are the basis for a sustainable development of the agricultural industry
and for more animal welfare and environmental protection.
We will continue to reliably support them with funds from the Joint Task for Agricultural Structure and Coastal Protection (GAK).
We will expand agricultural research.
Research focuses on the development of particularly animal-friendly husbandry methods, the efficient and responsible use of biomass for food, bioenergy and renewable raw materials, and ensuring food safety.
We want to support the German agricultural industry in meeting new challenges with an innovation offensive.
To help farmers better hedge against price and yield fluctuations, we will make it easier for our farmers to set aside risk reserves for tax purposes.
Using bioenergy and renewable raw materials responsibly
The production of food and feed by German agriculture will continue to have priority over use for energy or fuel production.
Where renewable raw materials are used for energy, we are focusing on more market orientation, i.e. production and supply on demand.
In the case of new biogas plants, we will particularly promote demand-based electricity generation and the use of residual materials.
In addition, we will expand research into novel energy crops as an alternative to corn
and advocate the continuation of blending quotas in the biofuel sector.
Sustainable forest management
This year we commemorate the 300th anniversary of the introduction of the concept of sustainability by Hans Carl von Carlowitz.
The concept he first described is still valid for us today.
More than a third of Germany's land area is forest.
Our forest is not only important as a supplier of the natural raw material wood, but is also indispensable for the environment and nature conservation as well as for human recreation.
Sustainable forestry secures these functions.
To this end, we want to further strengthen the wood value chain.
We want to increase the efficiency of the predominantly small-scale ownership structure by promoting cooperation, for example in the marketing of wood.
Building more climate-stable forests with diverse tree species is important to us.
To promote the use of sustainably produced domestic wood, we support origin labeling.
We are committed to hunting, which makes an important contribution to nature, wildlife and environmental conservation.
Therefore, we will preserve the hunting right in its current form.
Stable agricultural social security system
The independent social insurance system for agriculture has proven its worth.
We are committed to ensuring that it develops in line with the other statutory social insurance schemes and that agricultural contributions remain affordable in the future.
Strengthening of the German wine and horticulture
Wine is one of the oldest cultural assets in Germany.
Viticulture characterizes many German landscapes in a unique way.
In order to preserve the classic wine-growing regions, especially steep-slope winegrowing in Germany, we are campaigning for effective EU wine market regulation.
Horticulture is part of our strong middle class.
We will continue to support it, for example, in the development of energy-saving production methods.
No bio-patents on livestock and crops
The wide diversity of livestock and plants is a particular strength of our agriculture.
We want to safeguard these and not let them be jeopardized by the increasing number of patent applications on animals and plants worldwide.
For us, there are differences between a patent on a car and an apple.
That is why we oppose patents on conventional breeding processes and also oppose the patentability of farm animals and crops from them.
5.5 Empower consumers
We trust people to do something.
Our guiding principle is the consumer who acts on his own responsibility.
It needs transparent, understandable and comparable offers.
The task of consumer policy is to ensure that products are safe and that consumers receive comprehensible information.
Consumers need strong rights, but not paternalism.
In view of the free movement of goods in Europe and increasing global trade, national regulations alone are no longer sufficient to protect consumers effectively.
That is why we are committed to expanding EU consumer policy and anchoring the high level of German protection throughout Europe.
The CDU and CSU have achieved a great deal in consumer policy: examples include better food labeling, the introduction of passenger rights with compensation obligations in the event of delays, and better information on financial investments.
Consumers may no longer be harassed with advertising calls on the telephone, and those who find themselves on hold with service numbers no longer have to pay for them.
Reliably support consumer protection institutions and involve experts
We want to consistently continue along this successful path of consumer protection.
That is why we will continue to support organizations that advise consumers, such as Stiftung Warentest and the Federation of German Consumer Organizations (vzbv).
In addition, we will establish an "Expert Council for Consumer Policy" with independent experts and scientists.
It is to produce a "consumer situation report" on a regular basis with recommendations to policymakers.
We will expand and further network the consumer research that has been successfully anchored in Germany in recent years in order to incorporate the latest findings into consumer policy.
Consumer education from an early age
Consumer education begins at an early age in daycare centers and schools and extends to adult education, for example in adult education centers.
Together with the states, we are working to ensure that consumer education becomes an integral part of educational institutions.
This includes strengthening knowledge about balanced nutrition and good housekeeping, financial matters and how to use digital media.
Guide through the world of consumption
In everyday life, it is important for consumers to have quick and easy access to consumer information and to be able to quickly identify trustworthy and customer-friendly companies.
That's why we want to offer consumer apps and compact information as a guide for consumers, for example.
We will also develop the "Clarity and Truth" project with the "Lebensmittelklarheit.de" Internet platform for other fields, such as household goods and consumer goods.
On this Internet platform, consumers can name products that they feel have deceived them.
The consumer center evaluates the labeling and the companies concerned can comment on it.
Together with legal experts, consumer and data protection experts, and scientists, we will develop criteria for a check of general terms and conditions.
It is intended to make consumer friendliness transparent.
We want high-quality, user-friendly products to remain a hallmark of the German economy.
We will create a consumer seal for this purpose.
Companies can use it to have their consumer-friendliness confirmed.
This seal of approval then makes it particularly easy to identify consumer-friendly companies.
This creates more trust and security.
Better enforcement of consumer rights
Consumers should be able to obtain justice quickly and easily in the event of a dispute.
To this end, we will introduce a nationwide online mediator who will provide unbureaucratic help if something goes wrong with a purchase on the Internet.
Safe food - making fraud more difficult across Europe
Safe food, clear labeling and healthy nutrition are central to us.
This includes zero tolerance for food fraud.
We want to make food fraud more difficult and punish it more severely throughout Europe.
Food scandals can thus be uncovered quickly and comprehensively.
Government oversight at the federal and state levels must be improved.
We want to strengthen import controls at the EU's external borders as well as domestic controls.
We need a high density of controls and uniformly high standards throughout the EU and Germany.
We will dovetail private and government controls even better and increase the requirements for companies' own control systems.
We will develop an early warning system for the food sector in Europe that will identify economic incentives for fraudsters at an early stage.
No one should make money from food fraud.
In addition to tougher penalties, we also want to implement ways to skim profits made through criminal acts in the food sector.
Clear labeling of food
For us, the following applies: Food must be clearly labeled.
This includes that all information is clearly legible and the packaging corresponds to the contents.
Consumers should also know whether food has been produced using genetic engineering methods, which region a product comes from and under what conditions animals are kept.
That is why we will join forces with the agricultural sector and animal welfare organizations to launch a "Transparency Initiative in Animal Husbandry," which will include reliable animal welfare labeling.
We also advocate mandatory origin labeling of food products throughout Europe, especially meat products.
We reject the cloning of animals for food production as well as the marketing of such products in Germany and Europe.
Healthy balanced diet and careful food handling
We want to raise awareness of balanced nutrition.
That is why we will continue and expand the campaign "IN FORM - Germany's initiative for healthy nutrition and more exercise" with information and recommendations as well as projects and campaigns for families, educational institutions, companies and senior citizens.
We oppose punitive taxes on certain foods.
Food is a valuable commodity and should not be carelessly wasted.
We want to make people aware of the value and good handling of food and improve information, for example about shelf life and storage.
We are declaring war on the throwaway mentality and will work with food retailers, consumers, food banks and other stakeholders to achieve the EU target of halving food waste.
Safe toy
Children as consumers are particularly vulnerable.
That is why we continue to advocate for the safety of children's toys in the EU internal market.
Security in financial transactions
To ensure that consumers are better protected in financial transactions, we have already made product information sheets and the advisory protocol mandatory.
We will review both instruments with a view to practicable handling and develop them further with improvements for investors.
We will make state-subsidized private pension plans more consumer-friendly
and effectively limit their administrative costs.
In addition, we will push ahead with the introduction of independent fee-based advice, in which the product provider's commission is replaced by a fee paid by the consumer, for all financial products.
We will introduce a checking account for everyone so that even people with very low incomes can handle their payment transactions.
We want to make it easier for everyone to switch banks.
We want to oblige banks to give customers a warning when they switch to expensive overdraft facilities.
And we will set up a comparison portal so that customers can obtain all the essential information on bank charges at a glance.
Trademark "senior-friendly
Senior citizens are a large and self-confident consumer group.
That is why we want to provide more specific advice and information to older people.
This also includes targeted information about which support services and offers are available for care and help at home and how their quality is to be assessed.
Likewise, we want to make it easier to find the right retirement home.
Strengthening consumer rights in the digital world
We want consumers to be able to use the great opportunities offered by the Internet safely - for example, when shopping online, banking, booking travel, using social networks, and researching information.
To this end, it is essential to ensure the most comprehensive data protection possible for consumers and to safeguard consumer rights on the Net.
The high level of data protection in Germany must also be maintained in the revision of EU data protection law.
Consumers have a right to self-determination over their personal data and to protection of their privacy.
In the borderless world of the Internet, we need standards that are as uniform as possible internationally to protect consumers.
We want the principle of explicit consent to apply to the use of personal data.
Our aim is to protect the right to erasure of personal data,
Consumer-friendly privacy settings, especially in social networks
and the consideration of data protection in the development of new technologies and products.
5.6 Culture and media - protecting creativity and diversity
Germany is a cultural nation.
We want to preserve the rich cultural heritage of our country.
Art and culture shape our identity.
We are committed to the freedom of art
and want to create good conditions so that art and culture remain the basis of our coexistence.
As a result of the distribution of responsibilities enshrined in the Basic Law, the Lnder and municipalities have a special responsibility in the area of art and culture.
We want to continue to be a reliable partner for them:
To this end, we have continued to promote culture at a high level, thereby securing the framework conditions for a vibrant cultural landscape.
The federal government's cultural budget has increased regularly since 2005, by more than 21 percent overall.
In the coming years, we will continue on this course by using the cultural budget to further support the tried and tested while at the same time setting new priorities.
This applies to cultural heritage as well as to contemporary art, to popular culture as well as to artistic excellence.
In addition to government responsibility, civic engagement is indispensable.
We see our task as creating good conditions in which art and culture can flourish.
Free and strong media are a central element of our liberal order.
We want to continue to support their diversity in the future by providing suitable framework conditions.
This includes measures to ensure the quality of the media
as well as offerings to strengthen media competence, which will continue to contribute to an enlightened approach to the media in the future.
Cultural education
Without education there is no culture and without culture there is no education.
That's why even the youngest children should learn to understand culture as a natural part of life.
To ensure that everyone can find their very own access to cultural offerings and forms of expression such as dance, music, visual arts, literature or digital media, we want to continue to support initiatives such as "Jedem Kind ein Instrument" (JeKi), "Kulturagenten" or "Kinder zum Olymp" with federal funding.
In addition, we will use the program "Kultur macht stark. Alliances for Education" program, we will support extracurricular activities such as reading mentors, theaters, music schools and libraries, thus promoting the musical, aesthetic and cultural development of young people.
In order to be able to offer cultural education locally on a permanent basis, we also want to strengthen partnerships between schools and cultural institutions.
Care of the German language
The German language is an essential expression of our rich culture.
We are expressly committed to maintaining our language, to preserving its expressive power and therefore to refraining from unnecessary borrowings, for example from the English language, and to ensuring that texts are comprehensible.
We are currently seeing interest in our language increase around the world:
The Goethe-Instituts, the German schools abroad and Deutsche Welle are making an important contribution to meeting this demand.
We will continue to promote the learning of German and provide the necessary financial resources for the promotion of the German language abroad.
Capital Cultural Contract
Germany lives culturally from and through its diverse regions.
Nevertheless, Berlin as the capital plays an important role in the cultural self-image of our nation.
Through federal cultural policy, we recognize the importance of Berlin to our nation.
As the current capital funding agreement expires at the end of 2017, we will reorganize the funding.
Remembrance of dictatorship and tyranny - commemorative politics
Because of its history, Germany has a special obligation to keep alive the memory of the causes and consequences of dictatorship and tyranny.
The reappraisal of the Nazi dictatorship with its genocide of the European Jews and its crimes against the millions of people who were disenfranchised, persecuted, tortured and murdered must be continued.
Here we remain responsible, especially towards the youth, so that racism and extremism never have a chance again.
The reappraisal of the SED dictatorship must also be continued.
We want to teach young people in particular about the time of the division of Germany and the causes and consequences of oppression and injustice in the GDR by stepping up our efforts to come to terms with history.
Foreign cultural and educational policy
We are a rich and diverse cultural nation.
Culture is an ambassador of our country.
We want to point out the diversity of culture in the countries and regions of our country, thus arousing interest in visiting or encouraging people to learn our language.
At the same time, Germany's foreign cultural and educational policy in other countries makes an important contribution to international understanding and European integration, as we ourselves learn more about the living conditions, interests and traditions of our neighbors and other nations.
Advance historic preservation
Old village churches, half-timbered houses, castles or palaces: there are around 1.3 million monuments in our country.
It is one of the most important tasks of our cultural nation to protect these unique buildings.
We reliably stand by this commitment and will continue to work for the preservation and protection of our farming heritage.
Culture and creative industries
The cultural and creative industries are not only a diverse sector, they also produce culturally and economically significant products and services:
These include, for example, the particularly high-quality designed daycare center or the publisher who brings out the classics of world literature as electronic books for mobile devices.
The cultural and creative industries provide work for around one million people.
In order to further advance this sector, we will continue the "Cultural and Creative Industries Initiative".
We will also promote cooperation between culture and tourism.
Combining cultural offerings with the creative industries helps make cities and regions more attractive.
Appreciation of the Reformation
In 2017, Germany commemorates the beginning of the Reformation 500 years ago.
This is a world-class event that also allows us to highlight the Christian character of our country.
Numerous sites of the Reformation in the East and West, such as Lutherstadt Wittenberg or the old imperial city of Augsburg, bear witness to the national significance of this event.
Therefore, we will support the anniversary in its preparation and implementation.
Stabilization of artists' social insurance
Many self-employed artists, freelance journalists, writers and authors live in economically precarious circumstances.
With the social insurance for artists, which we want to stabilize in the long term, we have a proven instrument for giving freelance artists and publicists access to statutory health, nursing care and pension insurance.
Our primary goal is to prevent an increase in the levy rate.
Importance of media diversity for democracy
In Germany, the media are two things: a cultural and an economic asset.
Freedom of opinion and information are necessary foundations of our free democratic basic order.
We want to safeguard the diversity and quality of the media - even in a rapidly changing media world.
The prerequisite for a diverse media landscape is equal rights and equal value for all types of media.
We want to secure framework conditions that ensure fair competition.
Cooperation between the federal and state governments is important for this - especially when it comes to representing media issues in Europe.
Opportunity digitization
The decisive driving force behind current media development is digitization.
It is fundamentally changing the media on offer and people's usage behavior.
It also dissolves the classic media genres.
We want to shape the framework conditions in such a way that the industry can develop optimally both nationally and internationally.
and fulfill its cultural mission.
For us, media policy is more than just economic policy.
Nevertheless, the economic framework conditions must also be right here.
Dual media order
We are committed to the established dual media system of private and public broadcasting.
Fair competition must take place between the two and among themselves to provide adequate development opportunities for all participants.
We want strong, high-quality and diverse public broadcasting.
Especially in the intensifying competition of the digital age, the role of ARD, ZDF and Deutschlandradio as credible information anchors is becoming increasingly important.
In doing so, it is important to keep the core of the mission in mind.
Private broadcasting is an indispensable part of the media landscape, even in the digital age.
Content-related quality criteria must also play an appropriate role in program design here.
Our goal is to enrich media and opinion diversity in Germany for the benefit of media users and the media sector.
To achieve this, we need fair competitive conditions - both nationally and internationally.
In addition, the technical convergence of the media must be taken into account in regulation, supervisory structures and political responsibilities.
This applies in particular to media concentration and antitrust law.
German wave
Deutsche Welle is Germany's media calling card in the world.
We see it as an important and indispensable showcase for the presentation of our country.
Increasing competition from other foreign broadcasters and growing interest in objective reporting are presenting the station with new challenges.
Our goal is therefore to strengthen Deutsche Welle.
One right step in this direction is to expand cooperation with ARD, ZDF and Deutschlandradio.
Preserve diversity of print products
Newspapers and magazines are important sources of information - offline and online.
It is the joint task of politicians and publishers to raise awareness in society of the value and importance of print products as a cultural asset.
We want to maintain the diversity of offerings in this area.
For this reason, we consider the press wholesaler to be indispensable as a neutral distribution channel.
We also want a secure and stable future for the book.
A living literature is an elementary part of our culture.
Nevertheless, the world of books has changed in the digital age.
The fixed book price is important for the preservation of book diversity.
The reduced VAT rate for books is to be retained and will also apply to electronic and audio books in the future.
Copyright
Digitalization has made the tensions surrounding copyright more visible and tangible.
But even in the digital age, the author's right to protection of his intellectual property and the right to appropriate remuneration for his performance apply.
It not only secures the income of the creators, it also enables artistic diversity.
At the same time, copyright must be understood and accepted by users and provide answers to the changed digital application possibilities.
We therefore want to further develop copyright law, for example on the issue of private copying, dealing with infringements by users or the growing number of new forms of digital exploitation.
This requires a technical and legal-political balancing act in order to do justice to the legitimate interests of authors, rights holders, exploiters and consumers.
Many issues will have to be resolved not only nationally.
We must therefore also put forward our ideas at EU level or internationally.
Media literacy and youth media protection
Due to the rapid technical and social developments in the entire media sector, it is necessary for all generations to be able to deal competently with common media.
Children should learn interdisciplinary media skills while still at school.
Initiatives such as the "Net for Kids" enable children to make informed use of the Net.
But that alone is not enough:
Children and young people need sufficient protection from the possible excesses of the modern media world.
They must be protected on the Internet from offers that impair their development and are dangerous, among other things by using suitable software to protect minors.
The Interstate Treaty on the Protection of Minors in the Media must be adapted to new problem areas.
Film Funding
We want to keep the cinema attractive as a cultural asset.
The aim is to help German film meet the new challenges on the international film market.
We will therefore continue to strengthen Germany as a film location.
In order to create long-term planning security for producers, the German Federal Film Fund (DFFF) is no longer to be limited to three years, but is to be established permanently.
National film heritage
We will continue to advocate for the comprehensive safeguarding of the national film heritage, especially through its digitization.
In addition, we will continue to support the work of the Kinematheksverbund and the institutions it brings together, such as film archives and cinematheques.
Computer games are part of cultural life
Computer games shape the everyday lives of many, especially younger people in our country.
They have become an integral part of cultural life.
We recognize the variety of high-quality offerings, especially educationally valuable computer games, as well as the great creative achievement and high technical competence of game developers.
We want to promote this further, for example with the German Computer Game Award.
We are committed to effective media protection for young people in order to protect children and young people from harmful content, including in the area of computer games.
5.7 Participate! Get involved! - More citizen participation
Democracy lives from participation!
Our democracy thrives on citizens having a say in decisions and getting involved in the search for the best solutions.
Whether as local councillors, when it is a question of helping to shape the home town, or as works councillors or parent or student representatives, or in citizens' initiatives or political parties.
Here everywhere, citizens participate in decision-making
and take responsibility for their fellow citizens and our community.
That is what makes our democracy strong.
The CDU and CSU believe that citizens' opinions are important; we want citizens to become actively involved in debates.
This is particularly true with regard to major projects, such as airport expansions or the expansion of wind power plants and electricity grids, which our country will urgently need in the future, but which are often controversial.
People on the ground often have a different opinion on this than those who plan such projects.
Great projects can only succeed together with the people, not against them.
The CDU and CSU have therefore ensured that citizens are better involved.
We have enshrined openness in all procedural and planning steps and early public participation in the approval process in law.
This means that participation takes place even before decisions have been made about a project.
The very question of whether there is a need for a project at all is now being discussed publicly with citizens.
All important documents and also alternative drafts must now be published on the network at an early stage so that they can be included in the participation process.
All proposals, including alternative solutions, must now be examined in the approval process.
Local people can thus better contribute their views.
Everyone wins through citizen participation:
We achieve greater understanding among citizens through comprehensible procedures and planning steps.
The key is to harness the commitment and expertise of as many as possible.
At the same time, this provides an opportunity to address concerns and possible lawsuits in advance.
This creates reliable conditions for investors and helps large-scale projects to be realized more quickly.
This also helps keep costs more in line.
CDU and CSU want to further expand citizen participation.
It is a prerequisite for us to move our community forward and to be able to identify and resolve contradictions and difficulties at an early stage.
This creates understanding and security.
Turning those affected into participants
This applies not only to infrastructure projects, but also to building bridges to science and new technologies.
Technical progress is constantly changing our lives.
However, citizens are often unsettled by new technologies.
That's why it's important to educate people about it and break down reservations.
To this end, we need a dialog between science, politics, future users and citizens.
To this end, we will bring together experts from different fields of knowledge, industries and organizations for citizen dialogs.
We want to ensure more openness to the interested public.
The early participation procedure - and, in the case of public projects, the financial planning - must be completed before the application for implementation of the planning approval procedure is submitted to the responsible authority.
We want to limit the period of validity of permits and zoning decisions.
If a major project is not implemented within a reasonable period of time, the public should have to participate again.
5.8 Values strengthen our country - churches and religious communities
The willingness of many people in our country to take responsibility for themselves and others and to show public spirit is based on an orientation toward values that are often an expression of a personal belief and worldview.
In this respect, the churches and religious communities also make an important contribution to our community as a whole.
The CDU and CSU are expressly committed to the Christian character of our country and
to respect for every religious conviction.
This Christian character is also reflected in the prominent role played by the Christian churches and their welfare associations in many areas of our society.
This applies not least to the education, health and social sectors, to the care and counseling of people, and to culture.
Church activities often promote local solidarity.
But even beyond that, they strengthen relations with many parts of the world.
In addition, immigration in recent decades has also led to a greater diversity of Christian churches and congregations in our country.
Numerous services provided by church institutions to our community are only possible because the churches contribute a considerable amount of their own funds and church members volunteer their time.
At the same time, our state rightly provides extensive support for these church ministries.
In doing so, it respects the ecclesiastical character of the corresponding institutions, which is also expressed in ecclesiastical labor law.
We are particularly grateful for the resurgence of Jewish life in Germany - also due to the immigration of numerous new community members from the former Soviet Union.
We support the Jewish communities and Jewish welfare, for example, in the integration of these immigrants.
We appreciate and support the manifold contributions of Muslim clubs and associations to our community - for example, to the integration of Muslim immigrants and their descendants into our society, as well as to the dialogue between cultures and religions.
With this in mind, we want to continue the German Islam Conference.
In this context, the proven state-church law in our country is also a suitable basis for comprehensive cooperation with all religious communities in a spirit of partnership.
6. germany: standing up for freedom and security
6.1 Safe Germany
We want everyone in Germany to be able to live freely and safely - whether at home, in streets and squares, on buses and trains, by day or night.
Security is a prerequisite for freedom, for peaceful coexistence and trust in our state.
Germany is one of the safest countries in the world and will remain so with us.
Improve everyday and on-site security - increase use of video cameras in hot spots
CDU and CSU ensure safety in everyday life and on the ground.
Those who experience vandalism, graffiti graffiti, neglect, harassment or aggressive begging do not feel safe.
We firmly oppose these phenomena, because these are often starting points for crime.
In order to ward off violence and theft and successfully solve attacks and other crimes, we want to increase the use of video cameras at crime hotspots and danger spots, such as train stations.
Police must be given the ability to quickly access video recordings made by others, such as Deutsche Bahn.
However, video cameras cannot replace police officers on the ground.
Our police must be able to intervene immediately in an emergency.
Supporting police officers as guarantors of internal security - further improving their protection
CDU and CSU have confidence in police and judiciary.
Police officers deserve our recognition and support in the difficult tasks they must meet in their daily duties.
The CDU and CSU are committed to a well-equipped police force that can be reached by the public immediately and is quickly on the scene of an incident.
Police officers, as well as firefighters, civil protection workers, technical relief workers and rescue workers, lay down their lives for us.
Violence against them is directed against all of us.
We have ensured that resistance to police officers and other emergency forces can be punished more severely.
We want to build on this and further improve their protection under criminal law.
An increasing propensity to violence is also directed at public authority employees in job centers, citizens' offices and other public servants.
We also want to better protect them on duty.
In this way, we strengthen respect for state authorities and their employees.
Protect your own four walls especially
In view of an increasing number of residential burglaries and an insufficient clearance rate, we want to increase the search pressure, especially on gangs operating across borders.
This includes better cross-regional police information sharing.
We call for more police patrols in particularly high-risk residential areas.
Police advisory services need to provide even more information about appropriate security technology that can be used to better protect doors and windows at home.
CDU and CSU advocate better tax incentives in favor of investments in home security
and for minimum requirements for protection against burglary when building new houses and apartments.
Preventing and combating child and juvenile delinquency
Violence and delinquency among children and young people must be effectively countered.
We want to prevent children and young people from slipping into crime, thus reducing their chances of a successful life and innocently victimizing others.
Preventive services in schools, recreation and youth work must be strengthened, and prevention and law enforcement must be more closely linked.
The CDU and CSU stand for a firm approach to juvenile offenders.
Quick educational responses show boundaries and protect potential victims.
For delinquent youths in particular, the rule is that punishment must follow the crime.
Therefore, accelerating and simplifying juvenile criminal proceedings is the right way to go.
Restorative justice serves an important function with juvenile offenders.
Young people thus become more aware of the consequences of their own actions.
The CDU and CSU are in favor of obligating them even more strongly in the future to take measures to make amends.
Victims and their survivors must be included in this process.
As a rule, adult criminal law should apply to offenders between the ages of 18 and 21.
The application of juvenile criminal law must remain an exception in these cases.
We want to anchor the ban on driving or the prevention of obtaining a driver's license as an independent sanction in juvenile criminal law
and expand the scope of application to all types of offenses.
The more often students refuse to attend their school, the more often they also become criminals.
This is where we want to start and thus prevent the emergence of criminal careers.
CDU and CSU call for consistent enforcement of compulsory education.
In doing so, we want to hold parents in particular accountable.
Municipalities, schools, voluntary youth welfare organizations and the police must work closely together here.
Determined fight against human trafficking and forced prostitution
We want to better protect women from violence and forced prostitution.
Forced prostitution is a modern form of slavery and a profitable business for organized crime.
It is accompanied by a serious violation of human dignity.
Germany must not offer protection to criminal pimps and brothel operators.
That is why we have ensured that the Bundestag has adopted initial measures to improve the control of prostitution sites.
But we want to go further and advocate changing criminal law so that traffickers can be convicted without the testimony of their often frightened victims if there is sufficient evidence.
Law secures freedom - Reliability creates trust
Our legal system guarantees people inalienable rights and free development, as well as the certainty that the state will protect their rights.
People should be able to rely on this at all times.
Judges and prosecutors bear great responsibility for this in our community.
The CDU and CSU want to ensure a citizen-oriented and efficient judiciary.
We want to promote alternative dispute resolution options in private legal disputes, such as mediation and arbitration, to relieve the burden on the judiciary.
We want to shorten the duration of criminal proceedings.
Improve protection against harassment and sexual abuse
We want to better protect children and young people as well as people with disabilities from abuse.
To this end, we want to expand the criminal offense of sexual abuse of minors, among other things.
We want to strengthen the rights of victims of sexual abuse.
Sexual abuse often causes lifelong trauma in victims.
Many can only talk about it years later and report the acts to the police.
The CDU and CSU want to extend the statute of limitations for crimes of abuse so that such wrongs can be punished for longer.
Better protect women from violence
To support women and their children who have been victims of violence and seek protection in women's shelters, we want to put the funding of these facilities on a reliable footing.
Improve victim protection
We want to improve care for victims.
We want to strengthen the work of volunteers for this purpose.
We advocate for psychosocial process support.
We want to improve law enforcement to protect victims of stalking.
In order to gain a comprehensive overview of the crime situation and to be able to take targeted countermeasures, we advocate regularly conducting crime and victim surveys based on international models.
Confiscate assets from crimes
The fight against organized crime is also a major challenge because of its economic power, since up to now the sometimes high "profits" of criminals often cannot be collected.
The extensive investigations required for this purpose often conflict with the requirement to expedite criminal cases.
Therefore, in these cases, the illegal assets cannot be skimmed.
The CDU and CSU want to simplify the rules on asset recovery and speed up their application, including by facilitating the temporary freezing of such assets.
In particular, it should be possible to order asset recovery up to five years after a final conviction in separate court proceedings.
Regulating minimum storage periods for connection data
The state must protect people's personal communication data.
At the same time, however, we must not accept gaps in protection in law enforcement and security.
Minimum retention periods for connection data are necessary so that data can be accessed in the prosecution of serious crimes by order of an investigating judge or to avert significant threats to public safety.
Some crimes, such as the distribution of child pornography on the Internet, can only be solved by this means.
Especially in the fight against terrorists, this is often a decisive means of preventing attacks.
The CDU and CSU therefore want to transpose a corresponding European Union directive into national law.
Strengthening Defensible Democracy, Effectively Combating Extremism
The CDU and CSU resolutely oppose every form of extremism, every form of violence and terror, regardless of whether they are right-wing or left-wing extremists or violent Islamists.
As much as extremists differ in their objectives, they are similar in their hatred of our democratic society and the values that sustain it.
That is why we take a look at the entire spectrum of political and religious extremism.
A defensive democracy must not be blind in any eye.
Consistently prevent extremism
Increasingly, extremist threats come from lone perpetrators and micro-groups who radicalize themselves, for example via propaganda videos on the Internet.
The fight against extremism is an ongoing task for society as a whole.
The best prevention is education in the basic values of our liberal democracy.
Human rights and freedoms are not a matter of course, but must be defended again and again.
Education and training have a special responsibility here.
We will therefore strengthen political education and historical awareness.
This starts in school, but must also be part of lifelong learning.
We will continue to provide targeted support for preventive projects and ensure that successful approaches are implemented on a sustainable basis.
We are continuing to expand exit programs for extremists.
Effectively countering extremism on the ground
The CDU and CSU will strengthen the states and municipalities in their fight against extremism on the ground.
This includes advice on dealing with enemies of the constitution in municipal bodies, institutions or local structures.
Important partners here are above all clubs and associations, especially youth associations, including sports, the fire department, churches, religious communities and welfare organizations.
The CDU and CSU will continue to ensure that public funds for countering extremism are only awarded to institutions that are committed to freedom and democracy.
Strengthen security agencies in the fight against extremism and terrorism
The CDU and CSU want to further improve cooperation in the security structure of our country within the framework of the distribution of tasks between the federal and state governments.
By bringing together the Office for the Protection of the Constitution and the police in the Joint Counter-Extremism and Counter-Terrorism Center, we are strengthening the effectiveness of the security authorities.
We want to further expand this successful approach.
In the fight against international terrorism and right-wing extremism, the anti-terrorism file and the right-wing extremism file are indispensable tools for the rapid exchange of information between security and constitutional protection authorities.
We will clarify the groups of persons covered as quickly as possible, as required by constitutional law.
We want to expand the analysis and research capabilities of the files.
In other areas, such as left-wing and xenophobic extremism, we also need such joint composite files.
In this way, we are creating another effective contribution to danger prevention and law enforcement.
The acquisition of insider information from the extremist milieu through the recruitment and management of so-called V-people is essential in order to shed light on the inner workings of often secluded anti-constitutional groups.
However, the selection and management of undercover agents must be improved and their use more effectively controlled.
In the fight against terrorism, the challenges are constantly changing.
Therefore, the appropriateness and effectiveness of existing means must be continually reviewed.
We are committed to ensuring that all constitutional and associational means, such as bans on associations, are used consistently against all forms of extremist and terrorist endeavors.
We want to tighten the law on deportation for foreign criminals.
Those who preach religious hatred or use violence to achieve their religious goals disregard our fundamental values and must expect to be expelled.
Punish advertising for terrorist organizations
Soliciting sympathy for a criminal or terrorist organization prepares the ground for terrorist violence.
The CDU and CSU want to make this advertising a punishable offense.
We want to ensure that members of cells that carry out arson and explosive attacks can in future be regularly classified as members of terrorist groups and punished accordingly.
Enhancing cybersecurity: Freedom in a secure network
In the digital age, crime is increasingly moving online.
This is what makes new forms of crime possible in the first place: from data theft and online fraud to industrial espionage.
Resilient IT infrastructures and networks are indispensable in view of this threat situation.
Security and law enforcement must also be ensured on the Internet.
To this end, the security authorities must be given the necessary powers and technical and human resources.
With the Cyber Security Strategy, we have laid the groundwork to ensure cybersecurity at a level commensurate with the protectiveness of networked information infrastructures without compromising the opportunities and benefits of cyberspace.
It bundles the activities for a closely interlinked approach of all actors in government, industry and research.
Special protection for critical infrastructures
As a modern industrial location, Germany must ensure its basic supply.
We will therefore better protect water, electricity, communications networks and other critical infrastructures against attacks from the Internet and other attacks.
We have created the Cyber Defense Center for a rapid exchange of information between the authorities, for quick assessments and subsequent recommendations for action.
We want to continually adapt this center to the threat situation in terms of personnel and technology.
With an IT security law, we want to ensure that minimum security standards are met in all critical infrastructures.
We want to improve the exchange of information with the authorities in the event of acute IT security incidents so that we can respond quickly.
Our goal here is also consistent prosecution.
Protecting German business from cyber espionage
German companies are increasingly falling victim to cyber espionage.
Important research and development results are spied out in this way.
We want to better protect Germany as a business location and thus jobs in our country from targeted industrial espionage - among other things, through security partnerships and a better exchange of information between the state and industry.
Cybersecurity is a location factor of the future.
We will continue to drive research in this area and promote novel projects.
Germany is to become the market leader for cyber security solutions.
Closing criminal liability gaps with new digital criminal offenses
We want to revise relevant regulations under criminal law and criminal procedure law with a view to technical progress.
We want to close criminal liability gaps by introducing new elements of crime in the digital space, for example to protect our children from insults and harassment online ("cyberbullying").
Combating cross-border crime
Open borders in Europe are a win-win for all of us.
But even with open internal borders, internal security must remain guaranteed in the European Union.
With the eastward enlargements of the EU, the challenges for this have grown.
The CDU and CSU advocate that the abolished border controls in the Schengen area continue to be compensated for by appropriate measures, such as checks along the border that are independent of circumstances.
We want to better prevent and prosecute cross-border crime
and better restrict uncontrolled immigration.
We are therefore committed to the establishment of an EU-wide entry and exit register.
This makes it more difficult to enter Germany undetected.
We want to examine the introduction of an electronic visa procedure as a compensatory measure for relaxations in visa requirements.
The fight against rising crime in the regions close to the Polish and Czech borders requires particular attention - especially human and drug trafficking as well as vehicle and other thefts.
The CDU and CSU want to ensure that police forces at Germany's borders are adequately equipped
and that cooperation between the federal and state police forces near the borders is even more closely interlinked, for example by means of more joint police patrols and joint task forces.
We want to further strengthen cross-border police cooperation.
In doing so, we want to build on past successes, especially with the police centers established jointly with our European neighbors.
6.2 Europe: Strong in the world
The European Union needs a foreign and security policy that is both coordinated and capable of action.
It must be based on a further developed common security strategy and strengthen the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy.
To this end, we also want to take further steps to deepen military cooperation in Europe while further developing the transatlantic division of labor, for example by pooling and sharing previously national military capabilities.
In the long term, we are aiming for a European army.
The European Union needs a strategic discussion of what it can and wants to achieve by civilian means and military operations.
Civilian means are our priority.
The EU's existing capabilities in civil crisis prevention and post-crisis rehabilitation must be dovetailed with its military capabilities in line with the networked approach of the EU and NATO.
The European Union and its Member States can provide valuable assistance in building an effective administration in third countries.
This applies in particular to the areas of police and justice.
To this end, we will encourage German civil servants, judges and prosecutors to participate in such missions through targeted measures.
We want joint European operations to safeguard and strengthen Europe's security to be conducted primarily in our geographic neighborhood.
Operations beyond this neighborhood should increasingly be assigned to regional partners and organizations, such as the African Union (AU), the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), or the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), which should be appropriately supported and prepared by the European Union and NATO.
EU enlargements must serve the citizens
EU enlargements to date have been in the interests of Germany and Europe.
We stand by the fact that the countries of the Western Balkans have a prospect of accession.
Care must be taken, however, to ensure that new member states fully meet all political and economic accession criteria.
Raise Turkey relations to a new level
We see Turkey's strategic and economic importance for Europe as well as the multifaceted relations between the people in our two countries.
We would therefore like to further deepen relations between the European Union and Turkey.
Close and special cooperation serves both the people of Europe and Turkey.
We therefore want the strongest possible cooperation between the European Union and Turkey, as well as close strategic cooperation on foreign and security policy issues.
However, we reject full membership for Turkey because it does not meet the requirements for EU accession.
Moreover, given the size of the country and its economic structure, the European Union would be overwhelmed.
6.3 Advocating for peace and human rights worldwide
The CDU and CSU stand for the worldwide recognition and implementation of human rights, for freedom,
peace and international understanding,
for reliability and loyalty to the alliance, and for
standing up for Germany's interests.
The values of the Basic Law,
the safety of citizens,
The interests and global responsibility of Germany and Europe are the benchmarks of our foreign and security policy.
The Bundeswehr makes an indispensable contribution to this with its soldiers.
Germany's future in peace, freedom and prosperity is inextricably linked to political, economic, ecological and social developments in Europe and the world.
Ongoing globalization increases mutual political and economic dependencies.
The protection of global goods such as security,
an intact climate
or economic stability
and a secure energy supply for all is increasingly setting the international political agenda.
It is in Germany's own interest to stand up for peace worldwide.
and freedom,
for a fair world order and the application of international law,
for sustainable development
and poverty reduction
and to recognize and prevent crises at an early stage.
In order to live safely in Germany, we need good neighborly relations and reliable partnerships.
For this reason, Germany fulfills its alliance obligations and makes an active contribution to the preservation and spread of peace and security within the framework of the United Nations, the OSCE, NATO and the European Union.
Strengthening the transatlantic partnership
The USA is Germany's most important friend and partner outside Europe.
For the CDU and CSU, friendship with the United States of America is therefore a cornerstone of our international cooperation.
We have an opportunity to further strengthen the North Atlantic partnership
and create more growth and jobs on both sides of the Atlantic by reducing trade barriers through a Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership.
We are committed to NATO and its new strategic concept.
Even after the end of the Cold War, the Alliance's central obligation remains the common defense of its members - even if missions to secure peace, freedom and stability are the focus of current tasks.
NATO should remain open to new members who share the values of the Alliance and its member states and whose admission will bring greater security for all member states.
Germany's Special Responsibility Towards the State of Israel
We acknowledge Germany's special responsibility towards Israel as a Jewish state.
Israel's right to exist and its security are non-negotiable for us.
Germany and Europe have a strong interest in peace and stability in the Middle East.
Our goal is a two-state solution with an Israel in permanently secure borders and a viable Palestinian state living in peaceful neighborhood.
Good neighborly relations with Russia
A good neighborly relationship with a politically and economically modern Russia is in our interest.
The depth and breadth of these relations depends largely on the extent to which Russia fulfills its international obligations to uphold rule-of-law and democratic standards.
We are striving for a new partnership agreement between the European Union and Russia, a
deepening of civil society cooperation, a
further liberalization of visa regulations for entrepreneurs, scientists and students,
a strengthening of Baltic Sea cooperation
as well as a strengthening of cooperation in foreign and security policy.
Strategic partnerships with emerging markets
Emerging markets are becoming increasingly important politically and economically.
In solving global problems, we want to involve the major emerging economies such as Brazil, China, India, Mexico, Nigeria and South Africa even more, for example within the framework of the Group of the Most Important Industrialized and Emerging Countries (G20),
and expand relations with regional organizations such as ASEAN or MERCOSUR.
Whether security policy, climate protection, poverty reduction or the global economy: we can only master many of the challenges in these and other fields together with the major emerging economies.
In addition, a lively economic exchange with the dynamically growing economies is of great importance for secure and competitive jobs in our country.
Reform of the United Nations
We remain committed to increasing the United Nations' capacity to act and its strength.
Strengthening them also requires internal reforms.
In the reform of the Security Council, we are in favor of a permanent seat for the European Union.
Along the way, Germany is ready to take on more responsibility by assuming a permanent seat on the Security Council.
Further development of international law helps to ensure that the United Nations makes a more effective contribution to the worldwide enforcement of freedom and human rights.
Our commitment to human rights
Our worldwide commitment to universal and indivisible human rights is based on our Christian view of humanity and the constitutional requirement to respect and protect the inviolable dignity of the human person.
Respect for the dignity and rights of every individual is the foundation for the democratic, liberal, economic, social and cultural development of every country.
Human rights violations are crimes.
They threaten peace and international security.
The CDU and CSU will continue to use the means at their disposal to defend human rights.
Solidarity with disadvantaged and oppressed religious minorities is a particular concern of ours.
We advocate religious freedom for all people worldwide.
This includes persistent outreach to Christians in more than 50 countries who are oppressed, persecuted and displaced because of their faith.
Their number is in the millions.
At the same time, we resolutely oppose any form of anti-Semitism.
We remain committed to the worldwide abolition of the death penalty and the prohibition of torture.
We fight human trafficking, slavery, organ trafficking, forced prostitution and marriage, and other inhumane practices at the national and international levels.
We stand up for freedom of the press and freedom of opinion worldwide as the essential foundation of a free society.
We are committed to strengthening the instruments and raising the profile of human rights protection at the United Nations.
We resolutely oppose efforts to weaken the European Court of Human Rights.
We are strongly committed to the work of the International Criminal Court and its support by the international community.
We want the United Nations Human Rights Council to take credible action against human rights violations worldwide.
Modern defense policy for a secure Germany
The Bundeswehr is a guarantor of the security of Germany and its allies.
The soldiers and civilian staff of the Bundeswehr do a great job for our country.
For this we owe them our thanks and appreciation.
The realignment of the Bundeswehr is a successful project.
In this way, we are shaping a Bundeswehr that will continue to have a broad range of capabilities in the future.
Policymakers should continue to be able to respond quickly and effectively to different challenges.
Germany will continue to reliably fulfill its security policy tasks and obligations in the international framework.
To this end, we are gearing the Bundeswehr even more strongly than before to the challenges of the future.
Our goal is to adapt the capabilities of our Bundeswehr to the changing security policy environment and to make its financing sustainable.
We want to complete the realignment by 2017.
The CDU and CSU stand for planning security and reliability.
The Bundeswehr in action
Only when all non-military means have been exhausted can military operations by the Bundeswehr be considered.
Such missions must be carried out in accordance with the Basic Law and international law
and serve to preserve or restore peace and international security.
The mission must be acceptable in its risks and pursue clearly defined, achievable objectives.
The Bundeswehr must be able to make a credible contribution to achieving these goals.
The efforts of international allies to improve the security situation in Afghanistan and build stable structures are bearing fruit.
The end of the combat mission will take place at the turn of 2014/15.
Starting in 2015, the Bundeswehr will give priority to training and advising the Afghan security forces.
Preventive protection against pirate attacks and thus strengthening maritime security is also a task of high security policy importance.
Making the service even more attractive
We will continue to ensure that soldiers on deployment receive the material they need to fulfill their mission and for their personal protection quickly and unbureaucratically.
Modern equipment is one of the decisive factors for an attractive service.
We want to further strengthen support for servicemen and women returning from a foreign deployment.
We will take further measures to attract young men and women to serve in the armed forces.
In this way, we want to improve the compatibility of family and career.
These include, for example, the expansion of childcare, assignments as close to home as possible, flexible deployment times or telecommuting jobs.
Furthermore, we want to improve social security even further.
We will therefore examine, for example, whether the supplementary income limits for retired professional soldiers can be lifted.
Our armed forces at the center of our society
The Bundeswehr is an integral part of our society.
This applies to the Bundeswehr as a whole, to citizens in uniform, civilian employees and veterans.
The Bundeswehr must remain publicly visible in the future.
This includes public pledges and roll calls of servicemen and women going to or coming home from overseas deployments.
This includes having Bundeswehr youth officers - by invitation - inform schools about the mission of our armed forces and our security policy.
We resolutely oppose all efforts to push the Bundeswehr out of the center of our society.
Reservists convey to society the importance of the Bundeswehr, NATO and the EU for the security of our country and its citizens.
Particularly in the course of the realignment, they also have an expanded security policy significance:
Reservists are indispensable for the endurance of the armed forces in foreign missions and nationally in homeland security.
We will therefore continue to strengthen the reservist structure
and expand civil-military cooperation.
An efficient defense technology industry is indispensable for security and economic policy.
It is crucial for the modern equipment of the Bundeswehr.
The German defense technology industry stands for technological progress
and high-quality jobs, which we want to safeguard.
We are increasingly seeking joint armaments projects with our partners in the EU and NATO.
We stand by the existing strict guidelines for the export of military equipment
and continue to advocate the harmonization of arms export guidelines within the EU.
Disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
The CDU and CSU are pursuing the goal of tighter global controls on the proliferation of conventional weapons.
Above all, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and, in particular, their transfer to terrorists must be prevented.
We will support any fair and international security initiative to dismantle nuclear weapons and limit conventional forces.
An agreement on a drastic reduction in nuclear weapons opens up the prospect of strengthening the regulatory framework for the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and stopping further states from seeking to join the circle of nuclear weapons powers.
We want to strengthen the International Atomic Energy Agency's verification capabilities.
6.4 Sustainable development and more global justice
The development policy of the CDU and CSU is value-driven and at the same time in Germany's interest.
It is based on our Christian image of man and solidarity with the poor and oppressed.
Human dignity is at the heart of our international commitment to sustainable development.
From this derive respect for human rights, the
strengthening of democracy and the rule of law, the
reduction of poverty within the framework of a socially and ecologically oriented market economy, the preservation
of creation,
and the enforcement and preservation of peace and freedom.
The best way to do this is to help our partners help themselves, so that they can take responsibility for effectively shaping their own country.
Our development policy is mutually beneficial.
It contributes to security, stability and prosperity in the partner countries and at home.
Focal points of our development policy
We want to ensure that the further development of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), from poverty reduction to the reduction of child mortality, and the redefinition of sustainability goals lead to a uniform, coordinated global understanding of the goals of development cooperation.
These must be clear and binding enough to guide partner countries and donors.
We focus on the key areas of sustainable development
and poverty reduction.
The key issue is what is in demand in the partner countries and what expertise Germany can contribute:
promoting good governance and the rule of law, freedom of the press and freedom of expression, education and vocational training, social partnership, health, rural development and food security, and infrastructure development.
In addition, we support our partner countries in building a socially and ecologically oriented market economy and in achieving the
goal of creating self-sustaining, broad-based growth and employment through a functioning, responsible private sector and the strengthening of workers' rights.
We contribute to the protection of the environment, biodiversity and the climate.
We will make the enforcement of girls' and women's rights a cross-cutting task of German development cooperation.
This is also an essential prerequisite of any successful population policy.
Development cooperation and partners
Development cooperation with emerging economies must focus on protecting global public goods.
Our development and human rights policy must have an even greater stabilizing effect in the long term.
In doing so, we place particular emphasis on the participation of civil society.
For states threatened with disintegration, cooperation opportunities and strategies must also be further developed toward sound development.
It is in the interest of Germany and the European Union to provide even greater support for the processes of change both in the southern Mediterranean region and in the eastern neighborhood.
Alongside sub-Saharan Africa, these regions must be a special focus of our development and human rights policy.
The European Union must speak with one voice in development and human rights policy.
We therefore want to further improve the division of labor between the member states and with the EU Commission.
The EU should act where pan-European action offers advantages.
Development policy will continue to be represented by an independent and strong ministry.
Following the successful establishment of the Gesellschaft fr Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ), we are further strengthening its cooperation with the Kreditanstalt fr Wiederaufbau (KfW).
We also increase the impact of the funds used by linking the use of development funds - where possible - to the existence of agreed goals and impacts.
This promotes recipient ownership and increases acceptance in our country due to proven success.
Engaged citizens are the most important advocates of a strong development policy.
Governmental and non-governmental development cooperation complement each other effectively.
We will therefore broaden and deepen our cooperation with churches, development NGOs and political foundations.
This also applies to charitable sponsors and foundations, which are increasingly influencing international development cooperation.
We strengthen cooperation between German business and development policy.
We promote sustainable economic development in partner countries and at the same time support Germany's foreign trade interests.
This includes a raw materials policy that serves both sides - through fair contracts, compliance with environmental and social standards, and the equitable distribution of revenues.
We want better framework conditions for developing countries to participate in global trade.
That is why we are campaigning for the WTO negotiations to continue
and for a fair balance of interests with the developing countries.
We are sticking to the target of spending 0.7 percent of gross national income on official development assistance.
An increase in funding must go hand in hand with a further increase in the efficiency of development policy instruments and absorption capacity in our partner countries.
7. election call
Successful together for Germany - with CDU and CSU into a secure future
On September 22, the future of our country is at stake.
The CDU and CSU stand for stability and reliability in Germany, Europe and worldwide.
With the Union, our country is on the way to a balanced budget without new debt.
We pursue a sustainable policy for growth
and workplaces.
We are strengthening cohesion in our country
and investing in its future.
The red-green coalition, on the other hand, is pursuing a policy of tax increases and division.
In this way, the Red-Green Party is endangering the economic strength of our country and hundreds of thousands of jobs.
This program is our offer for a successful way into the future.
Our policy is shaped by the Christian image of man.
It gives us the confidence to shape the tasks ahead of us for the benefit of the people and our country.
In Germany and around the world, we are guided by the values of freedom,
Solidarity
and justice.
We invite all people in our country to come and talk about this with us and our candidates for the German Bundestag.
Together we have achieved a lot for our country.
That is why we are once again soliciting your trust and calling on all voters: Give both votes to CDU and CSU in the Bundestag elections on September 22.
