CITIZEN PROGRAM 2002
Ready for responsibility
Germany is in the midst of a process of global change from an industrial society to an information society.
Capital, labor, and information are becoming increasingly mobile, national borders are losing importance, and
the state is losing its control competence.
The new era can be shaped with no other idea as with the idea of freedom: the freedom to take responsibility.
The other parties misunderstand the state and politics as the guardians of citizens.
Only the FDP understands politics and the state as the guardian of fairness in the coexistence of responsible citizens.
The other parties are ruining the state by ensuring that it interferes in more and more and controls less and less.
The FDP relies on the responsibly thinking people among the people.
The FDP is a party for all the people.
A party for all those who ask what they can do for their community, their country and their people, instead of always calling for the state right away.
We appeal to all those who want more freedom and responsibility and less state paternalism.
As a party for all the people, we are entering the 2002 federal elections independently.
The FDP wants a change of political course in 2002.
The FDP wants to determine the next government program in the long term.
The FDP is the party of the social market economy.
We want a return to the virtues of the classic social market economy in order to secure jobs and prosperity for all: through a new culture of self-reliance, through more freedom and less government, through fewer taxes and fewer duties.
The FDP is the party of education.
Freedom is a prerequisite of education and education is a condition of freedom.
Education is and remains a civil right.
The FDP sees education, training, knowledge and the spirit of research as the most important future resources for making Germany socially and economically fit for the information age.
The FDP is the party for families.
Family is above all where there are children.
These families require special support.
Because children are our future.
The FDP is the party of the rule of law.
The FDP stands in the liberal tradition of freedom rights for citizens against state paternalism.
We are the party of tolerance and openness to the world.
We want to help ensure that Germany remains an internationally recognized country in the civil world society.
The FDP is the party of mobility.
A society on the move must not get stuck in traffic jams on a daily basis.
Our society needs an offensive for more mobility.
We want equal opportunities through a mobile society.
Mobility must be rewarded - not standstill.
The FDP is the party of ecological modernization.
We want more efficiency and effectiveness through market-based instruments -
environmental protection with the people and not against them.
The FDP is the European party.
In the past, with the liberal Foreign Ministers Walter Scheel, Hans-Dietrich Genscher and Klaus Kinkel, we tore down borders and barriers and contributed to democracy, the rule of law and peace in Europe.
Western integration and the Liberals' Ostpolitik were prerequisites for the unification of Germany in peace and freedom.
The lesson of 20th century history is the embedding of Germany in a free and peaceful Europe.
The FDP addresses its policy to all those who no longer want to hear from politics what is not possible, but expect solutions.
First-class education for everyone
and more jobs through tax cuts
in a cosmopolitan, free
and secure Germany are the central goals of our policy.
A policy for freedom to responsibility.
Policy for an economically strong Germany
For the FDP, economic policy task No. 1 is to combat the unbearably high level of unemployment.
Unemployment does not only mean loss of income for those affected and waste of resources for the national economy.
Above all, it violates the dignity of people seeking work and their families and
deprives them of an important part of their freedom.
This is the greatest social injustice of red-green economic policy.
Short-term, mindless labor market actions are not enough to combat unemployment.
The FDP wants to tackle the causes - the fundamental weaknesses in growth, investment and innovation,
the wrong structures, misguided incentives, rigidities and regulatory frenzy.
But it also wants to win people over to a new way of thinking: for more personal responsibility, more willingness to change, more courage.
The economic policy of the red-green government has failed.
It is proving to be interventionist, short-sighted, unsystematic and contradictory.
Repentance is called for.
A new economic dynamic must be the watchword.
What is needed is a different, modern, forward-looking economic policy.
Germany does not need a "new'' social market economy.
Germany needs a return to the principles of the social market economy.
The FDP stands in this tradition.
I. Taxes down - jobs up
Tax cuts are the best employment program.
The current tax law is hardly comprehensible, the
tax burden far too high.
The red-green coalition has contributed greatly to this in recent years.
For the FDP, one thing is clear: the next legislative period must see an end to the constant new unsystematic attempts at reform and corrections to the tax system.
We therefore propose a completely new tax law.
Low tax rates,
simple and understandable rules,
a fair burden on all, these are the hallmarks.
Citizens and entrepreneurs accept taxes only in moderate and predictable amounts.
The bases of taxation must also be understandable.
Neither is the case today.
We achieve low taxes through our graduated income tax rate:
income portions from €0 to €7,500 0% taxes income portions from €7,501 to €15,000 15% taxes income portions from €15,001 to €40,000 25% taxes income portions from €40,001 35% taxes
It is important to note that anyone who earns more than the zero tax rate only pays the higher tax rate on the higher part of their income.
This way, everyone can calculate their own tax burden.
For spouses, the income levels are doubled.
Result of our tariff: The citizen keeps most of the money earned, he only has to deliver an acceptable share to the tax office.
To exempt the subsistence minimum, there is a uniform basic allowance of €7,500 for every citizen, including every child.
The special burden on families, including single parents, is taken into account by this doubling of the tax-free allowance for children.
Child benefits will be adjusted accordingly.
Income tax law will be drastically simplified.
We want to make it possible to file tax returns on one sheet of paper.
The distinction between the seven different types of income is eliminated.
The graduated tariff also applies to corporations.
Distributions are always charged to the Company at 35%.
In the case of the shareholder, this tax can be credited upon application.
Taxation thus becomes neutral in terms of legal form.
For citizens, it therefore makes no difference whether income is generated by a corporation or a partnership, by self-employed or non-self-employed work.
To prevent capital flight, the only exception to this is interest, which is taxed anonymously at source at a flat rate of 25%.
The tax is credited against personal income tax liability upon application.
The prerequisite and consequence of the equal treatment of all types of income is the elimination of trade tax.
It is a special burden for an ever smaller number of German companies and a competitive disadvantage in international comparison.
The elimination of the trade tax must be accompanied by a comprehensive reform of municipal finances.
The municipalities can levy a surcharge on the previously reduced income and corporate income tax with their own right of assessment.
Together with a higher share of the sales tax, they receive a productive and predictable financial endowment.
For retirement income, deferred taxation will be introduced gradually.
To the extent that contributions to statutory and private pension plans are tax-deductible, any resulting retirement income must be taxed when received.
Income tax law will also be simplified by eliminating special tax statuses, tax exemptions and tax concessions.
In the future, "taxes with taxes" will no longer exist.
Government funding for certain purposes is now only possible through direct payments.
This creates more transparency and continuously forces beneficiaries and the state to justify the funding measure.
Such a simplified income tax law leads to a fair and thus acceptable burden.
Citizens can once again assume more personal responsibility.
Companies are given new financial leeway for investment and job creation.
The tax increases labeled eco-tax are anti-social and unjust.
They must be reversed.
They have neither achieved positive environmental effects nor reduced non-wage labor costs.
As part of a comprehensive pension reform, the state's subsidies to pension insurance financed by the eco-tax will be scaled back, and with them the eco-taxes.
In addition, it is no longer the keeping of a car that is to be taxed, but only its operation.
For this reason, the motor vehicle tax does not apply.
It is apportioned to the mineral oil tax.
The wealth tax, which has only been suspended to date, will be abolished for good.
Companies would have to finance them out of their substance, citizens out of already taxed income.
Inheritance tax on business assets will be reorganized in line with the British model.
In the case of inheritance, the inheritance tax is assessed and then deferred for 10 years.
For each year of continuation of the business by the heirs, the inheritance tax is waived by one tenth.
The taxation of tips
and the building deduction tax will be abolished.
The state must withdraw from many areas in which it now operates at high cost.
If you want to pay significantly less taxes, you can't call on the state in every situation; you have to take on more personal responsibility.
A new simple tax code with a moderate and fair burden for all requires that tax breaks, financial aid and subsidies be comprehensively dismantled.
The bottom line is that everyone benefits: citizens have more money at their disposal.
Companies are given new scope for investment.
More dynamism in the economy ensures growth and employment.
And: A lean state lives healthier and is no longer susceptible to blue letters from Brussels.
II. creating jobs instead of managing unemployment
The German labor market suffers from insufficient economic growth,
structural deficits
and its inflexibility.
About 50 billion euros are spent in total on unemployment benefits, unemployment assistance and early retirements motivated by labor market policy, without this having led to a turnaround in the labor market.
These high expenditures result in heavy tax and, in particular, contribution burdens, which in turn constrict employment dynamics.
This vicious circle can and must be broken.
The FDP wants employment in the primary labor market.
Labor market policy measures urgently need to be reviewed in terms of scope, effectiveness and efficiency, because sensible labor market policy must help to avoid unemployment or end it as quickly as possible with the least possible use of resources.
The FDP therefore calls for a fundamental reform of labor market policy with the aim of facilitating new hiring.
A stricter insurance principle must once again be applied to unemployment insurance.
Active labor market policies, e.g. job creation schemes, which often compete with small and medium-sized private enterprises, must be streamlined decisively.
Non-insurance benefits, such as the costs of continuing the emergency program to reduce youth unemployment and the labor market policy programs shifted to the Federal Agency's budget, must be reviewed with regard to their necessity and, if necessary, reduced.
The remaining programs must be financed from the federal budget.
This will enable a reduction in unemployment insurance contributions from the current 6.5% to 4.5%.
The placement and counseling of job seekers must be reorganized and privatized as far as possible.
The competencies for the labor market and labor law should be transferred to the Federal Ministry of Economics in order to achieve a better coordination of labor market policy legislation with economic necessities.
In the medium term, the Federal Labor Office should be transformed into a pure insurance agency that also issues placement vouchers.
Labor market policy, on the other hand, is implemented by a subordinate federal authority, since labor market policy measures, as general social policy benefits, are in any case to be allocated and controlled more from the tax budget.
The 10 state employment offices are to be abolished.
Competition between private and public employment agencies needs to be encouraged more.
Unemployed persons receive placement vouchers, which are priced at market rates and take into account characteristics that hinder and promote placement, such as qualifications, age and health.
They can use this to hire an employment agency they trust.
They apply to both private and government intermediaries, so there is real competition.
Mediators at the Federal Labor Office are to be paid on a performance-related basis.
The entitlement period for unemployment benefit must be set at 12 months again in order to increase the incentive to take up work,
With regard to older unemployed persons, an appropriate reduction in the duration of entitlement must be examined.
Every unemployed person should be obliged to maintain ongoing contact with his or her employment office, as this is the only way to ensure his or her intensive and effective placement and support by the employment office.
All measures must be available to those affected from the very beginning of unemployment.
Support measures depend on the individual job seeker and must be able to be selected from all available options as early as possible.
Priority should be given to further vocational training after the priority of placement,
Promoting self-employment with qualified advice
and the probationary employment relationship with a fixed-term induction allowance.
During parental leave, it must be possible to take advantage of qualification measures through the employment office.
The Dismissal Protection Act must be relaxed so that it facilitates new hires instead of preventing them.
Its current form is a barrier to recruitment and at the same time fails to fulfill its social protection function, as it only leads to a large number of labor court cases, which usually do not preserve jobs but end up in severance settlements anyway.
The Dismissal Protection Act should therefore only apply to companies with 20 or more employees and should not come into effect until two years after the employment relationship has commenced.
In addition, employees must be given more leeway as to what form of protection against dismissal they want.
Therefore, instead of protection against dismissal, employees and employers should be able to agree on a severance payment in the event of termination, or the employer should be able to commit to financing a further qualification measure.
Furthermore, social selection in the case of dismissals for operational reasons is to be based only on the three criteria of age, length of service and maintenance obligations.
It should be possible to exclude particularly qualified employees from the social selection process.
It is necessary to examine whether special provisions for people with disabilities make it easier or more difficult for them to accept a job.
Some regulations that were introduced in the actual or supposed interest of women, or that in fact apply almost exclusively to female employees, turn into barriers to employment for women in the labor market.
The goal must be to remove such legal barriers where they harm women instead of benefiting them.
To this end, protective regulations and special entitlements must be critically reviewed and, as a result, deleted if necessary.
The Temporary Employment Act must be liberalized.
Temporary employment must be opened up to the construction sector.
The synchronization ban must be lifted.
The tightened collective bargaining obligation in the second year of employment must be withdrawn.
Fixed-term employment contracts must be facilitated by abolishing the prohibition of repeated conclusion of a fixed-term employment contract and extending the fixed-term period to 4 years.
The unilateral legal right to part-time work, which is a barrier to recruitment for women in particular, must be withdrawn.
The flat-taxed, social security-free 630-euro job - twice the level of the former 630 DM jobs - is intended to reintroduce the possibility of marginal employment relationships.
The widespread destruction of jobs and social opportunities through rigid, non-company-specific collective agreements must be stopped.
The regional collective agreement, which regulates employment relationships down to the last detail on a uniform national basis, has had its day.
The collective bargaining parties should confine themselves to setting framework conditions.
Within this framework, decisions on pay and working hours in particular are shifted to the company level, to agreements between the company and the employees or the elected employee representatives.
Only they, the partners in the individual company, know its economic situation and its special requirements.
Only they can respond to this flexibly and individually.
This new form of collective agreement must be secured by law through appropriate amendments to the Collective Agreement Act and the Works Constitution Act.
The general applicability of collective agreements must be abolished.
The after-effect of collective pay agreements when employees leave the employers' association must be limited.
The favorability principle in Sec. 4 (3) of the Collective Bargaining Act must be amended to the effect that in future a lower wage or longer working hours can also be more favorable for retaining the job if this secures the job and 75% of the company's voting employees have agreed to this.
In cases where a company is in crisis, the continuation of the company and thus the preservation of jobs is often only possible if an acquirer can take over the company on terms that ensure the continuation of the company in his hands.
For this reason, the FDP advocates that the provision of Section 613a of the German Civil Code (BGB) on the transfer of a business in the event of the imminent insolvency of a company be amended to the effect that the seller or acquirer of a business may change working conditions that apply by collective agreement, works agreement or employment contract in order to ensure the continued existence of the business.
In the event of a company's insolvency, Section 613a of the German Civil Code shall no longer apply.
The blocking effect of Section 77 (3) of the Works Constitution Act, which has so far prohibited works agreements that deviate from the collective agreement, must be amended.
Agreements at company level between the company and employee representatives that are concluded voluntarily and to which 75% of the voting employees have agreed should be possible.
All labor market policy programs must be put out to public tender in accordance with the principles of economy and efficiency.
Project sponsors will have to compete in the future.
Constant performance comparisons should additionally strengthen quality competition.
Unemployed persons should have the opportunity to act as demanders via qualification vouchers and thus strengthen competition between providers.
The FDP rejects tariff regulations in public procurement.
This deprives small and medium-sized companies, especially in the new federal states, of the opportunity to calculate a free offer based on their operational cost situation.
As a result, they lose their competitiveness because they are also disadvantaged in public tenders.
The publicly subsidized, unfair competition for medium-sized companies and start-ups through job creation measures and structural adjustment measures, for example in the gardening and landscaping sector, the skilled trades and the construction industry, must be significantly restricted.
Existing providers are forced out of the market by providers subsidized with public money, and private jobs are lost.
The possibility of building up or renewing entitlement to unemployment benefits by merely participating in these measures must also be abolished.
The level of payment must no longer be based on collectively agreed wages, as has been the case to date, but must be based on the transfer entitlement that would otherwise exist, in order to strengthen the incentive to seek and take up regular employment.
It is the goal of the Liberals to offer employment to young people in particular.
This should be accompanied by individual case management by private agencies.
III. Citizen's Income Incentives for New Jobs
Employment policy must also address the impact of globalization on the labor market.
While there is a shortage of workers for jobs with high skill requirements, jobs with low skill requirements continue to be cut in Germany, a high-wage country, and not only in sectors of the economy that face international competition.
At the same time, existing old qualifications are devalued by technological change.
It is therefore important to allow productivity-oriented wages
while preventing a slide into poverty.
The current transfer system is not capable of doing this.
For many welfare recipients who are able to work, it is not worthwhile to take a job because the wage gap is too small, especially at low incomes.
The level of tax-financed social benefits and the extensive full imputation of earned income to social assistance make it unattractive for the person concerned to accept work at low wages.
In order to give welfare recipients who are able to work greater incentives to take up employment and return to working life, the tax-free allowances must be increased, the tax credit rates must rise more slowly and the initial tax rate must be reduced to 15 percent.
What is needed is a transfer system that maintains work incentives even in the low-wage sector and builds bridges to new employment.
The citizen's income proposed by the FDP builds such bridges better than all the combi-wage models tried so far.
By only partially offsetting earned income against social benefits in the case of the Citizen's Income, previously unemployed benefit recipients can secure their livelihood despite low wages or a low number of hours and improve their income compared to those who are unable to work.
In order to make the citizen's income system, which helps people who are less qualified but willing to work, financially viable, the FDP proposes to make the imputation rates of earned income to social benefits progressive.
For people with disabilities or who need to care for relatives, there is to be an increased entitlement to a citizen's allowance.
As a first step toward a citizen's income, unemployment assistance must be fully merged with social assistance into a single-benefit system with clear responsibilities, single-track procedures, and leaner administration.
Until the introduction of the citizen's income, social assistance must be designed in such a way that, on the one hand, it enables those who are actually in need to live in dignity,
but on the other hand, it simultaneously strengthens the independence of all recipients of assistance
and helps to avoid abuse of benefits.
This also includes the lump-sum reimbursement of benefits instead of the bureaucratic reimbursement of individual expenses, which invites abuse.
The quid pro quo principle must be reasserted.
If someone is healthy and able to work and has no children or dependents in need of care to look after, then it is reasonable to expect them to provide something in return for what they receive.
The existing sanction mechanisms must be tightened and applied more strongly in the future.
Until now, the welfare office has had to prove that a welfare recipient is capable of working, contrary to his or her claim.
The FDP wants to change this: In the future, the welfare recipient must show that he or she is not fit for work.
The state is required to make appropriate offers through a case manager.
Only with such proof of one's own efforts to take up work is there entitlement to benefits that go beyond the material subsistence level and are necessary for the integration of the needy person into society.
Otherwise, the cash benefits are reduced to the material subsistence minimum, i.e. the subsistence benefits such as food, housing, clothing and household goods.
In return, the imputation rates for self-earned income will be lowered in the case of social assistance under the citizen's income system.
Thus, models according to §18 V BSHG (introductory allowance) become the rule.
IV. social start - making security systems fit for the future
An important characteristic of the social market economy is not only its high economic performance, which creates jobs and thus enables people to take their lives into their own hands.
The social market economy also includes active social responsibility on the part of the state, which takes effect when individuals are unable to provide for major life risks such as unemployment, illness and old age on their own.
A social system designed in this way, which is subsidiary in character, is not a foreign body but a productive factor in the social market economy.
In our country, however, the social security systems have become independent.
Social services account for one-third of the national product.
Individual responsibility was thus increasingly pushed back, while collective responsibility came more and more to the fore.
Freedom and room for maneuver are curtailed, a sense of entitlement and vested interests is reinforced and promoted, incentives to perform are reduced, and the incentive systems for taking up work are undermined, especially in the lower wage groups.
What is meant to be social thus becomes highly antisocial.
Due to the upheavals on the labor market and demographic developments, social security systems must be adapted to the changed circumstances.
To restore intergenerational equity, reforms are urgently needed in the social insurance system, which today is based on pay-as-you-go systems for pensions, health care and long-term care.
The same applies to the security systems of civil servants and politicians, where pay-as-you-go financing is based on taxes.
Our goal is to make the social security systems fit for the future, to ensure greater fairness through transparency and simplification, and to permanently reduce the contribution burden to below 40%.
Real structural reforms are needed to achieve this.
The FDP strictly rejects further tax subsidies to unreformed systems.
In order to ensure intergenerational justice, an independent body shall regularly submit a generational balance sheet to the Bundestag.
It must show benefits such as education, infrastructure and social security on the credit side, and burdens such as government debt, pension burdens and intergenerational contracts on the debit side.
The further development of social security systems should be based on the principle of compulsory insurance instead of mandatory insurance: Compulsory insurance instead of compulsory insurance.
It should be left to the free and individual decision of each citizen how and where to comply with this insurance obligation for the major risks.
Social security systems must be gradually detached from the employment relationship.
For efficient and affordable healthcare
The preservation of health and good care in the event of illness are central concerns of the people in our country.
The state must therefore create framework conditions that enable people to insure against the risk of illness and its consequences, regardless of their income or any disability or previous illness.
A free healthcare system without excessive bureaucracy and regimentation offers the best conditions for this.
In principle, the market, with its diversity of actors and flexibility, is best suited to optimize health care.
The state should only intervene where the market fails.
It has to set the framework for a socially responsible health policy, but not to regulate everything and anything down to the smallest detail by law, as is largely the case today.
The quality-oriented competition promotes creativity in finding solutions that are suitable for the insured and patients.
It must therefore be intensified.
Therefore the FDP sets on a health service, which ensures a good and affordable medical supply of all citizens and citizens,
humans organization possibilities for the extent of their insurance protection gives,
incentives for all involved ones, with the available resources economically to deal,
the free physician choice guarantees,
makes end with legally prescribed budgets equal which kind
and fixed prices for the individual medical, dental and psychotherapeutic achievements provides.
The statutory requirement for uniform and joint negotiations among health insurers must be dropped.
Negotiated solutions must take the place of government regulations.
State planned economy leads to mismanagement and misdirection of scarce resources.
The risk structure compensation system must be gradually dismantled.
What is intended to create equal opportunities for competing insurers for a transitional period is becoming increasingly superfluous and even counterproductive in a functioning market.
In terms of operational and administrative efficiency, the statutory health insurance funds have to compete with the efficiency of the private health insurance funds.
Competition is also needed on the provider side to achieve efficient health care for the population.
At the same time, free access to the practice of the profession must always be maintained.
Competition also means that as many people as possible can decide whether they want to be insured in the statutory health insurance system (GKV) or in the private health insurance system (PKV).
An increase in the compulsory insurance limit should therefore be strictly rejected.
The FDP rejects the extension of the assessment of contributions to further types of income.
Insured persons and patients have a right to be able to obtain comprehensive and neutral information.
The ban on advertising must therefore be relaxed with a view to providing appropriate information.
Patient and doctor need to know how expensive a treatment is.
The in-kind principle keeps the patient artificially uninformed.
Therefore, as a matter of principle, reimbursement must replace payment in kind.
The patronizing, anti-benefit spending caps must be abolished, because they lead to rationing in doctors' offices, pharmacies and hospitals.
Queues, as in Scandinavian countries, and age limits, as in England, must not become a reality in Germany.
Budgeting must be replaced by performance-based compensation and incentives to act economically on all sides.
Doctors, dentists and psychotherapists need fixed prices for high-quality services, and hospitals need a real pricing system.
The use of health care services is determined by the insured.
You can help prevent disease by living a health-conscious life.
Information about where risks lie and how they can be countered, as well as offers for health promotion, must therefore be provided at an early stage in kindergartens and schools.
Equally important is the establishment and expansion of quality-assured preventive health care and corresponding early detection measures.
Bonus systems, such as for dental prostheses, help to support motivation.
More and more people are making use of alternative healing methods.
In this context, the FDP also advocates quality-oriented competition between conventional medical and alternative healing and treatment methods and their equal opportunities.
We welcome the pilot projects of various health insurers to offer alternative healing methods and call for health insurers to be given greater leeway here.
The current system contradicts the desire of many people to manage their affairs as comprehensively as possible under their own responsibility.
The tariff structure in the SHI system must therefore become more flexible.
The FDP wants to limit compulsory contributions to core services and open up options and scope for individual action.
Non-insurance benefits must be financed from the federal budget.
Insured persons must be able to take out tariffs with different options.
Deductibles and copayments provide incentives for cost-conscious behavior.
Provisions for low-income insured persons must ensure that no one is excluded from medically necessary health care services.
The income tax-neutral payment of the employer's contribution as a real component of wages is intended to make it clear to individuals what their health insurance coverage actually costs.
This increases the incentive to pay more attention to the price-performance ratio of health insurers and thus intensifies competition.
Decoupling health insurance premiums from non-wage labor costs also facilitates the creation of individual room for maneuver in shaping rates.
Furthermore, the automatic link between rising health care expenditures and rising wage costs will be broken, thus strengthening the competitiveness of the German economy.
Together with a reduction in the VAT rate for pharmaceuticals and the reversal of the substantial financial transfers to other branches of social insurance made by the red-green government coalition over the past two years, the contribution rate will be significantly reduced for all contributors.
Supplemented by a bold tax reform, as proposed by the FDP with its phased model, citizens will have considerably more money left in their pockets, which can be spent, among other things, on additional provision for the future in view of the consequences of demographic change.
Pension insurance
The current problems of the statutory pension insurance system have not been solved in any way by the latest reforms.
Cost pressure continues unabated.
The reasons for this are the high level of unemployment, which has led to a loss of income from contributions, the fact that people are still taking their pensions too early and, above all, the longer pension entitlement due to longer life expectancy, which has resulted in higher expenditure.
The FDP strictly rejects a further increase in subsidies for pension insurance from tax revenues.
This delays necessary structural reforms.
Tax revenues may only be used to finance non-insurance benefits.
The FDP believes that consistently combating unemployment by improving the business environment is also the way to improve pension insurance revenues.
The annual pension adjustments must again take appropriate account of the longer pension period.
Above all, the average retirement age must be brought closer to the statutory retirement age.
The FDP wants to make longer working lives possible primarily by starting work earlier, with shorter education and training periods and the suspension of compulsory military service contributing to this.
If the pension starts before the age of 65, the FDP wants the same actuarially correctly calculated deductions for men and women, and corresponding surcharges if the pension starts later.
This raises the average access age.
The FDP has always advocated private provision as a supplement to pensions.
In the last reform in 2001, it therefore supported the approach of building up this provision with 4% of the gross salary.
However, the reform has failed in its practical design, with insufficient intergenerational equity, a lack of contribution rate stability, no tax exemption for all pension contributions, and a far too complicated design of the investment criteria.
A practicable purpose for retirement savings would have sufficed as the essential criterion for subsidized retirement savings.
Genuine competition among all providers must be ensured, it must be possible to build up an inheritable capital stock as an option, and the private pension products offered must meet certain minimum standards.
The citizen must have freedom of choice in the payout depending on his individual needs: He must be able to decide, for example, whether to choose an annuity, a lifelong payout plan in decreasing or increasing installments, or to secure a place in a retirement or nursing home.
Saving to build up home ownership must also be recognized as a form of provision in a practicable way.
Following a gradual transition, private pension provision is to supplement statutory pension insurance and replace it to such an extent that around 50% of retirement provision is based on private and occupational pension provision.
If savers do not make use of the offer of subsidized old-age provision to the extent required for this purpose, there is an obvious obligation to insure - but only if the conditions specified for private provision are met.
For them, government incentives, in particular downstream taxation of contributions made to recognized forms of pension provision, are indispensable prerequisites for the future reform of personal pension provision.
In return, the pay-as-you-go statutory pension insurance system must be transformed step by step into a contribution-financed basic pension scheme.
The burden on employee income from the legally regulated and state-subsidized pension scheme must not exceed 20% of income in the future either.
The professional pension funds are guaranteed a continued existence and are protected from state intervention.
For reasons of fairness and in view of the budgetary risks for future generations, such a reform must also be accompanied by a reform of civil servants' pensions.
We need a clear and simple regulation to allow retirees to work and pay pension contributions here without financial harm and to move abroad in their old age.
This is also necessary with a view to ensuring freedom of movement in Europe.
As a result, the pension system of the future will have new statics.
It consists of the pay-as-you-go statutory pension insurance and the entitlements arising from company and private pension plans.
This is the only way to achieve a balanced model that leads to an adequate retirement income while
protecting the younger generation from excessive demands.
Long-term care insurance
In the long term, demographic trends will lead to a significant increase in the number of people requiring care and also in the number of dementia patients.
Revenues will not be able to keep pace with this.
However, the resulting cost pressure must not lead to an increase in mandatory contributions.
Long-term care insurance must therefore be put to the test in terms of targeting, efficiency and organization, and also with regard to the consequences of the Federal Constitutional Court's ruling to ease the burden on families.
In the view of the FDP, the course must be set in particular for the establishment of a supplementary funded pillar of private provision for the risk of long-term care.
The legally established principle of the priority of rehabilitation over care must be taken into account.
The existing system of long-term care insurance runs counter to this.
There are no incentives to support affected persons in order to be able to improve their condition and thus, for example, place them in a lower care level.
V. Demonopolization and competition offensive
Competition is at the heart of the social market economy.
Competition forces companies to become better, more efficient, stronger.
That is why liberals fight all tendencies to reduce, distort or falsify competition.
We advocate a strict law against restraints of competition, against cartels, monopolies, concerted practices and anticompetitive mergers.
We advocate a strong state that enforces and develops the rules of competition.
After all, preserving and strengthening competition are among the most important economic policy tasks of the state in a changing economy.
The path of deregulation and privatization begun by FDP economics ministers, which has produced better services for citizens at lower prices in many areas, must be continued consistently.
The next steps must be: The letter monopoly must be phased out as quickly as possible so that competition is also possible for letter mail items up to 200 g, addressed catalogs and Infopost up to 50 g.
The former state monopolies Post and Telekom are to be fully privatized by 2005.
The telecommunications networks, especially in the local network area, where Deutsche Telekom's market share of 98% continues to prevent real competition, must be further liberalized.
Liberalized network access on the electricity markets must be restored.
Deregulation and privatization are also needed in water and waste management.
Network and operations at Deutsche Bahn AG must be consistently separated.
It is also necessary to enable competition between the individual parts of the former DB Holding as
well as to ensure non-discriminatory access to the network for third parties.
The task of ensuring competition must be concentrated again at the Federal Cartel Office and the Regulatory Authority for Telecommunications and Posts must be dissolved in the next legislative period.
Now that the EU has decreed the end of unlimited liability for Landesbanks and municipal savings banks from 2005 at the latest and restricted their institutional liability, the FDP is already calling for a fundamental reorganization of this sector.
The Landesbanken should be privatized as a whole and thus opened up to competition with private and cooperative banks.
The municipal savings banks, a necessary part of rural infrastructure, are to be developed further into ''citizens' savings banks'.
The entire German chamber system must be fundamentally reviewed in terms of its appropriateness.
In the case of the Chambers of Industry and Commerce and the Chambers of Skilled Crafts, the public-law status and the resulting compulsory membership of the tradesmen result from the public duties assigned to the chambers by law and ordinance.
However, the chambers need to reform fundamentally.
The chambers are no longer allowed to operate in fields where there is sufficient supply from private service providers.
Duplication of work between chambers and authorities and time-consuming bureaucratic cross-connections must be avoided.
The Shop Closing Act should be deleted without replacement.
The law against unfair competition needs to be cleaned up.
VI Lean State - Strong State
For liberals, it is not the state that interferes in as many areas of society as possible that is particularly effective, but the state that concentrates on its core tasks.
The lean state is the strong state.
That is why the FDP wants to reduce subsidies,
scale back public tasks
and privatize state holdings.
The FDP wants a policy of budget consolidation.
Balanced budgets at all levels of government remain the goal of the FDP.
Only in this way will policymakers in practice do justice in the long term to the fundamental idea of effectively limiting government debt, as enshrined in our Basic Law and in the European Stability Pact.
In line with our principle that taxes may only be levied for indispensable public tasks, this means that all tasks currently performed by the state must be reviewed and questioned from the point of view of their dispensability.
We also have to say goodbye to areas of government activity that have become dear to us.
In the public sector in particular, the prosperity of the present is financed with mortgages on the future.
Loans taken out and used today must be repaid by the citizens and taxpayers of future generations.
That is why the FDP is calling for the federal budget to be balanced within five years and for no additional debt to be permitted thereafter.
To this end, the German Bundestag is to adopt a step-by-step plan that is binding on itself and the federal government.
The government share must be reduced to one-third of the national product in the medium term.
Subsidies lead to misallocation of resources at the expense of taxpayers and consumers.
In addition, they too often flow to large companies and thus disadvantage small and medium-sized enterprises.
Permanent subsidies are unjustifiable.
They conserve products and production processes from the past and prevent innovation processes on the market.
The FDP therefore advocates granting subsidies only on a degressive basis and for a limited period of five years.
A new edition can only be considered after renewed confirmation in parliament.
German hard coal is an uncompetitive energy source.
The deliberate and permanent subsidization is also unjustifiable from an economic point of view.
Through them, enormous economic and financial resources are misdirected into a past-oriented industry.
These funds are not available for urgently needed investments in the future, focusing on education
and transport.
For this reason, the FDP is calling for the total amount of subsidies provided by the federal and state governments for the period 2002 to 2005 inclusive to be halved.
The federal government will grant a subsidy of EUR 2 billion for the last time in 2005.
After 2005, there will be no more subsidies for the German coal industry.
In order to implement the personnel adjustment measures necessitated by the subsidy cuts, redundancies for operational reasons can no longer be ruled out in the end.
The problem associated with this is mitigated by the fact that several thousand skilled jobs cannot be filled, especially in the skilled trades and crafts, which are available to employees who are on average 33 years old.
The German government is called upon to provide sufficient funds for qualification measures and retraining programs for those mining employees whose professional qualifications do not meet the requirements of the labor market.
The costs for the consequential damage caused by mining are borne by the federal government.
Coal mining under built-up areas is stopped.
The public sector performs too many tasks in Germany.
The state has a stake in too many companies.
For the FDP, the privatization of economic activities of the public sector and the sale of company holdings is a core objective of liberal policy.
That is why we want to dispose of all federal shareholdings within five years.
Publicly owned properties should also be reduced.
The greatest potential for privatization lies at the municipal level.
Nationwide, municipalities run more than 100,000 proprietary enterprises.
It is not clear why green space maintenance, garbage collection, animal parks, building management or printing and bookbinding work have to be in municipal hands.
The many sham privatizations are also the wrong way to go.
On the contrary, they pave the way for local authorities to enter lucrative medium-sized markets and represent an expansion of state activity at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises.
Municipalities own housing with a total value of over 50 billion euros.
A sale to tenants should be sought wherever possible.
This increases the socio-politically desired ownership rate
and frees up considerable funds for future investments by the municipalities.
VII. SMEs - Job Machine No.1
The SME sector is the largest employer in Germany.
Two thirds of all employees work in medium-sized companies.
Medium-sized companies provide well over 80% of the training.
Proximity to the market and an immediate sense of market requirements contribute to the fact that SMEs are particularly innovative.
In view of the great importance of small and medium-sized enterprises in effectively combating unemployment, SMEs must be provided with conditions that allow them to fully develop their potential in the interest of a free society and a functioning social market economy.
In its tax reform, the red-green federal government drastically disadvantaged partnerships, and thus in particular small and medium-sized businesses.
The focus of a tax reform must therefore be the transition to a simple graduated tariff with tax rates of 15%, 25% and, at the top, 35%.
Simplifications in income tax law benefit medium-sized companies in particular, which rarely have the opportunities and capacities for tax optimization strategies.
Therefore, a radical reduction of tax exemptions and the abolition of the trade tax will also have to be implemented in the course of a tax reform.
The reform of co-determination has placed a massive burden on small and medium-sized companies in particular by lowering the threshold values.
The FDP is committed to cooperation within the company instead of functional heteronomy.
We therefore advocate an opening clause in the Works Constitution Act so that companies can agree alternative co-determination models in a legally binding manner with the consent of management and the majority of employees.
In the new version of the guidelines for backing bank loans with equity capital ("Basel II"), the financing options of SMEs must not be cut off, especially in the case of long-term loans.
In principle, it is in line with a market economy approach if the interest rate also reflects the risk of a loan.
However, when weighting the risk, in addition to the equity capital, the quality of the company's management and products, the stability of the market, the size of the loan, etc. must also be taken into account.
Following the successful privatization of public shareholdings in recent years, greater attention must be paid to the privatization of tasks.
In the view of the Liberals, a reversal of the burden of proof in the performance of tasks by the public sector is therefore indispensable.
If a task is to be performed by the public sector, it must be demonstrated that other task owners are not comparably able to do so.
The privatization of public tasks is synonymous with the strengthening of medium-sized companies.
In many cases, public services are already provided by private companies and are primarily the domain of small and medium-sized enterprises.
Companies in Germany are burdened with an enormous amount of bureaucracy every year.
The FDP wants to reduce the density of regulations
and speed up approval procedures.
This also includes the introduction of a "bureaucracy cost TÜV''.
The FDP advocates that laws be given more expiration dates than in the past.
It is also necessary to target the middle class, especially small and micro enterprises, to exempt them from compulsory services as much as possible.
This can be done, for example, through longer collection periods for tax collection or more generous cut-offs for official statistics.
Examples here include the extension of the advance sales tax return from one to three months, the abolition of the annual sales tax return, and the development of a uniform and inter-agency earnings certificate.
As the No.1 trainer, SMEs need even faster and more flexible adaptation of training regulations.
There are still too few young people being trained in service occupations.
This also has something to do with non-existent apprenticeships.
But new professions are created in the marketplace, not at a desk.
Therefore, training regulations must become more open to future market developments.
The provision of additional composite training places by several small companies that would not be able to provide qualified vocational training on their own should be encouraged by means of a premium.
The introduction of a training levy, on the other hand, is completely misguided.
Medium-sized companies suffer particularly badly from the poor payment practices of the public sector.
It is absurd that the state on the one hand promotes the founding of companies, but on the other hand drives existing companies into insolvency due to poor payment practices.
The payment morale of the public sector must be significantly improved.
The greatest opportunities for additional jobs are in business-related and social services.
Here lie special opportunities for start-ups and small and medium-sized enterprises - whether in the field of information technology, the liberal professions, tourism or the social sector.
The FDP therefore wants to remove barriers to market entry on the way to self-employment,
secure the existence of independent freelancers
and promote a new culture of self-employment in Germany.
The regulations on so-called bogus self-employment passed by the Red-Green Party are to be reversed.
VIII. New countries - business location with a future
Economic harmonization between the old and new federal states is an essential prerequisite for completing Germany's internal unity soon.
The FDP will launch an ''offensive for future investments in the new federal states'' that -
while observing the primacy of budget consolidation
- primarily improves the framework conditions and infrastructure,
concentrates support on business-related infrastructure, investments and innovation potential,
and takes regional differences into account in concrete economic support.
The first priority must be to improve the economic policy framework.
The excessive tax burden, the exorbitant
level of social security contributions, the
excessive bureaucratic requirements
and often still oversized and poorly service-oriented administrations
, as well as the overregulation of the labor market and other areas, have a negative impact on economic development, also and especially in the new states.
Infrastructure forms the breeding ground for a prospering economy.
Economic development must therefore primarily drive the development of business-related infrastructure,
stimulate investment
and tap innovation potential.
In this context, innovative networks should also be given greater support in the future.
Increasingly, differentiation must be applied when allocating scarce funding.
The aim must be to avoid deadweight effects and a subsidy mentality by providing support according to the "watering can principle" and to take account of regional characteristics and strengths.
In economically better developed regions, industry-specific specialization patterns are to be supported.
In the wake of such clusters, regional networks of suppliers and service providers usually emerge.
Future funding will focus on the following:
Further development and expansion of infrastructure in eastern Germany
The accessibility of long-distance transport infrastructure via the subordinate road network in the new federal states is still significantly worse than in the old federal states.
In the case of railroads and waterways, too, the standard of development is lower in some cases, so that the advantage of higher network density that exists here cannot be exploited economically.
The accessibility of areas and the standard of development must be significantly improved, especially away from the main roads in the transport network of the new federal states.
The FDP will therefore present a new long-term federal transport infrastructure plan as soon as possible, which will enable the comparability of upcoming transport projects on the basis of current data.
The aim is to reduce differences in quality, but not to produce the same quality nationwide, because there are also differences in infrastructure provision in the old federal states.
The level of investment in transport infrastructure must rise overall to meet the high demand in Germany as a whole.
In this context, private-sector solutions for transport infrastructure can be a model that should also be applied nationwide.
Depending on the transport system, the priorities for investment must be set differently:
In the case of federal trunk roads, some sections of the federal highways still need to be modernized and gaps in the network closed (Baltic freeway A 20, federal highways including local bypasses).
In the case of railroads, the proportion of lines that are electrified, upgraded to multiple tracks and approved for higher speeds must be increased.
In navigation, measures need to be taken to address low water levels on federal waterways.
National gap closures (transport project 17) and cross-border projects must be accelerated.
In addition, the expansion of seaward port access routes must continue.
Continue investment support at a high level, reorganize in the medium term
Broadening and deepening the industrial base in the new federal states is a priority in order to lift the economy in eastern Germany back onto a higher growth path.
Support for the further expansion of the capital stock in companies in eastern Germany must therefore continue at a high level for the foreseeable future.
Regional support for eastern Germany under the Joint Task for the Improvement of Regional Economic Structures (Gemeinschaftsaufgabe zur Verbesserung der regionalen Wirtschaftsstruktur - GA) should in future be based on uniform nationwide criteria.
If these criteria were designed appropriately, the specific problems of eastern Germany could be given sufficient consideration.
The fact that eastern Germany already exhibits major regional differences in terms of economic strength speaks in favor of uniform regional support in Germany.
Regional funding must take special care to ensure that spillover effects from so-called growth poles in eastern Germany can take effect through improved infrastructure for structurally weaker regions.
The investment allowance instrument for eastern German companies was to be extended once again after 2003.
Investment support, which today is still fed from various national sources, must be reorganized.
In this context, all investment aid should be combined into a single funding measure.
The investment allowance is to be transferred to the joint task.
At the same time, all possibilities must be exhausted to make the application and awarding practice for the joint task less bureaucratic and more flexible.
Continue to promote technology and innovation
The seedbeds for new jobs are innovative products and services.
They are primarily the result of research and development (R&D).
Industrial R&D is therefore one of the most important starting points for future support measures in the new federal states.
Currently, the R&D personnel in the business enterprise sector is 3.9 R&D employees per 1,000 inhabitants in western Germany, more than twice as high as in the eastern states (1.6).
This weakness must be overcome urgently if the new federal states are to make economic progress.
Good starting points are offered by the small-scale structure of efficient companies that has now emerged and the expansion of industry-related research at universities and research institutes.
However, in order to support them in their location-defining, modernizing role, they need to be particularly integrated into national and international innovation systems and complemented by the establishment of high-performance companies.
This is because eastern German industry still lacks a healthy mix of large, medium-sized and small companies that form a dense network of innovation activities together with universities and research institutions.
The core problem of the new federal states is that there is a lack of sufficient R&D capacity in large companies.
We want to use tax-based research funding to strengthen existing potential, stimulate investment in R&D and, above all, attract R&D capacities of foreign investors to the new federal states.
There are already numerous islands of innovation in eastern Germany that are characterized by competitive structures.
These regions and their interconnectedness should be given special consideration in future R&D funding.
Promotion of supraregional sales of East German products and services
The increase and stabilization of supra-regional sales of East German products and services must be the primary goal of future support.
The all-German sales promotion measures must continue to be flanked by special assistance for East German companies, such as the marketing assistance program for the new federal states.
Approaches to support international marketing (initiating contacts, drawing up marketing plans) as well as supplier forums and international contact exchanges are particularly helpful.
In addition, eastern German companies should be given special consideration in the context of Hermes funding.
Lack of international marketing is often also a personnel problem.
This is where active labor market policy can come into play in a meaningful way in order to impart appropriate skills.
Facilitating corporate financing in eastern Germany
Sufficient financing at acceptable conditions is often a decisive competitive factor, especially for companies in the new federal states.
As a rule, they do not have access to the capital market.
They need a house bank that gives them the necessary financial leeway and also stands behind them when economic development is not optimal.
A good credit rating requires a solid equity base, but this is often dangerously low in the eastern German SME sector.
The FDP will work with the banking industry to find ways of reconciling credit risks with the special financing requirements of SMEs in the new federal states under competitive conditions.
In this context, public development banks need to offer products that allow the banking industry to continue to provide a "healthy mix" of public development funds and its own financial products efficiently and cost-effectively.
Now that Deutsche Ausgleichsbank (DtA) has merged with Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW), DtA must quickly become the federal government's bank for SMEs.
The differences of opinion between the Federal Ministry of Finance and the Federal Ministry of Economics and Technology, which have been responsible for the delayed implementation of the merger decision to date, must be resolved as quickly as possible.
The promotional institutions supported by the federal states must cooperate more closely with DtA and better dovetail their products.
Reduce active labor market policy in the medium term
A lasting solution to the labor market problems of eastern Germany cannot be created via the second labor market, but only if more employment becomes profitable on a permanent basis.
ABM may continue to be necessary for a transitional period.
However, the FDP is clearly opposed to the elimination of the additionality criterion in the JOB-AQTIV Act.
Previously, ABM workers could only be used for additional work.
Now conventional work can be carried out by ABM positions.
This unfair competition for medium-sized companies and start-ups from job creation schemes and employment companies must be ruled out.
IX. Home ownership for all
The construction and housing industry is in a deep crisis.
The only way out of this trough is a free-market economic policy that reduces the tax and contribution burden on citizens and companies,
regulates less and creates more freedom.
The FDP firmly rejects bureaucratic regulations such as the construction deduction tax and the tariff loyalty law.
It is the desire of many citizens to acquire residential property.
However, the home ownership rate in Germany is too low.
The FDP therefore maintains its support for home ownership.
Home ownership creates freedom, independence and security, especially in old age.
For this reason, home ownership must be included in the promotion of private old-age provision on an equal footing with other investment options.
The FDP will de-bureaucratize and amend existing tenancy law to bring the rights of landlords back into line with the rights of tenants.
The so-called "second rent" is a burden on tenants and landlords.
The FDP demands the reduction of public charges and cost transparency.
Housing subsidies and occupancy rights are the market-based control instruments for providing housing to lower-income fellow citizens.
Occupancy rights need to be made more effective for private landlords overall.
Traditional social housing, a relic of the 1950s, is far too expensive, inefficient and not targeted.
It has therefore had its day.
The financial resources allocated for this purpose should be assigned to housing assistance as a state task.
The FDP is clearly opposed to an increase in the inheritance tax
and does not support a reform of the property tax that would lead to tax increases.
Financial incentives must also be created for private investors to build housing suitable for the elderly and disabled or to develop it from existing stock.
This allows older citizens and people with disabilities to decide more freely how and where they want to live.
Cost-saving, land-saving and environmentally friendly construction are liberal guidelines.
The FDP rejects nonsensical building physics regulations in energy-saving construction.
X. The farmer must become an entrepreneur again
In the future, agricultural policy must be guided by the principles of the social market economy.
The FDP puts the entrepreneurial farmer at the center.
The intolerable agricultural bureaucracy must be radically cut back.
Quotas and market regulations must be replaced by market-based elements.
Therefore, in the future, farmers should receive a product-independent cultural landscape premium for their services in maintaining and preserving our cultural landscape.
In return, the previous quotas and market regulations will gradually be abolished.
Such an exit cannot happen overnight.
Entrepreneurial farmers need planning security and reliable framework conditions.
National special paths - such as those taken by the Red-Green Party in many areas - should be rejected.
They worsen the competitiveness of domestic agriculture
and isolate Germany within the EU.
Against the backdrop of crises, preventive health and consumer protection must be strengthened and supplemented by elements of private law.
With its so-called agricultural turnaround, the red-green federal government is setting the wrong framework conditions for consumer protection and the domestic agricultural, forestry and food industries.
Consumers cannot really be protected by national solo efforts in consumer protection in an open internal market.
The one-sided and disproportionate promotion of organic farming is counterproductive without the corresponding consumer demand.
Qualitative differences, including differences in taste, between products from conventional and organic farming cannot be scientifically proven.
There is a danger of destroying functioning markets through inappropriate government support
and jeopardizing the income base of organic farms.
The FDP calls for a European Plant Protection Agency that regulates standards for residues and approvals across the EU and to which corresponding national responsibilities and tasks are transferred.
The so-called agricultural turnaround and its ''centerpieces,'' ecolabeling and modulation, are leading to a dead end.
The organic seal for products of organic farming does not ensure sufficient control, in contrast to the ''QS seal'' developed by the industry for conventionally produced food.
The planned implementation of modulation, i.e. the reduction of EU premiums, further inflates the agricultural bureaucracy and causes distortions in agricultural and structural policy due to the prescribed allowance.
Since a market-based framework is the best consumer protection, voluntary in-house inspections, quality management, eco-audits and certification by independent third parties, as well as consistent product liability, must complement state supervision.
The amendment to the Federal Nature Conservation Act must be reversed.
For reasons of property, nature conservation and agricultural policy, the previous compensation scheme should be reintroduced, clear priority should be given to contractual nature conservation and good agricultural practice should again be regulated exclusively in the relevant specialized laws.
The use of antibiotics and comparable agents in animal fattening must be banned.
The red-green federal government has irresponsibly increased the tax burden on the agricultural industry: This ranges from the introduction of a significantly increased tax rate for agricultural diesel, the eco-tax to the increase in sales tax for veterinary feed to finance the so-called agricultural turnaround.
Finally, the introduction of a tax rate for agricultural diesel of 25 cts/l represents an immense tax increase and disadvantage compared to the main competitors in Europe.
These tax increases of more than 500 million euros must be reversed.
Entrepreneurial agriculture depends on the use of technological progress.
It is therefore irresponsible to block the potential of green genetic engineering in agriculture for ideological reasons in Germany and Europe.
Due to the ongoing and intensifying structural change, the share of social expenditures of the agricultural budget is growing steadily.
These rising costs of social security systems in agriculture are a burden on the budget and on full-time and part-time farmers alike.
To counteract a further increase in pollution in agriculture,
but reforms are also urgently needed to relieve the social budget in the long term.
A funded system in agricultural accident insurance is to be launched in the coming legislative period.
This switch to privately organized agricultural accident insurance means that state subsidies can be dispensed with entirely in the long term.
In the short term, higher funding is needed for capital coverage.
There is an urgent need to review the issue of compulsory insurance in agricultural old-age insurance for part-time women farmers.
Here, the contribution burden must be set at a sustainable level.
XI. Liberal understanding of the responsible consumer
Effective consumer protection stands a good chance in a market economy that sets strict rules and monitors compliance with them.
State dirigisme characterized by distrust of the market, producers and consumers is no answer to the challenges of the future.
The FDP wants market transparency through information, so that consumers have a basis for their decisions:
According to liberal understanding, a ''law TÜV'' must already take effect during the preparation of law texts in the responsible ministries and within the parliamentary consultation.
This includes the examination of legal texts for their consumer suitability (costs, bureaucratic and administrative burden, general comprehensibility).
Consumer policy is a cross-cutting task at all political levels.
Clear decisions and allocation of competencies are necessary.
This includes a coordinated approach at the EU, federal, and state and local levels.
Securing the independent work of Stiftung Warentest by providing a one-time endowment is a top priority for the FDP.
XII Ecological market economy
The FDP is the party of ecological modernization centered on people. and supplemented by elements of private law.
The liberal guiding principle is sustainable development that further reduces ecological burdens and increases resource productivity. and supplemented by elements of private law.
The liberal mission statement also includes qualitative goals that address aesthetic and cultural concerns, create a healthy environment, and thus serve the well-being of people.
For efficient environmental protection, modern market-based mechanisms are goal-oriented and not bureaucratic-dirigiste procedures.
The FDP gives priority to the individual responsibility of citizens and the economy instead of state regulations
Social market economy is ecological.
Sustainability
The FDP sees sustainability as a principle of intergenerational justice.
The aim is to safeguard the quality of life and social cohesion of future generations.
This requires an appropriate combination of ecological, economic and social requirements.
Future generations should have the same opportunities for economic development as the generations living today. .
Every generation is obliged to preserve the chances of freedom for those who come after it and not to risk them by liabilities and waste of this inheritance. .
This is not just about the quantity and quality of natural resources. .
Heritage also includes economic, social and cultural achievements. .
The use of the market-based price mechanism ensures that economic dynamism and technical progress reveal potential for cost reduction and also create opportunities for new jobs. .
Environmental policy goals should always be realized with the greatest possible efficiency, so that the greatest possible environmental benefit is achieved with the given means. .
Use energy sensibly
The goal of liberal energy policy is a sustainable and efficient energy supply.
A consistent reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is in the interest of the earth's climate.
Liberal energy policy is guided by the principle of sustainability.
Our task is therefore to ensure that economic efficiency, security of supply, and environmental and social compatibility are given equal priority.
Economic efficiency and environmental compatibility in energy supply mean that the share of individual carriers in the total energy supply must take into account the actual costs of energy conversion.
Any form of waste of resources must also be avoided in energy supply.
The aim is therefore to provide an optimal energy mix at the lowest possible cost.
Efficient energy supply therefore basically means nothing other than an economical energy supply that is also environmentally compatible.
This particularly concerns climate protection.
For climate protection reasons, saying goodbye to nuclear energy is the wrong way to go.
Even beyond the operating life of today's nuclear power plants, we need this option for generating electricity.
Among the new environmentally friendly technologies worthy of support is nuclear fusion.
With comprehensive emissions trading, external costs of energy supply are elegantly taken into account in pricing and innovations are triggered.
Liberal energy policy continues to focus on saving energy,
increasing energy efficiency
and promoting renewable energies.
However, the economically unjustifiable and permanent subsidies under the "Renewable Energy Sources Act" are the wrong way to go about it.
Therefore, the FDP demands the abolition of this law and its replacement by a market-based solution.
In the opinion of the FDP, the question of which specific form of energy is used economically among all possible renewable energies and fed into the power grid should not be decided by the state.
Much has been achieved for technical progress in the use of renewable energies under FDP government responsibility.
The aim is to build on these successes.
The FDP wants to improve research funding in the field of so-called renewable energies by awarding funds in future through tender competitions and thus both economically and transparently: The winner will be the one who submits the most favorable offer.
This support will be complemented by establishing a market-based trading model to allow more mature technologies to participate in the market independently.
The FDP rejects a state specification of certain technologies and the guarantee of excessive prices, which has led to considerable undesirable developments, especially in the area of wind energy use.
In order not to jeopardize the acceptance of renewable energies, their deployment must not take place against the will of local citizens.
To this end, it is necessary to strengthen municipal planning sovereignty in this area
and to amend the privileged status of wind turbines in the Building Code accordingly.
Generally speaking, when it comes to aligning the funding priorities in energy policy and assessing the funding to be made available, priority is given to the energy generation technologies that - whether renewable or not - promise the highest efficiency gains in energy production and climate protection.
Waste Management
As with telecommunications and energy supply, the path to further liberalization must also be taken in waste disposal for the benefit of citizens.
The scope and intensity of waste policy regulation should be reduced to the extent required by environmental policy.
The FDP wants to transfer waste management completely to private-sector, competitive structures.
The Closed Substance Cycle and Waste Management Act is to be amended with the aim of abolishing state-law obligations to tender and hand over waste in order to abolish existing monopolies and structures similar to monopolies
and thus create the preconditions for a competitive and SME-friendly restructuring of contracts.
In addition, the long-announced amendment to the Packaging Ordinance must ensure fairer competitive conditions for competing systems to a greater extent than has been the case to date.
The FDP also advocates making the reusable quota more flexible.
The fundamental ecological superiority of reusable packaging has been scientifically refuted.
This means that the old instruments for enforcing the reusable quota are no longer appropriate.
The mandatory deposit is ecologically counterproductive, technically outdated and economically unjustifiable.
Animal, nature and species protection
For nature conservation, the FDP calls for more cooperation with owners and those affected by voluntary measures
and an expansion of contractual nature conservation.
The FDP, on the other hand, rejects the restrictions on use envisaged in the red-green nature conservation amendment because they are ecologically pointless and place an unnecessary burden on economic sectors relevant to nature conservation.
To achieve ecological goals in nature conservation, the FDP sets other priorities.
Quality of life and social cohesion can only be ensured at the national level, too, if people are at the center of environmental policy.
People who feel comfortable in their home voluntarily do more for nature and the environment than green eco-bureaucracy and government prohibition policies.
Therefore, the FDP relies on personal responsibility and the willingness to cooperate.
Measures financed with public funds can serve as models for private owners.
Only people who know nature and are familiar with it have a positive relationship with nature from their own experience and protect it better than uncontrollable regulations can ever achieve.
Therefore, a conservation policy that locks people out must fail in the long run.
People should not be pushed out of nature as troublemakers, but, where necessary, asked to be considerate with the arguments of nature and species protection.
Nature users - including sailors and other sportsmen, hunters and hikers - enjoy their hunting grounds.
For example, sport fishermen, as nature users, are also committed conservationists.
Not nature conservation and environmental policy against the people, but with them and for them is the concept of the FDP.
The FDP adheres to the introduction of the state goal of animal protection, as it is an effective way of achieving a meaningful balance between the concerns of animal protection and, for example, freedom of research and religion.
Policy for an innovative Germany
Education is the most neglected field in German politics.
Only a decisive turn toward freedom for education can overcome this grievance.
Education is a civil right.
The upbringing, education and training of young people are among the primary tasks of society.
Only committed, well-trained and creative people will be able to master the challenges of the future in the face of rapid social and, above all, technological change.
In our country, which is poor in raw materials, education is the decisive location factor for sustainable prosperity for all.
Education thus creates the material basis of our modern welfare state.
Equal in importance to imparting knowledge and skills, our education system must teach young people the values and norms of our society and culture.
Education and training should educate for independence and self-confidence
and promote the willingness to take responsibility for oneself and others.
Education must address the reality of people's lives and encompass all dimensions of human capabilities, from the emotional and volitional to the aesthetic to the social and action aspects of existence.
Education must provide a sovereign orientation in the world.
A solid basic knowledge combined with professional skills and social competence enables people to perform, to master new challenges and to help shape social processes instead of just following them.
Germany's international competitiveness essentially depends on how well people are trained for the job and how they can continue their education in and alongside the job.
The specialized knowledge required for professional practice is changing ever more rapidly and requires constant review and renewal of what was once learned.
In view of this, vocational training and continuing education are of particular importance.
Our education system must constantly review itself
Only with a great variety of different educational offers and organizational forms can society meet today's and tomorrow's requirements.
That is why we want a redistribution of responsibility in the education sector:
for a strengthening of the individual responsibility of the educational institutions,
for competition for the better concepts and thus also for the education participants themselves.
Independent educational institutions expand and enrich the state's educational offerings.
They already show that educational diversity leads to good results in competition.
But they, too, will be challenged more in the future when state schools are given more freedom of movement in the competitive marketplace.
Independent educational institutions that offer state-recognized degrees must therefore receive the same funding as the corresponding state institutions.
In the future, private carriers will receive the same per capita amounts as state carriers.
The FDP will increase the share of education spending and prioritize investments in education and research in public budgets.
The FDP will advocate that the Conference of Ministers of Education and Cultural Affairs be abolished.
The over-regulated education system needs space to test new concepts.
The PISA results show that we must act in the interests of our children.
The Conference of Ministers of Education and Cultural Affairs is talking up necessary reforms.
The FDP calls for independent quality assurance agencies run as foundations or limited liability companies.
The agencies review and certify the quality of school performance, initially in the core areas of mathematics, a natural science, German language, and first foreign language.
The way to reach the set goals is left to the individual schools themselves.
Individual schools, including independent schools, and states can join the certification process.
After a trial phase on a voluntary basis, the aim is for all schools to participate across the board.
We do not want standardization, but creative diversity in the education system and therefore competition among the federal states for the best education policy.
In doing so, Liberals in each state will advocate gradually granting schools more pedagogical freedom and comprehensive self-governance rights.
These are the most important conditions for quality-enhancing pedagogical competition.
Moreover, in a world that is constantly and sometimes erratically changing, education must not be understood as a one-time affair.
With almost thirty thousand continuing education providers, 20 million participants and a cost volume of 52 billion euros per year, a framework for greater efficiency and transparency must be created.
For this purpose, an educational test foundation, similar to Stiftung Warentest, should be established.
Education providers must be required to create systems of voluntary certification.
An education passport is to be created for participants in continuing education, which documents their education and training steps on a voluntary basis in a standardized form.
In schools, the qualification of teachers during non-instructional time must become as self-evident a duty as it is in universities.
Continuing academic education must become the third mandatory task for professors at universities nationwide, alongside teaching and research.
The FDP calls for the preparation of a national education report.
In this report, data on the entire education system from kindergarten to continuing education are to be collected by the federal and state governments once per legislative period and submitted to the Bundestag.
I. Education is a main task of society - and of the family
Parenthood also means taking seriously the educational mandate of the Basic Law: "The care and upbringing of children are the natural right of parents and their primary duty" (Article 6, Paragraph II).
The task of educating our children cannot be accomplished by the school alone.
The education of our children must start as early as possible, because educational deficits in the first five years cannot be made up by school.
Therefore, an educational focus must be placed on daycare centers and kindergartens.
This requires increased financial support and an improvement in the training of educators.
In order for preschool education to be professionally run, we need pedagogical professionals.
Improving the supply of childcare places is an important task that policymakers must urgently address.
In particular, the range of childcare options for children under the age of three and for elementary school children needs to be expanded.
The promotion of children in day care facilities and day care fulfills a social function.
Daycare centers are also an elementary component of the education system as early preparation for school attendance and are especially important in our changing information society.
The FDP is committed to improving child care through more market and competition.
In addition, the FDP calls for a wider range of integrative kindergartens for German and foreign children.
The promotion of German language skills, for both German and foreign children, must also become an integral part of preschool education.
Overall, the educational mission of the kindergarten must be upgraded.
This includes a new balance of learning, playing and moving.
Following the Scandinavian model, the teaching of skills that are fundamental for learning at school should be given a binding character by means of a framework curriculum that is to be implemented on a facility-specific basis.
The legal entitlement to a kindergarten place must be implemented by the federal states so that parents, as representatives of their eligible children, can actually make use of it.
Together with the municipalities, additional provision must be made for all-day care for children of different ages in line with demand.
In this context, there is potential for savings in the elimination of bureaucratic obstacles, the streamlining of cost-driving building regulations for kindergartens and the abandonment of outdated and excessive regulations, e.g. with regard to spatial equipment.
The goal of the Liberals is to create new freedom for municipalities and the individual institutions to make decisions according to concrete local requirements.
This is because municipalities and other providers of childcare facilities are independently able to define the required standards as well as the prioritization together with the parents.
In order to create a more flexible and demand-oriented offer, the FDP demands the introduction of the so-called Kita-Gutschein model.
The Kita voucher confirms the parents' entitlement to childcare, without being associated with the allocation of a specific place.
With the daycare voucher, parents act as demanders on the market of providers and choose the service they want.
The quality of the care offered should determine demand - not merely the proximity of the home.
In this context, it must also become possible to redeem the daycare vouchers with employers who enable childcare in their company that meets certain quality standards to be defined.
High-performing schools - creating new framework conditions
The task of the school of the future will be, above all, to awaken in the younger generation a readiness for lifelong learning and to train the appropriate skills for this.
The overregulation of the German school system must be dismantled so that our schools can solve this task.
For a solid basic training
Elementary schools need to be significantly strengthened.
School after-school programs should generally be linked to schools.
Foreign language instruction should become an integral part of the curriculum beginning in first grade.
It is up to the schools to decide which foreign language to choose.
Increasing equity for students by deepening basic knowledge and skills requires a significant expansion of all-day opportunities in all types of schools.
All-day schooling, insofar as it includes supplementary care for children, must remain an offer whose acceptance ultimately depends on the parents' decision.
In this context, the FDP rejects a model of all-day school that is understood exclusively as an extension of half-day school.
For the care of children at all-day schools, new models must be permitted that include cooperation with day nurseries and other facilities of independent sponsors just as sensibly as cooperation with the legal guardians.
The FDP wants our children to be able to start school at the age of five.
Children in need of special support should be identified and supported at an earlier stage through the increased use of developmental diagnostics in the elementary sector.
If necessary, they must be deferred from enrollment to find the "transition moment'' that is right for them individually.
As a result, the aim should be to achieve earlier, but at the same time more flexible, school enrollment on average.
Earlier school enrollment not only takes into account the increasingly changing circumstances of many families.
It opens up the possibility of using the students' willingness to learn and inquisitiveness in an educationally meaningful way at an early stage.
Our children's achievements must be evaluated in a way that parents and children can understand.
The working conditions of elementary schools in particular must be improved.
The PISA study has made it clear that while class sizes of 20 children may not be exceeded in other countries, class sizes of up to 30 children are the norm - especially in Germany's metropolitan areas.
The FDP therefore advocates a significant improvement in the teacher-pupil ratio in elementary schools.
For equal opportunities
Ensuring equal opportunities in education is a priority for the FDP.
This means equality of opportunity at the start, but not equality of outcome at the finish.
Before starting school, all children should undergo a mandatory entrance test that not only assesses their "school readiness," but also identifies learning disabilities, special talents and, above all, language problems.
Children who do not have a sufficient command of the German language when they enter school are to be given special support until they have caught up with the other children in their grade.
As everyday school life, but also numerous studies (e.g. PISA) show, the number of those students who have difficulties in learning cultural techniques such as arithmetic, reading and writing (dyscalculia, dyslexia) has steadily increased.
The FDP is therefore in favor of promoting learning methods appropriate to the age of the children and testing them in school trials, which are suitable for preventing reading, spelling and arithmetic weaknesses, eliminating them as far as possible and at the same time strengthening the concentration and attention of the children.
The FDP welcomes the various forms of efforts to integrate disabled children in kindergartens and schools.
In all federal states, disabled children should be able to attend regular kindergartens and regular schools.
The will of parents and the wishes of disabled people should be taken into account more in the future.
Permeability between facilities needs to be improved.
Disabled and non-disabled people should be taught together within one educational institution in the future.
Special and regular schools can exist independently under one roof.
Just like those with learning difficulties and learning disabilities, the highly gifted also have a right to special educational support.
The FDP wants continuous support for gifted students - from kindergarten through elementary and secondary school to university and vocational training.
When it comes to the highly gifted, the usual methods of pedagogy fail.
The FDP therefore calls for the establishment of chairs for gifted didactics and pedagogy nationwide, as well as a reform of teacher training that takes into account the needs of the gifted.
For innovations
At no time was it enough to rest on knowledge once acquired.
However, lifelong learning takes on a new quality when innovation cycles are reduced to ever shorter periods of time.
Jobs are created through education.
The necessary education required in professional life also includes knowledge of how to use new media.
Unhindered access must be provided for people with disabilities.
New tools like computers also require new concepts.
Therefore: New media belong in educational institutions.
The necessary budgetary resources, including those for system support, must be made available.
School sponsorships should be encouraged by reducing bureaucratic obstacles.
Companies should be allowed to claim responsibility for providing schools with computers or books.
Schools should be allowed to advertise themselves with good facilities.
In this way, the business community can actually be made jointly responsible for providing students with a good education.
High-performing schools - autonomy, competition and responsibility
In the school system, the diversity of offers and the independence of individual schools should be developed.
To do this, schools need significantly more opportunities for self-governance than current legislation currently allows.
The FDP calls for greater pedagogical and financial responsibility on the part of the individual educational institutions, so that competition between the individual schools increases and the better concept can prevail.
Currently, approximately 87,000 students (9%) leave general education each year without a diploma.
This alarmingly high and unfortunately increased number can only be countered if new concepts of school work are developed and implemented.
In addition, the profiling of schools must be facilitated
and competition between all types of schools encouraged.
The federal states must assign responsibility to schools in their school laws.
In this context, per-capita lump-sum allocations, which the schools receive from the school board and on whose use the schools can decide independently, and full staff autonomy provide the opportunity for quality improvement and competition.
Schools must be allowed to hire the staff they need themselves.
Where school districts or school districts still exist, they must be abolished.
This is the only way to give parents the opportunity to choose the right educational institution for their children from a wide range of schools.
Binding and transparent quality assurance is the decisive prerequisite for the standing of German schools on an international scale as well as for their comparability nationwide and at the individual school location.
In the future, quality assurance at schools must be closely linked to regular accountability to parents, the community, the business community, and post-secondary educational institutions.
Involvement of associations, businesses, churches, libraries, etc. is an urgent need.
The quality of a school must be made measurable and verifiable.
In order to achieve this goal and to involve the public more in the educational process, a ranking among schools is useful.
Experience has shown that quality measures are disputed in the context of every ranking; they must therefore be disclosed.
Then, in open social competition, everyone can decide which educational achievements they recognize as special school quality.
Schools should join freely chosen accreditation associations, as has already begun in higher education, and be regularly certified by them.
Quality assurance is one of the most important prerequisites for the future social opportunities of our youth.
The overriding goal of all changes in the school system must be the consistent development and safeguarding of comparable standards in all qualifications and examinations.
In order to ensure the comparability of school-leaving qualifications, the FDP therefore advocates general final examinations after the ninth or tenth grade.
This is intended to improve the prospects of school leavers on the labor market.
The FDP also demands the Abitur nationwide after 12 years.
Minimum standards must be established to counteract the de facto devaluation of the baccalaureate as an entrance qualification for university studies.
In the competitive order that is developing in this way, the state must in future grant equal opportunities to state and privately funded education providers.
Practical teacher training
Today's teacher training is not sufficiently practice-oriented and does not adequately prepare future teachers for their later professional life.
Longer early internships in schools should therefore be integrated into teacher training on a mandatory basis.
The acquisition of essential skills required in the teaching profession (presentation, pedagogical diagnostics, educational counseling, psychology of adolescence) should be strengthened.
Teachers' diagnostic skills must be improved in order to be able to recognize gifted children, learning disabilities and educational difficulties at an earlier stage.
The FDP is in favor of conducting model trials for tiered teacher training with bachelor's and master's degrees, as proposed by the Science Council.
The supply of school psychologists must be significantly improved and offered nationwide.
II. practical vocational training
The dual system, with its components of vocational school education and practical apprenticeship time in companies, is highly regarded both nationally and internationally.
Two-thirds of all young people in a given age cohort complete an apprenticeship in the dual system.
However, this vocational education system is in need of reform.
Currently, 20% of young people are not really capable of vocational training after attending general school.
10-14% of young people in one age cohort remain without vocational training despite all support measures.
As a result of these factors, dual vocational training is threatened with material damage and a loss of image at the same time.
Against the background of the continuing willingness to train in the German economy and Europeanization in all sectors of the economy, Germany must face up to a structural reform in vocational education and training.
Basic knowledge, specialized expertise and lifelong training must be interlinked.
Foreign languages must be at the forefront of this process.
Holistic professional profile
For the FDP, vocational training must continue to lead to a clear occupational profile that ensures full professional competence.
It ensures labor market mobility and avoids additional costs.
It provides the trainee with a high level of identity with the learned profession.
Improve relationship between state and economy
The FDP wants to redefine the relationship between the economy and the state.
At the same time, the responsibility of industry for training must not be restricted by government requirements.
Rather, the business community must direct the training, while the state should only accompany.
The LE-GO model - flexible regulations with a modular system
Rigid vocational training no longer corresponds to the dynamic developments in today's working world.
Rather, catalogs of learning objectives must create flexible frameworks for teaching typical fields of activity.
The FDP proposes a differentiation and shortening, in special situations an extension of the training periods.
These training periods require modular training offers (module system "LE-GO!" = Learn and Go!).
The professional qualification is the core of the training and is supplemented by the teaching of social and methodological skills.
First, a basic module provides the complete professional orientation knowledge and the typical fields of activity of the profession.
This is followed by differentiated and optional building blocks.
They provide full technical professional competence.
Different training sections such as compulsory, elective or optional modules can be taught - also independently of each other in terms of time.
Additional qualifications give the trainee flexibility in his or her later career.
Vocational training topics could be brought forward in time in the LE-GO! system and thus represent real competition to academic education.
If individual training sections are tested and evaluated with the help of LE- GO!, even the training dropout has a chance to complete his training later with a vocational qualification.
With LE-GO!, even those young people can integrate who, due to special personal abilities, would perform less well in the conventionally divided training structure.
You decide on a different focus for the training components.
Euro Training Passport
The FDP wants to introduce a training passport in which individual training sections are identified as partial competencies.
These certificates can be referred back to in the case of later post-qualifications or catching up on the degree.
During training, the passport provides information on the level of training achieved and on sub-training modules still to be taught.
The passport also enables dropouts to prove that they have completed part of their training.
The passport allows training to be conducted at multiple training sites or virtually.
This in turn promotes training alliances, learning location cooperation and inter-company training.
However, the introduction of the training passport must not give the impression that individual training modules would be sufficient to obtain a full vocational qualification or to be able to work in an occupation on an equal footing.
Expand vocational training offer
The FDP calls for a vocational training program that is more differentiated than the traditional one.
It must respond to new job profiles with new profiles and flexible training times.
The FDP advocates a future-oriented linking of general education school-leaving qualifications with specialized training.
Structural change at state vocational schools
State vocational schools must be made fit to compete with private vocational schools, academies, independent providers and company vocational schools.
They urgently need more personal responsibility so that they can develop real independence and freedom of action.
Curricula and school offerings must be tailored to the needs of training companies.
Vocational schools need to be improved in terms of technical equipment.
Overall, the attractiveness of the dual vocational school system must be increased compared to training at vocational academies and universities.
Integration of disabled people in secondary schools
Inclusive education and instruction of disabled people should also be extended to secondary and vocational schools.
The FDP expressly opposes the tendency to convert educational and support facilities for disabled children and young people into care facilities due to cost pressure.
The professional integration of young people with disabilities is important, especially in terms of helping them to help themselves.
Innovative model projects such as integration specialist services are intended to enable extensive integration into the general labor market.
Teaching profession with new incentives
One teacher is currently applying for three vacant vocational teacher positions.
As a result, vocational schools face a significant shortage of teachers.
Vocational teacher education needs to be rethought, study regulations revised and expanded.
Thus, vocational teacher training must also be available nationwide in the business and engineering disciplines.
Part-time courses of study for graduate engineers with practical experience would also be suitable for preparing the specialists for a teaching position at vocational schools.
Virtual knowledge transfer
The virtual transfer of knowledge promotes independent learning independent of time and place, relieves the burden of classroom teaching and thus creates free space for working on projects.
Internationalization of the profession
The international component in vocational training must be promoted more strongly.
So far, there is a lack of incentives for training German apprentices abroad.
Opportunities must also be created for foreign trainees to train in Germany.
Foreign companies are only more willing to train in Germany if they are better informed and supported.
The training regulations must be changed so that they are compatible with the LE-GO! modules.
The trainee must be able to decide on his own responsibility which further qualifications he wants to take after the basic module.
By streamlining training regulations, companies could also integrate specific assignments into training.
This would promote independent work and the motivation of the trainees.
Lifelong learning - continuing education through incentives and personal commitment
The vocational school must also be an institution of further education, where education and further education merge.
In addition, according to the liberal understanding, the employee's own further training outside working hours must be promoted.
For example, the employee must be entitled to documentation of continuing education as an occupational qualification in the training passport.
Ensure better audits
Final examinations in vocational training must have the same value as general education qualifications.
With the modular system, a more flexible examination system with higher-level intermediate examinations must be created.
Education Funding
The FDP does not want a return to "apprenticeship pay.
Apprentices perform valuable work in companies during their practical training period.
Compensation is warranted.
By documenting without elaborate testing procedures for the various modules, the testing costs of the training companies are rather reduced.
Vocational education needs reforms so that in the future vocational students will be well qualified by competent vocational teachers.
Only then will graduates of a vocational school meet the requirements of a modern economic and knowledge society.
III. university - more quality through competition
The quality of the German higher education system must be improved in international comparison in order to increase its competitiveness.
In many areas of teaching and research, Germany is no longer among the world leaders.
The work at the universities is determined by the bottlenecks in the state budgets and is dependent on federal-state emergency programs.
In the case of the joint task of university construction, the federal government is pushing ahead with a bow wave of financial obligations to the states for their billions of euros in advance payments over many years.
The internal structure of universities and universities of applied sciences is highly inefficient, due to public service law and a bureaucratic management of funds.
Quality teaching often does not pay off for university faculty, and students have no buying power.
In study programs controlled by the Central Allocation Office for Study Places (ZVS), the universities and the colleges are prescribed the students.
The fundamental BAföG reform promised by the Red-Green Party has failed to materialize.
The competitive university is international, independent, economical and distinguished.
This model can only be realized if the centralistic and bureaucratic structures of the current higher education system are overcome.
Universities under public law are to become as mobile as universities under independent sponsorship.
Competitive universities are international
German universities want to get back into the top group internationally.
In addition to better funding, they need a regulatory framework that enables and stimulates scientific competition on a national and international level.
During its time in government, the FDP pushed through the introduction of bachelor's and master's degree programs.
However, these courses of study must first prove themselves in the job market.
In our own national interest, we want to improve Germany's position on the global education market, internationalize the range of courses and academic degrees offered by our universities more strongly, and increase advertising for Germany as a location for study and research abroad.
Advertising for Germany as a university location must focus on product quality.
We will only be successful if education and training in Germany or by German educational institutions becomes a quality product again.
Bureaucratic procedures, e.g. in issuing visas at embassies, must be dismantled.
German chambers of foreign trade must be more involved in advertising.
Active marketing abroad means cooperating with universities, but also establishing branches of German universities abroad.
The German schools abroad are important advertising media and must no longer be misused as a quarry in the budget of the Federal Foreign Office.
The FDP has laid the foundations for the introduction of bachelor's and master's degree programs.
These courses of study should be able to be established independently by the universities.
The FDP is in favor of making no distinction between bachelor's and master's graduates from universities of applied sciences and from universities when it comes to classification in the civil service.
This was also the original intention when these courses were introduced.
Competitive universities are independent
We no longer want to plan and standardize higher education by the state.
The Higher Education Framework Act is given a new task: it is to ensure comprehensive autonomy for universities in the interest of academic freedom and to push back the bureaucratic tendencies of the Länder ministries of science.
To this end, the Framework Act for Higher Education must be fundamentally revised with the aim of expanding university autonomy by giving universities authority and responsibility for financial, personnel and organizational decisions.
The elimination of federal regulations in a reformed Higher Education Framework Act should not lead to an increase in state regulations.
The assumption of personal responsibility by the universities must be promoted and competition between them must be strengthened.
Unfortunately, the design freedoms for the higher education laws of the Länder provided for in the amended Higher Education Framework Act were not implemented in favor of higher education autonomy.
We want to grant universities the right to finally determine their own governance structures in accordance with their needs and experience in their basic regulations.
A modern service law must take into account the fact that research is increasingly organized on a project basis.
For this, we need the possibility to flexibly conclude temporary employment contracts with the best qualified person.
The FDP welcomes the introduction of the junior professor.
At the same time, it recognizes that various disciplinary cultures still have good reason for not wanting to dispense with the habilitation.
The strengthening of the universities' own responsibility must be accompanied by other decision-making structures.
In this process, universities are strengthening their management skills and eliminating leadership deficits.
This includes giving the departments significantly more autonomy in the development of study and examination regulations as well as in teaching and research as part of an objective agreed with the university management.
Each university must be able to determine its own profile, such as through the introduction of new subjects, target agreements and degrees, as well as the greater development of individual departments, the bundling of departments or the formation of interdisciplinary research groups.
Regular internal and external evaluation of the university's goals and performance in research and teaching and publication of their results will make it easier for applicants to find out which university is best suited to their personal goals.
The idea of competition - long anchored in research - must also be realized in the area of teaching.
The conditions must be created for universities to compete with each other through excellent results in education and research.
In the future, the universities themselves should be able to decide on the admission of their students, so that gifted students can also be identified at an early stage by means of subject-specific aptitude tests.
The university itself develops the criteria and procedures by which it selects students.
The abolition of the ZVS is the basic condition for real freedom in teaching and studying.
All applicants in Germany must be given the right to apply directly to the university of their choice.
The universities, for their part, are given the right to select those suitable from among the applicants according to performance criteria.
The initiative of the states of Baden-Württemberg, Hesse and Saxony to terminate the existing state treaty is in line with the ideas of the FDP.
It is the right path for all countries to follow.
Conditions must be created at universities that make it normal for a person with disabilities to study.
In addition to structural and other measures that make studying possible, we rely on the responsible collaboration of students, university administrators, and university faculty to develop ideas for individual support.
Competitive universities are economically
New forms of education funding not only increase the autonomy of universities, but will also enable them to deliver more and better education and research services.
The globalization of university budgets begins with the mutual coverability of all personnel, non-personnel and construction funds, as well as the possibility of building up reserves by eliminating the principle of annuality.
With the liberation from cameralistics and the conversion to a commercial accounting system, the opportunity for internal cost accounting as the basis for more successful university management is granted.
The next step is to abolish the Capacity Ordinance, as otherwise the new freedom of the universities on the expenditure side of their budgets, which is also to include the staffing plans, will come into conflict with the Capacity Ordinance.
This is based on the assumption that the state assigns academic positions to the study programs, from whose teaching obligations educational capacities can be calculated, which are to be shown by admission figures to be determined by the state and which can be reviewed by administrative courts against the yardstick of the capacity regulation.
Without abolishing the capacity regulation, the autonomy of universities cannot be realized.
In the future, the amount of the global budgets will be based on the number of students and their ratio to the number of academic staff.
The nationwide introduction of education vouchers ensures that universities are remunerated in line with their performance and enables the expansion of locations preferred by students.
Education vouchers embody every prospective student's "right to education" and are to be provided free of charge by the state to appropriate first-year students upon graduation from school.
Education vouchers allow any student, regardless of parental income, to earn a first professional degree - preserving equal opportunity for all students.
It is up to the student to decide at which university to use these vouchers.
The sum of each college's education vouchers determines the amount of funding it receives from the state.
This funding route promotes the previously lacking interest of universities in admitting the largest possible number of students, as long as the competitiveness of the quality of education offered does not suffer as a result.
Students should be given the right to use their education vouchers to study at state-recognized universities under independent sponsorship as well.
This will stimulate competition for students and contribute to vigorous academic reforms at all universities.
In addition, the introduction of education vouchers also expands the personal freedom of individual students with regard to planning their studies.
Competition for students will make it easier for them to achieve their desires to study part-time.
In a dynamic world of work, many students also start their working lives early, become self-employed on the side, and try to acquire additional qualifications alongside their studies.
A state that is committed to its young entrepreneurs must also create the conditions for young people to flexibly shape their studies and careers.
In view of this changed study situation, education vouchers can be used to achieve greater flexibility, whereby the student is not subsidized per semester, but per course, and can thus realize his or her individual study organization.
The introduction of education vouchers will spark healthy competition among universities for students.
Universities will try to attract students with differentiated and differently profiled study programs.
The education voucher system guarantees a tuition-free first degree.
Therefore, the FDP rejects the introduction of general tuition fees at the present time.
The situation of many universities mocks a cost of academic education.
Third-party funding in the area of research will form a stronger part of the revenue side of universities than in the past.
The support of science by non-profit institutions is an indispensable part of science funding.
Private-sector sponsorship, for example for university renovations and the expansion of courses of study, is to be used to a greater extent.
At the same time, this means opportunities for the establishment of endowed chairs by industry.
In the future, all new models must be based on performance-related criteria.
Cooperation between universities and industry is to be welcomed.
The establishment of joint networks should be encouraged.
Sponsoring is not a dirty word, but can lead to the improvement of the financial resources as well as a realistic addition to the offer.
However, care must be taken to ensure that third-party funding does not result in the cancellation of government funding.
Government-funded basic research remains indispensable.
Industry is called upon to support not only research and training projects that can be implemented directly on a commercial basis.
Universities must improve cooperation with business incubators and create separate facilities for this purpose in order to make it easier for students to start businesses.
The new funding structures will noticeably increase public confidence in the universities' frugal use of allocated state funds.
Politically, this will make it easier for the FDP to secure much-needed funding for universities.
We want to make an additional 5 billion euros available to universities from federal funds in the next legislative period.
In addition, the federal government is to spend 1.2 billion euros a year on university construction to reduce the "bow wave" of overdue construction loans.
Competitive universities are profiled
Future higher education reform should no longer be based on a static binary model in which two equal types of higher education institutions, i.e. university and university of applied sciences, stand side by side.
The university and the university of applied sciences will compete with each other for students and for research funding, just as universities will increasingly compete with each other and universities of applied sciences with each other.
Each university is free to give itself an academic profile for which it is responsible.
Universities of applied sciences should be able to do more research and universities should be able to offer more practice-oriented teaching.
The desired projects of scientific cooperation will also increasingly exist between independent universities - not only in the international field.
Capacity at universities of applied sciences must be further expanded.
The organizational structures of the universities of applied sciences must be geared toward even greater flexibility.
This relieves the universities for their very own task of training the next generation of scientists.
A course of study at a university of applied sciences is a different but equivalent type of education.
Classification for access to the higher civil service must therefore take place in competition between graduates from all types of higher education institutions, including those from universities of applied sciences.
The development of dual courses of study and part-time study for qualified professionals should be encouraged in order to promote close interaction between industry and higher education in the targeted training of young scientific executives.
The inclusion of dual components in the combination of studies and practical vocational training requires more than just organizational efforts from the universities to understand these conditions as a productive opportunity and to take them into account in the curriculum.
The FDP is sticking to the reform of student funding according to the so-called three-basket model, for which it has already submitted its own bill.
The support of highly gifted students is to be further expanded by private and public foundations, through the programs for highly gifted students of the foundations of the political parties, the churches, the Donors' Association for the Promotion of Sciences and Humanities in Germany and the Heisenberg Program.
The existing possibilities for supporting gifted students at universities in the form of doctoral scholarships are not sufficient and must be strengthened.
Research training groups at universities must continue to be established and funded in the future.
The Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, German Research Foundation), whose mission is to promote science in all its branches, has a special responsibility in this regard.
IV. Research and technology policy - making responsible use of opportunities
Research is free
The FDP stands by the freedom of research.
It is not the scientists who have to justify themselves if they want to research something, but the state needs good reasons if it wants to interfere with the freedom of research.
However, freedom also includes responsibility, which does not permit "limitless science" and sets ethical and moral limits.
Research and technology policy has a cross-cutting function.
It links the respective policy areas from education to economic policy.
Innovation and progress can only come about if the necessary conditions are created through education and training of the upcoming generation.
This includes teaching a positive basic attitude toward science and technology in schools.
This includes student and youth competitions in science and technology.
Research in competition
The FDP wants competitive structures in research as well. Institutes, universities and organizations should compete with each other for research contracts and funding, but also cooperate more closely.
There will be an increasing shift from institutional funding to program-based funding.
Research financed by third-party funds is becoming increasingly important at both universities and non-university research institutions.
Third-party funds raised in competition are a sure indication of the quality and social relevance of the research conducted by scientific institutions.
In order to promote competition among research institutions and secure their ability to attract external funding, public third-party funders (such as the DFG) must also move toward paying universities and research institutes an institutional overhead on approved research funds to compensate for the university's overhead costs.
Such an additional burden on funding institutions should go hand in hand with a corresponding strengthening of public third-party funders.
Federal research funds should be awarded through a competitive process whenever possible.
We need more centers of excellence in Germany.
Ambitious research and teaching must come together here, and universities, research centers and industry must work together.
The FDP will promote such centers in cooperation with the federal states.
The acquisition of third-party funding from industry is desired.
Today, cutting-edge research can no longer be financed from public funds alone.
The BioRegio and InnoRegio competitions have shown how important research can be for the economic performance of a region.
The FDP will ensure that these projects are continued and expanded.
The transfer of scientific research results to companies and thus to new products must be accelerated.
The conversion of research results and new technical and scientific findings into products and patents through technology transfer must be seen as a joint task and opportunity by universities, research and industry.
Measures to support the transfer of new technologies and knowledge to small and medium-sized enterprises include technology transfer networks and cooperative projects that provide a range of consulting services for business in the field of research and development.
The FDP welcomes the establishment of transfer offices at universities.
However, the federal government has only financed these centers from UMTS funds, which will expire in a few years.
Here, we want funding to be secured until patent and licensing revenues provide their own funding.
Now that the major research networks have been evaluated and, in some cases, restructured in recent years, it is time to thoroughly review the federal government's departmental research as well.
Research is international.
The FDP welcomes the basic structure of the EU's 6th Research Framework Program, but misses the concrete design.
The FDP misses a clear commitment of the German government to the French application for the ITER project, which could provide important findings on nuclear fusion.
EU research funding is designed to help researchers and commercial enterprises explore and exploit opportunities for Europe-wide collaborations.
However, it must not slide into industrial policy and steer entrepreneurial decisions through subsidies under the pretext of research policy.
Access to EU funding for small and medium-sized enterprises and advice for SMEs must be improved.
Genetic engineering - key technology of the 21st century
Genetic engineering research focuses on basic research into the structure of genes and the goal of developing therapies against serious genetic diseases.
For many patients, therefore, genetic engineering represents great hope.
At the same time, people with disabilities, whether caused by genetic disposition or otherwise, are a natural and equal part of our society.
Research on embryonic stem cells offers great opportunities for improving our understanding of how cells are programmed.
If we know why cells form into certain cell types (e.g. liver, kidney or muscle cells) we can try to target this development and grow cell replacements for organs or, for example, to treat Alzheimer's patients.
In parallel, research on adult stem cells should be intensified.
The stem cell law passed by the Bundestag is a minimum consensus.
The FDP has agreed to it, but is aware that it will soon need improvement.
Due to the restrictive cut-off date regulation, hardly any cell lines will be available that are qualitatively suitable for therapeutic research.
Human cloning remains banned in Germany and must also be outlawed internationally.
Preimplantation diagnostics is a procedure already used in ten European countries by which couples particularly burdened by incurable hereditary diseases can have it determined whether the embryo is burdened by a hereditary disease.
It must also be made possible in Germany within narrow legal limits.
Policy for a responsible society
The goal of liberal social policy is to give citizens as many opportunities as possible to shape their lives.
The focus of liberal social policy is on policies for families and other communities of responsibility in which people assume lasting responsibility for one another.
This includes intergenerational communities of responsibility.
Bonds are of particular importance in today's individualized society.
Communities of responsibility must be respected and legally secured.
Pluralization, individualization and new life plans of women and men have led to diverse family life forms and lifestyles in our society.
For liberals, family is living together with children: Family is where children are.
It is precisely these families that require our special support.
Because children are an enrichment for the future.
A modern family policy must take particular account of changing social conditions.
Family and career
Reconciling family and career is one of the most important goals of liberal family and women's policy.
A wider and more flexible range of public and private childcare places must be created.
Only then will there be real freedom of choice for women and men to combine career and family.
The FDP advocates for more market and competition in childcare.
This is achieved by introducing the so-called Kita vouchers.
This ensures parents their right to childcare, without assigning them a specific kindergarten place.
Parents seek out the service they want in the market of providers as demanders.
In order to close the gaps in support between the ages of 2 and 3, more childcare places must be offered in this area.
This is because the income-related child-raising allowance is only paid for the first two years in most federal states, while the legal entitlement to a kindergarten place only applies from the age of 3.
The establishment of company kindergartens should be facilitated by flexible and simplified legal requirements.
For smaller companies, forms of cooperation with other companies or with kindergartens are an option.
Furthermore, in order to ensure equal rights for self-initiatives and to create sufficient kindergarten places, relevant building regulations must be reviewed for their necessity.
Outdated and excessive regulations must be dismantled in favor of a family-friendly policy.
In addition, a 5-year program is to be launched, with the federal and state governments each contributing 500 million euros annually to improve the infrastructure and supply of childcare places.
Private and voluntary initiatives in the field of childcare should be given greater support.
The actual and legal position of daycare parents must be improved.
Appropriate continuing education programs are designed to ensure that quality standards are observed.
Parents must be assured that their children will be cared for at school until noon, even if there are cancelled hours.
Childcare services before and after school in the time frame of 7:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. must be provided.
In the area of secondary schools, the aim is to support the establishment of further childcare services in the afternoon in addition to the existing services at the school.
The range of all-day schools must be expanded in line with demand and in close coordination with the school authorities - especially the existing after-school programs.
Quantitatively and qualitatively improved childcare is the key to better reconciling family and work,
but at the same time, creating family-friendly conditions in the world of work is an important goal.
In order to take into account the life plans of women and men who want social, professional and family commitment in equal measure, flexibility and creative individual solutions are required above all - instead of compulsory state measures:
Greater flexibility in the labor market, while dispensing with excessive protective regulations, would enable (potential) parents to work full- or part-time, or even temporarily opt out of the workforce, according to their respective life situations.
Further flexibilization of working hours and work location helps to fulfill family obligations despite working.
There are also many good examples of family-friendliness in human resources policy and in the design of training, further education and continuing education programs, which need to be promoted in the form of networks, cooperations, quality seals or the like.
Family and taxes
The case law of the Federal Constitutional Court has highlighted the financial disadvantage of families, especially in tax law.
However, the implementation of the 1999 ruling on the introduction of an education and childcare allowance falls short of what is necessary and required.
That is why the family must continue to receive tax relief.
The liberal concept of financial relief and support for families provides for the following measures:
The subsistence minimum remains tax-free.
Only income in excess of this may be subject to progressive taxation as disposable income.
To exempt the subsistence minimum, the FDP wants a uniform basic tax allowance of 7,500 euros for every citizen, including every child.
The special burden on families, including single parents, is taken into account by this significant increase in the tax-free amount for children.
The child benefit paid directly is retained and adjusted accordingly.
Children should be enabled to grow up in a household characterized by personal responsibility.
As in other countries, the FDP wants to use the citizen's income concept to make it easier for single parents in particular to take the leap into part-time employment: for
every euro they earn themselves, they could be sure of retaining a higher income than if they did not work.
Today, this requires gross earnings that can often only be achieved by making a transitional leap into full-time work.
In order to remedy this situation in the short term, partial crediting models to the current social assistance (citizen's allowance, entry-level allowance) make more sense than subsidizing social insurance contributions (e.g. Mainz model).
In order to improve the compatibility of family and career, childcare costs incurred, such as daycare fees, costs for childminders, etc., must be deductible as income-related expenses for employees and as business expenses for self-employed persons.
The cost of using service agencies for child care is also taxable.
The tax deductibility of domestic employment must be reintroduced in order to create employment relationships in private households that are subject to social insurance contributions.
The maximum amount of deductibility is to be increased to 12,500 euros (i.e. from the previous 18,000 DM per year to approx. 25,000 DM per year).
Family and social security
As a consequence of the Constitutional Court ruling on long-term care insurance of April 2001, families with children during the child-rearing phase (and only during the child-rearing phase) are to be relieved in social insurance where their contribution to intergenerational cost distribution is not sufficiently taken into account.
The greater consideration of child-rearing in social insurance, as demanded by the Federal Constitutional Court, is not to be realized through a graduation of contributions according to the number of children, but through direct contribution subsidies to families.
Promoting families is the task of state social policy.
Family policy benefits must be separated from insurance benefits as transfer payments and financed from general tax revenues.
The requirement to generally eliminate the risk of poverty for families as far as possible applies in particular when there are exceptional financial burdens due to disabled or chronically ill children.
Therefore, additional supports are necessary here if needed.
The certainty that a family can count on special government assistance in such emergencies makes it much easier for potential parents to decide to have children.
The social security of the family does not only consist of direct, financial family support.
It is becoming increasingly clear that upbringing, education, care, counseling, leisure activities are equally important for the well-being and positive development of children.
Children have a right to education.
The design of a social infrastructure is particularly important for children and young people.
Parents must be strengthened and supported in fulfilling their family responsibilities.
At the same time, however, educational offers and social services are to be provided as needed.
Civil partnerships
In addition to marriage and the family, registered civil partnerships have also been recognized as communities of responsibility since 2002.
The FDP welcomes the possibility for same-sex couples to legally secure their partnerships.
The FDP was the first party in the current legislative period to present a bill for this purpose, which, in contrast to the package of laws that has now been passed, was a bill for freedom, for the partners' freedom of choice.
Unfortunately, the Red-Green Party did not seek a social consensus.
As a result, important parts of the legislative package were blocked in the Bundesrat.
As a result, there is now an imbalance of rights and obligations to the detriment of registered civil partners.
The FDP is committed to regulating the open legal issues by law without delay and to reconciling rights and obligations.
In the medium term, it must be examined whether the existing legal regulations meet the needs of same-sex cohabiting couples or whether there is further discrimination in other areas of the law.
These discriminations must be eliminated.
The FDP is calling for changes in inheritance tax law in particular.
Women
Classical values and social role models are undergoing rapid change.
Against this background, the self-image of women in particular has changed fundamentally.
Many women today want to combine work, career and family.
Today, this desire must be just as possible as choosing one of the areas.
Many women today are faced with the decision between having a child, working and having a career.
This more often leads to even well-educated women foregoing having children.
It is the task of policymakers and employers to counteract this development by creating appropriate framework conditions for reconciling children, work and career.
The FDP does not consider liberal women's policy to be a female-specific policy, because it extends into all political and social areas.
It must be understood as a cross-cutting political task that has points of contact with every policy field.
However, although equal rights for women and men are socially and legally established, women are still underrepresented in those positions that carry high income and social prestige.
Despite high professional qualifications, women are still a rarity in management positions.
Formal and informal networks as well as personal support are indispensable for professional success.
The FDP supports the concept of "mentoring" to offset various discriminatory factors that make it difficult for women to access informal news or career-related contacts.
The gender-specific division of labor is still a reality in our society.
The disadvantages faced by women in their careers and men in raising children do not reflect the wishes of many couples to organize their family life as partners.
The FDP does not fail to recognize that in order to realize equal, self-determined responsibility, women need support in society and politics.
It is the only party that relies on the creative potential of individual citizens, their willingness to perform and their will to live their lives in a self-determined way.
The FDP also relies on the fact that it is increasingly recognized that the economy and society need the potential and skills of women and can no longer exclude them.
Only when women have control over their own lives can they make conscious and free choices and bring about equality in partnership.
Seniors
The proportion of older people in the total population is growing steadily.
The FDP sees this development as an incentive for a new senior citizens' policy that improves the opportunities for older citizens to participate more in civil society and to be involved in decision-making.
A liberal senior citizens' policy addresses young and old alike, because it wants to prevent the generations from working against each other and achieve togetherness.
Older people should be able to retain their freedom and assume their responsibilities.
Their life's work deserves recognition.
Modern society cannot do without their experience and knowledge without suffering damage.
This is especially true in the world of work.
Only in Germany are older workers retiring in such large numbers and so early.
While only 39% of people between the ages of 55 and 64 are employed in Germany, the comparable figure in other industrialized countries is up to 70%.
Dispensing with these experienced workers is not a measure against unemployment - on the contrary; other industrialized countries with higher labor force participation of older people have a higher overall labor force participation rate and a lower unemployment rate than Germany.
The restructuring of the labor law system is therefore necessary.
Protective regulations need to be reviewed and subsidies for early retirement must be discontinued in favor of incentives to remain available to the labor market for longer.
Today, older citizens are incomparably more active and capable than in the past.
Therefore, statutory age limits for professional activities must also be reviewed and, if necessary, eliminated.
At the municipal level, seniors are to be motivated to participate more in seniors' councils and parliaments.
A voluntary social year for seniors should be introduced and, like the voluntary social year for young people, should be provided with financial incentives.
The door to new technologies and media competence should be better opened through targeted educational offerings.
The necessary restructuring of the social security systems must aim at security of supply,
stability of contributions and
intergenerational equity to the same extent.
A generational balance sheet must be drawn up regularly as a basis for setting the necessary course.
Liberal senior citizens' policy is not just policy for the active elderly.
It also deals with the needs-based care of the elderly, those in need of assistance and nursing care.
Increasingly, families are completely overwhelmed here; professional help in all emergency situations is hardly affordable financially.
Already with housing construction that ensures a mix of generations, as well as with networks of mutual assistance among seniors, forward-looking developments can begin.
In this context, the FDP is primarily in favor of intergenerational housing models in which older people and young families live together and support each other.
The medical profession must also adapt to the increasing number of sick elderly people.
The specialist knowledge of general practitioners and specialists must be broadened as early as the university education stage by establishing corresponding chairs for geriatrics and gerontology.
The FDP strongly advocates preventive geriatric medicine.
Special integrative concepts must be developed for disabled people who have reached retirement age.
Conventional nursing homes and homes for the elderly must be geared more closely to the special needs of older people with disabilities.
People with disabilities
People with disabilities and their relatives have a right to a life that is as self-determined as possible.
They must be provided with clear rights and fair opportunities.
At every stage of life and in every life situation, they must be given the chance to shape their lives in the way they want and are able to.
Disability policy must not only be made for disabled people, it must be made with disabled people and essentially shaped by them.
This applies to all forms of disabilities.
Individual groups of disabled people who do not have a lobby or who cannot articulate themselves so well must not be disadvantaged.
The goal of liberal disability policy is genuine participation, because people with disabilities belong in the middle of society.
In order to achieve this goal, disability policy in particular must be redirected from object to subject support: It is not primarily the facilities for disabled people that are to be supported, but the disabled people themselves.
As a rule, they should receive a personal budget with which they can obtain the necessary services according to their wishes and needs.
Of course, the respective personal abilities must be taken into account and the necessary assistance, e.g. by relatives, self-help associations or caregivers, must be provided.
The FDP supports the various forms of efforts to integrate disabled children in kindergartens, schools and secondary educational institutions.
More attention should be paid to the parents' will and the wishes of the disabled people.
For most people with disabilities, obtaining paid employment is an important contribution to greater independence.
They are usually very reliable, highly motivated and productive workers.
Special regulations that are supposed to make it easier for people with disabilities to work should be put to the test without prejudice.
The criterion is whether these regulations really make it easier or more difficult to accept a job.
Good support is the basic prerequisite for real participation and thus for a self-determined life of disabled people.
However, good support often has to take place throughout a child's life if it is to achieve lasting success:
Early support plays a role in learning basic skills that should not be underestimated.
These determine the whole further development.
The parents of children with disabilities are in urgent need of support and of local, flexible mobile or outpatient assistance.
Children at risk of disability must also be considered.
Medical research needs to be intensified regarding the origin and effects of the different types of disabilities.
Focus on treatment and rehabilitation to be specifically researched.
In this context, the FDP rejects research on persons incapable of giving consent.
Liberal research policy is always guided by the dignity of the human being.
Civic engagement
Civic engagement is an important element of a free society.
Fundamental to lasting strong democratic structures is the unpaid commitment of personal, intellectual and manual creativity in and for society, combined with individual willingness to perform, a sense of responsibility and a sense of duty.
The Liberals advocate strengthening the self-determined and self-responsible voluntary commitment of citizens.
The role of the state must be only that of a framework legislator, creating the legal and factual conditions for voluntary activity.
This includes, for example, defining the legal framework for a general voluntary service.
New incentives must be used to tap the existing potential for volunteer activities.
In contrast to the general principle of a strict separation of volunteer work and gainful employment, social and insurance coverage is to be explicitly permitted in those cases where people work exclusively within this framework during their period of service.
The promotion of new forms of civic engagement, such as volunteer agencies, must be stepped up.
The FDP wants to discontinue compulsory military service, which would also mean that alternative civilian service would no longer be required.
The tasks previously performed by the civilian service are to be fulfilled by volunteers and full-time employees.
This requires, in particular, a reorientation of voluntary services in Germany.
The previous options of a Voluntary Social Year or a Voluntary Ecological Year are too rigid.
Voluntary services must also be permitted for other tasks and be more flexible in terms of time for all age groups.
Policy for a free and secure Germany
I. Preserving freedom and ensuring security
The FDP sees the constitutional state as a guarantor of the freedom of an open civil society
that participates in its political decisions
and is willing to assume responsibility within it.
It is an essential task of the state to protect the rights of its citizens.
Freedom and security must not become opposites.
Freedom includes respecting the rights of others.
Security must not lead to surveillance and coercion.
That is why the state must concentrate on its core tasks.
The rule of law ensures freedoms and rights of participation,
it provides equal opportunities
and protection of minorities
, it defines the duties of the individual to the state
and the duties of the state to the individual.
It must be able to enforce and implement the laws required for this.
Before passing new laws, it is necessary to check whether the laws already in place are not sufficient.
A state that has too many laws distrusts its citizens and turns them into subjects.
In Germany, there is an enforcement deficit, not a legislative deficit.
The police and judiciary must therefore be adequately staffed and equipped.
State monopoly on the use of force
For the FDP, the state's monopoly on the use of force is a core element of the rule of law.
It is the strongest guarantee for a society that is as non-violent as possible.
A constitutional state can only respond effectively if it has the technical means that are now standard.
On the one hand, the FDP wants a police force at the federal and state levels that is better trained, better organized, better paid and better equipped.
At the same time, it calls for a police force that focuses on core tasks.
The most important core task here is the protection of civil rights.
On the other hand, the FDP rejects an ever further lowering of police intervention thresholds within the framework of federal and state laws.
The fight against crime must not end at federal borders.
Police and law enforcement cooperation in Europe must be improved more rapidly than has been the case to date.
The FDP continues to reject all considerations of transferring police powers to private security companies.
However, in order to relieve the burden on taxpayers, the costs of a deployment for the protection and guarding of large-scale private events must be borne by the organizer as far as possible.
The FDP is committed to ensuring that, through the effective deployment of police and public prosecutors, especially in the area of so-called everyday crime, punishment follows the crime.
The accelerated procedure must be increasingly applied here.
For it is precisely a swift punishment that makes the offender aware that he has violated the liberties of others.
The subsequent ordering of preventive detention may be necessary in the case of offenders whose continuing dangerousness only becomes apparent during the execution of their sentence.
It can be imposed only if the recognizing court has reserved it in the judgment, a defense counsel preserves the rights of the convicted person and the decision is made by the recognizing court.
The FDP will make sure that any plans to decriminalize so-called petty crime do not get a chance.
Shoplifting, fare evasion and graffiti graffiti must continue to be combated consistently in the future.
This includes the creation of a criminal offense for graffiti graffiti.
Constitutional protection
The terrorist attacks in New York and Washington on September 11, 2001, demonstrated the need for effective protection of the constitution.
In a state governed by the rule of law, however, it is imperative to permit the collection and analysis of personal data only under strict conditions.
This work is a not insignificant interference with personal freedom.
On the other hand, our liberal society can also be protected from terrorist attacks through early intelligence.
Services must be enabled to do this by gaining information through wide-ranging access to data.
In all cases, therefore, a legal basis, subsequent notification of the person concerned and also subsequent judicial review are required.
Parliamentary oversight at the federal and state levels must also be strengthened.
Privacy
Germany has a well-developed and differentiated right for individuals to protect their data.
Data protection law even enjoys constitutional status.
Admittedly, it does not apply absolutely.
Rather, it must always be weighed against interests of the general public of equal rank, such as the interest in effectively combating terrorism.
Due to its abstract nature, data protection is generally difficult to weigh up against the interests of the general public, such as the interest in effectively combating terrorism.
This is all the more true since the term "data protection" does not even appear in the fundamental rights of our constitution.
Particularly with regard to the expanded powers of the police and intelligence services in the course of the fight against terrorism, it is necessary to counter this with outwardly visible defensive rights for the citizen.
This means that a separate fundamental right to data protection must be included in the Basic Law.
This is also recommended with regard to the constitutions of the European neighbors and the European Charter of Fundamental Rights, which already contain corresponding provisions.
The FDP opposes the abolition of banking secrecy, as banks are already obliged to provide information in the context of criminal investigations.
The substantive law thus provides sufficient means to combat money laundering and illegal financial transactions.
The "transparent citizen" must not be created under the pretext of fighting terrorism.
Citizens must be given the opportunity to control government actions that affect them.
This requires a Freedom of Information Act, which grants citizens the right to inspect the files kept on them.
Data protection must be adapted to new technical developments.
The rights of the federal and state data protection commissioners must be improved, for example in the area of telephone surveillance measures, which have increased massively in Germany in recent years.
That is why we demand that an annual report be submitted to the Bundestag and the state parliaments, showing at least the type of facilities monitored, the number and duration of telephone interceptions, the number of conversations recorded, the reason for and nature of the decision, the outcome and cost of the measures, the number of persons affected, their relationship to the suspected crime and their notification.
The FDP will continue to critically follow the experience with wiretapping of homes under Article 13 of the Basic Law.
It already considers an improvement in parliamentary control and reporting to the German Bundestag to be essential.
The FDP considers the instrument of dragnet searches to be suitable for tracking down and apprehending suspects and potential perpetrators in the case of a sufficiently concrete dragnet through the extensive collection of data.
The FDP is calling for dragnet searches to be applied in accordance with the rule of law.
and a stronger power of control by the data protection officers
In particular, it must be ensured that dragnet searches always require a judicial decision and that the data collected in the process is deleted if it is not required for the procedure on which the search is based
Expiration dates for laws
The FDP is committed to ensuring that laws are given more expiry dates than in the past.
Weapons law
Consistent action against illegal arms trafficking and possession in Germany remains the FDP's main demand.
In the area of legal gun ownership, the FDP is advocating an amendment to the Weapons Act with the aim of limiting the acquisition of firearms by young people and adolescents.
The existing obligations to report the transfer and acquisition of weapons must be consistently monitored and sanctioned.
There are major enforcement deficits in gun law in particular.
Therefore, the FDP demands that the responsible authorities be equipped with the necessary material and personnel to implement the desired changes.
Gun rights are only one aspect of the discussion about the causes of violence and about preventive and repressive solutions.
Thorough analyses and the weighing of expert proposals must take precedence over political snap decisions.
The FDP calls for the establishment of a commission on violence that will make recommendations for action based on a sound analysis.
II. Internal security
The core task of the liberal state is to safeguard freedom.
For liberals, the idea of freedom is not a threat from which one must seek refuge in security.
Security is not an end in itself, but enforcement of the legal order to safeguard freedom.
It is true that freedom is not possible without security.
This does not mean, however, that a society would be freer the more intensively its citizens are monitored, controlled and observed.
The FDP rejects the recurring reaction of politicians to enact ever new, spectacular and extensive laws as quickly as possible when freedom and security are threatened by crime and terror.
This actionism achieves little or nothing.
The FDP is guided by fundamental rights and the principles of necessity, proportionality and appropriateness.
We believe that we do not have a deficit of laws, but a deficit in their enforcement.
We believe that international police cooperation urgently needs to be improved.
It is not only a matter of further developing EUROPOL in accordance with the rule of law,
but also of finally freeing the direct cross-border cooperation of the countries' police forces from bureaucracy.
Cooperation between the police in North Rhine-Westphalia and the Dutch police or between the police in Brandenburg and the Polish police must be just as smooth as cooperation between the police forces of the federal states.
The FDP has rejected the German government's Security Package II out of conviction, since it is only related to counterterrorism in a few issues at all, the principles of proportionality, necessity and appropriateness are not observed in the deep cuts in civil rights,
and the procedure for discussing Security Pact II did not comply with the processes of democratic will formation in any way.
The laws passed as a result of the events of September 11, 2001 must be reviewed in the light of these standards and, if necessary, adapted, restricted or even partially rescinded.
The FDP rejects the deployment of the Bundeswehr to protect internal security.
The Bundeswehr is there to protect external security, the federal and state police forces to protect internal security.
Strengthen victims' rights
Criminal proceedings serve the purpose of swift and emphatic conviction of the offender.
However, the protection and rights of crime victims belong at the center of legal policy.
The legal measures aimed at improving the legal, factual and psychological situation of victims, their relatives and witnesses have not been pursued decisively enough by the federal government.
Therefore, the FDP continues to advocate for consistent reform of criminal procedure law, criminal law, and victim protection laws.
The victim should be able to assert his or her claims against the perpetrator as early as the criminal proceedings.
The FDP consistently opposes those who, through a false understanding of criminals, forget the much more important protection of victims and innocent people.
This includes taking clear action against domestic violence
and unreasonable harassment, such as constant stalking and stalking against the victim's will, for example through telephone terror.
The FDP advocates a decisive fight against human smuggling and trafficking in women.
It calls for decisive implementation of the Protection Against Violence Act in practice.
Violence as a means of confrontation must never succeed in our society.
Combating child sexual abuse
The number of known cases of sexual abuse remains at an alarmingly high level, in addition to the presumably very high number of unreported cases.
Boys and girls must be protected from any form of violation of their sexual self-determination, from physical and psychological violence.
The FDP is committed to ensuring that measures to protect children extend beyond legislation and law enforcement to include comprehensive prevention, protection and assistance for victims,
and active engagement by civil society.
In addition, the FDP calls for international cooperation to combat the commercial sexual exploitation of children as a global and transnational crime that also extends to Germany.
Child and juvenile delinquency
The primary goal of combating child and juvenile delinquency remains prevention.
It is essential to combat violence and its causes at its source, especially among children.
Therefore, the FDP is in favor of outlawing all violence.
This is a task for society as a whole and also includes, in particular, the social security of children,
an adequate supply of childcare facilities
and a school system that also gives weaker students a perspective.
However, lowering the age of criminal responsibility is out of the question for the FDP.
If a juvenile sentence is imposed, the educational tasks of such a correctional system must be given space in a far more effective manner through a Juvenile Penal System Act that is finally to be introduced.
Corruption
The increase in corruption offenses poses new challenges for the rule of law.
It must use all means at its disposal to combat these forms of crime.
This includes the creation of a central corruption register.
Countering Extremism
The FDP condemns all extremism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism and violence.
The extent of extremist crimes in the Federal Republic of Germany is a cause for concern.
The assumption that these were temporary processes has not been confirmed.
The FDP supports the swift implementation of the "Alliance for Democracy and Tolerance - against Extremism and Violence'' with the participation in particular of the voluntary organizations with their wide range of youth work.
In addition, an annual amount is to be set for projects to promote community youth work, especially political education and social engagement.
The FDP calls for greater support for voluntary organizations with their wide range of youth activities (sports and other recreational activities).
An amount of at least 130 million euros must be made available annually in the federal budget for projects to promote community youth work, especially for political education, social engagement and for cultural work in non-governmental organizations.
The Federal Agency for Civic Education must focus on developing and implementing project youth work in the new federal states.
Addiction Policy
The basis of an efficient and successful addiction policy is research into the causes and effects of these forms of disease.
The FDP is therefore committed to improving basic and applied research.
The general goal of all measures, in addition to preventing addiction, must be to restore freedom from addiction.
For those who are already addicted, a needs-based, differentiated range of therapies must be established and expanded to ensure that treatment can begin immediately.
A better fight against organized drug crime as well as international drug trafficking must effectively complement prevention services and assistance for addicts.
Drug dealing is a serious crime that must be vigorously combated, especially in the interest of young people.
Drug-dependent people also need help in the low-threshold area, e.g. in the form of drug consumption rooms where medical, hygienic and psychological help is offered and the willingness to start therapy is promoted.
The revolving door effect of today's addiction aid can be sustainably reduced by organizing a case management, which helps the addict to realize the temporal and factual order of all therapy steps.
Prevention is of central importance.
The FDP is therefore calling for a long-term comprehensive addiction prevention strategy that focuses on promoting life skills among children and young people,
as well as the goal of helping drug addicts
and curbing acquisitive crime.
The FDP is seeking the rapid evaluation of the results of the controlled heroin distribution trial that began in 2002.
Once the results are available, it will be possible to decide on a scientific basis whether and to what extent heroin administration is superior to methadone substitution.
However, these services for severely addicted individuals must not be made at the expense of proven, abstinence-oriented drug-free therapies.
For severely addicted persons, state-controlled narcotic administration prescribed by qualified physicians may also be an option in Germany.
III./ Restore legal certainty
An independent, modern, citizen-oriented and efficient judiciary is indispensable to ensure effective legal protection for citizens.
The last four years have been characterized by a veritable flood of legislation, particularly in civil and procedural law.
Laws that have profoundly interfered with proven regulations, in part for ideological reasons.
The result of this is considerable legal uncertainty and an unnecessary burden on all parties involved, especially the legal profession and the judiciary.
The FDP will carefully examine, in dialogue with practitioners, which new regulations are at all helpful and which nonsensical changes urgently need to be corrected.
The discounts on lawyers' fees in the new federal states must finally be abolished.
Fewer laws and a simplification of the legal system,.
but better staffing and equipment of the judiciary, including with the latest technology, are important goals of liberal legal policy
The FDP calls for the introduction of an economic impact assessment when new regulations are discussed.
IV./ Modernize public services
For our liberal constitutional state, we need a public service that is fit for the future, i.e., one that performs well and works efficiently.
That is why the FDP is calling for a modernization program for the public sector in its entirety.
The goal must be to revive the program formerly pursued by the FDP to modernize the administration and reduce government tasks, to overcome the stagnation for which the red-green federal government was responsible, and to constantly increase the attractiveness of the civil service for employees and thus the performance of administrations at all levels for the citizen.
One pillar of an efficient civil service is the professional civil service, which must be reduced to its core areas.
In the past, the liberals initiated the performance orientation of the service law.
In continuity with their earlier civil service policy, they will continue to expand the performance instruments of modern pay legislation and dismantle petty restrictions and complicated procedures.
We demand that the liberalization and simplification of career law promised by the Federal Ministers of the Interior finally be implemented in order to facilitate career advancement in all its forms.
The exchange of staff within the public service, including the European institutions, but also to and from employers outside the public service must be facilitated.
The FDP calls for a return to parity between pay scales and salaries in regular adjustments.
In addition, we need a transparent, function- and performance-based payment system.
In addition, there must be instruments to enable public-sector employers to act on the labor market, such as Special surcharge arrangements so that qualified personnel can be recruited at short notice.
Finally, our public employees in the new federal states finally need a clear time perspective for bringing eastern pay into line with western levels in the public sector.
At least one annual increase in the eastern pay level until 2007 appears financially feasible.
The FDP will critically review the effects of the pension change law pushed through by the red-green federal government, especially with regard to the symmetry of burdens.
Any disadvantages suffered by existing pension recipients and other groups of civil servants must not be allowed to continue.
The old civil servants must not be the losers of the pension reform.
V./ Managing immigration and promoting integration
The Federal Republic of Germany has been a de facto immigration country for years.
However, the other parties have so far lacked the courage for a comprehensive and clear regulation of immigration.
This inconsistency led to considerable problems in integration, since Germany was not prepared for permanent immigration from its self-image.
The FDP was the first party to introduce a bill to regulate immigration and integration in the Bundestag at the beginning of the legislative period and has continued to develop it, taking into account the results of the "Independent Commission on Immigration".
It is undisputed among experts that Germany will continue to need immigration in the future in its own interest.
It is no longer acceptable to want to regulate the actual influx of people from abroad only by means of instruments under the law on foreigners and asylum.
The FDP's draft bill provides for the creation of a law to control immigration by establishing rules for the scope, requirements (e.g. qualifications) and manner of immigration.
and for the integration of foreigners.
Managing immigration is an outstanding task for the future that responsible policymakers must not avoid.
A clear and transparent regulation helps to reduce some of the fears that still exist among the population
and to improve the climate for the integration of foreigners who already live here and those who will immigrate in the future.
Immigration
The FDP relies on the triad of stronger orientation of immigration to our country's own interest,
preservation of Germany's humanitarian obligations
and improvement of integration efforts.
Immigration can consolidate and promote economic growth and prosperity development in Germany by compensating for the labor shortage that exists in many sectors.
However, immigration alone is not intended to remedy the shortage of skilled workers; rather, the FDP is focusing on promoting the training and retraining of unemployed people living in Germany to become the skilled workers they need.
Not qualification and further training before immigration, but qualification and further training plus immigration is the right solution.
The competition for the best minds also includes the attractiveness of Germany as a place to study.
Therefore, the existing hurdles for foreign students and scientists must be removed.
These include the simplification of regulations relating to foreigners and work permits, the acceleration of entry procedures, the facilitation of the approval process after entry, for example in the case of a change of subject or with regard to taking up gainful employment, and the promotion of the retention of qualified graduates after completing their studies.
Improving conditions also includes removing barriers to immigration, such as work bans for accompanying spouses.
Due to the medium- and long-term demographic development, the FDP also calls for a proportionate immigration of young, qualified people that is aligned with the demographic development.
Immigration can help solve the demographic problem of an aging and shrinking population by mitigating the coming burdens on social security systems.
However, it cannot and must not replace far-reaching reforms in social, labor market, pension and healthcare policy.
Asylum law
For the FDP, neither an abolition of the basic right to asylum nor a curtailment of the constitutional guarantee of legal recourse is out of the question.
Immigration for economic or other non-humanitarian reasons and the search for protection due to political or other persecution are two mutually exclusive situations in the sense of a "two-door model".
However, opportunities to accelerate procedures through simple legislation or other measures should be exploited.
The greatest need for action is to shorten court proceedings.
Reinforcement of the staff of the competent courts is the best way to achieve acceleration.
Those who are not recognized as needing protection must leave Germany again as quickly as possible, and efforts must be made to encourage voluntary return.
Otherwise, only consistent deportation remains.
For cases of undue hardship, a hardship clause is to be introduced in the law on aliens, giving the authorities the necessary leeway to refrain from deportation in justified individual cases.
However, a discussion can only take place at the European level.
The FDP stands for harmonization, in which the Geneva Refugee Convention should be the standard.
The situation of people living illegally in Germany is increasingly becoming the focus of political attention.
The FDP wants to consistently combat illegal entry, especially in connection with criminal smuggling.
The FDP is committed to abolishing the overly bureaucratic work permit requirement.
Those who are legally resident in the Federal Republic of Germany on a legal basis also have the right to take up paid work.
Work bans harm the German economy and the people affected.
Free access to the labor market and thus the ability to earn a living from one's own efforts are among the foundations of a dignified life and individual freedom.
Integration
Immigration to Germany can only be successful if integration is successful.
The epitome of integration is Germans living together with immigrants, not just living side by side.
Integration is not assimilation, it is not a relationshipless coexistence.
Successful integration means equal participation in political, economic, social and cultural life on the basis of our constitution and the values it enshrines.
Germany needs a comprehensive integration concept at all levels - local, state and federal.
This concept must apply to people who immigrate to Germany in the future, just as it must also include those who have already immigrated, for whose integration more must be done than before.
The path to successful integration is largely determined by learning the German language.
Knowledge of the German language is an indispensable prerequisite for eliminating social disadvantages and achieving success at school, at work and in society.
In the field of language support, offers must be created and bundled to reach all immigrants.
Female migrants in particular often live in Germany for years without being able to establish contact with German citizens.
Separate language support measures must also be set up for them in order to open up their entry into society and the labor market.
Learning the German language must begin as early as possible.
Therefore, language support programs should already be established in day care centers for children.
It is precisely at the preschool level that a course can be set that forms an indispensable basis for successful integration.
Parents need to be involved.
Language courses for immigrants should be compulsory and provide for an appropriate contribution to the costs.
In order to improve school integration approaches, the bilingualism of children and adolescents should be promoted within the framework of school education.
As in Holland, for example, multilingualism should become the subject of school pedagogy and teacher training.
Important social institutions and areas must be open to integration - the schools, educational institutions and universities, the media, but also the police and authorities.
Structural and social ghetto situations must be avoided.
Muslims are the second largest religious community in Germany after the Christian churches.
Islamic religious education can make a significant contribution to the integration of foreign Muslims.
The FDP advocates the introduction of Islamic religious instruction in public schools, which must be in German and under the supervision of German school authorities.
Since there is a lack of qualified Islamic teachers, Islamic chairs should be established at German universities for the purpose of teacher training.
In order to emphasize the importance of integration as a task for the entire state, the FDP calls for integration to be included in the Basic Law as a state objective.
VI./ Inner unit
Unfortunately, the completion of Germany's internal unity is still not complete.
It is true that the FDP has achieved many important steps for the Federal Republic of Germany on the way to overcoming the material and immaterial consequences of the SED dictatorship.
Nevertheless, it will still be necessary in the coming years to continue to come to terms with the history of the GDR, as part of German history.
This is demonstrated not only by the issues surrounding the Stasi Records Act, where there must be neither a right to spy on the privacy of victims of the SED injustice regime nor a difference in the treatment of citizens of East and West Germany.
The Liberals, as the first all-German party, maintain that the division of Germany must neither be forgotten nor suppressed.
They therefore continue to work to ensure that, where there are still gaps in the redress of communist injustice, victims are given the assistance to which they are entitled.
At the same time, however, the FDP will also work to ensure that the objectives of restoring private ownership of developed land and buildings, as expressed in the Unification Treaty of 31/08/1990, are finally met.
This applies both to cases in which private property had to be given up in GDR times due to excessive debt caused by the state and to cases in which resistance fighters against the Hitler regime were expropriated without compensation.
VII./ More Democracy
The FDP wants to push back party power in favor of more citizen power.
The parties should once again confine themselves to the role assigned to them in the constitution.
This is the only way to transform the state from a representation of the parties to a representation of the citizens.
The FDP wants to push back the influence of the parties by privatizing public tasks and companies.
After all, the more denationalization takes place, the less influence the parties will have.
At the same time, numerous interest groups lose the opportunity to instrumentalize the state.
Restricting party power also involves unbundling parties and the media.
In the view of the FDP, this includes strengthening the position of individual members of parliament, including vis-à-vis their own parliamentary group.
The FDP therefore firmly rejects, in accordance with its own tradition, the exercise of factional coercion and the reprimanding of deputies on the basis of dissenting views, especially in decisions of conscience.
A large majority of Germans also want more direct democracy at the federal level.
The FDP supports this wish.
The FDP is committed to representative democracy.
However, it wants to enrich them with elements of direct democracy.
Citizens must be able to participate more in decision-making, especially in their immediate environment.
Referendums, citizens' petitions and citizens' surveys are the right ways to do this.
Citizens should have the right to elect the Federal President directly as well.
The FDP is committed to strengthening the power of citizens by giving them the opportunity to influence the selection of elected officials more strongly than before.
The possibility of cumulating and panashing at the municipal level allows voters to bundle their votes and thus change the order of the list of candidates previously determined by the parties.
This should also be possible in state and federal elections.
Citizens understand the need for adequate compensation for politicians, but rightly reject undue privilege.
The FDP wants to counter the accusation of self-service by setting up an independent commission to determine compensation.
The FDP advocates a private-sector insurance model that enables members of parliament to take responsibility for their own pension provision.
VIII / Federalism
There are undesirable developments in German federalism.
The separation of powers has given way to a system of mutual interdependence between the federal and state governments in policy-making and administration.
As a result, citizens are hardly able to assign political decisions and their consequences and to make electoral decisions based on them.
Since the intergovernmental conference decided on in Nice for 2004 will, among other things, regulate the distribution of tasks between the member states of the European Union and the organs of the EU, a reform of federalism in Germany is all the more urgent.
The FDP calls for competitive federalism with transparent decision-making and clear distribution of competencies.
In line with the subsidiarity principle, competencies that do not necessarily have to be regulated on a uniform federal and national level are to be shifted back from the federal government to the states.
In this way, the requirement for accountability and transparency in political decision-making processes can be taken into account.
The "common tasks'' subsequently introduced into the Basic Law have inflated government tasks via false spending incentives.
Therefore, Articles 91a and 91b should be deleted from the Basic Law without replacement and these tasks should be returned in full to the Länder and the financial resources of the Länder should be improved accordingly.
Likewise, federal financial assistance to the states (Art./ 104 a, para. 4 GG), which allows the federal government to "buy" responsibilities from the states, must be eliminated.
The legislative competence must be followed by the obligation to bear the costs.
This means that the federal government can no longer decide on the right to a kindergarten place and burden the municipalities with tasks and costs, as has happened.
Therefore, Art./ 104 a para./ 2 GG is to be amended accordingly.
For more transparency in government finances, government tasks and tax competencies must once again coincide.
Therefore, composite taxes should be phased out.
Each level must have sole responsibility for the taxes it levies.
Therefore, a uniform tax base shall be established by federal legislation, and the federal and state governments shall be given the right to apply their own tax rates, such as for income and corporate taxes, in free competition with each other.
In the case of income tax, the municipalities are to be given the same right.
It must remain clear to citizens which local authority levies how much tax from them.
The Länder fiscal equalization system must ensure the fundamental ability of the Länder to function.
In this context, it must ensure that countries are able to uphold the law, guarantee public order and civil rights, and safeguard minimum social standards.
Orientation to clearly defined goals simplifies financial equalization considerably.
When designing a - simplified - system, care must be taken to ensure a low level of compensation and low marginal burdens.
The allocations still to be paid according to the reformed criteria are to be provided jointly (half each) by the federal government and the other states - by the latter according to their capacity.
IX./ Churches and religious communities
For the FDP, freedom of religion and tolerance toward all religious communities is a central concern.
Liberals want free citizens in a free state to be able to practice their religion freely and without hindrance.
In order to do justice to the increasing cultural and thus also religious diversity, the FDP defines church policy as religion policy.
The FDP seeks dialogue with the Protestant and Catholic churches as well as with Judaism, Islam and all other religious communities.
All religious communities that profess and live by the free democratic basic order and human rights will find an honest advocate for their interests in the FDP.
We want the state to define its relationship with religious communities in a way that is fair to all religions and their believers.
In view of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, an entire religious community finds itself exposed to the general suspicion of religious extremism.
The FDP is committed to mutual understanding and tolerance so that these actions are seen for what they really are: isolated acts of a few extremists, unrelated to religious affiliation.
The FDP wants to promote and support the dialogue between religions and cultures.
Religious freedom, however, finds its limits in human rights as defined, for example, by the United Nations.
For this reason, it is of central importance to the FDP that all religious communities clearly and unequivocally commit themselves to human rights as part of the state's legal system and do not violate them.
In Germany, religion is met with openness and tolerance, and we expect the same from the religious communities.
X./ Sport
Sport should be promoted politically because it is an area of life for everyone, especially young people, in which liberal and social values and goals complement each other perfectly.
Liberal sports policy supports top-level sports as well as amateur and disabled sports - and is particularly committed to school sports.
The FDP calls for the more flexible provision of sports areas and exercise rooms.
as well as rewarding voluntary, honorary commitment in the sports sector
The FDP supports Germany's bid to host the 2012 Olympic Games and welcomes the fact that the bidding process will be linked to increased support for school sports.
In this context, the FDP calls for targeted talent promotion through sports-oriented schools and sports boarding schools.
The sports scourge of doping must be vigorously combated in competitive sports, but also in the recreational and fitness sectors.
In order to improve data collection, strengthen research, and expand training and competition controls, the National Anti-Doping Agency, which is currently being established, must be adequately equipped in cooperation with sports associations, the public sector, and industry.
Tougher action must be taken against the black market trade in doping products, and the legal requirements for the protection of minors and against the misuse of medicines should be implemented even more strictly.
A separate anti-doping law or the creation of a separate criminal offense of "doping," on the other hand, should only be envisaged if and when sport itself can no longer cope with the problem in the autonomy to which it is entitled.
Then, for example, consideration could be given to including a criminal offense of "doping in professional sports" in the law against unfair competition.
XI./ Cultural policy
Liberals want cultural diversity and openness.
Liberal cultural policy has therefore made it its task to guarantee the freedom of art and culture.
and to enable all citizens to participate in culture on an equal footing
Cultural policy also has an economic policy dimension.
Innovative artistic developments must be supported and the unique German cultural heritage must be preserved and cultivated in all its forms.
State support for the arts is intended to secure the foundations for the free development of art.
Cooperation between the federal government and the states is particularly important in this regard.
Civic cultural engagement must be strengthened and its further development promoted.
The new self-image of German cultural policy must find appropriate expression at the federal level.
The sponsors of German culture abroad, which contribute significantly to mutual understanding at the international level, such as the Goethe -nstitut Inter Nationes, but also the German schools abroad, require increased state support.
The cultural mission of these institutions should be given a counterpart in their administrative assignment.
The preservation and maintenance of our historical heritage, which includes the German language, music and fine arts, is of great importance.
Responsibility for the architectural and archaeological heritage remains an essential part of society's cultural mission.
Under the progressive unification of Europe, the historical heritage of the German states can make an important contribution to the creation of social identity.
In addition to more traditional art forms such as painting and sculpture, as well as installations, innovative and experimental art forms should also receive better state framework conditions.
These art forms reflect a current social development and can be signposts for overcoming problems and for the future.
State support for these art forms is intended to give up-and-coming artists in particular the opportunity to freely develop their artistic activities.
Improving the framework conditions for artists, cultural mediators and the art market in terms of competition law, such as modernizing resale rights under copyright law, is also part of a forward-looking liberal cultural policy.
The Liberals adhere to the federal structure of German cultural policy.
This makes it all the more urgent to clarify, in coordination with the states, the question of the cultural policy responsibilities of the local, state and federal governments (vertical unbundling).
The comprehensive tasks of a cultural policy at the federal level (horizontal unbundling) must be matched by adequate funding for the Federal Cultural Foundation, which was recently established on the initiative of the FDP.
The aim is to combine the Cultural Foundation of the Federal States and the Federal Cultural Foundation under one roof.
The Liberals want to enable all citizens to participate in cultural life to the greatest possible extent.
This includes the FDP's adherence to fixed book prices
as well as the creation of incentives for more civic engagement in cultural life.
That is why the Liberals are sticking to their concept for a modern foundation law.
To this end, we want to make it easier to set up foundations and make foundation work more transparent.
Likewise, foundation tax law must be improved.
Media and broadcasting
When it comes to developing new technologies, the FDP generally rates the opportunities higher than the risks.
Those who only see the risks prevent progress.
Statutory overregulation must be reduced and the responsibilities for legislation and supervision bundled where it makes sense!
Youth protection
The protection of minors is of particular importance in our age.
The FDP therefore calls for a clear, uniform regulatory framework for the protection of minors in all media, as well as the dismantling of the web of responsibilities between the federal and state governments.
User-autonomous technical access blocks are a sensible protection for children and young people in addition to the existing broadcasting time limits.
The institution Jugendschutznet and the self-regulatory bodies Freiwillige Selbstkontrolle Fernsehen (FSF) and Freiwillige Selbstkontrolle Multimedia (FSM) perform important control functions.
Data protection and security on the net
Data protection is of great importance on the Internet in order to maintain the trust of the general public in the new medium.
The FDP therefore rejects measures, such as a cryptography ban, that restrict security on the Net.
The same applies to a logging and storage obligation for the digital traces that every Internet user leaves behind.
This would be a disproportionate interference with the right to informational self-determination.
Such interventions may only be carried out on the basis of a court order.
A report must be submitted annually by the federal government describing, depending on the state, the type of facilities monitored, the reason for the monitoring, the course of events, the number of persons affected, and the costs of the monitoring.
Copyright for digital media
Only effective protection of intellectual property through copyright law creates the necessary incentives for creative activity and for investment in its economic exploitation.
This also and especially applies to digital media.
Of particular importance is the future regulation of the right of private copying of copyrighted works.
In principle, individual licensing takes precedence here over a flat-rate levy on devices and storage media.
System change must not be hindered where it is technically possible and economically viable.
Instead, digital rights management must also be promoted through appropriate copyright frameworks.
Continuation of the dual broadcasting system
Public and private broadcasters together contribute to a diversity of programming and plurality of opinion in Germany that must be preserved.
In this context, public broadcasting has to fulfill the task of providing a basic service, which prohibits it from designing programs solely with a view to audience ratings and according to the laws of economic competition.
The supervisory bodies of public broadcasting must represent the interests of the general public and must not come under the dominating influence of the state and political parties.
On the Internet, public broadcasters must restrict themselves to program-related offerings and limit their financial expenditure by means of a voluntary commitment.
The FDP demands the abolition of the multiple fee obligation in private households and the introduction of a location fee in the non-private sector to relieve the burden on small and medium-sized businesses.
Any loss of revenue for public broadcasting must be compensated for by measures to increase fairness of fees (equal charging of all potential fee payers, identification of black listeners and viewers).
Telecommunications and Internet
Telecommunications lines are the lifelines of new media and the network economy.
The FDP is strongly committed to the rapid expansion of network structures, especially broadband networks, to enable functioning competition among television, Internet and telephone providers.
Only fair competitive opportunities for all providers and infrastructures enable diversity and user-friendly prices, e.g., also flat usage fees, so-called/flat rates.
Extended imprint disclosure requirements for more transparency in the media
The FDP demands that the imprint of every newspaper or magazine contain a list of the owners of both the newspaper and the associated publisher, in addition to the current mandatory information.
This includes a statement of all owners who directly or indirectly hold more than 5% of the equity.
Owners holding less than 5% of equity must be reported collectively as free float.
Policy for a mobile Germany
For the FDP, mobility is part of freedom.
It is a prerequisite for flexibility, quality of life, progress and economic growth.
In a changing society, being mobile means claiming intellectual freedom and being mentally and economically agile.
Freedom must be accessible to everyone as well as affordable for everyone.
Mobility strengthens people's freedom and personal responsibility.
Mobility in the sense of physical and mental freedom of movement means participation - participation in social, political and economic life.
The degree of mobility is a measure of participation.
Liberal civil society is a participatory society.
Citizens and business want and need freedom of movement, freedom of decision and courage to meet future challenges.
However, Germany is stuck in a traffic jam when it comes to mobility.
Especially on our federal transport routes as well.
The infrastructure is overloaded, the average speed has slowed down and the state additionally inhibits mobility development through taxes, duties and ideologically based steering measures.
Germany needs a new transport policy.
A transport policy that ensures the mobility of people and goods as a prerequisite for economic prosperity.
Freedom of movement must become affordable again.
The infrastructure must be made fit quickly.
Therefore, all modes of transport with their specific advantages must be interlinked to form an attractive, environmentally friendly and safe overall system.
The expected future growth in traffic must be managed with due regard for traffic safety and environmental protection.
A mobile society needs all modes of transport and must be open to new developments and modern technologies.
The previous regulatory framework, the state steering instruments and subsidies, and not least the entrepreneurial actions of the state in the transport sector have not proven their worth.
Past reforms to liberalize and privatize the transport sector have been important, but they are not enough.
The tax, levy and investment policy has degenerated into a state cashing-in and redistribution mechanism instead of promoting causer-oriented cost charges and making mobility efficient and affordable through competition.
Liberal transportation policy is built on two principles.
On the one hand, citizens themselves know better than the state what form of mobility they want.
On the other hand, the role of the state should be limited to ensuring infrastructure and promoting competition among modes of transport.
These principles give rise to four demands on a liberal transport policy: The polluter-pays principle must be applied consistently, because only then is the free choice of transport by citizens efficient from an overall economic point of view.
Where transport subsidies are necessary, they should be paid in such a way that they do not prevent competition but reduce distortions of competition.
As much private capital as possible must be tapped to finance transport infrastructure.
When privatizing, care must be taken to ensure that no new private monopolies are created, but that structures are created that ensure functioning competition.
Mobility and privatization
The state is a poor transportation operator.
The mixing of entrepreneurial activity on the one hand, services of general interest and political expediency on the other, weakens the competitiveness and efficiency of public-sector companies, increases their need for subsidies and makes mobility more expensive overall.
It is therefore the goal of the Liberals to abandon state involvement in transport companies at all levels.
In order to safeguard services of general interest, it is ultimately sufficient for the federal government, the states and the municipalities to act as demand carriers and to award necessary and politically desired transport services to private companies on a competitive basis.
The establishment of privately organized infrastructure companies is possible without delay at all levels and would be a first step toward privatization, especially of the road and rail networks.
In the rail transport sector in particular, clear framework conditions must finally lead to the introduction of competition.
Competition on the rail network is an essential prerequisite for rail reform.
However, at the current stage of implementation of the rail reform, private parties (third parties) cannot be expected to fight for non-discriminatory access.
The separation of network and operations is the basic prerequisite for functioning competition.
In recent years, Deutsche Bahn AG, as a monopolist, has been allowed by the sole shareholder, the German government, to organize the competition against itself; in other words, it is player and referee in one.
This must change as quickly as possible after the federal elections.
The FDP demands a privatization plan for the Bahn AG.
The rail network must be separated from the holding company of Bahn AG so that third parties can also access the rail network without discrimination and so that price and performance competition is triggered.
The further implementation of the privatization of the airport holdings of the federal, state and local governments must be expedited.
Road traffic management, especially freeway maintenance services, should be privatized, as should port holdings of local authorities.
Private companies must be increasingly involved in the operation and maintenance of the transport infrastructure.
The regulatory principle of complete deregulation of transport markets in the EU must be pursued with consistency.
Mobility and infrastructure
The system of financing transport infrastructure through public budgets is overstretched in the face of traffic growth, especially on roads.
Investments in new construction and expansion are not sufficient to provide the infrastructure on time and in line with demand.
The operating and maintenance expenses are far too low, and the loss of substance is pre-programmed.
Germany is facing a backlog of repairs, extensions and new construction worth more than 20 billion euros.
In the medium term, therefore, the financing of transport infrastructure must be switched from budget financing to user financing.
The FDP calls for a user- and polluter-oriented charging system and the involvement of private companies in the construction, operation and maintenance of the transport infrastructure in order to increase its efficiency and avoid unnecessary new construction.
In the air transport sector, international commercial airports and regional airfields need to be expanded in line with demand so that the growing demand in the passenger and airfreight sectors can be met.
An adequate air traffic infrastructure not only enables mobility for citizens and safeguards jobs in the aviation industry, but also represents an important location factor in the competition between European regions for companies and skilled workers.
Improved utilization of airspace in Germany and Europe includes efficient air traffic control with uniform standards for air traffic control facilities organized under private law on the German model, which can act on an entrepreneurial basis.
The FDP therefore wants to push ahead with the reform of European air traffic control.
At the European level, regulations to reduce aircraft noise should be sought in order to avoid distortions of competition.
Mobility and state
It is the task of the state to create the framework conditions to ensure mobility for all.
Mobility, for example, must be affordable for everyone.
It must not be allowed to become a luxury good for the wealthy by being misused to increase taxes and contributions or to specifically finance other government services, such as the pension system.
Traffic control via prohibitive taxation with the effect of restricting access leads to a loss of prosperity just as much as state-regulated discrimination against individual modes of transport.
The FDP therefore advocates a user-pays and user-dependent fee and tax system that is neutral with regard to the means of transport and calls for the abolition of the motor vehicle tax and its revenue-neutral transfer to the mineral oil tax.
The tax revenues and charges generated by transport are to be re-invested in transport infrastructure.
Liberals also oppose governmental coercion in transportation policy.
Speed enforcement is for traffic safety, not to increase government revenue.
They are therefore to be concentrated on accident blackspots and concrete danger spots.
The points and fines system urgently needs to be cleaned up and simplified.
Non-accidental offenses are to be weighted weaker than focal accident causes.
The registration obligation for minor offenses up to three points in the Flensburg traffic offender record must be reduced from two years to one year.
In this context, the FDP also calls for the expansion of the bonus system in the case of voluntary retraining.
Mobility and economy
An efficient transport industry and a needs-based transport infrastructure are high-ranking location factors and a basic prerequisite for attracting new jobs and securing existing ones.
Transportation is one of the industries with the largest direct and indirect employment impacts.
The future of these jobs depends directly on their competitiveness.
Mobility in the world of work means showing flexibility and being able to get to a job further away when job opportunities improve.
In order to create the logistical framework conditions for Germany as a business location, it is particularly important to maintain the existing infrastructure in addition to the efficient new construction and expansion of transport routes.
Germany is particularly dependent on the modernization of its transport system.
After reunification, the demands on east-west traffic have risen sharply.
The future-oriented design of rail and road transport in particular opens up opportunities for economic cooperation and integration of Western and Eastern Europe.
The expansion of the EU to the east makes Germany even more clearly a transit country in terms of transport geography.
With the increasing economic interdependencies between the Baltic States, Central and Southeastern Europe and Western Europe, new central transport routes will emerge.
Another hitherto under-recognized opportunity for the short-term use of free infrastructure capacity in transport is the shift of transport from road to coastal and inland waterways.
Alongside the rail and road networks, Germany's inland waterways are among the most important freight transport routes in Europe and are thus indispensable lifelines for Germany as a business location.
In the forthcoming EU enlargement to the east, appropriate account must be taken of the special competitive situation of the German transport industry, especially the road haulage industry, inland shipping and the Baltic ports.
There is an urgent need to harmonize the competitive conditions for the transport industry at European level.
Mobility and man
Mobility serves people.
It may only be regulated where it is absolutely necessary.
Liberal mobility policy is based on the guiding principle of the responsible individual who treats other road users and the environment with consideration and who rejects excessive state interference.
Whether bus or train, car or motorcycle, bicycle or airplane: citizens want to be able to choose their means of transportation freely.
Barriers of all kinds must be removed, especially for people with disabilities.
After all, mobility is also elementary for those people whose opportunities for participation are limited, e.g. due to disabilities.
Above all, disabled people must be able to move freely in society.
In this context, the accessibility strived for by liberals is to be understood comprehensively: On the one hand, it refers to the accessibility of public buildings and places, to private housing and the usability of public transport.
Handicapped-accessible ramps, elevators or visual and touch-based orientation options and guidance systems should already be taken into account during construction.
Many train stations are now wheelchair accessible, but not handicapped accessible.
The need to catch up on trains is even greater: easier boarding and wheelchair-accessible compartments are a great help and must become standard in the future.
Mobility is also essential for older people.
Older people do not want and do not need special rights, but acceptance of their life achievements.
Responsibility knows no retirement.
And personal responsibility cannot be retired.
Public buildings and streets must be designed to be barrier-free, and the promotion of mobility for older people must be taken into account in new traffic concepts.
Mobility and spatial planning
Personal mobility is also determined by an efficient mix of functions in the areas of living, housing and working.
Spatial planning and urban development policies influence the mobility behavior of citizens to a significant extent.
Liberal land-use planning and settlement policies take transportation needs into account.
The FDP is committed to the city of short distances and functioning neighborhoods.
We want to achieve a greater mix of functions by amending the Land Use Ordinance.
We want to improve urban-rural relations by providing an efficient integrated transport service based on local public transport.
We want to strengthen rural areas by providing rail and bus services that meet their needs.
More competition through greater involvement of private operators in local public transport will also contribute to this.
Mobility and technology
Technological progress and development offer new opportunities to meet increasing mobility needs.
That is why the FDP is committed to the promotion and application of new technologies.
For example, the development of new logistics systems with the aim of reducing the average transport distance, avoiding empty runs to a large extent and making the flow of goods more consistent will make freight transport more economical.
Intelligent traffic control with the help of telematics is possible and helps to avoid traffic jams.
Research and development must prioritize bringing these possibilities to application maturity.
Linking the high-speed rail network with airports is necessary to make it possible to shift short-haul flights to rail.
The FDP is committed to magnetic levitation.
The Transrapid can close the speed gap between high-speed rail and short- and medium-haul air transport.
The state finances the infrastructure.
The operation of the Transrapid must be borne by the private sector.
New drive technologies, such as hydrogen technology and fuel cell technology at present, may supplement the internal combustion engine in the foreseeable future.
Research into marketable models must be supported and the development of the hydrogen infrastructure flanked.
The same applies to alternative fuels for CO2 reduction and for reducing dependence on crisis markets.
Politics for a free world
Liberal foreign policy is value-oriented interest policy.
Germany must assume an active, responsible and appropriate role in world politics; in doing so, it must avoid two mistakes in its international responsibility: it should not make itself bigger than it is, but neither should it make itself smaller.
Together with partners, Germany should make the contribution that is commensurate with its weight and capabilities and that its allies also expect of it.
The principles and values that govern our constitution and our domestic actions are also binding for our foreign and security policy.
Germany's international responsibility must go hand in hand with German foreign and security policy in and with the European Union.
The need to strengthen the EU's ability to act and its efficiency is more obvious than ever.
That is why constitutional development and the successful conclusion of the next round of enlargement are strategically central fields for German policy.
European integration, the establishment of a European security and peace order, and the
strengthening of the United Nations are just as much in Germany's interest as the
export of stability through an active development and human rights policy
and the creation of framework conditions for free world trade.
The partnership with the United States of America remains a cornerstone of German foreign policy.
Increasing security and trade challenges, however, pose new tests for transatlantic relations.
At the same time, we know that self-confident interaction with one another is ultimately also an expression of our transatlantic community of values.
True partnership is not weakened by criticism, but strengthened.
However, we must not lose sight of establishing resilient, trusting relations with our eastern neighbors, such as Russia.
and Ukraine
Despite the need to deepen European integration.
and the Euro-Atlantic partnership
traditional relations and German interests in Africa, Latin America and Asia must not be neglected either
Europe is our answer to the international challenges
In the next five years, key tasks will be on the agenda of European policy: Europe's ability to act must be ensured and the unification of Europe must be advanced.
Specifically, this requires drafting a constitution for Europe's citizens, expanding European security policy, deepening European domestic and justice policy, strengthening Europe's economy and reforming European agricultural and structural policy.
By fulfilling these tasks, the European Union must develop into a strong and fair global player.
The FDP rejects the introduction of a Minister for Europe.
Foreign and European policy are inseparable and must remain within the Foreign Office in the interest of Germany's European policy.
European Constitution
It is time to anchor the European model of society, based on the fundamental principles of freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the rule of law, separation of powers, subsidiarity and solidarity, in the treaty as a federally constituted European Union.
The relationship between the nation states and the European institutions also needs to be clarified in terms of a clear, meaningful delineation of competences between the European, national and regional levels, the relationship between the European institutions themselves, the question of democratic legitimacy and control of decisions at European level and the necessary transparency of decision-making.
When reformulating and, if necessary, splitting the European Treaties into two, care must be taken to ensure that they are also comprehensible to citizens.
The FDP is committed to the drafting of a European constitution.
The cornerstone of this European constitution must be the European Charter of Fundamental Rights, which was drawn up by a convention and is not yet legally binding.
The FDP has campaigned for the European Constitutional Convention, as this convention, with the participation of a large number of parliamentarians, offers the opportunity to draw up a constitutional text for the 2004 Intergovernmental Conference.
The conventional structures are no longer sufficient to decisively reform the European Union internally and make it more democratic and capable of action.
The FDP demands that there be a referendum on a European constitution.
European eastward enlargement
There is a historic opportunity to create a new, free and united Europe.
The most urgent task for the next few years is therefore to press ahead with the eastward enlargement of the European Union with the participation of its citizens.
The European orientation of the candidate countries must not be disappointed, otherwise they will seek other orientations.
The European Union must therefore finally implement the necessary institutional, agricultural and structural policy reforms in order to ensure its ability to enlarge.
The enlargement negotiations must be continued rapidly at the same time as the deepening of the Union, with the aim of enabling well-prepared candidates to join quickly after strictly meeting the accession criteria in time for their citizens to vote in the 2004 European elections.
The FDP is committed to winning a broad majority of the population for eastern enlargement in a democratic opinion-forming process.
Apart from the moral and political obligation towards the countries and the people of Central and Eastern Europe, the FDP also demands the rapid comprehensive and consistent integration of these countries into the EU and the European internal market for economic reasons.
After all, eastward expansion brings enormous opportunities for the German economy and thus for the German labor market.
Candidate countries must be supported in their efforts not only to adopt but also to enforce the Community rulebook.
This includes aligning their economic, monetary and fiscal policies with the goals of economic and monetary union.
Insofar as eastward expansion in border regions of the Federal Republic of Germany leads to adjustment problems for individual occupational groups and sectors, it is the task of politics to cushion them.
The FDP considers the postponement of the opening of the labor markets to be wrong.
Freedom to provide services and freedom of movement for workers must not be impeded.
Strengthening European foreign and security policy
Europe must speak with one voice in foreign policy and be able to react quickly and flexibly in cases of conflict.
The aim of the CFSP is to prevent conflicts through effective preventive diplomacy and to build a pan-European community of peace and stability.
The basis for this is a human rights,.
and democracy
the social and ecological market economy
and a policy committed to a balance between South and North
The FDP fights for a value-oriented European foreign policy.
The European Security and Defense Policy (ESDP) must be consistently expanded and consolidated.
A competitive relationship with the North Atlantic Alliance, which must remain the driving force and guarantor of a broad-based European security architecture in the future, must not be allowed to develop.
Rather, the goal is a strategic partnership between the EU and NATO in crisis management, in which the EU only becomes involved if NATO cannot or will not get involved.
The operational forces of the ESDP will make national solo efforts superfluous as of 2003.
A functioning ESDP not only strengthens Europe, but also the Alliance.
The longer-term goal is to create joint European forces under a unified supreme command.
The defense technology gap between the U.S. and its European partners in NATO has widened in recent years, and it continues to grow.
This pushes Europe into the role of an auxiliary policeman without influence and endangers the existence of NATO itself in the medium term.
To counter this development, efficient use of European defense spending, which is not at all small, is necessary.
The goal must be to coordinate defense research and defense industries in a European Defense Union, to standardize the equipment of the armed forces of the EU member states and to use the funds thus freed up for state-of-the-art equipment and training.
Deepen European home affairs and justice policy
A coordinated Europe-wide approach to terrorism and crime is part of a political European Union that is capable of taking action.
So far, justice and home affairs policy still belongs mainly to intergovernmental cooperation, the so-called / third pillar.
The European Parliament has hardly any decision-making powers in this area
, and the legal protection of the citizen is inadequate, as shown, for example, by the Europol Convention.
The current development in the European Union, supported by the German government, of increasingly agreeing on mutual recognition of the decisions of national authorities in the member states further weakens the position of the citizen.
For example, the European arrest warrant is based on mutual recognition, with the consequence that an arrest warrant issued against a German, for example, in Spain or Ireland or Denmark on suspicion of a criminal offense must be accepted by the police authorities and courts in Germany without examination, and the German citizen concerned is extradited.
However, there are no uniform criminal law and criminal procedure legal standards in the European member states, such as judge's prerogative or grounds for detention.
The FDP therefore calls for the creation of uniform legal standards in the field of home affairs and justice and a gradual transfer of home affairs and justice policy tasks to Community law.
Democratic control by the European Parliament and the indispensable legal protection by the European Court of Justice must be improved.
Strengthen Europe's economy
The European Union has stability and prosperity effects not only internally.
It must also assert itself in an increasingly globalizing world and face up to growing responsibility for the world economy as a whole.
The single currency will make better use of the advantages of the single market, stimulate investment in the eurozone and give the eurozone a stronger overall role in the global economy.
But the euro can only be a success if the single market is actually completed.
This includes, above all, the genuine integration of the money and capital markets in the euro area as well as coordination in economic and financial policy without hindering competition among the national economies.
In addition, the FDP calls for further progress in the liberalization of markets, especially the labor market, to facilitate the necessary structural adjustments in a globalizing world.
The EU must also speak with one voice on trade issues in the future.
The veto option for Council decisions on trade policy must be eliminated as quickly as possible so that individual EU member states cannot be played off against each other in WTO negotiations.
The FDP opposes efforts by the European Union to turn European antitrust law on its head, as it were: the current ban on cartels, where exceptions require explicit permission, would be replaced by de facto freedom from cartels.
The principle of self-assessment is to apply: the companies concerned are allowed to judge for themselves whether a cartel they are seeking to enter into is exempt; there is no need to justify a cartel.
Anyone wishing to challenge this has to bear the burden of proof for the cartel violation.
This fundamental change of course in the European competition regime harms the interests of consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises.
The German healthcare system must be redesigned to take advantage of opportunities in the European region.
The limits of benefit eligibility must not end at national borders.
The conditions for Europe-wide competition for healthcare services must be created immediately.
European agricultural and structural policy
In the future, European agricultural policy must be more strongly oriented toward the principles of the social market economy and sustainability.
Farmers need to be freed from bureaucratic bullying and bureaucratic market regulations and thus be made entrepreneurs again.
They must have the opportunity to earn a substantial portion of their income in the marketplace.
In the future, farmers are to receive a product-independent cultural landscape premium for their services in maintaining and preserving our cultural landscape.
In return, the previous bureaucratic market regulations will gradually be eliminated.
Because entrepreneurial farmers need planning security and reliable framework conditions, a transformation of product-related support into a product-independent arable land premium cannot take place overnight.
The upcoming mid-term review of Agenda 2000 must be used to vigorously continue the market-based orientation of EU agricultural policy initiated with the 1992 agricultural reform and Agenda 2000.
The FDP calls for strengthening the member states through more subsidiarity and greater national control options.
To this end, the instrument of co-financing in the European Agricultural Policy should be further developed so that compensation measures are better adapted to local needs.
This restructuring of European agricultural policy is also necessary in order to successfully meet the challenges of the current world trade round (WTO) and the EU's eastward enlargement.
With respect to the higher standards and multifunctional services of our domestic agriculture, the ongoing WTO negotiations must ensure the competitiveness of our agriculture
without erecting new protectionist barriers.
Structural policy also needs to be reformed, and not just from a financial perspective.
The new priorities must be the improvement of infrastructure, development and
education
as well as the promotion of entrepreneurial initiative of
competitive small and medium-sized enterprises in order
to make Europe innovative and competitive again with other world regions.
II./ Liberal regulatory policy for stability and development
Germany has a national interest in global stability and development.
Especially after September 11, 2001, the management of global challenges such as terrorism, disarmament, development, environmental protection, international crime, migration and refugee misery is a central task of foreign policy.
Foreign and security policy have outgrown their classic diplomatic and military dimensions and have become integral components of world domestic policy.
Preventive regional and multilateral cooperation are therefore in the national interest more than ever before.
A forward-looking foreign policy strategy must therefore focus on strengthening multilateral networks, especially within the framework of the United Nations and its regional arrangements.
Strengthening the United Nations comprehensively
There is no alternative to the United Nations (UN) as a central instrument of world domestic policy.
The FDP demands that the UN system be expanded in all its areas and strengthened in the long term.
As the third-largest contributor, Germany has a special responsibility here.
Together with our partners in the European Union, Germany must therefore take an initiative to strengthen the United Nations as a central instrument for addressing the new global challenges.
The FDP calls for a swift reform of the United Nations.
These include a fundamental strengthening of the UN General Assembly and Secretary-General, a restructuring of the Economic and Social Council as proposed by the Weizsäcker- Quereshi Commission, and a reform of the Security Council to reflect the world situation in the 21st century.
This includes the participation of Germany while maintaining the perspective of a European seat as well as an appropriate participation of hitherto unrepresented world regions.
UN development and humanitarian agencies must be further developed into effective prevention instruments.
Permanent UN capacities must be built to strengthen peacekeeping and peacemaking operations.
Germany should work for a common European UN policy by developing common positions within the framework of the UN General Assembly.
Giving more weight to the OSCE
Particularly in the course of EU and NATO enlargement, the confidence-building character of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) must be further expanded and consolidated and it must be given the central role in reshaping the European security order.
Therefore, the FDP demands a higher degree of political bindingness of OSCE decisions and crisis prevention function of the OSCE through ''OSCE-First''.
The OSCE must be strengthened as a regional arrangement in the spirit of the UN Charter.
The authority of the OSCE Secretary General must be expanded and the ''consensus minus one principle'' must be implemented.
OSCE field operations need to be strengthened.
The CSCE/OSCE as a Model for Regional Confidence Building
The proven CSCE/OSCE model should become the basis for a lasting political solution to regional conflicts.
This is particularly true of the conflicts in the former Yugoslavia, which continue to smolder.
The FDP therefore calls not only for reconstruction aid to be provided to the affected states within the framework of the Stability Pact, but also for them to be brought together in a Conference on Security and Cooperation in South-Eastern Europe (CSCE) in order to jointly resolve all outstanding issues such as minority status, the return of displaced persons and arms control.
The OSCE approach also lends itself to a "post-conflict settlement'' in Afghanistan and to the Middle East peace process.
The FDP calls for a regional conference on security and cooperation in the Middle East (CSCNO) under the auspices of the United Nations, at the end of which there must be a resilient peace settlement.
The implementation of this arrangement should be secured by UN-mandated multilateral security forces.
From a liberal point of view, the basis for peace in the Middle East is not only the renunciation of violence and terrorism, but also Israel's inviolable right to exist and the creation of an independent Palestinian state.
Deepening the Euro-Atlantic Partnership
It has not yet been possible to find a framework that can withstand the growing Euro-Atlantic challenges.
The high expectations for a "new transatlantic agenda'' and "business dialogue'' have not been met.
A comprehensive approach to covering Euro-Atlantic relations is therefore urgently needed.
This involves both options for action for the speedy realization of a transatlantic market, including WTO-compliant dispute settlement mechanisms, and a new quality of security partnership to jointly address new global political challenges such as terrorism, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and disarmament.
Intensify the dialogue with Russia
Russia must play a central role in the pan-European peace order.
This requires Russia to be closely linked to the structures of European integration, especially those of NATO and the EU.
However, intensification also means that difficult issues such as Russia's democratization and the human rights situation in Chechnya must remain on the agenda.
To solve the repatriation of the so-called "looted art'', the FDP proposes the establishment of a German-Russian cultural foundation.
Enforcing human rights
The universality of human rights and their worldwide validity and enforcement are indispensable components of liberal foreign policy.
Democratic, sustainable, social and ecological development needs the realization of human rights as its foundation.
Human rights are valid even in times of terrorism.
There must be no human rights discount vis-à-vis dictatorships that violate human rights.
The global human rights dialogue and the United Nations human rights protection instruments need to be improved and strengthened.
This includes better financial support for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, as well as the unconditional ratification and domestic implementation of human rights treaties such as the additional protocols to human rights conventions, among others.
For the FDP, human rights policy includes the fight against torture and the abuse of children, the commitment to the abolition of the death penalty, the protection of the increasing number of refugees worldwide and the advocacy for the inclusion of transnational corporations in the responsibility for human rights.
The FDP therefore advocates an additional protocol to the United Nations Convention against Torture which, among other things, establishes an effective procedure for unannounced visits to prisons and other detention facilities and can thus uncover and help prevent inhumane treatment and torture.
Other core demands of liberal human rights policy are the enforcement of effective gender equality
and ambitious action against violence, especially against women, and their protection from degrading and unhealthy practices.
The FDP advocates effective protection of ethnic and religious minorities.
Effective legal protection is guaranteed within the framework of existing international agreements.
However, the protection of minorities must be discussed more in international politics.
Effective protection of minorities includes non-discriminatory access to education and public office, as well as the free practice of cultural customs and religions.
The FDP rejects religious punishment laws because they are specifically targeted against minorities.
Impunity for human rights crimes must end.
The creation of the International Criminal Court, already called for by liberal foreign ministers, is an important contribution to this.
The FDP demands an effective program for the protection of victims and witnesses who are willing to testify before the International Criminal Court, as well as the financial participation of the federal government in a corresponding victim compensation fund.
Strengthen foreign policy instruments
The FDP demands that all parts of the Foreign Service be put in a position, both financially and in terms of personnel, to effectively meet the new global challenges.
Germany's external representation must be strengthened in the long term.
Closing foreign missions and Goethe Institutes without replacement is detrimental to the long-term goals of Germany's policy.
Instead, the course must finally be set for common structures in foreign representation in the common European foreign policy as well.
Incidentally, credible representation of German interests abroad also requires that the Foreign Service regain its comprehensive cross-cutting competencies.
The FDP calls for the areas of activity of the Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development and the Federal Foreign Office to be merged.
Innovative solutions for foreign cultural policy
Foreign cultural policy must respond to the challenges of globalization with creative and innovative concepts.
On the one hand, this means the more targeted use of scarce resources.
On the other hand, non-public sponsors should also be involved more strongly than before in foreign cultural work within the framework of so-called "private-public partnerships".
The FDP calls for a reform of foreign cultural policy with a programmatic focus on transcultural dialogue, especially between regions, religions and cultures.
Foreign cultural policy must also make a contribution to reducing enemy images and prejudices and thus also to combating terrorism.
Within this framework, it is essential not to further cut back financially on the Federal Foreign Office, political foundations, cultural policy intermediaries, German schools abroad and relevant non-governmental organizations, but on the contrary to provide them with greater support again.
III./ Seizing the opportunities of globalization
Particularly in view of the terrorist threats, the community of states must make clear its common will to consolidate and expand free trade.
More trade and improved market access for developing countries is the most effective development aid.
Competition and free world trade are the basis for prosperity in all countries of the world.
Free trade is the solution - not the problem.
World trade
The FDP also pursues a policy of opening markets and liberalization at the international level.
The further dismantling of tariffs and other barriers increases competition and creates economic freedom for all.
Forward-looking trade policy is based in particular on the principles of non-discrimination and most-favored-nation treatment.
Trade liberalization must remain high on the agenda.
Efforts to further institutional reforms of the World Trade Round (WTO) as an organization and negotiating forum must be intensified.
This includes greater efficiency, transparency and better involvement of parliaments, e.g./in the form of a Parliamentary Assembly at the WTO.
The FDP will also work hard to integrate competition policy into the WTO rules.
The goal must be to establish competition policy as a new part of the WTO review mechanisms in the medium term and, in the long term, to arrive at a framework of common competition rules and a global competition regime under the umbrella of the WTO.
The FDP rejects making social and environmental standards the sole valid prerequisite for participation in world trade.
This hurts poorer countries by preventing them from exploiting their competitive advantages.
The FDP rejects a special tax on foreign exchange transactions - the so-called "Tobin tax".
The promotion of foreign trade is also a task of German foreign policy.
German SMEs in particular, which do not have their own network of foreign representations, rely on flanking support from German foreign trade policy.
The FDP wants active engagement of the Foreign Service and better networking with foreign chambers of commerce.
The challenges of the WTO and the EU's eastward expansion must be accompanied by market-based reforms of European agricultural policy.
In the agricultural sector, the WTO round has largely committed itself by deciding to completely dismantle export support, to facilitate market access and to restructure domestic support.
The FDP calls for a concrete timetable for the end of export refunds in agricultural trade, which have distorted the market significantly and especially to the detriment of developing countries.
Seizing the opportunities of globalization for developing countries
Economic growth is the only way to overcome poverty.
Liberal development policy is therefore not world social welfare.
Only by mobilizing their own forces in the developing countries can the desired social progress be achieved.
The creation of market-economy structures must become the primary task of official development assistance.
The social market economy offers the most effective system for sustainable development.
Together with an active education policy using new communication technologies, the social market economy is thus a key to overcoming underdevelopment and poverty.
Preventive development aid must once again be given the priority it deserves.
Development policy must renew itself strategically and make a significant contribution to eliminating social, economic and political grievances through targeted poverty reduction.
This means, in addition to additional financial benefits,.
a merging of political responsibility for foreign and development policy
and their structural reorientation toward efficient multilateral cooperation
The best development aid is the opening of European markets for products from developing countries
and the mobilization of investment capital.
Financing for increased aid to developing countries must be ensured in the long term so that they can defend their interests in a multilateral world trade order.
The development cooperation of the EU member states with the European Union must be transformed into an effective European development policy.
The United Nations must be further developed into a powerful world organization that assumes central tasks in the coordination of international development cooperation.
The International Monetary Fund must once again concentrate on its classic monetary policy tasks, the World Bank on its development policy tasks.
Climate protection
The FDP adheres to the national climate protection target of reducing CO2 emissions in Germany by 25% by 2005 compared to 1990.
To this end, the FDP has long called for the use of the flexible instruments of the Kyoto Protocol.
The focus is on the goal of taking immediate action to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions.
The decisive factor here is that as much carbon dioxide as possible is avoided per euro invested.
Climate protection must therefore be pursued precisely where it can be realized at the lowest cost.
The results of the negotiations at the Seventh World Climate Conference in Marrakech were a breakthrough for international climate policy.
The task now is to ensure that as many signatory states to the Framework Convention on Climate Change as possible initiate the ratification process swiftly and decisively.
The European Parliament voted by a large majority in favor of ratifying the Kyoto Protocol; a draft directive from the EU Commission provides for mandatory exchange trading in emissions certificates to begin throughout Europe from 2005, with the participation of several thousand companies.
The FDP advocates the immediate use of the flexible mechanisms of the Kyoto Protocol in Germany as well and supports the proposals of the EU Commission in principle.
However, emissions trading must not be limited to selected industries and large companies, but must be rapidly extended to all sectors of the economy.
The economic opportunities that modern climate protection can also open up for small and medium-sized enterprises must not be squandered.
When designing emissions trading, distortions of competition must be avoided, particularly in view of the existing voluntary commitment of German industry to climate protection.
The voluntary commitment must be made more flexible and modernized by at least partially crediting emission reductions achieved abroad.
At the level of international cooperation, Germany must also create the conditions for the emission reductions achieved through climate protection projects to be counted towards German reduction commitments, certified for the companies and countries involved and made tradable internationally in a German emissions trading system in line with the Kyoto mechanisms.
Emissions trading offers developing countries in particular an attractive opportunity to participate actively and responsibly in global trade, thus making a substantial contribution to climate protection and improving their economic situation.
In this respect, global emissions trading is also a great opportunity for development cooperation.
IV./ External security also creates internal security
Peace and freedom belong indivisibly together.
They are to be brought about and secured in the interests of the people, if necessary by military means.
We Germans owe our unity in freedom to this maxim of the Atlantic Alliance.
We are therefore committed to ensuring that Germany responsibly assumes its new role and quickly and consistently makes the Bundeswehr fit for alliance.
Making the Bundeswehr more alliance-capable
The security situation has changed fundamentally.
Following the end of the Cold War, the disintegration of the Soviet Union, and the opening of NATO to new members, a massive military force shift has taken place.
Today, the Atlantic Alliance outnumbers any conceivable adversary at least threefold in conventional terms without having to call up even one reservist.
The majority of NATO member states have suspended conscription, a decision that should also be taken for the Bundeswehr as soon as possible.
Compulsory military service can no longer be justified in terms of security policy.
The demands on armed forces today cannot be met with the traditional image of the mass army.
Germany needs a highly motivated, very well trained Bundeswehr equipped with state-of-the-art weaponry.
It must be professional, flexible and rapidly deployable in the context of alliance defense, crisis management, counterterrorism, peacekeeping, as well as humanitarian and disaster relief.
The reform of the Bundeswehr as decided by the federal government does not meet the requirements in any way.
The number of personnel is too high due to the stubborn adherence to general compulsory military service, the operational readiness too low - only about 50,000 of 300,000 soldiers in the Bundeswehr are ready for deployment today.
The suspension of compulsory military service will increase the operational capability of the Bundeswehr, reduce training and material costs and increase the investment share.
The funds earmarked for defense in the federal budget (€23.6 billion) are far from sufficient.
Germany's image and reputation are in danger of being damaged.
A personnel level of 240,/000 soldiers corresponds to the current requirements and needs of the Bundeswehr.
Basic military service members are no longer needed.
To this end, 30,000 short-term soldiers with a commitment period of 12 to 24 months should be scheduled, from whom the necessary new recruits will be recruited as a matter of priority.
Careers need to be redesigned, and pay and training need to be given a different status than they are today.
In addition, equipment and armaments must be comprehensively modernized without delay.
The defense budget must be increased to €25 billion and stabilized at this level in real terms.
In this context, the FDP acknowledges its international responsibility and rejects efforts to lift the parliamentary reservation.
Strengthen NATO
The FDP expects NATO's enlargement to bring added stability and an opportunity for peace.
The unrestricted maintenance of the Alliance's ability to act as a guarantor of Euro-Atlantic security is indispensable in this context.
An alliance whose performance would be impaired by enlargement benefits neither the new members nor the regions to be stabilized.
Therefore, the security compatibility of the candidates must be an accession criterion.
