The program for stability and renewal.
TOGETHER FOR A MODERN GERMANY.
Table of contents
Introduction4
1. new responsibility of Germany in the world - out of conviction for peace, freedom and human rights6
1.1.Strengthening the values- and rules-based international order6
1.2.Germany as an Anchor of Stability in the Global World7
1.3.A new dawn for the transatlantic partnership8
1.4.Stability across Europe9
1.5.Germany's special responsibility towards Israel10
1.6.New attention to the Asia-Pacific region 11
1.7.Modern and fully operational Bundeswehr11
1.8.For Sustainable Development in One World13
1.9.For a development partnership with Africa14
1.10.International climate protection for the integrity of creation15
2. newworldpoliticalcapacity - with passion for a strong Europe17
2.1.A strong Germany in a strong Europe17
2.2.More Europe in world politics18
2.3.Sustainable Europe20
2.4.Competitive and stable Europe 21
2.5.Our Europe of order and security24
2.6.For a modern, innovative and digital Europe28
2.7.A Europe that is capable of action and close to its citizens30
3. new prosperity - with sustainable growth to a climate-neutral industrialized country 33
3.1.Our unleashing package for the economy34
3.2.Safe work with a future37
3.3.Germany as a climate-neutral industrialized country by 204540
3.4.Our energy concept for the future42
3.5.Sustainable management to protect our resources45
3.6.Right of way for intelligent mobility47
3.7.An agriculture that is strong and sustainable50
3.8.Modern law for empowered consumers56
4.New fairness and social security - for the societal
Cohesion58
4.1.Financial security in old age58
4.2.Social Security in All Circumstances61
4.3.Efficient healthcare system63
4.4.Good care for more safety and hold67
4.5.Germany's responsibility for global health69
5. new generational justice in finances and taxes - out of responsibility for our children and grandchildren70
5.1.Securely into the future with solid finances70
5.2.Fair, performance-based and competitive taxes71
5.3.Wealth creation for everyone73
5.4.Strengthening Germany as a Financial Center74
6.New Promise of Advancement - for Germany as a Country of Opportunity and Family ..75
6.1.More time, space and support for families75
6.2.Equal opportunities for women and men78
6.3.Advancement through education79
7.New Courage to innovate - out of responsibility for the future84
7.1.Strategic Research and Innovation Policy for Germany84
7.2.The best brains for our country89
7.3Digital transformation offensive92
8. new efficiency for a modern state - for the benefit of the
Citizens95
8.1.Modernization decade for the state95
8.2.Focus on citizens 99
8.3.The public service as a modern employer101
8.4.Digital infrastructure104
8.5.Sustainable state104
9. new strength for more security - out of responsibility for our freedom 106
9.1.More security anywhere and anytime106
9.2.Full protection for children and women from violence and abuse108
9.3 No room for organized crime110
9.4 Zero Tolerance for Criminal Family Clans111
9.5 Protecting our democracy from extremists and terrorists112
9.6 Strengthening our security authorities116
9.7 Security in cyberspace117
9.8 Effective population protection119
9.9 Strong and citizen-oriented justice121
10.New quality of life in town and country - for the love of our home123
10.1 Good Living in Vibrant Villages and Cities123
10.2 Equal living conditions and economic development in all regions126
10.3 Strengthening cohesion and volunteering132
10.4 Integration as the foundation of togetherness134
10.5 Germany as a Cultural Nation135
10.6 A modern media landscape137
10.7 Dedicated sports promotion138
Introduction
Germany is a strong country.
This is above all thanks to the citizens who work hard every day to ensure that things will continue to run smoothly in the future.
We have strong businesses, innovative startups and global market leaders, outstanding researchers and one of the best healthcare and social systems in the world.
We are a cosmopolitan and secure country; a country that takes responsibility for security and peace, freedom and prosperity in Europe and worldwide.
The Corona crisis has challenged our country, and especially the state and the administration, and revealed that we need to be faster, better and bolder in some areas.
We need a powerful new start after the crisis.
We want to make the 1920s a modernization decade for our country.
In doing so, we want to make the good better.
Because one thing is clear: we can't do magic, but we can and we want to work and shape.
We have achieved a great deal in the CDU/CSU-led federal government.
Our policy for growth and sound finances laid the foundation for us to act comprehensively in the pandemic: to protect citizens from the virus, for the vaccine revolution and comprehensive assistance for businesses and employees.
This is not self-evident and not guaranteed.
Success is not destiny, but the result of hard work.
Our direction is clear: We want to shape change so that Germany remains at the top.
But our idea is: safety in transition.
We want to come out of the crisis strong and create a new dynamic.
A dynamic that drives the economy
and climate protection,
secures jobs and creates new ones,
Families supported
and a modern working environment.
We do not rush blindly into tomorrow, but keep a sense of proportion.
This also means that we will not promise anything that we cannot deliver.
The high level of spending to combat the pandemic has significantly restricted the state's financial leeway.
But new debt or tax increases would be the wrong way to go.
We are focusing on economic growth, which gives our state financial leeway.
We intend to use this leeway for the financially effective projects of this program.
We also need a fresh start in the relationship between the state and its citizens.
After the pandemic, the state must again withdraw significantly and
give citizens and companies more freedom.
We need to stop trying to regulate every problem down to the last detail
or solve it with more money.
We want a reliable and modern state.
Our goal is to return as quickly as possible to a normalcy that gives us back what we love and miss, and in which we wisely create tomorrow.
We want Germany to remain a strong homeland in which as many people as possible can strive for their personal happiness.
We want a society that holds together and rewards commitment, enables advancement, and protects those who cannot help themselves.
We want a modern Germany that thinks about tomorrow, acts today and continues to grow great things together: economic strength,
consistent climate protection
and social security.
That is why Germany is to become a climate-neutral industrial nation well before the middle of the century.
And together with our European friends, we want to ensure that Germany and the EU become more capable of conducting global politics.
We have the right values and principles for this task: Reason instead of ideology,
innovations instead of prohibitions, a social
market economy instead of socialist redistribution,
opportunities instead of fears,
respect instead of paternalism for families, a
Christian view of humanity and social diversity instead of prefabricated life plans for each individual.
We do not play supposed opposites and different groups off against each other.
We connect them.
Because we know: Especially in an individualized society, it is important that we move in a common direction on the big issues, that everyone has the certainty of being part of a whole - whether young or old, whether in the country or in the city, whether employee or employer.
For us, cohesion is an expression of responsibility - toward the citizens of our country as well as toward our environment and future generations.
Each of us is part of this community of responsibility, part of a nation and a European Union with a common culture, a common history, common values, common goals and a common future.
1.Germany's New Responsibility in the World - Conviction for Peace, Freedom and Human Rights
Our Union promise: We work for a Germany that is open to the world, that shapes global challenges together with our transatlantic and European partners in an alliance of democracies.
Our goal is security and peace,
freedom and prosperity for the people of Germany.
The modernization decade with which we are making Germany fit for global politics can only succeed with new strength in foreign policy.
The pandemic has shown us once again how interconnected our world is.
Neither the coronavirus, nor climate change, nor digital transformation stop at borders.
We can only solve the major global challenges facing humanity if we tackle them globally together.
It is in our own interest that we take on more responsibility internationally.
The conditions for this have changed dramatically: We are in the midst of a global epochal shift.
The great economic dynamism in Asia and the rise of China are changing the international power structure.
We are witnessing the disregard for international law and rule-breaking by major states in the international system, and we are seeing populist currents spreading around the world, including in democratic states.
What's more: New technologies not only determine our everyday lives, but are also a relevant factor in international politics.
It is not enough to merely react to crises.
Therefore, we will create a security architecture that enables better coordination and a forward-looking strategic approach.
The basis of our worldwide political action is and remains the Christian image of man.
We are committed to Germany's active contribution to international crisis management and to shaping the world order - in the European Union, NATO, the United Nations and other international organizations.
1.1.Strengthening the values- and rules-based international order
Forging an alliance of democracies
Democracies and authoritarian states are vying for the right to shape the world in the 21st century.
At stake is the continued existence of our liberal democratic order, which authoritarian states are challenging and attempting to destabilize.
This system rivalry gives rise to our obligation and aspiration to reinvigorate the international rules- and values-based order.
Because it is a prerequisite for us to live in security and peace,
freedom and prosperity.
We want Germany and Europe to emerge stronger from this challenge - together with the USA and at the same time mindful of their own capabilities.
To this end, we must work together to rebuild cooperation with our transatlantic partners and develop new structures capable of action with our democratic partners around the world, especially in the Indo-Pacific region and Latin America.
This alliance of democracies must have a formative influence on the global order, especially in climate, trade, digital and security policy.
We are guided by the idea of freedom
and the inviolable dignity of the human being.
That is why we are committed to peace, freedom and security,
for the protection of human rights,
for the observance and further development of international law,
for sustainable development
and free and fair world trade.
In our foreign policy actions, we always seek international partnership and a multilateral approach.
The United Nations (UN) and its agencies alone can claim the universal validity of its principles and goals.
The United Nations therefore remains fundamental to the international order and to addressing international challenges.
They must therefore become more capable of making decisions and taking action.
Enforcing the universal validity of human rights
Human rights are universal, indivisible and inalienable.
We resolutely oppose attempts by authoritarian states to weaken this consensus.
To this end, we want to strengthen human rights mechanisms.
Children, people with disabilities or refugees are particularly vulnerable in this regard.
We also want to assert the human right to religious freedom worldwide and improve the critical situation of religious minorities.
In particular, we will continue to persistently advocate for persecuted Christians.
1.2.Germany as an anchor of stability in the global world
As Europe's strongest economic nation, Germany must play a leading role in foreign and security policy.
We must be more prepared than in the past to use all the instruments of our foreign, defense and development policy - including military ones if necessary - together with our allies and partners, while respecting international law and our constitutional requirements.
We want to bundle a stronger strategic approach to foreign and security policy in a national security strategy to be submitted regularly and discussed in parliament.
We need to map the interconnectedness of security in our government as well.
That is why we want to create a National Security Council in the Federal Chancellery to bring together foreign and security policy coordination, strategic foresight and intelligence from the federal and state governments.
We will continue to provide adequate funding for political foundations.
They make a significant contribution to political education, the promotion of studies and scientific research, and in the international arena to strengthening democracy, civil society and development cooperation.
1.3.new beginnings for the transatlantic partnership Strengthening relations with America
The USA is our most important global political partner.
With President Joe Biden, we associate the opportunity of a new departure for the transatlantic partnership.
Only by working closely together will we be able to shape climate, trade, science and technology policy.
Our goal must be to work together to defy the enemies of freedom,
set global standards
, and maintain and expand our technological edge.
To this end, further deepening of our trade and scientific relations is indispensable.
Our goal is a comprehensive transatlantic economic, trade and future area.
To maintain the technology leadership of the value-based West, we must closely coordinate our cutting-edge research and product application.
We also want to intensify the joint fight against organized crime and terrorism
and work closely with the USA on foreign climate policy.
We also want to cooperate more closely with Canada and the democratically established countries of Latin America and the Caribbean.
We want to significantly expand our exchange with the USA at the social level.
We know: International understanding begins with personal friendships and must grow again and again in each generation.
That is why we want to establish a German-American Youth Office and more than double the successful youth exchange program (Parliamentary Sponsorship Program) of the Bundestag.
Understanding NATO as a community of values and a security alliance
NATO is the backbone of Euro-Atlantic security.
This security is guaranteed by nuclear sharing, the mutual assistance clause for the case of an alliance and the presence of American soldiers in Europe.
As long as there are states with nuclear weapons that actively challenge our community of values, Europe will continue to need the U.S. nuclear umbrella and German participation in nuclear sharing within NATO will remain an important component of credible deterrence in the Alliance.
We stand for Germany's resolute commitment to continue its nuclear sharing within NATO and to provide the necessary means for this.
Europe's claim must be to stand up for freedom, peace and democracy in the world as an equal partner together with the USA.
This includes taking on more responsibility in conjunction with our alliance partners - both in robust operations and in peace missions and development cooperation on the ground.
We want to strengthen the European pillar in NATO.
In the modernization decade, Germany will make an important contribution to the implementation of the "NATO 2030" concept and to NATO's orientation for the next generation.
We Europeans must do more to ensure stability in our neighborhood and advocate fair burden sharing.
We are explicitly committed to NATO's 2% target.
Advancing arms control and disarmament
Our long-term vision is a world in which nuclear weapons are no longer necessary as a deterrent.
We therefore urge greater dynamism in arms control and disarmament and support new initiatives that contribute to greater security.
Our long-term goal remains the complete disarmament of all intermediate-range nuclear missiles and cruise missiles in Europe.
Existing agreements must be respected.
We support measures against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and associated missile technologies, as well as the outlawing of autonomous-killing weapons systems.
The Bundeswehr must have all the modern technologies needed for defense.
This includes unmanned and AI-integrating systems.
1.4.Stability throughout Europe
Strengthening the EU's Eastern Partners
We want to strengthen the independence of the EU's eastern partners and actively promote their political and economic modernization into European constitutional states.
Our goal remains to restore the European peace order, which was suspended by Russia's annexation of Crimea in violation of international law.
We will continue to work for an end to the conflict in eastern Ukraine and for a return to Crimea's legitimate status under international law.
As long as the Russian government is not prepared to do so, the sanctions must remain in place.
We stand with the people of Belarus who are fighting for freedom and democracy.
The regime must clear the way for a peaceful transition or else face the harshness of our sanctions.
Confronting Russia constructively and decisively
Russia is challenging our values.
We do not want this to become a serious military threat to us in Europe again.
To advance its own interests, the Russian government now resorts to open threats against NATO allies, cyberattacks, disinformation and propaganda.
We need more political unity in the EU and NATO, on the one hand, and the capacity for credible deterrence and resilience, on the other, to meet these challenges.
At the same time, we continue to seek dialogue and cooperation with Russia where there are common interests.
For example, global climate protection is not effective without Russia, and economic cooperation is in everyone's interest.
Improving living conditions in the Southern Mediterranean
The security of Germany and Europe is linked to the stability of the states in the southern Mediterranean and the Near and Middle East.
If terror and a lack of economic prospects prevail there, many people will try to flee to Europe.
Germany and Europe must assume more responsibility in the region through prevention and mediation.
Through humanitarian aid for refugees and programs such as the "Cash for Work" employment initiative, we are improving the prospects of local people.
At the same time, we support the states in the region in the fight against terrorism.
Particularly with the countries bordering the Mediterranean, there are also new opportunities for cooperation - for example in the field of green hydrogen - which can give new impetus to European neighborhood policy and bind our neighbors more closely to our community of values.
1.5.Germany's special responsibility towards Israel
We acknowledge Germany's special responsibility towards Israel.
Israel's security and right to exist are part of Germany's reason of state.
The people of Israel have a right to live free from fear, terror and violence.
That is why we stand by Israel's right of self-defense.
We advocate for Iran to strictly adhere to its obligations under the 2015 Vienna Nuclear Agreement (JCPOA) and end its ballistic missile program and aggressive role in the region.
We support everything that promotes peaceful coexistence between Israelis and Palestinians and makes a two-state solution possible.
On this firm basis, we want to further expand our close and friendly cooperation with Israel in all policy areas, especially in youth exchange, high technology and the promotion of startups.
1.6 New attention for the Asia-Pacific region
Understanding Asia-Pacific democracies as partners
The 21st century will be significantly shaped by the countries of Asia and the Pacific.
We are therefore committed to close partnerships with them.
Democracies such as Australia, New Zealand, Japan, India and South Korea, which advocate the strengthening of the rules-based international order, are our natural partners in cooperation and values.
By deploying a German frigate to the Asia-Pacific region, we are showing our presence and sending the right signal in coordination with our partners.
Meeting China at eye level
The greatest foreign and security policy challenge today emanates from the People's Republic of China.
It is a competitor, a cooperation partner,
but also a systemic rival.
China has the will and increasingly also the claim to power to shape and change the international order according to its own ideas - and is doing so by all means.
China exerts influence on other states through technology and infrastructure investments and creates geostrategic dependencies.
We therefore need a two-pronged approach: On the one hand, where necessary, we must counter China's will to power with strength and unity in close coordination with our transatlantic partners and other like-minded democracies.
This is particularly true when it comes to protecting intellectual property, our high technology and our data, so that we do not fall into dangerous dependencies.
On the other hand, we want to seek cooperation with China where possible.
A true partnership is only possible within the framework of fair competition on equal terms and with respect for the principle of reciprocity.
In order for this balance to succeed at the European level, we advocate a European China strategy and a joint approach by the West.
1.7 Modern and fully operational Bundeswehr
Providing credible security
The protection of peace and freedom is the noblest task of the state.
The citizens of our country must be able to rely on credible security provision.
The CDU and CSU are guarantors that Germany will not neglect this to the detriment of our children and grandchildren.
We see ourselves as parties to the Bundeswehr.
Those who, like our soldiers, take on responsibility in difficult missions have a right to the best equipment.
We will meet all of our military commitments and achieve the full complement of the Bundeswehr.
We will therefore increase the number of soldiers in the Bundeswehr to 203,000 in accordance with the personnel structure model.
We stand by our NATO and EU commitments to further increase the defense budget to two percent of GDP.
This also gives the Bundeswehr planning security.
By 2030 at the latest, we want to enable the Bundeswehr to provide at least ten percent of the Alliance's military capabilities.
In this way, we are making a decisive contribution to fair burden sharing and cohesion in NATO.
This contribution is a prerequisite for our alliance capability - and thus in our own interest.
Today, national defense is alliance defense.
Germany can only achieve this together with its partners.
That is why the Bundeswehr must continue along the path of cooperation and integration with the armed forces in Europe and of allies, working towards a common strategic culture.
We will participate in foreign missions with alliance partners whenever German security interests are at risk.
Understanding the Bundeswehr as part of society
The soldiers of the Bundeswehr work every day to ensure that we can live in peace, freedom and security.
At the same time, they stand ready to help in domestic emergencies and disasters.
Soldiers deserve our respect and recognition.
The Bundeswehr has a firm place in the center of our society.
This means that it also belongs in our schools as a matter of course.
The youth officers do a valuable job here.
We want to expand it and make sure that visiting the youth officers has a permanent place in the school career.
Free rail travel for our servicemen and women has been a resounding success, and we intend to continue it and extend it to local public transport in the future.
The oath to our country belongs in the center of our society.
That's why we want vows to take place in public as a matter of principle.
To be able to perform its tasks, the Bundeswehr needs an operational reserve.
We want to continue voluntary military service in homeland security.
In this way, we give young people the chance to serve in the Bundeswehr for a while and then strengthen the reserve.
There is no place for extremists in the Bundeswehr.
Ensuring the best equipment for the Bundeswehr
The Bundeswehr must be optimally equipped and organized.
The cornerstones for the Bundeswehr of the future serve as a guideline for this.
We will renew the procurement system so that it receives its material expeditiously.
We need to build new capabilities in cyber, information space, and space, and we are seeking legal regulation of the military use of AI, cyber, and space capabilities.
To protect our servicemen and women and in the field, we advocate the arming of drones, which is now taken for granted in military terms.
The recent fighting over the Nagorno-Karabakh region has highlighted the extent to which warlike conflicts are shaped by drones.
We must enable our servicemen and women to effectively ward off these threats for their protection.
We therefore want to significantly strengthen effective capabilities of the Bundeswehr for drone defense, air defense and electronic warfare.
We want to limit the cost of military procurement by developing and implementing joint armaments projects with European partners.
At the same time, we want to maintain an efficient defense technology industry in Germany.
We are committed to driving forward the key projects that are central to European defense policy.
In this context, arms exports are a shaping element of security policy.
That is why we advocate uniform European guidelines.
With a Bundeswehr Planning Act, we want to help ensure that security remains reliably financially secure as a core task of the state, irrespective of economic fluctuations and short-term changes in political sentiment.
1.8.For sustainable development in the One World
Strengthening development cooperation
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals of Agenda 2030, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and human rights are our guiding principles for equitable globalization, peaceful and sustainable development in the world.
In doing so, we prioritize the following goals and approaches: We can achieve a world without hunger.
It is possible if conflicts are resolved, increasing amounts are provided in food aid, and agricultural yields are increased worldwide.
As part of our bilateral cooperation, we support people in the least developed countries so that they have access to basic government services such as education, water, nutrition and health.
To prevent future pandemics, we will pay greater attention than in the past to the interrelationships between humans, animals and the environment (One Health approach) as part of global health policy.
We want to link development cooperation and strategic foreign trade promotion more closely.
In this way, we make it easier for companies to invest in modern and digital workplaces in developing countries and thus promote prosperity for all.
If the state and business cooperate more closely, human rights can also be
and minimum social and ecological standards are better ensured.
We also want to work together to adapt the vocational dual training system to local conditions and promote it even more strongly.
In all our approaches, we aim to empower women and girls in particular.
We advocate for their right to self-determination and family planning.
Reliably financing development cooperation
Germany is one of the few countries to have spent 0.7 percent of gross national income on official development assistance in the past two years, as agreed as a global target.
We want to continue to spend 0.7 percent of gross national income on official development assistance.
In this way, we want to help rapidly reverse the development setbacks triggered by the pandemic in many countries around the world.
This is also in Germany's interest.
In order to make the best possible use of the available resources, even more intensive coordination and division of labor - especially within the framework of the European Union - is necessary.
We also want to hold new donors of development funds, such as China, to common standards.
In the future, too, we want to cooperate closely with churches and non-governmental organizations in development cooperation.
We also expect partner countries to cooperate closely in development cooperation to combat the causes of flight
and illegal migration (for example, taking back their own nationals).
1.9.For a development partnership with Africa
A peaceful, economic and ecological development of our neighboring continent Africa is in the German and European interest.
We shape our Africa policy on the basis of a modern and differentiated image of Africa.
For us, Africa is also a continent with an ambitious young generation, great economic dynamism and high innovative strength.
We want to develop the Marshall Plan with Africa into a deeper institutional partnership in the form of an EU-Africa Council.
The EU must make attractive offers of cooperation based on transparency and financial sustainability, and exploit local potential.
The African Continental Free Trade Area offers the opportunity for further opening steps of the EU internal market,
for climate protection
and for cooperation in future technologies.
Sustainable development in Africa is not possible without investment from private companies.
That is why we rely on the principles of the social market economy in our cooperation with Africa.
Of particular importance are access to capital and government guarantees to hedge risks in trade, investments and projects.
Efforts to combat corruption are essential
and for the rule of law, which we demand and promote.
We want to contribute to exploiting the opportunities of digitalization,
of renewable energies
or sustainable mobility.
In partnership with German industry and as part of our European foreign climate policy, we are thus driving forward the energy transition in Africa.
Africa is central to Europe's long-term security.
This is demonstrated not least by the ongoing migration towards Europe.
Over the course of the decade, we want to empower African states and societies to fight terrorism and provide for their own security themselves and with the help of the African Union.
1.10.International climate protection for the integrity of creation
Survival issues for all of humanity and therefore focal points of our climate foreign policy are the achievement of climate goals and the preservation of biodiversity and forests.
We advocate for an alliance to strengthen innovative climate-friendly technologies worldwide.
Where climate change threatens security, the international community must take preventive action.
To this end, we want to strengthen the United Nations' mediation capabilities.
We want to support developing countries in adapting to climate change and protecting the environment through the transfer of technical knowledge within the framework of international climate financing.
That is why we are striving to establish close climate partnerships with countries in Asia, the Arab world and Latin America as part of our European clean tech initiative.
The challenges of global warming are global.
That is why we want Germany, as a world-leading and modern industrialized country, to make an overriding contribution here within the framework of the international community.
For example, we want to support the development and financing of waste collection and sorting systems and intensify cooperation against marine and environmental pollution.
We are committed to ensuring that international carbon sinks such as rainforests are protected and their performance rewarded.
Our goal is to establish global emissions trading in the long term.
We also want to use modern trade policy as an instrument to enforce high standards and effective measures for climate protection globally.
To curb global warming, it is crucial that developing and emerging countries build their economies in a climate-friendly way from the outset.
We want international successes in climate protection to be taken into account in national climate assessments - in addition to Germany's own climate protection measures.
Because every ton of CO2 saved counts - no matter where it is saved.
We therefore want to campaign for the next climate conference in Glasgow to agree that, in addition to the ambitious climate protection measures at national and European level, emission reductions from climate protection projects in developing and emerging countries should also count towards national climate targets.
In this context, double counting must be effectively excluded.
2.new global political capability - with passion for a strong Europe
Our Union promise: We work for a modern Europe that is capable of global politics in order to master global challenges together.
To achieve this, Europe must become more capable of action, more courageous and more determined.
Because only if Europe is doing well, will Germany also do well.
Europe is challenged - from within and from without.
Within Europe, populists from the left and right are putting European democracy under pressure.
In addition, nationalism and the self-interest of some EU member states repeatedly hamper joint European solutions or prevent the EU from speaking with one voice.
Finally, in key areas such as defense policy, the EU is not as capable of action as we would like.
From the outside, too, we see the European-Western guiding principle of democracy
as well as the social market economy under pressure and in competition with competing social and economic models.
Free world trade with open markets, which has brought us prosperity, can no longer be taken for granted.
Our answer to this challenge is: More Europe!
Because we will only master the challenges together with our European partners.
For this, we need faster and more dynamic decisions where European solutions and decisive action at the international level are needed.
The formula applies: Not every problem in Europe is a problem for Europe.
At the same time, we will extend the modernization decade to Europe: We are investing in technologies and innovations so that Europe's economy remains a guarantor of prosperity, jobs and sustainability in the future.
We invest in Europe's security, whether internally or externally, so that our children and grandchildren can also live in peace, freedom and security in Europe.
2.1 A strong Germany in a strong Europe
Want Europe - Make Europe
The European Union is and remains the greatest political success project of our time.
It has brought peace, freedom, democracy, security and prosperity to the people of Germany and Europe.
Even if everything doesn't always go perfectly: People in our country benefit from Europe every day.
That is why we have been passionate about the process of European unification from the very beginning, building bridges between East and West.
We want European cooperation and integration instead of nationalistic isolationism.
Only in this way will we make Germany and Europe more resilient: to pandemics, economic crises, terrorist threats and cyber attacks.
Being the Franco-German engine of European unification
With convinced Europeans like Konrad Adenauer, Helmut Kohl, Franz Josef Strauß, Theo Waigel and Angela Merkel, we have shaped European unification.
We are guided by our unshakeable principles and fundamental European values of an open society, representative democracy, a social market economy, the rule of law, subsidiarity, peaceful conflict resolution and consensus-building in Europe.
The close Franco-German friendship is elementary for us and has gained a new dynamic through the Aachen Treaty, which must now be filled with life.
This applies in particular, for example, to major challenges such as artificial intelligence, hydrogen technology and battery cell research, as well as to security and foreign policy cooperation.
The Franco-German friendship is and remains the motor for European unification and further development - but not exclusively, but as an initial spark for courageous steps with others.
We want close coordination and exchange on concrete solutions to problems.
Our European approach respects the legitimate interests of all member states, regardless of their size.
Cooperation with our neighbors and friends in the Benelux region as well as our eastern neighbors, such as the Czech Republic, has proven its worth, especially during the pandemic.
For us, close cooperation and the cultivation of friendship with Poland remains a central task of German foreign policy.
2.2.More Europe in world politics
Making Europe fit for global systems competition
Greater German and European independence and security are basic prerequisites for surviving in global system competition.
That is why Europe must speak with one voice in order to become capable of global politics.
In a geopolitically increasingly uncertain and complex world, Europe must, in its own interest, assume more foreign and security policy responsibility for itself and the world.
We want majority decisions in foreign and security policy.
We achieve more self-confidence outwardly through more unity inwardly.
To achieve this, we in the European Union must arrive at common positions more quickly than before and be prepared to implement them effectively.
We want an improved and flexible security architecture that also includes the United Kingdom, so that we can bring our positions to bear more strongly and coordinate with our partners.
We advocate an additional, joint permanent seat for the EU on the United Nations Security Council.
We will take the initiative with an alliance of those willing to shape the future in order to improve foreign and security policy coordination and increase the effectiveness of European defense.
We do not want to shape such a core Europe in terms of foreign and security policy on an exclusive basis.
It must also include those countries whose security interests are particularly affected, such as those on NATO's eastern flank.
We want to establish joint European armed forces in the long term within the framework of the European Defense Union and PESCO.
To this end, we want to further improve military cooperation between national armed forces, network them even more closely and expand joint European operational capabilities within and outside NATO.
We are committed to more intensive cooperation on defense policy in the interests of a networked security policy.
Only in this way can the strength of the European Union - the pooling of diplomatic, military and development resources - be fully brought to bear.
We are fully committed to NATO.
We want to realize our own command and control capability for EU missions by establishing a European Headquarters.
We want to promote joint armaments projects and procurement with the help of the European Armaments Agency and the European Defense Fund.
In this way, EU member states avoid unnecessary spending,
achieve better defense capabilities
and gradually develop a common security culture as well as common European arms export guidelines.
We are expanding the European cyber brigade to successfully counter cyberattacks, terrorism, threats to critical infrastructure and disinformation across Europe and to develop offensive capabilities ourselves.
Deepen Europe before expand
It is in our interest to maintain as close and friendly relations as possible with the countries in the immediate neighborhood of the EU.
The principle that applies to us here is: deepening before broadening.
We stand by further intensifying the ties of the Western Balkan states to the European Union, because security and stability in our immediate neighborhood are of the greatest interest.
However, the internal cohesion of the European Union must not be weakened by the admission of new members.
Candidate countries must fully comply with all accession criteria.
The United Kingdom will remain our close partner even after we leave the European Union.
We will be vigilant to ensure that treaty assurances of fair trade are upheld through compliance with comparable social and environmental standards
, and to maintain peace through the Good Friday Agreement in Ireland and Northern Ireland.
We also strive for close cooperation in internal and external security and in the field of science.
We will appoint a U.K. coordinator from the German government to bundle the diverse bilateral relations.
We are committed to expanding the UK-German Connection into a German-British Youth Office and to establishing a new Parliamentary Sponsorship Program of the Bundestag for a student exchange year in the UK.
Reorganize relations with Turkey
Turkey is of great strategic and economic importance for Germany and the European Union.
In addition, our countries are closely connected mainly through people-to-people contacts.
We therefore want to continue to work closely with Turkey and are committed to an open, critical and constructive dialogue with the Turkish leadership.
We want Germany to continue to strengthen bilateral relations and civil society diversity in Turkey.
But we also observe that Turkey is moving away from the goal of realizing the political EU accession criteria of democracy, the rule of law, and respect for human rights.
Our relations with Turkey need new perspectives.
Turkey will not become a full member of the EU with us.
Instead, we will agree on a close partnership.
In a first step of rapprochement, common interests are to be defined and contractual agreements for implementation are to be decided.
NATO is a community of values.
Its members must commit to respecting human rights
and the rule of law.
Turkey, as a NATO partner, must make its contribution to collective security and fulfill its commitment to security consultations.
2.3.Sustainable Europe
Making the European Green Deal a European growth story
The European Green Deal is a comprehensive and ambitious sustainability strategy in the areas of energy, industry, circular economy, transport, buildings, environmental protection and biodiversity, agriculture and the food industry.
We support his ambitious goal of transforming the way we live and do business today toward a more sustainable and ecological society.
With the Green Deal, we are making Europe the world's first climate-neutral continent.
We want an EU climate envoy to strengthen and bundle the EU's external climate policy, positioning Europe as a global actor in the fight for climate protection.
It is designed to advance a European Clean Tech Initiative that builds partnerships in cutting-edge environmental technologies.
We will develop the Green Deal into a real growth strategy, a new sustainable growth engine for the EU.
To this end, we rely on market-based instruments, on incentives instead of prohibitions, on innovations and competition, and on cooperation with industry and agriculture.
We will extend European emissions trading to the transport and heating sectors.
With more ambition, emissions trading across the board will ensure that a stable, fair and transparent price for greenhouse gases is formed.
In conjunction with sustainable development aid, we want to strengthen Europe in the global competition for raw materials and offer a European alternative to the Chinese Silk Road.
We want a Green Deal that creates more jobs
and brings more added value to Europe's regions.
Therefore, all green deal strategies must be linked to impact assessment and transition support measures.
2.4.Competitive and stable Europe
Enforce stability criteria for economic and monetary union
Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) and the introduction of the euro are milestones in European integration.
We advocate a genuine Stability and Growth Union.
We want to swiftly reinstate the fiscal rules of the Stability and Growth Pact and the Fiscal Treaty after the Corona pandemic and develop them further without softening them.
We want to limit discretionary powers in the excessive deficit procedure and strengthen the principle of conditionality.
Violations of the stability criteria must be consistently sanctioned.
The European Union has responded appropriately and in a spirit of solidarity to the Corona crisis with the "Next Generation EU" building instrument in conjunction with the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021 to 2027.
Europe can only be strong together.
That is why we have been working to support the countries in southern Europe that have been particularly hard hit by the crisis.
The associated European borrowing is temporary and one-time.
It is not - and must never be - an entry into a debt union.
For responsible fiscal and budgetary policy in the member states, liability and responsibility must remain in one hand.
The treaties speak a clear language: each member state is liable for its own debts.
We continue to oppose the communitization of member state debts or risks.
Because we want a genuine stability union and not a debt and liability union.
Our Europe stands for a sound budgetary policy.
Budget funds must be used primarily for measures that create European added value.
They must be focused even more strongly on European tasks for the future.
Better coordinate European economic policy, strengthen monetary union
To strengthen economic and monetary union, national economic policies must be better coordinated and harmonized.
We want a stronger role for the EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner, especially to enforce the stability criteria.
Country-specific recommendations should target key areas-particularly structural reforms and fiscal consolidation.
Structural funds are to be used to support reform processes and innovation.
European financial market regulation (taxonomy), sustainability reporting and supply chain legislation require precise global competitive analyses, especially for medium-sized companies.
We advocate for EU regulation of supply chains.
This must enforce the standards of the German Supply Chain Sourcing Act in the EU single market throughout Europe, but not tighten them.
In this way, we prevent different and thus impracticable sets of rules
and create fair competitive conditions.
In the case of the A1 certificate for the posting of employees to other EU countries, we advocate a practical solution that protects against misuse and at the same time is unbureaucratic and can be handled as digitally as possible.
We are committed to the independence of the European Central Bank (ECB).
Monetary and fiscal policy must remain separate.
We therefore reject monetary state financing.
The ECB's overriding objective remains the maintenance of monetary and financial stability.
Our currency must be well equipped for the digital age.
We support a digital euro as a fast, simple and secure means of payment.
It must only complement cash and not jeopardize price and financial stability.
Because cash is freedom in action.
We are therefore continuing to use cash as a means of payment.
Making European financial architecture crisis-proof
Europe must be better prepared for economic or financial crises so that they can be overcome more quickly and better.
This requires more stability throughout Europe.
We want to further develop and complete the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), the Banking Union and the Capital Markets Union from a stability perspective.
To deal with states affected by an economic and/or financial crisis, we need orderly procedures up to and including sovereign insolvency proceedings.
To complete the banking union, it is imperative to reduce existing risks in the banking system.
We reject bank bailouts out of tax revenues and the communitization of the assumption of liability within the framework of the European deposit guarantee scheme.
Whatever changes are made at European level, the special features of our tried-and-tested three-pillar system of private banks, public-sector banks and cooperative banks must be preserved.
In particular, the supply of credit to SMEs and the financing of home ownership must not be unnecessarily restricted due to excessive regulatory requirements.
In this way, we ensure that crises can be overcome quickly and more effectively.
Strengthening fair world trade
In Germany, one in four jobs depends on exports, in German industry even more than one in two.
We are committed to free world trade with fair international competitive conditions instead of protectionism and isolationism.
Together with our partners, we want to strengthen multilateralism by reforming the World Trade Organization
and promote the conclusion of free trade agreements by the European Union.
Overall, we need a dovetailing of trade defense measures with competition law instruments.
We want European trade policy to work consistently towards improvements in market access for goods and services in order to reduce barriers for European companies in third markets.
Market openings must be mutually granted to the same extent
and brand piracy curbed.
We want to create incentives to ensure that our high standards, for example in environmental, consumer and worker protection, become the international standard.
Because our goal is multilateral, fair and rules-based trade
that opens up prospects for prosperity for all,
strengthens the fight against climate change,
outlaws child labor
and works to improve working conditions in other countries.
We want to establish and further strengthen sanction mechanisms for violations of sustainability and climate protection aspects.
We want to establish our shared fundamental values and common standards worldwide, especially with our transatlantic partners in trade policy.
We are campaigning for the overdue ratification of the European Union's economic agreement with Canada (CETA).
We also advocate full implementation of the EU's trade agreement with the Mercosur region, provided that it can be ensured that production and product standards in agriculture in particular meet our benchmarks.
We are seeking a rapid restart of the negotiations between the EU and the USA:
We want a transatlantic trade, economic and investment agreement with the USA that also sets global standards in ecological terms.
Advocating a modern European industrial policy
Strengthening the competitiveness of European industry is more important than ever given the tightening global environment and the role of China.
Our goal is for Europe to be a global leader in key industrial fields of the future, such as artificial intelligence, quantum technology, semiconductors, hydrogen or blockchain.
To achieve this, we need an ambitious European technology and industrial strategy.
We want to further promote capabilities in Europe to develop and manufacture key technologies.
Strategic EU funding projects must further develop the existing strengths at European locations, such as microelectronics or aerospace, in the interests of global competitiveness.
We want to adapt European competition and state aid law to compensate for distortions in trade and competition resulting from state subsidies and interventions in other parts of the world.
To this end, the European Union must press ahead with negotiations with other major industrialized countries.
We need to close value chains within Europe and thus make ourselves less dependent on other parts of the world.
We need new sovereignty for Europe in all systemically relevant economic areas.
We want to modernize EU public procurement law in the interests of reducing bureaucracy.
2.5.Our Europe of Order and Security Protecting Europe's Borders
What we need in Europe is a security union.
More security in and through Europe also means more security for Germany.
Open borders in Europe are a benefit for us all.
However, even with open internal borders and freedom of travel in the Schengen area, internal security in the European Union must remain guaranteed.
To achieve this, Europe's external borders must be effectively protected.
Only together as the European Union can we effectively fight drug smugglers, human traffickers, internationally operating gangs, dangerous people and terrorists.
In order to guarantee Europe as an area of freedom, security and justice, effective policing within Europe's borders is also needed.
We want to develop the European Border Management Agency FRONTEX into a genuine border police and coast guard with sovereign powers.
We will significantly increase their personnel capacities.
We want to design the relevant databases accessible to the border police, such as the Schengen Information System and EURODAC, so that all information is available on demand.
We want entry at the external borders to be comprehensively monitored electronically.
We will therefore press ahead with the establishment of the entry and exit register for third-country nationals EES, which has already been decided, as well as the travel information and authorization system ETIAS.
In view of the continuing acute terrorist threats, we want to further intensify close cooperation between the police and intelligence services.
We want the data available in different information systems to be able to be linked in such a way that the police and security authorities can quickly access the information they need - for the prevention of attacks as well as for prosecution after terrorist acts.
We also want the relevant data to be able to be exchanged between the police and security authorities so comprehensively that rapid police responses are possible.
We need Europe-wide tracking of dangerous persons, a common risk assessment, and national lists of dangerous persons that are automatically merged throughout Europe without the need for a specific query of the respective perpetrator.
We want to equip and develop EUROPOL as a European liaison and coordination body in such a way that it becomes a kind of European FBI in important areas.
This is especially true in the area of cybercrime and the fight against terrorism.
Operational police powers remain with the member states.
Helping people in need, organizing and managing migration effectively
The European Union and Germany help people who are in great need because they are politically persecuted or because of the Geneva Refugee Convention.
We are committed to the fundamental right to asylum and to the legal and humanitarian obligations of Germany and Europe.
Targeted immigration is an asset and an opportunity for our country if it is accompanied by successful integration - into our labor market as well as into our society.
This is what we expect from immigrants and this is what we want to support them in.
The BioNTech founders impressively demonstrate what successful immigration stories look like.
They are just one of many examples of how we can benefit from the brightest minds from around the world.
This also applies to controlled and targeted immigration into the labor market.
However, migration is only an opportunity if it takes place in an orderly manner and is guided by clear rules.
This applies to the immigration of skilled workers as well as to the reception of protection seekers and refugees.
We reject immigration into the social systems.
Our policy is therefore to effectively order and manage migration.
This means: We do not want to enforce illegal migration and exit obligations.
This is the prerequisite for us to be able to help people in need on a lasting basis.
We combine cosmopolitanism and consistency, humanity and order.
We have made asylum procedures and returns fairer, more structured and more efficient.
We are continuing our efforts to ensure that the number of people fleeing to Germany and Europe not only remains permanently low, but is further reduced.
For this purpose, a clear distinction must be made between people in need and those who have to leave our country again because they are not in need of protection.
We want to define further safe countries of origin.
With the classification as a safe country of origin, citizens from such a state who apply for asylum in Germany can be returned to their home country more easily and quickly.
Incentives would be removed so that these people without a prospect of asylum would not make their way to Germany.
Nevertheless, the classification of further states with negligible recognition rates for asylum applications failed in the Bundesrat due to the resistance of some states, although the Bundestag had already decided on an extension.
That is why we want to use the possibilities offered by European asylum law to create a new concept of safe countries of origin, the "small" safe country of origin.
In an ordinary legislative procedure to classify a state, the state is classified as a safe country of origin for the purposes of both the Basic Law and the European Asylum Procedures Directive.
A classification as a "small" safe country of origin within the meaning of the Asylum Procedures Directive, on the other hand, would be possible without the consent of the Bundesrat and thus without the involvement of the Länder.
This does not affect the examination for asylum guaranteed in the Basic Law according to Art. 16 a.
We reject an expansion of family reunification beyond the regulations that exist today.
We want to impose greater restrictions on the right of residence of people who are obliged to leave the country in order to further reduce the incentives for illegal immigration; in particular, residence permits for tolerated persons should be linked to genuine integration requirements.
We want to better enforce obligations to leave the country and, among other things, create detention facilities at commercial airports to facilitate collective deportations.
Violations of a re-entry ban are immediately followed by detention pending deportation.
We want to consistently deport criminals.
Anyone who commits a crime in Germany has forfeited his right to be a guest.
We will once again significantly increase the pressure on identity fraudsters and those who refuse to cooperate.
To this end, we will expand the legal options and use available technical means.
False statements in the asylum procedure must also be punishable in the future if they are made to the Federal Office for Migration and Refugees.
In addition, data carriers and, in particular, cell phones must also be allowed to be read out to clarify security concerns.
Those who deceive the state about their identity and prevent their deportation cannot be entitled to a Duldung.
We will also make the regulations on detention pending departure and detention pending deportation more practicable.
Fundamentally reform European asylum and refugee policy
Providing for those seeking protection is not a challenge for Germany alone, nor for the states at the EU's external borders.
It is a common European challenge.
The primary goal must be to open up life prospects for people in or near their home countries.
The European Union must further intensify cooperation with the main countries of origin and combat the causes of flight - such as poverty.
This requires in particular a comprehensive partnership with our neighboring continent Africa and an active stabilization policy in the Middle East.
The Common European Asylum System must be fundamentally reformed.
The European Commission's proposal of a fair and solidary distribution of costs and burdens within the member states of the European Union goes in the right direction.
We are in favor of the establishment of European-administered decision centers at the EU's external borders, where it would be examined whether or not an asylum claim exists.
In the long term, this could develop into a European authority that also supports the member states and assumes coordination tasks.
We need common standards in European asylum law and Europe-wide harmonization of reception conditions - in terms of procedures, accommodation and care.
This lowers the incentives that make some member states more attractive to asylum seekers than others.
Protecting what is important to us in Europe
Within the framework of the "European Pillar of Social Rights", the member states are to be supported in making global corporations in particular more socially responsible and in creating and expanding social partnership structures.
After all, fair wages only come about through collective agreements negotiated by the social partners in the member states.
We stand for the EU to focus on basic standards for workers' rights as well as health, environmental and consumer protection standards.
We reject a European unemployment, pension or health insurance scheme.
Social security systems are the responsibility of the member states.
We want to simplify the recognition of professional qualifications and improve the portability of occupational pensions between EU member states in order to further promote employee mobility.
2.6.For a modern, innovative and digital Europe Leading Europe digitally
We also need a modernization decade for Europe.
Because only if we invest together in sustainable European projects and technologies for the future can we ensure competitiveness
and jobs of tomorrow here in Europe.
We want a genuine Digital and Data Union with modern competition law based on the social market economy, top-class digital infrastructure, European storage and computing capacities, and uniform data protection law.
As a global pioneer for fair and equitable competition in the digital economy, we want to develop and introduce a European digital market order - with modernized competition law and the same rules for all.
A fair and reasonable "booth fee" is also part of a market order.
We want digital ecosystems in which politics, science, research and business work together to develop and finance new digital products to be established in Europe as well.
We advocate a significant expansion of the framework conditions for such joint initiatives at the European level, for example in artificial intelligence or quantum computers.
Combining Europe's innovative strength
We want to breathe life into the goal of the Lisbon Strategy: Europe is to become the most innovative economic area in the world.
Europe and the common internal market make a major contribution to our prosperity.
They form the backbone of our global economy
and many well-paid jobs in Germany.
We want to further strengthen and deepen the single market in all areas, with a particular focus on digital, energy and capital.
In addition, a strategic foreign trade policy must also be established at the European level.
We need structural reforms for greater competitiveness
and private investment that create growth, employment and innovation.
We want to expand application-oriented research and global hydrogen strategies,
establish a European platform economy
and enforce European industrial standards worldwide.
In Personalized Medicine, we want to build on the research successes of Corona vaccine research to pool all resources in the fight against cancer and Alzheimer's disease and
establish a European Health Union.
It is intended to bundle and intensify top European research.
We want to use artificial intelligence for everyday life: People should be able to communicate with each other within Europe without language barriers and enjoy diversity at the same time.
We want to make a breakthrough in the research and development of automated speech recognition and translation in the coming years
, while also launching a flagship project for artificial intelligence.
Strengthen European research and education
Research and education of the younger generations will be decisive for our future prosperity throughout Europe.
Universities are an important link between the European Education Area and the European Research Area.
At the European level, we want to create a uniform, common legal framework for existing as well as future European universities.
This can significantly improve the recognition of degrees and scientific exchange.
We want to implement the framework program for "Horizon Europe" together with the public and private sectors in such a way that the world's best and most innovative researchers can realize their projects in Europe.
"Horizon Europe is the largest and most ambitious research program in European history.
This has created the best conditions for supporting excellent basic research by the European Research Council,
further opening up Europe-wide career paths
and better networking research institutions across Europe.
Advancing fast and low-emission mobility
An efficient infrastructure is of central importance for economic development in our country and for strengthening Europe: roads, train connections and, for example, efficient power lines are the basis for bringing people together, exchanging goods and networking our countries.
Germany and Europe need a decisive and powerful response to global challenges such as China's initiative to develop a new Silk Road.
That is why we want to use this decade to achieve such close infrastructural networking with our Central and Eastern European neighbors as we have developed, for example, between Germany, France and the Benelux countries in recent decades for the benefit of our countries and Europe as a whole.
To this end, we will work with European support for a "cross-border networking and infrastructure development" program that sets new accents in terms of transport and climate policy
and also improves military mobility.
Europe has the chance to become the first continent of CO2-neutral mobility.
We want to help it achieve a breakthrough and thus be a global role model.
To this end, we want to promote competition among the best ideas on an open technology basis.
We advocate for better European high-speed rail as a convenient, safe, flexible and environmentally sustainable mode of transport.
Fast, coordinated connections to Warsaw and Prague should be just as much a matter of course in the future as the heavily used connection between Paris and the major German cities.
Night trains are also of particular importance here.
2.7 A Europe that is capable of action and close to its citizens Further institutional development of Europe
To meet the challenges of the times, Europe must be given the right tools.
Only with better functioning institutions and processes can Europe shape the future.
We want to strengthen our Europe together with the citizens for the challenges of the future.
That is why we see the conference on the future of Europe as a departure for fundamental reforms of the EU.
We want to use it for a European sovereignty offensive.
Treaty changes are not a goal in themselves, but a possible instrument for making Europe more capable of action.
We want more majority decisions in Europe, making greater use of the bridging clauses for faster decisions and decisive action.
Where a common solution is not possible, Member States should more often take the opportunity to go forward and cooperate more closely within the framework of the Treaties.
We want to make Europe strong and responsible, where Europe can achieve more together.
European legislation is good when there is cross-border or pan-European added value.
In some areas, we are not yet there: for example, the pandemic response highlighted the lack of jointly coordinated action at the European level.
At the same time, what can be done better in the municipalities, regions and member states must also be the responsibility of the latter.
Subsidiarity is our guiding principle for Europe.
Together with our European partners, we want to further improve pandemic preparedness and preparedness in the European Union.
That is why we are committed to completing work on the Health Union quickly.
By sustainably strengthening the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control and the European Medicines Agency, in good cooperation with our national structures, we aim to create clear EU added value.
A key component will be ensuring the supply of vaccines and crisis-relevant medicines and medical devices.
We will therefore constructively support the planned establishment of a European Health Emergency Response Agency (HERA) and work with our partners to reduce the EU's dependence on third countries.
Strengthen European democracy
Respect for democracy and the rule of law and the values of liberal democracy are among the foundations of the European Union.
This also includes the transparency of European legislation for citizens, which must become more democratic and overall closer to the citizen.
We advocate new dialog formats on the rule of law and consistent punishment of violations - up to and including the cancellation of EU funds and the withdrawal of voting rights.
Like the national parliaments, the European Parliament must also have the right to introduce its own bills.
In this way, we will further strengthen the heart of European democracy, the jointly elected European Parliament.
We advocate the introduction of a European electoral law with a blocking clause for the next European elections.
For a workable parliament, there must be no fragmentation of parliament by micro parties.
In order to link the executive and parliament more closely, we are pushing for a strengthening of the top-candidate principle in appointments to the Commission's top post.
We also advocate a reduction in the size of the European Commission.
European capacity to act must be the decisive guiding principle.
We will further expand, simplify and strengthen the German government's coordination of European policy.
After all, Germany's strength is firmly linked to Europe's ability to act.
That is why we want to use it to clearly formulate and effectively represent Germany's positions for the good of Europe.
For better regulation and the reduction of bureaucratic costs, we are expanding impact assessment at the European level.
Bringing Europe to life for young people
We are committed to ensuring that Europe's youth can directly experience the benefits of the European Union.
We want to expand exchange programs.
The Interrail ticket under the "DiscoverEU" program is to be available free of charge to every 18-year-old in the future.
We want to double the funding for ErasmusPlus.
Because the European Education Area and the Digital Education Action Plan are crucial for Europe's economic recovery and future growth.
The ErasmusPlus program makes an important contribution to this.
To make Europe more tangible on a large and small scale, we promote cross-border cooperation.
In this way, more personal encounters can be made possible - at school, in training, at university and at work.
To strengthen the European public sphere, we also want to introduce the legal form of a European association to promote cross-border cooperation in civil society, culture and sports.
3.New prosperity - with sustainable growth to a climate-neutral industrialized country
Our Union promise: We will get our economy moving again
and ensure secure and sustainable jobs.
In doing so, we combine sustainable growth,
Climate protection
and social security together.
We want to bring interests together and not play them off against each other.
More than ever, this principle will guide our policies, actions and decisions.
The Corona pandemic also led to a massive economic slump in Germany.
We were able to stabilize the economy and secure jobs because we acted quickly and decisively in a major joint effort.
At the same time, the pandemic has shown that in some areas our country is not fast, not agile and not courageous enough.
Too often, we put unnecessary hurdles in the way of the industrious, the capable and the courageous - in the skilled trades, SMEs and freelance professions, as well as in the cultural and creative scene - instead of clearing the way for them and trusting their skills and ideas.
The path from problem to solution leads too often and for too long through a thicket of regulations and concerns.
It is not enough to just turn a few adjusting screws.
We need a modernization decade in Germany.
We need to set a new course.
In doing so, we will place even greater emphasis on the principles of the social market economy.
It combines freedom with security, individual responsibility with the common good, economic dynamism with social balance.
It relies on doing instead of complaining, on openness instead of isolation, on earning instead of distributing, on ideas instead of bans.
We also rely on these principles in the fight against climate change.
We want to take the decisive steps now, in this decade, to ensure that Germany becomes a climate-neutral industrialized country by 2045.
Our Christian view of humanity obliges us to protect creation and to act responsibly towards our fellow human beings, towards the environment and towards future generations.
We want to remain an industrialized country
and maintain highly qualified industrial jobs -
together with business and the social partners and
without overburdening consumers.
Continuing the social market economy as a successful model
The social market economy is the economic order of our liberal democracy.
It is the foundation of our success as an innovative, efficient and sustainable economy.
It combines opportunities for the individual with social security in our society.
It is the order that reconciles economy, ecology and social issues like no other.
On this basis, generations of women and men have made Germany one of the most prosperous nations in the world through education, hard work and achievement, a willingness to take responsibility and commitment;
a globally admired economic and ecological role model;
home to hundreds of thousands of companies that contribute to social prosperity and social security with their competitiveness and innovative strength.
We want to continue this success story and renew the guard rails of the social market economy.
In the future, we will continue to combine economic competence with practiced solidarity and efficient protection of the environment and climate.
The sustainable, social, ecological and digital market economy is our social market economy of the 21st century.
We rely on trust in people, on freedom instead of paternalism, on freedom instead of control.
We rely on functioning competition that gives people the chance to make the most of their abilities.
Particularly in the age of globalization and digitization, we rely on the state to regulate the market.
A strong state orders the economy and determines the rules,
but does not itself take part in events.
3.1.Our unleashing package for the economy
Regardless of whether they are self-employed or small, medium or large companies: In our modernization decade, we must make it possible for them to focus more on their core business and implement new ideas.
A modern Germany is also one that gives inventiveness and entrepreneurship more freedom.
We will therefore launch a comprehensive unleashing package that will relieve companies of taxes and bureaucracy and speed up planning and approval procedures.
Our goal: The doers should use their energy first and foremost to do business successfully and not to fulfill bureaucratic obligations.
Because that's what moves our country forward.
Preventing new burdens
For us, it is clear that in order for the economy to get going again and for us to create new prosperity together, no new burdens must be imposed on companies.
We want to keep non-wage labor costs at a stable level of no more than 40 percent.
In the future, we will continue to adhere to the principle of "relieving instead of burdening".
Especially after the pandemic, tax increases are the wrong way to go.
They stand in the way of the necessary recovery of our economy.
We will gradually abolish the solidarity surcharge for everyone
and at the same time reduce the income tax burden on small and medium incomes.
We resolutely oppose all considerations to introduce new taxes on assets such as the wealth tax or the increase in inheritance tax.
Above all, both would also jeopardize Germany's economic substance and
cost jobs.
Making corporate taxation competitive
Germany is in danger of falling behind with one of the highest corporate burdens in the world.
World leadership in terms of tax burden and world leadership in terms of competitiveness - this does not go together in the long term.
We will therefore modernize taxation and make it competitive with a corporate tax reform.
Our goal is competitive corporate taxation.
We want to cap the tax burden on profits that remain in the company at 25 percent in the long term.
This creates investment and innovation power for the challenges ahead.
In doing so, we want to establish neutrality in terms of legal form, whether for sole proprietors, partnerships or corporations.
We want to improve the retention allowance and the trade tax credit and reduce the low taxation threshold in foreign tax law.
We are improving the offsetting of losses for tax purposes.
To this end, we are significantly increasing the maximum amount for loss carryback and loss carryforward.
We are improving the depreciation rules.
To this end, we want to reintroduce declining-balance depreciation for movable fixed assets and improve depreciation rules for digital technologies of the future, such as investments in server systems, artificial intelligence, 3D printing or Factory 4.0.
Reduce unnecessary bureaucracy
We will relieve companies of billions of euros in bureaucratic costs.
The reduction of superfluous bureaucracy acts like an economic stimulus program and strengthens Germany as a business location.
We will increase the thresholds for the submission of advance VAT returns, expand actual taxation and limit information and statistical obligations.
We want to introduce a fixed processing period of 30 days for export controls.
In labor and social law, we want to standardize and simplify the thresholds based on the size of the company as far as possible.
We will establish a bureaucracy-free year after foundation and reduce bureaucratic burdens to a minimum in the second foundation year.
The exceptions are to apply primarily to selected tax law rules and documentation requirements.
In this way, we create more freedom for founders.
We will speed up and modernize tax audits so that they are carried out promptly, efficiently and without red tape.
This relieves the burden on taxpayers, their tax advisors and the tax authorities and creates comprehensive legal certainty.
We will expand and simplify tax- and social security-free benefits in kind for employees in order to reduce bureaucratic obligations in this area as well.
In order to relieve the burden on SMEs and family businesses in particular, the success, practicability and compliance costs of laws are to be reviewed by means of a practical check - with the early involvement of the business community.
Innovative and less restrictive regulations should be allowed to be tested first in limited test rooms.
The bureaucracy brake we introduced, the "one in, one out" principle, has been successful.
After that, new bureaucratic costs that impact the economy must be saved elsewhere.
By extending this to a "one in, two out" rule, we provide an unleashing boost.
We want to reduce reporting requirements for official statistics.
For companies, extensive statistical reports mean a high regular time expenditure that ties up numerous resources.
The reporting effort amounts to several million hours in total for the companies concerned.
For many micro and small businesses in particular, the reporting requirements are a disproportionate burden.
We therefore want to reduce the reporting requirements for official statistics by 25 percent.
We also want to make EU requirements less bureaucratic and implement them on a one-to-one basis, i.e., without additional tightening.
We need more courage to be pragmatic than to always go for the 120 percent solution - including in the definition of standards and in regulations and directives.
Excessively high requirements - for public apps, the digital electricity meter, or infrastructure projects - mean that solutions in Germany are increasingly expensive and complicated, take too long, and thus ultimately fail to gain acceptance.
Accelerate planning and approval processes
Planning and approval processes often drag on for years and are an obstacle to new investments in businesses and infrastructure.
We will accelerate them and thus provide a boost to modernization.
All files and documents in planning processes must be digitized.
In doing so, we want to take advantage of the opportunities offered by blockchain technology.
We will create a new culture of participation that brings more transparency to the planning of major construction projects and involves all stakeholders at an early stage.
We will shorten the administrative appeals process for planning procedures and streamline the right of associations to take legal action and bundle them in terms of time.
At the same time, we are pressing ahead with our initiative to streamline EU planning and environmental legislation.
We advocate uniform standards for environmental and technical issues as well as better networking among authorities so that technical standards are not developed in a lengthy process.
In addition, changes after a certain deadline should not have to be taken into account.
This would improve the ability to plan infrastructure projects and shorten the time from the start of planning to construction.
We will advocate at the EU level for an acceleration of planning procedures and work within the framework of the Aarhus Convention to enable rapid planning procedures.
Modernize public procurement law
In the modernization decade, we must ensure that public contracts are awarded faster, more efficiently and more simply.
We will create a uniform nationwide procurement law regulation.
The different value limits for restricted invitations to tender, private treaty awards and negotiated awards and direct contracts in the federal states must be standardized and reduced to an appropriate level.
Businesses must be able to apply for public contracts quickly and easily.
That is why we will standardize e-procurement and give greater impetus to the award of public contracts for supplies, works and services by electronic means.
3.2.Safe work with a future
The German labor market proved to be very robust despite the Corona pandemic.
We have secured hundreds of thousands of jobs, in particular with the help of the short-time allowance.
Now we need to quickly get those who have nevertheless lost their jobs back into employment.
It is not only the employment agency that plays a role here,
but also lifelong learning plays a decisive role.
Continuing education and training are key to meeting the challenges ahead.
Our goal remains full employment.
Strengthening social partnership
Social partnership, collective bargaining autonomy and co-determination have made a major contribution to Germany becoming a leading industrial nation worldwide.
We will continue to rely on social partnership in the future.
We want employees to be able to rely on reliable co-determination and for as many employees as possible to be represented by works councils and staff councils.
First and foremost, the collective bargaining partners have a duty here.
Their task is to ensure good wages and working conditions and to find viable solutions for the changing world of work.
We will give the collective bargaining partners as much leeway as possible in shaping working arrangements.
Regulations at the collective bargaining, company and contractual level are more likely to meet the differentiated needs.
We will support the collective bargaining partners in this process and, where necessary, also intervene legislatively.
The declaration of general applicability of collective agreements makes an important contribution to increasing collective pay in sectors with low collective bargaining coverage.
We will strengthen this instrument.
Strengthen works councils
Works councils depend on the legitimacy of the workforce.
Precisely because of the digital transformation and the increase in location-independent workplaces, it is important to have works councils elected online through electronic procedures.
We will create the possibility of online elections if the election board approves them - also to increase voter turnout.
As started with the Betriebsrätemodernisierungsgesetz, we will continue to maintain our culture of co-determination and safeguard co-determination rights in the coming years in a digital working world.
Safeguarding the diversity of the German labor market
Employees and companies need as much room for maneuver as possible in order to find good solutions together.
Contracts for work and services are a fundamental part of our functioning labor market.
They support specialization, task distribution, innovation, quality, autonomy and work relationships.
We resolutely counter their misuse through effective occupational health and safety controls.
We will preserve temporary work.
It is an important bridge to work, especially for the low-skilled and long-term unemployed, and is
also increasingly a freely chosen type of work for highly professional specialists.
Cyclical fluctuations make temporary employment an important element of flexibility in the labor market, which is almost entirely regulated by collective agreements.
Temporary employment relationships should be the exception.
We reject the expansion of chain fixed-term contracts.
Fixed-term employment contracts without an objective basis are to remain the exception in companies and may not exceed two years for the employee.
We will prevent abuse.
Mini-jobs mean flexibility for employers and employees of many medium-sized companies.
We will increase the mini-job limit from 450 euros to 550 euros per month and regularly review this limit with a view to the development of the minimum wage.
Shaping the working world of the future
The world of work is changing, especially because of advancing digitalization.
This places new demands on modern labor law.
We also know from experience how important it is for companies to retain their employees even in difficult times
and to be able to respond quickly to peaks in orders.
We want to reform the Working Time Act and use the leeway provided by EU law.
Instead of the daily maximum working time, a weekly maximum working time is to be introduced.
The health and safety of employees must remain guaranteed in terms of employee protection.
In doing so, we will prevent misuse and disenfranchisement.
A deviation from the previous maximum daily working hours can therefore only be considered for non-hazardous occupations.
We will make staff partnerships easier and more legally secure.
For example, two companies can make free personnel capacities available to each other within the framework of a cooperation agreement with the consent of the works councils.
We will prevent bogus self-employment
and at the same time create more legal certainty for the self-employed and their clients.
That is why we have simplified and accelerated the status determination procedure for the self-employed as a first step before the end of 2021.
We will monitor the effects closely and make adjustments if necessary.
We want to improve the staffing of the clearing office.
New forms of work (such as gig-, click- and crowdworking) are on the rise in a rapidly changing world of work.
We will closely monitor developments in this area and intervene legislatively in the event of possible undesirable developments.
We will support the creation of co-working spaces, especially in rural areas, in order to organize digital work in a sustainable, decentralized and future-proof manner.
We will enable personal support with a low support ratio in the job centers
and launch an offensive in the area of vocational training and continuing education.
In this way, the strengths and abilities of the long-term unemployed can be better identified and promoted.
Qualification measures are preferable to rapid placement in a helper's job.
Secure skilled workers
To ensure that we continue to have the skilled workers our country needs in the future, we are focusing, among other things, on good vocational training, the
increasing employment of women, older people and people with disabilities in the primary labor market, the
qualification of the long-term unemployed,
and the controlled influx of well-trained and capable people from EU member states and non-European countries.
Germany is still too little a destination country for the world's bright minds.
We want to leverage the potential of internal market migration with targeted language and qualification offers in their EU home countries.
We want to make our institutions abroad more active ambassadors for our country.
We want to encourage German companies, chambers of foreign trade, German embassies and consulates general, Goethe Institutes, schools abroad and the German Academic Exchange Service to promote Germany everywhere and provide information about opportunities for studying and training in our country.
As part of a pilot project, "Skilled Immigration Attaches" are to be appointed at selected German embassies in third countries.
They are to provide intensive information about skilled immigration to Germany and support skilled workers willing to immigrate, for example in the IT sector.
We will promote opportunities for students from German schools abroad who do not have German citizenship to come to Germany for a year and attend school here with us ("Germany Year Scholarship").
In order for the Skilled Workers Immigration Act to have its full effect, we will improve the recognition of degrees and the certification of qualifications and digitize the application process.
We want to provide information on the recognition process at an early stage.
For targeted and managed immigration into the labor market, we continue to focus on the skilled labor needs of SMEs and industry, taking into account qualifications, age, language skills, proof of a specific job offer and livelihood security.
Helping people in need is separate from this.
The right of asylum is an individual right of protection
and not a substitute right of immigration.
3.3.Germany as a climate-neutral industrialized country by 2045
The Paris climate targets are the basis for our international responsibility as an industrialized country.
To achieve it, we need innovative technologies, economic investment and coordinated action by policymakers, industry and society.
Only if technologies, investments and projects in decarbonization ultimately prove profitable will the century transformation succeed.
Only if investments in decarbonization lead to greater competitiveness will new jobs
and value chains be created.
We are implementing Germany's greenhouse gas neutrality by 2045 on a binding basis.
This is how we create our German contribution to follow the 1.5 degree path internationally.
In doing so, we rely on new technologies and innovations.
In addition, to achieve the Paris climate targets, we are seeking international climate cooperation to limit the rise in average global temperatures.
Our goal is to reduce Germany's greenhouse gas emissions by 65 percent by 2030 compared with the reference year 1990, and then to achieve an 88 percent reduction in 2040 and greenhouse gas neutrality in 2045 along a specifically described path.
As an industrialized country, Germany will assume a major responsibility here to ensure that CO2 neutrality is achieved worldwide by 2050.
In certain areas, process emissions can be continuously reduced, but not completely eliminated.
We will support research, development and pilot projects to ensure that they can be offset via so-called negative emissions in other areas.
Expand emissions trading - reduce the burden on consumers
On the road to climate neutrality, we rely on efficient market-based instruments as the lead instruments within a mix of instruments.
Today already and in the future.
We rely on the instrument of emissions trading and compensate for any additional burdens with targeted relief in the areas of housing and mobility.
Building on European emissions trading for energy and industry, we want to strengthen European emissions trading in aviation and establish it as quickly as possible in other sectors such as mobility and heating, as well as shipping.
Based on this, we are striving for comprehensive European emissions trading with a uniform price and global connectivity.
We want to streamline the carbon pricing uptake path and move as quickly as possible to European emissions trading for mobility and heat.
We will pass on the revenue from emissions trading in full to our citizens.
and give it back to the companies by reducing the price of electricity.
The first thing we do is abolish the EEG levy.
Climate neutrality will become a competitive advantage for our economy.
Investments in climate technologies and energy efficiency for CO2 reduction are to be more tax-deductible in the future.
As part of a climate efficiency reform, we want to build on the climate package and gear energy-related taxes, levies and charges more closely to CO2 emissions.
Making sustainability competitive
For us, it is clear that climate protection measures must not stop at our borders.
In all measures, we will ensure that production processes are not relocated to third countries with lower climate protection standards and that emissions continue to be emitted there (carbon leakage protection).
In order to protect our economy from distortions in global competition, we are striving for higher standards and adjusted prices internationally.
We also want to establish ambitious standards in international climate cooperation with major economies.
In addition, we want to work with our European partners to introduce a WTO-compliant carbon border adjustment mechanism.
We also see carbon contracts for difference as an important tool to help our companies protect the climate.
Driving climate protection forward with innovations and new technologies
We will make decisive progress in climate protection if we rely on innovations and new technologies.
In doing so, we want both companies
as well as consumers.
We will support consumers in investing in digital technologies that are particularly resource-efficient.
When making consumption and production decisions, they need to be able to see at a glance what a product's carbon footprint is.
Together with our European partners, we want to secure and promote opportunities for carbon capture and storage (CCS).
This requires intact carbon cycles (CCU) and thus the technologies for solid-state storage (CCUS) as well as the development of a CO2 infrastructure.
We will use digitization to reduce CO2 more cost-effectively
and promote startups and small and medium-sized enterprises that develop digital solutions for energy and resource efficiency.
We want to promote clean-tech research in particular.
3.4.Our energy concept for the future
A secure, affordable and climate-friendly energy supply is mandatory, not optional, for our industrialized country.
Ensuring an intelligent energy mix
We will decisively advance the expansion of renewable energies and therefore expand them much faster to meet the rapidly growing energy demand.
Only in this way will the energy transition succeed in all areas,
and only in this way will the Paris climate targets be achieved.
We are committed to an intelligent and diversified energy mix that is sustainable and secure.
This includes energy generation from the sun and wind as well as sustainable biomass, hydropower and geothermal energy in rural areas.
Here, the acceptance of the population will be just as decisive for the expansion of renewable energies as planning security and little bureaucracy.
We will promote the expansion of photovoltaics with a solar package.
We want to make approval procedures for photovoltaic systems as simple as possible via an online platform.
We want no additional land to be taken from agriculture for nature conservation compensation during the construction of ground-mounted photovoltaic plants if minimum criteria for nature conservation and biodiversity are met on the plant site.
We promote the environmentally compatible expansion of onshore and offshore wind and the repowering of plants.
We also want to enter into cross-border energy cooperation within the framework of the European Offshore Strategy and the national wind-sea law.
To this end, we are striving to ensure that areas are explicitly designated for renewable energies.
To this end, we want to examine whether more areas along transport routes can be set aside as priority areas for use by renewable energies.
We need energy storage to compensate for fluctuations in renewable energy during periods of low wind and low sun.
We will continue to promote the technology development and implementation required for this and
examine the extent to which we can exempt stored electricity from all surcharges and fees.
With their expertise, our skilled trades in particular are crucial to the energy transition.
We will support them in training and attracting enough skilled workers.
Here, education and training in the area of new technologies are particularly important.
Power grids are the lifelines of the energy transition.
They are guarantors of Germany's security of supply.
We want to examine how we can ensure more cost competition and accelerated investment in the area of transmission networks.
We want to accelerate the construction of the necessary power lines.
Wherever possible, routes should be wisely bundled and implemented in a way that is compatible with residents.
We want to support the research and development of new energy generation processes in a way that is open to all technologies.
We must avoid too great a dependence on electricity imports.
We need to provide affordable electricity.
That is why we will reduce regulatory costs.
In view of the competitive situation of our industry, we need a competitive industrial electricity price.
We want to further develop our market master data register into a digital, public, real-time energy register.
In this way, we want to create investment security and simplify approvals.
Based on the principle of the land register, it becomes transparent which energy projects are currently connected to the grid and which will be built when and where in the future.
Promote energy efficiency
To increase efficiency, we focus above all on technological development and innovations - in products as well as in processes.
These include neighborhood approaches, heating efficiency, the expansion and modernization of heating and electricity networks, digitization and operational optimization, as well as the expansion of storage capacities and energy-efficient building standards.
In order to provide even better support for the energy-efficient refurbishment of residential and commercial properties, we will make the KfW programs more attractive.
We want to extend tax incentives for building renovation to rented properties and to commercial properties.
We will favor commercial investments that contribute to energy efficiency and CO2 reduction by accelerating depreciation.
Making Germany the No. 1 hydrogen country
Many of the technologies needed for transformation already exist.
CO2-neutral hydrogen plays an important role here - as a versatile energy carrier, flexible energy storage and important basic material for chemical processes.
Hydrogen enables decarbonization even where renewable energy cannot be used directly.
Major industrial processes, for example in the steel and cement industries, can only be made climate-neutral with hydrogen.
And in the area of mobility, too, in the short and medium term for truck and ship traffic, we can make a significant contribution to reducing CO2 through the use of hydrogen.
Therefore, the task now is to establish the comprehensive value chain for hydrogen production, including the necessary network infrastructure.
We will strengthen the national hydrogen agency to implement the hydrogen strategy
and drive international cooperation to import hydrogen, expand infrastructure, and repurpose existing systems.
We want to accelerate innovation cycles,
promote power-to-X technologies in a targeted manner,
and create a market framework for climate-neutral gases with the necessary infrastructure based on existing gas pipelines and storage facilities as well as CO2 transparency in Europe.
We will expand Germany's position with research into the series production of electrolysers, fuel cells and by establishing hydrogen technology and innovation centers.
By establishing a European Hydrogen Network, we want to ensure that future demand on the European and global hydrogen market can be met.
To this end, we want to further develop the "H2 Global" funding concept.
We will produce hydrogen from renewable energies.
In addition to this so-called green hydrogen, we will also accept blue hydrogen during the transition period.
By building a strong European domestic market for sustainable hydrogen technologies, we are promoting Germany not only as an industrial location.
We are also helping to create large-scale applications for hydrogen technologies internationally, so that a global hydrogen market can emerge.
We will expand the gas networks in Germany more quickly
and upgrade them for the feed-in of hydrogen.
3.5.Sustainable management to protect our resources
Sustainable growth means decoupling economic progress from resource consumption.
Closing material cycles provides new economic potential and protects our natural resources.
End throwaway society, strengthen circular economy
Circular economy must be worthwhile.
It conserves natural resources, saves energy and emissions, creates jobs and ensures the prosperity and competitiveness of our economy.
Our goal is raw materials "Made in Germany".
We want to extract the raw materials our industry needs primarily in our own country
and use recycled raw materials.
This helps climate protection
and makes us less dependent on imports from abroad.
We will provide incentives to produce less waste, develop low-waste products, and improve opportunities for the reuse of recycled raw materials.
With the promotion of innovations in sorting technologies, usable recyclates, i.e. products derived from recycling processes, will emerge that will hold their own in the marketplace against primary materials.
We will work to promote the use of recyclates in the EU as well as in Germany.
In order to significantly improve the use of recyclates, particularly in the plastics sector, we also want to examine binding targets for their use in specific areas.
We want to maximize recycling and guarantee raw material security.
In more and more sectors, shortages of raw materials - from rare earths to wood or intermediate products such as chips - are becoming an obstacle to our economic development and security of supply.
That is why we are developing a raw material security strategy for Germany.
We are committed to using sustainably mined raw materials that can be used for as long as possible.
In this way, we are making an important global contribution to resource and climate protection.
In particular, we want to promote battery recycling with regard to rare earths and promote reusable products where they bring environmental benefits.
We want to reduce and avoid duplicate regulations and inconsistencies that stand in the way of material cycles - in Germany and in the EU.
This includes a landfill ban on untreated municipal waste and especially waste containing plastics.
In addition, we want to support research into re-oil processes and also promote chemical recycling.
We want to recycle waste
and ban exports of waste - especially plastic and synthetic waste - for mere disposal.
It is important to us that we also continue to research plastic alternatives, also in order to further promote the avoidance of microplastics.
Giving the forest of tomorrow new strong roots
Germany is the number 1 forest country in Europe.
Our forests are the green lungs of our country and our most important climate protector.
They produce oxygen and store large amounts of CO2.
They are also an important economic factor, provide added value and jobs, especially in rural regions, and are indispensable for biodiversity and our recreation.
Due to climate change, the forest is damaged and threatened.
We have lost a great many valuable forests in the drought of recent years and in the subsequent bark beetle infestation.
The federal and state governments have a 1.5 billion euro package for reforestation,
the adaptation of forests to climate change
and for the support of sustainable forestry.
This package must also be accessible to small forest owners.
In this way, we help forest owners to establish climate-stable mixed forests with site-adapted tree species.
"Protect by using" is our principle for sustainable management of our valuable forests.
We stand by our multifunctional forestry, because it is the only way to ensure that forests serve the functions of protection, utilization and recreation in equal measure.
Sustainably managed forests and especially the use of wood products with long life cycles extend the CO2 storage capacity of the forest.
In order for us to achieve the climate protection targets, we must strengthen the CO2 reduction of forests and wood in addition to the important reduction of emissions.
For this reason, we will financially reward the climate protection services provided by the forest, including wood products, and introduce a CO2 sequestration premium.
In this way, the climate services of the forest can be compensated permanently and reliably and be a central building block for the remuneration of further ecosystem services of the forest, which we want to promote.
We will also promote the use of wood as a building material, material and fuel
and remove obstacles.
To this end, we will launch a timber construction offensive.
In the European Union, we are working to ensure that forest conservation becomes an important part of the Green Deal and that more is done for forests throughout Europe.
We are committed to protecting international forests and combating illegal logging.
The preservation of the rainforest and other valuable natural forests of global importance is of great concern to us.
Protect water as the source of all life and economic activity
The fight against climate change is also a fight for sufficient water.
We need to ensure that there is enough water for everyone in our country - households, farmers and businesses.
We will launch a support program that strengthens regional water cycles.
Through education campaigns and modern water management, we will protect water as a common resource.
More water needs to be held in the area to make our soils, agriculture, forestry, and ecosystems more resilient to drought.
We want to pay much more attention to the use of rainwater and test the concept of sponge cities, for example by adapting roadsides for infiltration in the course of modernization, in sample municipalities.
We will implement the requirements of the European Water Framework Directive.
We strive to designate free-flowing rivers with natural river courses as near-natural reference rivers.
Flood prevention on rivers and coasts serves to protect our lives and livelihoods.
Therefore, we will advocate for near-natural inland and outer dike construction and the protection of our floodplains.
We will take even stronger action against the pollution of our waters with trace substances and pharmaceuticals.
We will continue the strategy for the prevention of water pollution and the dialogue on trace substances, microplastics and drug contamination.
We will continue to provide special protection for drinking, mineral, medicinal and groundwater resources.
In the interests of holistic marine, coastal and water protection, we will continue to support cooperation between the federal and state governments in the removal of contaminated sites.
3.6.Right of way for intelligent mobility
Mobility is an expression of individual freedom.
It is of great importance to us as an economic nation and an important chapter in our decade of modernization.
We will continue our record investment in infrastructure.
Remove rail
Strong rail and public transport are a significant factor in decarbonizing transport.
We will strengthen rail transport with the Deutschlandtakt.
With an attractive offer from Deutsche Bahn, we want to exploit maximum synergies in freight and passenger transport in our rail system.
Germany must continue to be a mobility and logistics hub in Europe.
In order to make the rail network fit for the future, close gaps, electrify lines and create more capacity, we will invest more in demand-driven infrastructure expansion - especially in the digitization of rail and rolling stock (ETCS expansion).
We will ensure that Germany supports Europe-wide connections at day and night and massively accelerate railroad construction for this purpose.
For us, night trains are part of the mobility mix of the future.
In this context, we will continue to invest in noise abatement.
To reduce congestion on the highways and achieve climate targets, we want to shift more freight traffic from road to rail and waterways.
To this end, we will invest in clean vehicles and efficient infrastructure, including new charging stations for inland vessels in ports (land-based power generation).
We will expand combined transport with multimodal terminals and extend the federal program "Future Rail Freight Transport".
We also need to look at taxes and duties here.
To this end, we will increase the funds for measures to improve rail freight transport in the priority rail requirement plan and continue to reduce train path prices.
For the next demand plan and in the standardized evaluation, we want to give greater weight than before to longer-term forecasts, switchover effects, and residents' interests.
Securing Germany as an automotive location
Our automotive industry is a global leader, also in the research and development of innovative technologies to develop ecologically, economically and socially sustainable mobility offerings.
We want Germany to continue producing the best cars in the world - with all forms of drive.
We are facing a decade of modernization for the automotive industry.
More and more German automakers are announcing their intention to phase out the production of internal combustion engines.
We will make the switch to zero-emission mobility attractive for everyone and present a roadmap to this end.
In this way, we ensure that all interests are taken into account - those of consumers, companies including the supplier industry, employees and in terms of the sustainable use of raw materials and resources.
In addition to electromobility, we are also focusing on synthetic fuels in road transport and want to use them - like hydrogen - in heavy-duty transport in the future.
Commercial vehicles and heavy trucks may require other propulsion technologies.
Here we must remain open to technology.
An additional component is to be the extension of the fleet renewal program for trucks.
We want to support cab companies, driving and delivery services in the conversion to zero-emission cars through special depreciation allowances, including for charging stations.
We reject a diesel driving ban as well
as a general speed limit on highways.
Instead, we are focusing on innovative, modern traffic control.
The expansion of the charging infrastructure is crucial for the further expansion of electrified transport.
To accelerate this further, we want to integrate it into all new commercial and public buildings in the future and also improve it in parking garages.
Our goal is to expand the charging station network in such a way that charging options are a reason to switch to electric mobility.
We want fast-charging stations to be accessible nationwide in long-distance traffic within ten minutes if possible, and we also want the payment system and connections to be simplified and standardized.
Making aviation and shipping fit for the future
The German aviation industry connects us with the world.
It is to become the technology leader for climate-neutral flying.
We will also strengthen our shipping industry and make it fit for the future.
We want aviation to be a price-competitive mode of transport
and to maintain Germany as an aviation location.
We will expand rail connections to hub airports or international flights and improve transfers between flights and trains for customers.
The modes of transport are to be networked in such a way that their respective transport, economic and ecological advantages can be optimally exploited.
We will expand the aeronautics research program and establish a technology demonstrator program.
It is important to us to ensure that synthetic fuels (SAF) are developed and produced in Germany.
We want to exempt flights that use alternative fuels from the aviation tax.
Likewise, we want to once again emphasize the positive aspects of flying and the innovative power of aviation and specifically promote it as a key technology.
The development of air cabs is still a vision for the future, but it is becoming increasingly realistic.
We will strengthen the maritime industry and Germany as a shipyard location.
The German shipbuilding industry, shipping and ports must remain internationally competitive.
In inland shipping, we are taking the lead in technology with greater promotion of alternative fuels such as e-fuels and hydrogen.
We will bring the use of ammonia or methanol to market maturity and apply it in shipping.
We will also expand LNG technology and realize an import terminal for liquefied gases.
3.7.An agriculture that is strong and sustainable
A strong and sustainable agriculture, including fruit, vegetable, horticulture, viticulture as well as beekeeping and fishing, is indispensable in a livable Germany.
Our farmers not only secure our food, but also shape our cultural landscape and are the foundation of our strong food economy.
Without agriculture, there can be no climate-neutral Germany and no biodiversity.
Strengthen agriculture
We stand by the side of our farmers.
Our agriculture deserves more appreciation and needs more value creation.
We want to free them from the hamster wheel of permanent efficiency increases under industrial conditions.
In our decade of modernization, we are focusing on sustainability
and opening up new paths, perspectives and opportunities for all sectors of agriculture.
We reliably accompany agriculture in its ecological transformation.
For farmers - and especially the future generation - we create attractive and versatile income opportunities.
For us, agriculture is an indispensable part of our country, at the heart of society.
We strictly oppose unjustified hostility, blanket condemnations and bullying of women and men farmers and their children.
We continue to focus on realistic portrayals and education about the achievements of agriculture, starting at school, as well as dialogue between agriculture and society.
Linking more animal welfare with financial appreciation
Our animal husbandry - in terms of the quality and safety of its products, animal welfare standards and resource-conserving production - is among the best in the world.
We must hold fast to this and continue to transform them - for even greater animal welfare.
We will implement innovations quickly and promote investments in animal welfare.
We will enact an Animal Welfare Stable Promotion Act,
develop low-emission model stables,
and support our farmers in converting livestock farming based on the recommendations of the Borchert Commission.
With the results of the Borchert Commission, more animal welfare is to be had.
This makes the conversion possible.
We will secure the financing model through government contracts and ensure planning security for farmers.
We will strengthen the willingness to invest in agriculture
and want to ensure reliability and security with a 15-year grandfathering period for new stable construction investments.
We are continuously improving animal welfare and leading the way in phasing out chick-killing.
We need more reliable regulations for animal transports.
Our goal is to transport meat instead of live animals.
Also in the case of breeding animals, it must be ensured that no long animal transport from the EU to third countries is approved where compliance with animal welfare requirements is not absolutely guaranteed.
We want to completely replace breeding animal transports with the export of breeding material as soon as possible.
Animal welfare must not stop at EU borders.
In order to safeguard our grazing livestock, we advocate that the strict protection status of the wolf in European nature conservation law be reviewed and adjusted, as the favorable conservation status of the wolf population has already been achieved in a number of German states.
In these federal states, the option for active wolf management should be opened, which secures the wolf population in the long term, but regulates the increase of the population to an overall acceptable level.
Farming more ecologically productive with new techniques
Digitization and new molecular breeding technologies can make agriculture more environmentally friendly and competitive, keeping harvests stable with less pesticide use and lower water consumption in a changing climate.
It is also about our responsibility in the world.
We want to enable responsible use of new breeding technologies based on clear rules.
We are therefore committed to modernizing the European legal framework.
We will continue to promote the digitalization of agriculture, ensuring that farms of all sizes can benefit from it.
The research results from the "Smart Farming" experimental fields are to be quickly and widely applied in practice.
We are working diligently to build a powerful data infrastructure across the board, will create open-data solutions, and will build a state digital platform for public agricultural data to ensure agriculture has access to the public data they need.
We will also develop the agricultural data space in GAIA-X.
The goal is to enable interoperability of agricultural machinery data across manufacturers so that farmers can optimize their processes.
We also want to ensure that sovereignty over the data collected on farms and businesses ("digital crops") remains with the farmer.
Enabling and rewarding sustainable agriculture
Our goal is to further develop agriculture in an ecologically compatible and economically viable manner - in cooperation with agriculture and not against it.
On more than 10 percent of agricultural land, farmers already carry out special measures to protect biodiversity.
Between 1990 and 2020, the agricultural sector reduced its emissions of climate-relevant gases by around 23 percent, thus meeting the 2020 milestone.
At the same time, agriculture - together with forestry - is the only sector that can be a sink for greenhouse gases.
The climate services and the contributions of agriculture to nature and species conservation must be taken into account and also rewarded in future political decisions.
All forms of sustainable agriculture must benefit - organic and conventional.
With the new Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), a system change has taken place towards more ecological sustainability.
It is important to us that the CAP remains revenue-generating at the same time.
We will provide appropriate support for small and medium-sized farms with higher direct payments for the first hectares and make environmental measures (eco-schemes and agri-environmental programs) more attractive.
We will continue to provide reliable support for organic farming and increase research funding, in particular to reduce the difference in yields compared with conventional farming.
The growing consumer demand should be met with local produce wherever possible, which is why we also take regional organic food producers into account in the development of rural areas.
Our goal is to make sustainability in agriculture and forestry visible, measurable and affordable.
For example, farmers can earn money with carbon storage in the soil and particularly sustainable forms of cultivation such as agroforestry systems, agri-photovoltaics, peatland-compatible agriculture such as cultivation of peat mosses and paludiculture on renaturalized wetlands, with domestic protein crops as an alternative to imported soy for animal feed or raw materials for the bioeconomy.
We will promote nature, climate, species and peatland conservation services through collaborations and incentives.
Protecting bees and insects is also important to us because, as pollinators, they are systemically important for agriculture and for securing our food supply.
All sectors of society, not just agriculture, must contribute to insect conservation.
Supporting adaptation of agriculture in climate change and risk hedging
Agriculture, horticulture, viticulture and fisheries are affected by climate change, as are forests.
Increasingly, its influence on harvests can be seen.
Drought, late frosts, and heavy rain events are increasing.
We will accompany the industries during the adjustment process and support the companies in protecting themselves against risks.
We will promote the development of adapted farming methods as part of the Federal Ministry of Food and Agriculture's arable farming strategy, resource-saving irrigation technologies and improved water management.
By providing subsidies for multi-peril insurance, we will strengthen farms' ability to self-insure against drought and other climate risks.
This applies first of all to our fruit, vegetable and wine farms.
We support the horticultural companies in particular in saving CO2 and in developing climate-friendly peat substitute products.
We want to avoid market distortions in the context of CO2 pricing.
We will also actively support the adaptation of fisheries to climate change,
Strengthen their competitiveness and environmental sustainability
and secure the regional production of fish as a climate-friendly and high-quality foodstuff.
Strengthen the entrepreneurship agriculture
We want a new departure in agriculture.
Farmers should be encouraged, young people see their opportunity in green professions.
We will increase the young farmer premium and make the diversity of agriculture as a career field visible in an ideas competition.
These include various forms of agriculture, through rural tourism, the production and marketing of regional specialties, to new production methods, such as insect farming.
We will create favorable conditions for agri startups and aim to establish an Agri-FoodTech Venture Capital Fund.
When new requirements are placed on agriculture, we want to ensure that existing requirements are reviewed elsewhere.
Making good nutrition simple
Eating and drinking are basic needs and at the same time an important social element in our daily interaction.
We want everyone to succeed in living as healthy and sustainable a life as possible, even in today's world of work , media and consumption.
This requires nutritional competence and motivation as well as easily accessible, suitable offers.
We will create good framework conditions for a health-promoting, balanced and sustainable diet.
It should be easy for everyone to make healthy choices when shopping and eating out.
Children need special protection.
The course for eating behavior is set in early years.
Nutrition education, sports and access to good daycare and school meals should be guaranteed for every child.
We have already succeeded - also in dialog with the business community - in taking important steps to make healthier eating easier.
For example, sugar, fat and salt are reduced in processed foods.
This applies in particular to products aimed at children.
With the Nutri-Score, an extended visual nutrition labeling was introduced in Germany.
We now want to implement what we have achieved nationally at the European level.
We will continue to expand our broad-based nutritional science research in Germany.
It is to be even more active in processing nutrition knowledge and communicating it more widely.
Our goal is to be even better at preventing common diet-related diseases such as severe obesity, diabetes or cancer.
Create more transparency for sustainable production when buying food
We want more transparency in food purchasing.
Consumers should be able to clearly identify what is in the food, where it comes from and how it was produced.
In this way, we also bring them closer to agriculture again.
Our goal is mandatory European husbandry/animal welfare labeling
and, also at the EU level, meaningful origin labeling for more food that is more recognizable to consumers.
More and more people attach importance to regional food.
For many, they are a piece of home.
Those who eat regional, seasonal foods not only do something for the environment,
but also support local agriculture
and strengthen regional economic cycles.
We therefore want regionality to be more visible.
We will further develop the so-called regional window as a label and create more clarity for regional foods.
We also want to develop a sustainability seal for conventional agricultural products to complement the organic seal.
Making our sustainable food production more visible and securing it internationally
Together with the industry, we will launch a National Food Agency.
It is intended to promote domestic regional products, our high standards and our way of producing, both at home and abroad.
In this way, we want to achieve greater appreciation for our food and our agriculture.
Market prices must be fair and provide producers with an adequate income.
The market and production risks must not lie with the producer alone.
We want to promote a fair supply chain with market responsibility at processing and retail level.
To accompany this, we need fair trade agreements that respect and protect the high standards of EU agriculture.
Imports into the domestic market must be subject to the same product standards as domestic food.
Trade agreements should increasingly include process quality: that is, environmental, animal welfare and occupational health and safety standards in food production.
Combating food waste
Our food is our livelihood.
For ethical, ecological and also economic reasons, it must not be carelessly wasted.
12 million tons of food are thrown away every year - 75 kilograms per person is definitely too much.
Our clear goal is to halve or significantly reduce food waste by 2030.
We will give even more emphasis to the National Strategy to Reduce Food Waste and raise awareness among all stakeholders, especially young people.
We will simplify food donations to food banks, social institutions and organizations that rescue food - if necessary, also through legal changes.
We will look into adjusting the best-before date
and encourage the development of apps and other digital tools, for example to automatically lower the price of products close to their expiration date, and innovative packaging solutions that indicate, for example, edibility.
3.8.Modern law for empowered consumers
Our guiding principle for consumer protection law is empowered consumers.
We do not want them to be patronized, but trust them to make their own responsible and mature decisions.
Education and information are our top priorities.
Consumer protection is a cross-sectional task.
We create a clear legal framework and fair regulations: whether it's for construction and housing, travel, financial investments, health services or nutrition.
In this way, we strengthen consumer confidence and achieve greater clarity in regulation and standard clarity.
Simplify consumer law
Consumers must be able to obtain their rights in a simple way - also with the help of consumer protection organizations.
We will therefore continue to provide reliable support for the Federation of German Consumer Organizations and Stiftung Warentest.
In consumer law, regulations are often too complicated, so they miss their mark.
The General Data Protection Regulation, for example, enables sovereign handling of personal data, but individual citizens can only take advantage of this with a great deal of effort - for example, in the case of declarations of consent for data or cookie use.
That is why we will modernize all civil contract law, in particular electronic legal transactions.
We will expand consumer arbitration to additional industries with tailored industry-specific solutions.
It is a suitable instrument for avoiding legal disputes.
Consumers are to be compensated for damages with a very low amount of loss (so-called scattered damages), the legal pursuit of which is not worthwhile.
In the case of canceled flights and trips, consumers find it difficult to get their money.
We therefore want to revise the payment periods and, in particular, advance payments in travel contract law.
Using digital tools for consumer rights
Digitization is designed to make life easier for consumers: whether it's compensation for delays, contract cancellations or refunds.
Following the example of the air passenger rights app, we want to have apps and digital tools developed for many areas that can be used nationwide.
This enables them to quickly obtain relevant information and services to enforce their rights.
We want to create a legal framework for so-called smart contracts.
When a claim occurs, for example in the event of a flight delay, compensation is automatically transferred to the customer's account - quickly, easily and without any form.
Ensuring security in the digital world
Consumers should be able to use the advantages of the digital world safely.
With the introduction of a uniform IT security label that makes the IT security of products visible to consumers, IT product security has become a real selling point.
We want to continue on this path.
We want to create a clear legal framework at both European and federal level for digital platforms.
Liability, security, warranty, software updates, user ratings and product rankings are important considerations here.
Consumers should be able to conduct online transactions, pay taxes or register with government offices without any concerns.
To this end, we want to create a secure digital European identity.
This creates an alternative to the platform logins and identification offerings of the major providers such as Google, Apple, Facebook or Amazon.
We want to introduce an identity theft registry where mail order companies and collection service providers match order addresses before taking action.
We ensure greater data transparency for digital offerings.
We want simple, understandable general terms and conditions.
Consumers should know what happens to their data when they use it to pay for supposedly "free" services and actively decide how their data is used.
For example, we want to create full transparency about what data is collected as part of SmartHome and digital assistants and how it is used.
We want to further strengthen data literacy in consumer education and awareness.
We want to enable everyone to travel quickly and safely on the Internet while making
and at the same time make an informed decision about the use of their own data.
To achieve this, it must be possible to issue consent declarations and cookie consents more simply and clearly.
A voluntary data donation passport opens up new possibilities.
We will facilitate switching between providers by creating interfaces and technical standards for data portability.
We want to improve the interoperability of messenger services.
4.New fairness and social security - for social cohesion
Our Union Promise: We work to ensure that we remain a society that sticks together: Young and old, strong and weak.
Our Christian view of humanity provides us with a compass for this: individual freedom and community responsibility are not opposites, but rather they are mutually dependent.
With the principles of the social market economy, we ensure that everyone in our country receives good medical and nursing care and that everyone who needs help is helped.
We ensure a reliable pension and a fresh start for private pension provision so that it pays off more.
The pandemic has shown how strong our health care system is
and how important, above all, are the men and women who do their compassionate service in hospitals, nursing homes and many other places.
But we have also seen that we need to do more to ensure that our healthcare system continues to be among the best in the world, even after the crisis.
In view of demographic developments, it is a major challenge to make our social security systems future-proof and to better link the various social services in order to offer assistance as if from a single source.
With our decade of modernization, we are ensuring that Germany will continue to have one of the most reliable and stable social security systems in the world.
The principle of the social market economy applies, which enables the community, including the weaker ones, to live in dignity.
This is solidarity in action, and it sets us apart from many other nations in the world.
So that everyone, regardless of their previous income, can be sure that they will be well taken care of if they have an accident, if they become ill, in need of care, unemployed or unable to work.
4.1.Financial security in old age
The pension is more than an income in old age.
It is a reward for lifetime achievement.
For us, three clear principles apply.
First, performance must be rewarded.
People who have worked all their lives or raised children should have more than someone who has not worked, and they should not have to rely on social welfare.
That is why we have ensured with the basic pension that small pensions are topped up in line with needs after a long period of employment.
Second, pensions must enable people to live in dignity.
It must always be more than just poverty reduction.
And third, the pension must be sustainable, secure and solidly financed.
Ensure trust and reliability
The best pension policy is a good economic policy.
After all, the more people who are subject to social security contributions, the better it is for their pensions.
This has been demonstrated by the last decade, which has seen significant pension increases across the country.
We will continue to give pensioners a reliable share in general income growth.
In order to further strengthen confidence in pension provision and ease the burden on pensioners, we will prevent double taxation of pensions and therefore implement the requirements of the Federal Fiscal Court as quickly as possible.
We will allow voluntary contributions to the statutory pension insurance scheme in any desired amount, up to the respective contribution assessment ceiling at the most.
Developing the Social Advisory Council into an Advisory Council on Old-Age Provision
We stand for a future-proof pension system based on three pillars: statutory pension insurance, occupational pension plans and private pension plans.
Statutory pension insurance will remain the central pillar for most people.
We want pension legislation that ensures intergenerational fairness
and distributes benefits and burdens fairly and comprehensibly.
In order to strengthen the confidence of today's active generation in the statutory pension insurance system of tomorrow, we need a clear perspective that is also sustainable for the next 30 years.
As proposed by the Federal Government's Pension Commission with the participation of the social partners and academia, we will further develop the Social Advisory Council, which has so far been responsible only for statutory pension insurance, into an Old-Age Security Advisory Council.
The Advisory Council on Old-Age Security is to look at all three pillars of old-age provision and make a recommendation for the definition of binding and prospective ceilings for pension levels and contribution rates.
At the same time, the Union stands for reliability: we keep an eye on the level of pension provision and protect contributors from excessive demands.
Better protect employees, recognize achievements
Fortunately, our life expectancy continues to grow.
The retirement age will therefore rise in small steps to 67 in 2030.
We want to help people reach the actual standard retirement age.
We want to strengthen medical and vocational rehabilitation as important instruments and restore the performance of the insured - after illness or accident.
The providers in the statutory social insurance branches must therefore intensify their cooperation even more - for example in regional, cross-agency rehabilitation competence centers - in order to further improve cooperation and the high level of rehabilitation.
An accident or serious illness can affect anyone.
That is why we have significantly improved the reduced earning capacity pension in recent years.
With a view to people who already receive a reduced earning capacity pension, we want them to also benefit from the improvements made in 2014 and 2019 when they switch from reduced earning capacity pension to old-age pension.
Better protection for the self-employed
In order to improve social protection for the self-employed, we want to introduce mandatory old-age provision for all self-employed persons who are not already covered elsewhere.
Self-employed persons should be able to choose between statutory pension insurance and other insolvency-proof and access-protected types of provision.
We will develop solutions that take into account those who are already self-employed today
and do not overburden the self-employed in the start-up phase.
We are sticking to the occupational pension schemes.
Better protect against poverty in old age
We will combat hidden poverty in old age.
We want recipients of government transfer payments to be able to remain in their homes at retirement age as a matter of principle and to retain an appropriate contingency reserve in recognition of their lifetime achievements.
To this end, the statutory regulations on the realization of assets and on the sheltered assets in the basic old-age pension scheme are to be adjusted.
We want to improve the situation of Aussiedler and Spätaussiedler as well as Jewish contingent refugees and eliminate disadvantages under pension law.
Strengthening company pension schemes
We want even more people to make occupational pension provision and thus participate in the positive economic development of our country.
Adequate old-age provision also depends on additional provision.
We will further improve the transfer of entitlements from a company pension plan when changing jobs.
With the Company Pension Strengthening Act (Betriebsrentenstärkungsgesetz) and greater support for low-income earners, we have provided clear impetus to ensure that even more people use company pension schemes.
We want to evaluate the effects and the prerequisites for the social partner model and reduce possible obstacles to further dissemination.
Particularly with regard to low-wage earners, we want to develop a concept of a "company pension for all" in order to further strengthen this important pillar of old-age provision and make it even more attractive.
Redesigning private pension provision
We need a fresh start in private, state-subsidized pension provision.
We want to make it more efficient, more transparent, and thus more attractive and easier.
We will establish criteria for a standard pension product.
This product is mandatory for all employees unless they object to its inclusion (opt-out).
The standard product is to have no acquisition costs and the lowest possible administrative costs.
The aim is to provide attractive and unbureaucratic support from the state.
In addition to products with a performance guarantee, products without a performance guarantee are also to be offered.
We associate these measures with the expectation that more people will make private provision.
If this expectation is not met, we will expand the product portfolio to include a state-organized standard pension product and examine whether we need to move to a stronger level of commitment.
Rethinking the intergenerational contract
We want to develop a concept to establish a new form of funded pension provision in Germany.
To this end, a generational pension for old-age provision from birth can be a good building block.
We will examine how to design the generation pension with a state monthly contribution to be invested in a pension fund - with protection from state access.
Our goal is to use an attractive mix of instruments to effectively prevent poverty in old age.
4.2.Maintain social security in all situations of life Principle of demanding and promoting
Social security in Germany should not only prevent poverty,
but also enable everyone to live in dignity.
We stand by this.
But there will be no unconditional basic income with us.
We are launching an offensive for vocational training and continuing education in basic benefits for jobseekers, for example, to improve language skills and trainability.
We will make an offer to everyone so that they can take care of themselves and others again.
We stand for promoting and demanding.
That is why we will also retain the sanction mechanisms in SGB II.
We will improve the framework conditions so that more low-skilled unemployed persons participate in training and further education measures.
We want to redesign the way income is taken into account in SGB II in order to create more incentives to take up employment and to promote a gradual exit from Hartz IV.
The goal must be to get as many people as possible out of Hartz IV and back into work.
We will also significantly extend the rules on additional income for young people and young adults up to the age of 21 and during training for their first vocational qualification in benefit communities as part of the protection of young people.
We will simplify SGB II benefit law in such a way that it will significantly reduce the administrative burden and the number of court proceedings.
We will make the personnel resources thus gained available for more intensive support of benefit recipients.
In particular, people who can look back on a long working life perceive a change of residence when applying for basic welfare benefits as deeply unfair.
That's why we want to protect familiar living situations.
Living inclusion in everyday life
People with disabilities have the right to a barrier-free design of their environment so that they can participate in everyday life in all areas as a matter of course.
We want to ensure that people with disabilities, the elderly or the temporarily ill can do what everyone takes for granted: use public transportation, visit an ATM or watch the news broadcast.
To this end, we will further develop the Disability Equality Act.
Our goal is an inclusive first labor market.
The potential of skilled workers with disabilities still remains untapped in many cases.
Together with the representatives of the severely disabled, we want to strengthen company integration management and expand early warning systems and efficient preventive measures.
Workshops for disabled people are important because they can participate in working life there.
For a sustainable remuneration system, we will reorganize the calculation of the workshop wage and at the same time remove the current cap on the work promotion allowance.
This means that workshop employees have more money in their pockets and the workshops are relieved financially.
We are committed to ensuring that everyone has a right to digital access,
including people living in institutions.
Accessible media diversity in Germany plays a central role for us.
People with disabilities should be able to exercise their right to informational self-determination.
4.3.Efficient healthcare system
Our mission statement is a medical and nursing culture that serves the whole person.
In the Corona pandemic, our health care system showed what strengths it has and what weaknesses we need to work on.
In a future-proof healthcare system, we are therefore focusing on stronger networked collaboration between the individual players
and exploiting the potential of digitization.
To finance statutory health insurance, we continue to rely on income-related parity contributions, co-payments and a tax share for non-insurance benefits (such as in the fight against pandemics), which is dynamized and linked to the actual costs of non-insurance benefits and their development.
Making healthcare fit for the future
We achieve comprehensive care for citizens and the preservation of our very good health care system with proven self-administration, the free choice of doctors and therapies, and the interaction of statutory and private health insurance.
We reject a one-size-fits-all insurance system and steps toward it.
We will reduce bureaucracy so that doctors and nursing staff have more time for patients and
health and nursing professions become more attractive.
With the roadmap for the introduction of an electronic patient record, we have overcome years of stagnation in digitization in the healthcare sector.
We will follow up the eHealth strategy with the "Digital Health 2025" process and develop this further into a cross-departmental eHealth roadmap, "Digital Health 2030," which sets out concrete recommendations for action for the digitized healthcare of the future by 2030.
Patients of the future will be able to store their entire medical history in one place - while protecting their data - and have doctors and other care providers access it.
Digital supply chains are designed to eliminate information gaps between practices and hospitals.
The reimbursability of digital health applications plays a central role here.
We want to provide a further 500 million euros for an innovation offensive for robotics and digitization in care.
Digitization, the use of smart-home technologies, and the use of state-of-the-art robots represent an enormous opportunity for a high quality of life in old age and for relieving the burden on caregivers.
Strengthen hospitals and outpatient care
Germany's hospitals are an important anchor of medical care in both urban and rural areas.
In unison with rehabilitation facilities, resident physicians and nursing facilities, they have provided a great service to the people of our country in coping with the pandemic.
Hospitals, together with efficient outpatient care, are the backbone of our healthcare system.
We want the goals of needs-based and comprehensive basic and standard care to be given much greater consideration in hospital planning and, in particular, in hospital financing, especially with a view to rural areas.
At the same time, in the interest of patient safety, we want to see greater bundling of corresponding clinical offerings for complex treatments.
We want to continue and strengthen the federal government's offensive for more digital investment in hospitals, which was launched in the pandemic with the Hospital Futures Act.
With the virtual hospital, we want to make specialized medical knowledge equally available everywhere in the country.
Televisits and digital expert consultations between multiple physicians open new vistas for better on-site patient care and can save sick patients from being transferred.
We ensure that all citizens have a digital route, close to home and as barrier-free as possible, for example to general practitioner, specialist, dentist and emergency care, pharmacies, midwives, physiotherapists, health trades and medical supply stores.
We are stepping up our efforts to expand psychotherapeutic treatment services for children and adolescents nationwide.
We will make greater use of the competencies of the providers of therapeutic appliances and aids.
Improve healthcare training
If you want to secure tomorrow's supply, you have to train enough today.
In the health professions and in nursing, we will strengthen education and training and complete the reform of professional laws.
We want to swiftly implement the abolition of school fees in the healthcare professions and the introduction of a general training allowance.
Strengthen self-determination and patient sovereignty
Patient sovereignty is the foundation of good health care.
That is why we want to strengthen them.
Even in old age or in the event of serious illness, the focus must be on the individual.
We want to provide life-affirming counseling for people who are terminally ill with limited life expectancy.
Instead of commercializing euthanasia, we will ensure that we guarantee access to hospice or palliative care.
Modernize public health service
The pandemic has highlighted the paramount importance of the Public Health Service (PSH) in effectively protecting the health of the population.
However, the Corona crisis has also brought home to everyone the urgent need for sustained strengthening of the Public Health Service as an indispensable pillar of the health care system.
The federal and state governments have concluded a "Pact for the Public Health Service" to strengthen and modernize the public health service in its full range of tasks and at all administrative levels.
The federal government is providing funding totaling four billion euros through 2026 to implement the pact and support staff expansion and digitization in the lower health authorities.
We want to continue on this path.
We will provide the necessary funds for this in good time.
We will strengthen the Robert Koch Institute and develop it into the German Public Health Institute.
In addition to its scientific work, it must be much more active in the future in combating epidemic health threats
and network even more closely with the health authorities of the states and municipalities, but also internationally.
This requires the necessary human and financial resources.
For particularly supply-critical active ingredients, we will create measures such as a government stockpile or emergency capacities to enable production on demand.
Do not legalize drugs, strengthen addiction prevention
We reject the legalization of illegal drugs.
The health consequences for the individual and the effects on family, environment and society are too great.
Those who legalize drugs do not place the protection of health and young people at the center of drug policy, shirk their responsibility and leave those affected and their families to deal with the problems alone.
This is not our way.
What is needed is education, as well as early and more mass sanctions that follow the crime on its heels
and immediately prompt the use of counseling and treatment services.
When it comes to legal addictive substances, we focus on responsible use.
This requires more education, better support services and strong youth protection to effectively counter the dangers of smoking and alcohol abuse.
Making Germany the pharmacy of the world again
Germany was once considered the "pharmacy of the world".
We want to build on this success story with modern clusters.
We will continue to strengthen the healthcare and nursing industry as an outstanding economic factor in Germany
, ensuring that well-paid and future-proof jobs are created
and that value is created in new technologies.
We want a sovereignty offensive in drug production.
We want free trade without unilateral dependencies - especially in the production of pharmaceuticals and medical equipment.
Our goal is to strengthen Germany's and Europe's independence and to bring the value chains of sovereignty-critical medical products back to the EU.
To this end, we want to work with our pharmaceutical companies to ensure that critical protective clothing, medical devices and all important medicines are produced in Europe in at least one variant.
We promote new anti-infectives and vaccines through appropriate incentives from research to reimbursement.
The rapid availability of new therapeutic options and drugs for seriously ill patients in Germany should be maintained and strengthened by the right incentives in the reimbursement system.
We will work towards accelerating the expansion of the "Notified Bodies", which are responsible for reviewing new medical devices in the European Union, so that innovative medical devices reach patients as quickly as possible.
We will examine which measures can be considered to ensure that sufficient quantities of supply-relevant medicines are available in the EU in crisis situations, for example by amending European public procurement law accordingly.
We will examine whether German public procurement law can be amended to require pharmaceutical manufacturers to use active ingredients produced in the EU in the manufacture of supply-relevant medicines in particular.
Researching for a better quality of life
People in our country and around the world benefit directly and immediately from the results of health research.
In order to develop innovations for patients, research-based pharmaceutical companies must be able to obtain pseudonymized healthcare data.
Faster approval procedures strengthen Germany as a pharmaceutical and research location.
The pandemic demonstrated how quickly the regulatory authorities for drugs and vaccines in Germany can review and approve clinical trials without compromising quality if resources are pooled.
We want to maintain this rapid processing of corresponding applications for the period after the pandemic and will therefore strengthen the Paul Ehrlich Institute and the Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical Devices with financial and personnel resources.
We will increase the pace of development of new medicines by creating uniform requirements - for example in data protection, cross-border studies or the introduction of binding model contracts for clinical trials.
Investors and researchers can rest assured that patent protection will continue to apply in Germany.
We will specifically support scientific research into those diseases (for example, dementia diseases or HIV) that are currently considered incurable.
Artificial intelligence (AI) is a key technology.
We advocate for a value system that leverages opportunities from AI for healthcare while minimizing risks.
We also want value creation from AI to take place in Germany and thus also create new jobs.
4.4.Good care for more safety and support
For us, human dignity has a special significance when mental and physical powers decline in old age and people are dependent on the support of their fellow human beings in many ways.
In view of the increasing numbers of elderly people and people in need of care in our society, we need to work together in a spirit of solidarity.
That is why, for example, we have improved the pay of nursing staff.
We will place prevention and rehabilitation more strongly at the center of our measures in order to prevent the onset of need for care for as long as possible.
Strengthen supply
We want to further improve the framework conditions for care by perceiving it as a task for society as a whole.
We will create better opportunities for well-organized, efficient, predictable, reliable and needs-based service structures for those in need of care as well as for care professionals and family caregivers.
We want to strengthen the diversity of care providers as an expression of a pluralistic society.
Here, too, we are hoping for better offers from the competition.
We want to involve the nursing fields as a professional group in self-governance in health care law by advocating for the establishment of a federal nursing chamber.
In care, too, it is important to take advantage of the many opportunities offered by digitization for the benefit of people in need of care.
Digitization in care, for example, can give older people more security and independence through the further development of technical assistance and warning systems.
The aim is for digital progress to noticeably relieve the burden on caregivers by, for example, expanding digital infrastructures and facilitating care documentation.
Further developing long-term care insurance
The long-term care insurance introduced by the CDU/CSU has proven its worth and we will continue to develop it in the future to ensure a reliable contribution to covering the risk of long-term care and a high quality of care.
Supplementary company nursing care insurance ensures that people can also effectively cover the risk of nursing care in old age.
We will examine how we can strengthen the instrument of supplementary company long-term care insurance and provide state support so that as many people as possible can benefit from it.
In order to counteract disproportionately rising contributions to long-term care insurance in the future in view of demographic change, we want to extend the long-term care provision fund until 2050.
Improve outpatient and inpatient care
We strongly believe that it is not one of the responsibilities of a state to define the one appropriate place for care.
Rather, the decision about the place of residence and care lies with the person in need of care himself.
The person in need of care should decide independently and self-determined or together with family members how and where to live.
We want to strengthen this right of self-determination and direct the support services provided by long-term care insurance to where the person in need of care lives.
We advocate dynamization of the care allowance and support the introduction of standard dynamization for all benefits based on wage trends.
We are open to new forms of housing and care and will support their introduction.
We see multigenerational houses as important contact points for intergenerational coexistence.
This is because they offer support in arranging household-related services and in the area of family care.
Family care must receive even more targeted and flexible support.
That is why we are committed to combining the existing benefits for short-term and preventive care offerings and care services into one budget.
Inpatient care facilities should have the option of providing precisely tailored support services for people in need of care in their environment who are not residents of the respective facility.
Care takes place in the neighborhoods of the people involved.
We will therefore support the states and municipalities in implementing neighborhood-based and cross-sector care concepts.
Quality training for nursing staff
A high quality of care is of central importance to those affected.
For this, we need well-trained nursing staff.
Together with the states, we want to achieve nationwide harmonization of nursing assistant training.
It is important to create attractive working conditions for all employees in the care sector, including in particular a reliable design of duty rosters.
We want to strengthen the welcoming culture for foreign nursing professionals and advocate
for general tuition-free education for health and nursing professions to meet the growing demand for nursing and health care services.
We want to further strengthen nursing training by introducing nationwide remuneration for trainees in nursing assistant training.
4.5.Germany's responsibility for global health
The pandemic demonstrates the importance of international cooperation on health and health security issues.
The World Health Organization (WHO) is making an important contribution to the global fight against the pandemic.
At the same time, it has become apparent that WHO is currently unable to fulfill its central mandate in global health adequately due to a lack of resources.
We therefore want to strengthen them sustainably, financially, technically and politically.
In the course of the Corona crisis, Germany has already become the largest state donor to the WHO and is vociferously advocating a powerful WHO to which all member states also contribute.
Various reform processes have already been initiated.
Germany will continue to actively support the initiative for an international pandemic treaty to strengthen global health security.
Germany is on its way to becoming an internationally recognized location for global health, and more and more institutions are setting up shop in our country.
We want to continue to promote this development.
5.new generational justice in finances and taxes - out of responsibility for our children and grandchildren
Our Union promise: We will ensure that all people who work hard and achieve a lot every day are relieved.
Performance must be worthwhile.
We will also create scope for our companies
and help them remain competitive.
At the same time, we want to get out of debt as quickly as possible.
This is intergenerational justice in practice.
We face the challenge that financial margins are limited at all levels due to the Corona pandemic.
Increasing these margins again through higher taxes or new debt would jeopardize the urgently needed economic upturn and thus jobs,
and would be unfair to future generations.
Only a financially sound state is capable of acting and shaping the future.
We need a new, modern understanding of the state.
He needs to step back more and not want to regulate everything down to the last detail.
Freedom and personal responsibility are two sides of the same coin.
Moreover, more money from the state does not solve all problems.
Because often that's not what's missing.
Funds were not called up for the digital pact or infrastructure expansion.
Other programs miss needs and problems.
We will therefore review existing and future expenditures even more closely for efficiency and, if necessary, eliminate them.
5.1.Securely into the future with solid finances
Corona has shown us where we have laid the right foundations to remain comprehensively capable of action even in times of crisis.
Our clearly sound fiscal policy has given us room to maneuver in a way that other countries did not have.
This enabled us to act effectively during the Corona crisis and provide targeted support to employees and companies alike when it was needed.
We will renew and further develop this stable foundation.
Sound finances are not only important for stabilizing private investment
and good economic growth in Germany.
It is also an imperative of intergenerational justice: A sound financial and budgetary policy must always keep future generations in mind.
It is our goal to increase the room for maneuver for our children and grandchildren instead of saddling them with debts and thus burdens.
We are committed to the constitutional debt brake.
It has proven its functionality and flexibility during the crisis.
We reject amendments to the Basic Law to weaken the debt brake.
We want to return to balanced budgets without new debt as quickly as possible and reduce the general government debt ratio to below 60 percent.
We will carry out a cash audit of public budgets, including social security, at the end of the Corona pandemic.
This translates into a roadmap for investing in growth,
targeted relief
, and balanced budgets.
Our conviction is: Sustainable growth creates new scope.
We will make the federal budget fit for the future and sustainably modernize the budgetary system at the federal level as well.
Our goal is a long-term federal budget that is fair to all generations.
Double-entry budgeting can contribute to this.
Time and again, federal stimulus funds go unclaimed or miss their mark.
We will therefore regularly review expenditures for effectiveness and necessity and cancel expenditures that are dispensable.
In this way, the available money can be used for more important tasks for the future and more can be achieved with every euro.
5.2.Fair, performance-based and competitive taxes
We want to get the economy moving again after the pandemic.
On this path, it would be wrong to raise taxes.
We continue to stand for a responsible and sound fiscal policy.
We don't promise anything we can't deliver.
We are systematically setting the course for growth to create new scope.
Germany is in danger of falling behind with one of the highest corporate burdens in the world.
World leadership in terms of tax burden and world leadership in terms of competitiveness - this does not go together in the long term.
As part of our comprehensive unleashing package, we will modernize taxation and make it competitive with a corporate tax reform.
Performance must be worthwhile
Whoever makes an effort, whoever dares something, should also be rewarded for it.
This is performance equity in action.
We therefore want to take advantage of any leeway that opens up to relieve the burden on people who work hard every day so that they have more net income.
In doing so, we take all hard-working people into consideration.
Whether you are a saleswoman, a doctor, an IT specialist or a craftsman - we want everyone to be able to afford more from the money they earn.
We will gradually abolish the solidarity surcharge for everyone
and at the same time reduce the income tax burden on small and medium incomes.
We will continue to offset the effects of so-called cold progression by regularly adjusting the income tax rate in line with general price trends.
Relieve the financial burden on families with children
We want to strengthen families financially in a targeted manner.
They are the top performers in our society.
We are sticking to the spousal splitting system
and, independently of this, want to develop additional approaches to take positive account of children.
We have noticeably improved the financial situation of families by significantly increasing the child allowance and child benefit as of January 1, 2021.
In the long term, we are aiming for the full basic tax-free allowance for children and thus for the introduction of child splitting.
We have also doubled the tax relief amount for single parents to 4,008 euros.
We want to further increase it to 5,000 euros in the long term.
We will improve the tax treatment of household-related services.
They relieve families in everyday life and create more time for family and work.
In this way, we also reduce undeclared work
and contribute to the social security of the often female workforce.
Simplify tax return
We are committed to simple and understandable tax law.
Communication between citizens and their tax office must become faster and easier.
We will ensure that tax returns, all applications and correspondence can be done online.
A digital tax assessment must be the rule in the future.
In simple cases, it must also be possible to complete and submit the tax return using an app.
Tax regulations should generally be digitally implementable.
We will simplify tax returns for everyone, especially for older people drawing pensions and annuities.
To this end, we want to improve the pre-filled tax return.
For this purpose, a simple application is to be available as early as spring 2022 for the 2021 assessment period.
Making taxes fair worldwide
We stand for tax justice.
In the future, too, everyone should contribute appropriately to the financing of public services.
No one should shirk his responsibility to society and count himself poorer than he is.
This is especially true for multinational corporations.
We will continue to close tax loopholes, effectively prevent tax evasion and harmful forms of tax competition, and combat aggressive tax structuring.
We will only be successful in this if we coordinate with our international partners.
The OECD has proven its worth as an international standard setter with its action plan against profit cutting and profit shifting by corporations operating across borders (BEPS).
We continue to rely on these institutions, in particular to bring about a broad international consensus on fair taxation of globally active corporations.
We are also campaigning at OECD level for fair taxation of the digital economy.
Large digital corporations should also pay their taxes where they generate their sales.
We need a common corporate tax base so that companies in Europe are taxed according to the same rules wherever possible.
In this context, the specifics of the German corporate landscape and taxation must be adequately taken into account in order to avoid competitive disadvantages for German companies.
This also includes a coordinated tax procedure law.
We will continue to curb sales tax fraud and close tax loopholes.
We advocate a European financial transaction tax with a broad tax base.
However, it must not burden small investors and private pension plans.
5.3.Wealth creation for everyone
Participation takes precedence over redistribution.
We want people in our country to succeed and build wealth.
For us, "prosperity for all" in the 21st century means making wealth accumulation attractive for everyone - regardless of employment status or income.
Improve participation in corporate success
The participation of employees in their own company is an original Christian social concern.
It is in line with the idea of subsidiarity, strengthens the bond between employees and companies, and promotes social partnership.
Our goal is to further improve employee share ownership.
A clear legal framework must be created for participating employees and companies by means of company agreements.
We are committed to harmonizing the rules for employee share ownership in the EU.
Strengthen capital formation and expand capital-forming benefits
Especially in times of low interest rates, different forms of investment are in demand in order to achieve attractive returns and build up assets for old age.
We promote different forms: We will increase the savers' lump sum and the employee savings allowance.
We will strengthen capital-forming benefits and increase the maximum amount employees can receive from their employer.
Gains from capital-forming benefits should be tax-free after the minimum holding period.
No wealth tax
We reject additional burdens such as a reintroduction of the wealth tax.
A wealth tax would hit us all: it would burden both homeowners and renters, making housing more expensive for everyone.
It would burden business assets and thus jeopardize jobs for everyone.
The wealth tax is a brake on prosperity.
5.4.Strengthen Germany as a financial center
Only as a strong and competitive financial center can Germany continue to play an active role in shaping the regulation of international financial markets.
Within a strong banking and capital markets union, we want to develop Germany into the leading financial center, especially for sustainable products.
Above all, we will cut red tape for financial market participants, modernize rules and improve the framework conditions for IPOs.
As a strong financial center, Germany is to become more attractive for the location of EU institutions.
We are striving to establish our own stock exchange along the lines of NASDAQ.
Fast-growing technology companies should be able to finance themselves on a German or European stock exchange so that they no longer have to migrate to the USA for this growth step.
Protect consumers and investors
In the financial market, too, we are committed to fair competition, protection of consumer interests, financial education, transparency in financial products and strong supervision.
To ensure that everyone can take advantage of the opportunities offered by different forms of investment, we need strong consumer and investor protection.
We want everyone to benefit from new, digital payment options and financial services.
This can be achieved if customer data is secure, handled in a legally compliant and confidential manner, and by charging appropriate fees.
6.New Promise of Advancement - for Germany as a Country of Opportunities and Families
Our Union Promise: We will make it easier for our families.
We will relieve them financially and give them what is important for everyone: time for each other, security, more financial leeway, good schools and daycare centers.
At the same time, we promise to further improve the compatibility of family and career
and promote equal opportunities for women and men.
Everyone should be able to build something and strive for their own happiness through effort, performance and diligence.
This promise of advancement must apply to all regardless of background and social circumstances.
We want to make advancement through education possible for all and are
committed to the tried-and-tested education federalism.
However, Corona also revealed weaknesses.
This starts with urgently tackling digital education and modernizing our schools.
And it is all about a policy that consistently puts families at the center.
The protection of the family under changing conditions is a basic constant of a policy guided by the Christian image of man.
In our decade of modernization, we must address the discrimination that still exists against women and give them equal opportunities with men.
The Corona pandemic has taken an enormous toll on young families in particular.
For months, children and adolescents could hardly attend school and only in alternating classes.
They were separated from their friends, they missed out on so much that was part of growing up.
Parents had to simultaneously care for children, support digital learning, and do their work from home.
Family friendliness is the hallmark of every Union-led federal government.
6.1.More time, space and support for families
Families need time for each other, space for them to develop and financial support to safeguard them.
We stand for family-friendliness and want as many people as possible to choose a life with children.
Our aim is to further strengthen parental allowance
and encourage fathers in particular to make greater use of it than in the past.
We want to extend the partner months in parental allowance by a further two months to a total of 16 months if both father and mother take parental leave.
Giving families more time
We want a family-friendly world of work, not labor market-friendly families.
It is important to us that parents can reduce their working hours during certain phases of their lives and devote their full energies to their careers at other times.
This is particularly true in the "rush hour of life", when working life and starting a family usually coincide.
We will enable freedom of choice through more time sovereignty throughout working life.
We want to make the existing instrument of working time accounts more practicable
and make it usable as family time accounts for the reconciliation of family and career.
This concept has already proven its worth, which is why we want to further promote its dissemination.
Parents should be able to use saved time to work less during the family phase without financial disadvantages.
Government subsidies should also be able to be posted to family time accounts.
Simply bundle family benefits
Families should spend their precious and often scarce time together - and not with unnecessary bureaucracy.
We want to simplify family benefits to the maximum.
They are to be automated, digital and available to families from a single source.
It should be possible to apply digitally for birth certificates, child benefits, parental benefits and child allowances, as well as the education and participation package.
We want to make it as unbureaucratic and easy as possible to get family benefits.
Services must be automated wherever possible.
Household-related services relieve the burden on families in everyday life and create more time for family and work.
We will therefore improve the deductibility of household-related services.
Creating more freedom through more flexible and mobile working
Employees with children in particular increasingly want to organize their working hours more flexibly or work from home.
This is also in the interest of employers.
We want to expand the scope for flexibility to the benefit of both sides, while further strengthening occupational health and safety.
We want to continue to enable as many employees as possible to work on the move in the future and are relying on social partnership arrangements between the parties to collective agreements and companies that enable mobile working and ensure occupational health and safety.
In addition, we want to create the legal conditions at national and EU level to make working from anywhere in Europe more legally secure, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises.
We will therefore review the regulations in labor, social security and tax law and adjust them if necessary.
Provide financial relief for families with children and enable home ownership
We want to ease the burden on families and single parents even more and support them in fulfilling the dream of owning their own home.
They are the strong center and the top performers in our society.
We have noticeably improved the financial situation of young families by significantly increasing the child allowance and child benefit as of January 1, 2021.
We will implement a further step depending on the economic situation.
In the long term, we are aiming for the full basic tax-free allowance for children and thus for the introduction of child splitting.
We have also doubled the tax relief amount for single parents to 4,008 euros.
We want to further increase it to 5,000 euros in the long term.
We will expand the KfW home ownership program for families.
Those who have children should benefit more.
To this end, loans, repayment subsidies or interest rate reductions should be staggered according to the number of children.
We also want to promote energy-efficient renovations of the family home.
We will enable the federal states to grant an exemption from real estate transfer tax of EUR 250,000 per adult plus EUR 100,000 per child for the first-time acquisition of owner-occupied housing.
Let children grow up healthy
Our everyday life increasingly takes place indoors and in front of a screen.
This also applies to children and young people.
The consequences include obesity and malnutrition as well as declining motor skills.
Our campaign for healthy growing up makes children and young people fit.
It strengthens their physical, motor and sensory abilities, mental capacity and self-confidence.
With a federal program, we will support states and educational institutions in systematically including nutrition and physical activity in family education as well as in education and child-rearing plans.
Healthy living should become an educational goal in its own right.
In addition, we want to make all preventive examinations up to adolescence mandatory in the benefits catalog of the statutory health insurance funds.
We want to further advance the National Diabetes Strategy and the IN FORM National Action Plan in the areas of family, childcare and school.
Modern family law for the good of the child
When parents separate, a lot changes for children.
We are convinced that it is generally best for children when both parents take joint responsibility for upbringing and development.
Separation of parents should not be an end of relationship for children.
We want to adapt the family law provisions on maintenance, custody and access rights.
The best interests of the child remain central to this.
We want a residence and care arrangement that ensures the best interests of the child in each individual case.
Helping children in need
When children become victims of violence, they need our collective help.
We want to establish primary care facilities for children throughout Germany that provide emergency medical and psychological care.
with the recording of legally usable findings and forensic interviews with the victims.
We want to use a federal program - as with women's shelters - to provide start-up funding for equipment, for example.
With this program, we combine the current justice reform to combat sexualized violence against children with comprehensive victim first aid - also for victims of non-sexualized violence
Promoting political education in youth work
Participation creates acceptance for politics and our democratic system.
This is all the more true in a country where people of different nationalities and cultural backgrounds live.
We are committed to strengthening political education and the teaching of values: Only those who know how democracy works can later act democratically.
Avoid loneliness
Millions of people in Germany feel lonely, both younger and older.
The fight against loneliness is a major challenge in our aging society.
We want to develop a comprehensive strategy against loneliness that provides answers to what people living alone need, what causes loneliness, where there are deficits and how these can be countered preventively - in all areas and at all levels.
To this end, we will promote both spatial and digital mobility.
We will make voluntary structures and networks such as outreach neighborhood assistance and social work more accessible and also strengthen them in the context of intergenerational forms of living.
6.2.Equal opportunities for women and men
We want a modern society in which women and men have equal rights to develop their skills and strengths and pursue their interests.
Women and men should receive equal appreciation when they engage in family, professional or volunteer work.
That is why we want to focus on the situation of women in all policy areas and take action where the framework conditions need to be improved.
Ensure equal opportunities for career advancement
An important step on the way to equal opportunities for women and men was the Act for Equal Participation in Leadership Positions in the Private Sector and the Public Sector.
We want to further improve equal opportunities.
We will work for more family-friendliness in management positions as well.
Our goal is to eliminate gender pay and pension gaps.
We are addressing the differences in retirement benefits between men and women as
well as the unacceptable income gap for the same work.
We will continue to evaluate the impact of the Pay Transparency Act and revise it if necessary.
Inspiring women for STEM professions and facilitating careers in science
Young women today are better educated than ever before.
Nevertheless, comparatively few take up training or study in the technical and scientific (STEM) fields.
That's about to change.
We therefore want to continue to work with industry and science to encourage young people to choose careers in science and technology.
To this end, we want to show them qualification and career opportunities and support them with consulting services.
We support collaborations between universities and community-based childcare facilities to attract more young people to careers in science.
We are in favor of flexible opening hours in the evenings and at weekends.
We advocate family-friendly employment models, especially in the postdoc phase.
6.3.advancement through education
For every child to be able to take advantage of their individual opportunities in life and for the promise of advancement through education to endure, everyone must play their part: caring and supportive parents, committed educators and teachers, encouraging and inspiring trainers and professors.
Every child should be supported according to his or her possibilities from the very beginning, especially in socially difficult situations.
The foundation for advancement through education is laid in early childhood.
For us, the following applies: People's origins must not determine their future.
Parents and children have a right to quality child care that is reliable and appropriate to their needs.
We will continue to promote the expansion of daycare centers and the further development of quality beyond 2022.
In this way, we help children in their development
and support parents in balancing family and career.
We will continue to develop early education facilities into high-quality places of education and thus make a central contribution to decoupling origin and educational success.
Promote language education for all children
All children must be able to take advantage of their educational opportunities from the very beginning.
No child should be left behind.
This is the only way we can keep our promise of "advancement through education".
We will promote the acquisition of the German language as early as possible, in particular through mandatory, ongoing and standardized diagnostic procedures.
From the age of three, mandatory language level tests are added with qualitatively effective language support programs for all children.
Where a special need for language support is identified, mandatory, qualitatively effective and continuous language support must be provided in a daycare center or preschool.
An individual language support plan is to be drawn up for each of these children, which includes support goals, duration and scope of concrete measures in addition to the continuous, integrated language support.
In principle, every elementary school child must be proficient in German before starting school in order to be able to follow lessons from the first grade on.
We support the federal program "Sprach-Kitas: Because language is the key to the world" and want to further promote language education in this area.
It is important to us that we focus even more on children with language support needs.
Particularly strengthen schools in socially difficult locations
To ensure that every child can take advantage of his or her opportunities, we want to further strengthen schools, especially in socially disadvantaged areas.
The federal-state initiative "Schule macht stark" promotes the best educational opportunities for socially disadvantaged students.
We want to strengthen this initiative and develop it further so that schools can offer the best possible individual support.
Take off after Corona
Many children and adolescents were particularly affected in their development during the Corona pandemic.
Especially those with learning difficulties need attention so that they can catch up and regain their motivation to learn.
To ensure that no one is left behind, we have launched a one billion euro support program for 2021 and 2022.
The aim is to strengthen their reading and language skills as well as their enjoyment of reading.
Together with the states and higher education institutions, we are calling on student teachers, senior teachers, tutoring providers, and community college staff to provide targeted support to help children and youth catch up during school and during the vacations.
With another billion euros, we are helping children and young people to cope with the social and psychological consequences of the Corona pandemic.
We invest the funds in early education, vacation camps, family recreation and additional social work.
In addition, there is a one-time payment of 100 euros for children from families who are dependent on Hartz IV or have only a low income.
Strengthen digital education
It is the task of our educational institutions to educate children and young people to become self-determined and responsible personalities.
To do this, they need specialist knowledge and skills as well as a sense of values and judgment.
In addition, there are team and collaboration skills, resilience, creativity, a spirit of research and entrepreneurship, and problem-solving and critical thinking.
We want students to understand lifelong learning, especially continuing education and training, as a permanent task to be performed on their own responsibility.
This includes a learning environment that fosters their competencies.
We want pedagogical concepts and teacher training to be developed further.
Digital literacy must be comprehensively integrated into the classroom.
We want to establish nationwide educational competence centers with the aim of networking teacher training universities, research institutes and teacher training institutions in the states and making findings from educational research directly usable for teacher training in practice.
The successfully established quality initiative for teacher training is to be further developed in terms of content.
In addition to the cultural skills of reading, writing and arithmetic, students need digital skills.
These include a basic understanding of technology and information technology as well as media competence.
In particular, this involves the ability to use media, evaluate content, and how digital technologies and artificial intelligence work.
We will strengthen political education in all grades of general and vocational schools.
Our constitutional, liberal, pluralistic and representative democracy cannot be taken for granted.
It must always be learned, lived and defended anew.
To achieve this, we need convinced democrats who are prepared to face the complex challenges of the world in the 21st century.
Social networks such as Facebook, Instagram or TikTok lower the inhibition threshold for belittling or threatening fellow students.
It is the task of schools, parents and society to actively combat these forms of cyberbullying and cyberbullying.
Guarantee equivalence of education systems
The equal value of vocational and academic education is a matter close to our hearts.
We will therefore once again place greater emphasis on training young people as skilled workers and craftsmen in order to effectively counter the shortage of skilled workers in these areas.
A career in vocational education must be recognizable to anyone and everyone as an equally valid alternative to studying.
The German Qualifications Framework (DQR) has proven its worth as an education policy transparency instrument.
Dual study programs make an important contribution to linking vocational and academic qualifications.
We want to expand them further, especially in engineering, computer science, business administration, and the social and health sciences.
Build national education platform
In the transformation process, the importance of digital teaching and learning is growing.
For this reason, we want to link existing and new digital education platforms to create a nationwide platform system that is compatible across Europe.
The platform is the centerpiece of a new digital education space for Germany and a modernization of education as a whole.
The aim is to make it easier for everyone - from schoolchildren to pensioners - to access digitally supported education.
We place an emphasis on continuing education and lifelong learning.
It's about the right offer that everyone can find quickly and use safely.
In a first step, we are providing 150 million euros for the development of prototypes, curricula and didactic concepts.
Making further education funding more attractive
Today, the vast majority of continuing education takes place during paid working hours.
Companies and employees have recognized that this is essential for sustainable jobs, especially in view of the speed at which technological change is taking place.
To equip employees with the skills they need for the future, we want to expand the federal education premium program.
We also support companies and employees undergoing structural change with tailored information and consulting services for continuing education.
We will promote correspondingly forward-looking research on competence development.
Modernize BAföG and upgrading BAföG
In view of the rapidly changing qualification requirements, lifelong learning in particular has a key role to play.
We want to make BAföG more flexible and develop it into an instrument for individual support for education and further training over the course of a person's life.
Those who first gain professional experience after completing a bachelor's degree and only later obtain a master's degree will in future be able to receive BAföG even after reaching the age of 35, following a parental-independent income and assets test.
To this end, we are expanding the purpose of BAföG to include second vocational training and replacing the existing age limits with maximum limits.
The repayment of the loan and an appropriate social and economic benefit for the grant portion must be in place before retirement.
We want to further develop the Upgrading Training Assistance Act (Aufstiegs-BAföG).
The fact that employees and the self-employed can continue to gain qualifications while working is a key to equal opportunities and the equivalence of vocational and academic education.
With the Aufstiegs-BAföG, we are addressing both the reality of life for each individual - especially young families - and the dynamic development of the education system.
Right of way for literacy courses
Adults who have difficulty reading and writing often grew up in families where there was no reading or far too little reading aloud.
For them, helping their children with their homework or reading the package insert of a medication is an insurmountable hurdle.
We advocate that all people must be offered a place in a literacy course.
Our goal is a country where every individual can read and write.
7.New Courage to innovate - out of responsibility for the future
Our Union promise: We are putting together a package for Germany's future by consistently promoting innovations and new technologies.
We will ensure a new culture of innovation, research and start-ups, also by giving these issues of the future an unprecedented new status in the new federal government.
We face two challenges in this regard: On the one hand, we need innovations and research more than ever to continue to be successful in the international competition for markets, opportunities and bright minds.
This includes ensuring that "Made in Germany" ideas also lead to "Make in Germany" value creation.
On the other hand, the future is not created by funding programs and legal texts alone, but we need a new, strong culture of innovation in which the following applies: Right of way for courage, experiments, new ideas and new start-ups!
And in which also applies: Do not be afraid of mistakes.
After all, innovations are best created when the state does not interfere too much,
but above all provides the best framework conditions.
7.1.Strategic research and innovation policy for Germany
Today more than ever, global challenges require far-sighted, reliable research and innovation policies: Thanks to exponentially increased computing power and global networking, we are facing a decade of technological breakthroughs - in medicine, nutrition, space travel or robotics.
It is important to us that we drive innovation with an open mind toward technology and make full use of the potential of science to demonstrate and test the full range of possibilities - always while maintaining our ethical responsibility.
The new opportunities for economic dynamism,
Prosperity
and social cohesion, we must take action now.
It is up to all of us - citizens, researchers and companies - to seize the opportunities for smart growth, to
develop and implement solutions to the major challenges.
Central to this is our goal of ensuring that business and government spend 3.5 percent of gross domestic product on research and development by 2025.
We doubled the tax research allowance during the Corona crisis.
Now we will go one better and double the assessment base again to 8 million euros per company - for innovative strength x 4.
Germany's ideas need financial support to turn them into innovations on a global scale.
In order to promote investment in technology and innovation by small and medium-sized enterprises in the growth phase, we want to examine the use of a preferred equity model.
We will continue the Excellence Strategy and create new opportunities for successful clusters to receive permanent institutional funding.
We are committed to one of the most important instruments of science funding, the Pact for Research and Innovation (PFI).
The federal and state governments have thus created financial planning security for stable growth and positive development of the non-university science organizations.
We use this instrument to provide targeted support to the Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft, the Helmholtz Association of German Research Centers, the Leibniz Association and the Max Planck Society.
In this way, we are strengthening Germany as a center of science
and improving its international competitiveness.
With additional performance components, we want to give even more recognition to excellent scientific achievements.
In addition, we want to continue to provide powerful support to excellent universities.
Our goal is: to get at least one German university into the top 20 in the world.
Strengthen project funding
We want to strengthen open-topic and technology-agnostic project funding, which is particularly important for SMEs.
To this end, we will expand the proven programs, in particular the Central Investment Program for SMEs (ZIM), Industrielle Gemeinschaftsforschung (IGF) and the INNO-KOM innovation competence funding program.
Instead of cost subsidies, we want to make part of the subsidy dependent on the profits generated and retained in the company.
In this way, we prevent false incentives.
Because for us, it's the result that should be rewarded, not the process.
Launch "Made in Germany" quantum computer mission
The safe handling and availability of the latest generation of quantum technologies offer enormous potential for innovation.
Quantum communication represents a new security standard for digital communication as well as IT infrastructure.
Quantum-based communications and cryptography are succeeding in further protecting sensitive data in banks, insurance companies, the healthcare system and critical infrastructures.
In medical technology, optimized imaging techniques enable advances in cancer detection, for example.
We want to build a competitive quantum computer in Germany by 2025.
For this project to succeed, research and industry must work closely together.
At the same time, we are focusing on cooperation with other leading EU countries, thus helping to secure our technological sovereignty in the field of quantum technologies.
Together with all partners, we will advance education and training on the topic of quantum technologies by collecting expertise and training objectives related to industrial applications at an early stage.
Germany should remain an international leader in computer and software technologies
and grow as a location for basic research with a trans- and interdisciplinary approach.
That is why we want to further expand high-performance computing.
Develop Germany into a stronghold for artificial intelligence and blockchain technology
With the AI strategy, we have laid the foundation for making Germany and Europe world leaders in the research and application of artificial intelligence.
To this end, we are promoting cutting-edge research in the AI competence centers and strengthening the development of AI in key application fields, such as labor, mobility or health research.
Successful AI relies on the availability of computing power.
This can only be achieved if we step up the development of our own capabilities for research and development and for the production of microelectronics.
To this end, we will strategically interlink technological development and production and support their establishment.
We will specifically establish new AI professorships and promote young scientists in order to attract the world's brightest minds to Germany as an AI research location.
To this end, we also want to create further AI campuses with attractive conditions.
In this context, it is important to ensure that every patent developed in the AI Campus remains in Germany.
In doing so, we are laying the foundation for a leap in innovation in AI.
We also want to enable small and medium-sized enterprises to make better use of results from AI research.
To this end, AI pilots are to visit companies on site and support them in developing their AI potential.
We have already laid good foundations in the current legislative period with the blockchain strategy, which we will continue to develop.
To this end, we want to create more possible applications for the blockchain.
Today, new applications often fail due to legal obstacles, even though it would be technologically sensible and efficient to use blockchain.
Promoting future technology space travel
Space travel is a key industry of the future - especially for the digitization of our country, there is great potential in the orbit of our planet.
In the coming years, small satellites will become more prevalent in Earth observation, environmental and climate research, and all Big Data projects.
We support the Copernicus program in this regard.
As a committed space nation, we rely not only on established space companies from Germany, but above all on the development of a newspace ecosystem and the strong German space industry.
In recent years, a German industry for small launchers (rockets) has emerged.
We want to develop this market for our country.
This includes government demand under a small satellite initiative, access to all EU and ESA launch programs, space funds under the Future Fund, and open competition for next-generation European launchers.
We will pass a space bill that is startup and small business friendly.
We will work at the international level to promote the sustainable use of space in order to ensure access to space for future generations.
Expanding real laboratories
For new technologies and innovations, such as artificial intelligence, bio-IT, or quantum, precisely fitting framework conditions and regulatory approaches must be developed and tested.
To this end, we want to provide additional capacity for experimental spaces and real laboratories, strengthen their funding and application, and promote other areas beyond energy research.
Establish national agency for biomedical research and development
Recent successes in vaccine development continue the tradition of outstanding German researchers and Nobel laureates, such as Robert Koch and Paul Ehrlich.
We will make Germany a modern pharmacy of the world again.
To this end, we want to establish a national agency for biomedical research and development in the modernization decade by 2025, which will help to bundle and network value chains from research to the market for therapies, vaccines and drugs.
We accelerate approval processes
and ensure that patients benefit significantly faster from research successes.
Combining biology and technology
When life sciences and information technologies work together, it can produce significant innovations: new treatment options in personalized medicine or visionary projects in IT, such as digital data storage in DNA or 3D printing of biological tissue.
To accelerate the transfer from research to application, we want to establish a bio-IT research center.
It is intended to link software, methods and data resources in Germany and Europe and to advance research at an international level.
In the Bio-IT Center, basic research, application-oriented technology development and industry will work together to form bio-IT-relevant clusters that have considerable industry know-how.
Harnessing the potential of social innovation
In order to meet challenges posed by urbanization, aging or immigration, we need openness to social innovation ("Open Social Innovation").
Social services such as neighborhood watch groups and participation platforms to engage residents can help strengthen cohesion.
We want to bring volunteerism together with the digital world and are therefore relying on volunteer digital ambassadors.
They pass on their digital expertise on a voluntary basis and thus help to ensure that digitization reaches the breadth of society in everyday life.
We will supplement the High-Tech Strategy with a social innovation strategy to better dovetail social and technological innovations.
Accordingly, we will open up financing instruments such as the EXIST start-up program, the High-Tech Gründerfonds or the INVEST grant to social enterprises, tailor them to their specific characteristics and provide additional networking and advisory services.
Creating more speed and free space for SPRIND
By promoting leap innovations, i.e. the development of groundbreaking new technologies, we want to bring Germany up to the top of the world.
We will set up the Leap Innovation Agency (SPRIND), founded in 2019, in a non-departmental manner and develop it into a real laboratory - with flexible and agile instruments for identifying, developing and financing promising innovation projects.
We will guarantee a global budget, release the agency from the civil service salary structure, exempt it from procurement rules in project funding, and allow it to fully fund projects in the pre-competitive early stages and participate in them as a minority shareholder.
Facilitating knowledge-intensive startups with the Freedom of Innovation Act
With its transfer of ideas and inventions to industry, science contributes to Germany's innovative strength and competitiveness.
Therefore, we want to establish successful transfer as a category of good science.
We will create technology biotopes that attract the world's best minds and most innovative companies and visibly grow on their own through excellence, a living start-up culture and innovation worldwide.
To this end, we guarantee freedom of action and reliable basic funding that are unique in the world.
We will improve the concrete conditions for spin-offs: With an Innovation Freedom Act, we want to reduce bureaucratic hurdles for founders from science institutions and universities, especially in state aid and non-profit law.
Support services in the pre-startup phase could thus be carried out on a non-profit basis, including consulting services, use of infrastructure, and the preparation of proofs of concept.
We will overcome bureaucratic barriers to innovation, set up an agile and functional administration for this purpose and establish modern process management in the federal government to avoid silo thinking.
Strengthen research cores and protect key technologies
We want to further promote the establishment of research institutes, also from industry and in eastern Germany.
Basic research and application-oriented research deserve our attention in equal measure.
We will continue to provide financial support for research alliances and strengthen excellence.
This applies above all to interfaces for knowledge transfer from universities and research institutions.
We want to facilitate spin-offs and scale-ups in a targeted manner, both financially and legally.
We want to overcome EU restrictions on the transfer of science to industrial application.
To protect our knowledge, we need clear rules for investors from third countries.
We must resolutely oppose attempts at hostile takeovers of patents and licenses held by German companies.
7.2.The best brains for our country Setting up an attractiveness offensive for the brightest minds
We will continue to expand the programs for specifically addressing and attracting outstanding international scientists.
We support the proposal at the European level to set up a new tech visa program for highly skilled professionals to make it easier to bring the world's best minds to Europe.
We will expand funding from the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation (AvH), the German Research Foundation (DFG) and the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD).
We will strengthen the German schools abroad in their work.
We want to offer international scientists better career prospects and opportunities to stay in Germany, especially after they have completed their doctorate.
To do this, we must also have the courage to change existing structures and allow more flexibility than before.
We want to retain outstanding top scientists and innovators in our country by offering attractive conditions.
Excellent researchers must have the opportunity to continue to realize their potential in Germany through senior research programs - regardless of retirement age.
We want to strengthen science communication by offering more training opportunities for researchers as well as citizen scientists (Citizen Science formats).
Awaken founding spirit
The successful companies of tomorrow must be founded here today - this is what has made Germany strong.
Founders create new jobs with new ideas
and new prosperity.
The modernization decade should therefore also become a foundation decade.
We will make 2022 the starting signal for the German Founders' Year.
This includes the culture of a second chance, because start-ups can also fail.
We want to promote a new start-up spirit from an early age
and encourage more women to start their own businesses.
We will enable company formations online within 24 hours while maintaining security in legal transactions.
We create the best conditions for our doers.
We have already launched the milestone Future Fund I, which will mobilize at least 30 billion euros.
We now need a framework that enables greater European investment.
That is why we want to expand the Future Fund.
This also includes the expansion of venture capital and equity financing for technology-oriented start-ups.
We will remove the tax and administrative hurdles to the establishment of large venture capital funds in Germany.
At the same time, we want to change the investment conditions for insurance companies and pension funds so that they can become more involved in venture capital and equity financing.
Our goal is to ensure that investments in startups are not taxed until profits are made from the investments or the shares are sold.
We also want to significantly improve the practicability of transferring shares to employees.
We intend to create a separate share class for this purpose.
To be at the top of the world, we need bright and innovative minds from Germany and abroad.
Involvement in the company is an important part of employee retention in many startups.
We are committed to ensuring that the European Union further improves the framework conditions for the Digital Single Market
and creates networks to make it easier for young companies to scale their business models.
Making it easier to regulate succession in the company
Succession planning is an essential part of our start-up policy.
We want to support medium-sized and family-run companies, especially in the skilled trades, in handing over their businesses.
To this end, we want to reduce bureaucratic and legal hurdles, facilitate business use permits, and simplify the continued use of customer data after a business has been taken over.
In order to facilitate the acquisition of company shares by the company's own employees, employee share ownership is an important component.
Tax authorities should apply standard valuation procedures to equity investments and determine realistic market prices.
We also want to examine tax relief for business transfers.
We want to optimize the company exchange nexxt-change as a tool for successors and transferors, so that there is no costly mediation or consulting assignments.
7.3 Digital transformation offensive
The digital transformation of the economy and society offers enormous opportunities - if we actively shape them.
Digitization must not be seen as a goal, but as a tool to preserve and increase prosperity in Germany and Europe.
Promoting platforms as the core of the digital economy
Digital platforms are a central building block of the digital economy because they act as interfaces
and promote growth.
That is why they bear a special responsibility for the competition.
With the Digitization FCA, we were the first country in the world to create a new, future-proof legal framework that puts tech giants in their place and establishes a level playing field.
In this way, we ensure fair competition,
the innovative strength of our companies,
and consumer freedom of choice in the digital economy.
We also want to ensure this at EU level via the Digital Services Act and the Digital Markets Act.
We advocate legislation that is user-centric,
guarantees fair conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises in digital competition,
and creates space for innovation.
We will further develop the legal framework for digital services with a particular focus on the platform economy.
The aim is to create the best conditions for the provision of innovative digital services in Europe
and to contribute to online security
and the protection of fundamental rights.
We also want to establish a sound and permanent administrative structure for the effective oversight of intermediary service providers.
For this, we need clear responsibilities, accountability and due diligence, including reporting and remediation procedures for illegal content.
Very large online platforms have a particular impact on our economy and society.
They must therefore be even more transparent and develop appropriate risk management tools to protect the integrity of their services from manipulative techniques.
Opportunities to mandate interoperability or data sharing with smaller competitors also need to be explored.
Ensure digital sovereignty
Freedom and self-determination are principles of our free democratic basic order.
The sovereignty of the individual and the sovereignty of the state are the basis for the strong position of Germany and Europe in the world and for our prosperity.
We must also ensure this sovereignty digitally and make it a parameter of our digital policy actions.
For us, digital sovereignty does not mean compartmentalization.
We need a smart balance of measures for more digital autonomy and management of different international courses of action to make the risks of digital dependency manageable.
In doing so, we are committed to a vital marketplace in Europe that uses its global strength to set technological world standards and promote our digital achievements - such as "AI made in Europe".
In order to remain capable of acting autonomously, Europe needs its own hardware and software manufacturers that are globally competitive.
Supplier diversity best protects against dependencies.
Trustworthy technologies are the key to success.
Create Federal Ministry for Digital Innovation and Transformation
To ensure that our country efficiently meets the digital and technological challenges
and that the modernization of the state is coordinated centrally, we will create a separate federal ministry.
It is intended to be an implementation unit for specific digital policy projects, such as the Corona app or the electronic ID card.
It is to become the central political steering body for innovations and digitization, driving forward the modernization of the state and the administration and taking on a role as a role model and test field within the federal government through the use of new working methods and technologies.
Thinking data protection and data treasure in a modern way
Data protection and data treasure are not opposites for us, on the contrary: we want to think both in a modern and cutting-edge way.
The potential of data is still not being sufficiently exploited - whether in the healthcare sector, in mobility or in administration.
For data to truly become a driver of innovation, data infrastructures must become more powerful, data use more extensive, and data sharing more intensive.
Data security and data protection are cornerstones for ensuring trust in digital solutions.
However, data protection is not a "super fundamental right."
Excessive interpretation of data protection requirements must not be allowed to inhibit innovation and slow down procedures bureaucratically.
We want to eliminate legal ambiguities and streamline authority structures.
We will harmonize data protection supervision in Germany.
There must be the possibility of binding information.
The principle is to apply: One approves for all - analogous to media law for the licensing of TV stations.
We will work to ensure better coordination and comparable interpretation at the European level.
Fundamental questions are to be decided once and bindingly throughout the EU at the European level.
In addition, purely national issues are also to be decided uniformly and in a legally binding manner at the national level.
To this end, we want to improve cooperation between the authorities.
8.New performance for a modern state - for the benefit of citizens
Our Union promise: We will ensure a reliable, efficient state and make administration simpler and more user-friendly.
We will approach problems with a new spirit in order to solve them in the interests of the citizens.
Our solution to the problem will be pragmatic and unbureaucratic.
CDU and CSU stand together for new making and new courage instead of dreaming of regulations and laws like others.
State and administration are all too often out of step with the times: too analog, too bureaucratic, too slow, too little networked and too distrustful.
Germany is paralyzing itself and is in danger of losing touch.
The pandemic has ruthlessly highlighted where government structures in our country need to improve.
Our state needs a structural modernization push.
Above all, we must take advantage of the opportunities offered by digitization to make administrative procedures simpler, less complicated and shorter for citizens.
Our state must become simpler, faster, more digital and more crisis-proof.
The state concerns all of us, it is not "the officials" or "those up there".
The state is the organized "we".
Therefore, we want to encourage citizens to participate in this modernization.
We want to tackle this with a new spirit and new momentum, together with the states and local authorities.
And together with the ideas and commitment of the employees in the public sector.
We want a state that citizens trust and that delivers on its promise of protection even in difficult situations.
The management of the Corona crisis has highlighted the strengths, but also the weaknesses, in the interaction of the institutions involved.
We therefore want to use the knowledge gained to modernize and further develop tasks and structures in civil protection.
8.1.Modernization decade for the state
We are putting operations at all levels to the test to ensure our state is on the cutting edge.
We want a task-oriented state organization with clear responsibilities, efficient administrative structures and faster procedures.
We are also working for comprehensive digitization of the administration,
a modern, open and permeable civil service
and a culture of innovation that allows new ideas.
This includes a modern and innovative administrative culture:
it relies on personal responsibility and trust.
Modernize management
We want a state that opens up opportunities for people in a pragmatic and unbureaucratic way.
We need to speed up and shorten administrative processes.
The federal, state and local governments must work together and jointly create open standards and interfaces as the basis for an administrative infrastructure so that authorities can communicate better with each other.
The basic principle is: digital right of way!
Everything that can become digital should become digital.
Everything that can be standardized should be standardized.
With the Online Access Act, the federal, state and local governments are currently making all administrative services accessible to citizens online - a good step that must be further accelerated consistently and, of course, must also relieve companies in their exchange with the administration.
We will therefore continue to roll out the digital corporate account and subject it to a nationwide field test.
The sooner we can make administrative services available to businesses digitally and through a central access point, the better.
That is why we want to provide a business platform Germany as a "single point of contact" for all business-relevant administrative services at the federal levels.
We will digitize and accelerate all internal administrative processes.
To this end, the law must be consistently simplified and geared to digital administration.
The digital administrative process must become the norm.
Analog, paper-based processes are to be designed as exceptional cases - to the extent that they are still necessary at all.
We will also consistently eliminate all written form requirements.
New services must not only be rolled out slowly in individual (pilot) municipalities or countries, but must be rolled out across the country as quickly as possible.
At the same time, we will ensure that people without in-depth digital skills can continue to easily access all administrative services.
The approach of implementing an app store via the FIT Store of the Federal IT Cooperation (FITKO) must be pursued more consistently.
To provide the necessary applications, we will therefore create an app store for the administration with digital solutions for tasks of the administration from the municipality to the federal government - from digital travel expense accounting to chatbot software.
If a solution proves particularly effective in one municipality, other administrations can simply download it as well.
To ensure this, statewide use is guaranteed in all contracts.
The digital state should also be a driver of open standards in the economy and in its own administration.
We stand by the concept of open government and want to use open data and open source solutions wherever possible.
Open standards and general interfaces are therefore given greater consideration as award criteria in public tenders.
In this way, we enable more competition so that contract awards can be more small-scale.
This promotes transparency and can benefit small and medium-sized enterprises and startups in particular.
Accelerate planning, approvals and awards
We want to accelerate planning and approval procedures in order to respond quickly and adequately to the challenges of the future.
We are making the bundling of planning procedures and those who actually carry out the planning procedures the focus of the acceleration efforts of a new Planning Modernization Act.
We will also advocate at the EU level for acceleration of planning procedures and, within the framework of the Aarhus Convention, to enable rapid planning procedures.
We will simplify procurement and contract award processes and facilitate local regional value creation within the framework of EU requirements.
As a result of the crisis, public procurement law was temporarily simplified, for example by shortening the deadlines for EU procurement procedures or adjusting the thresholds for restricted tenders and private treaty awards in Germany.
Facilitation of procurement procedures should not be a unique feature of cyclical aid measures, but should be made permanent law.
In addition, a fundamental debureaucratization and digitization of these processes is urgently needed.
Public funding measures must be translated into concrete investment projects more quickly.
Strengthening the regional and local economy must be allowed as a criterion for awarding contracts, provided the service is comparable and the price is reasonable.
We will strengthen inter-municipal cooperation by advocating a municipality-friendly interpretation of public procurement and value-added tax law.
Preserve federalism - modernize structures
However, the structural modernization of our state also includes modern federalism.
Citizen-oriented administration and equal living conditions must not be contradictory.
At the same time, federalism offers the possibility of competition for the best concepts.
This makes it strong - also in international comparison.
In a reform of federalism, we will forge a new pact for the future between the federal, state and local governments.
We will put everything to the test, draw up an analysis of state tasks and consistently apply the principle of subsidiarity.
Federalism must offer custom-fit solutions on the ground, reflect the diversity of our country, and be efficient at the same time.
To this end, we need new forms of cooperation between the states in order to master challenges such as the digitization of education better than before.
We are guided by the democratic principle of clear accountability:
citizens must know who is responsible for what in our state.
To this end, we will reorganize the financial relationships between the federal, state and local governments in line with the times and define a financial distribution that is appropriate to the tasks at hand.
We want to avoid mixed financing in the future and compensate for possible disadvantages for the states and municipalities accordingly in return through a higher sales tax share.
We proceed according to the principle: The money follows the task.
We will continue to work to ensure that cities and municipalities can overcome the various challenges on the ground under their own steam.
To this end, municipalities need reliable sources of funding, which are generally preferable to new, bureaucracy-intensive funding programs.
We will combine the funding programs relevant to municipalities and bundle them on an online platform so that they can be applied for and processed there more easily.
We need common standards and suitable interfaces for this.
It's not about dictating a product or imposing it nationwide.
Rather, existing standards must be used more in the future or, if necessary, suitable standards and interfaces must be developed jointly.
New organizational arrangements must also be made.
The IT Planning Council has created FITKO (Federal IT Cooperation), a small, agile organization.
It should be strengthened in terms of personnel and technology, if necessary.
In the core responsibilities of the Länder, we need new forms of cooperation between the Länder and closer coordination.
Greater use must be made of existing opportunities for cooperation between the states in order to define common content standards not only in the IT sector but also beyond it; this applies in particular to the reduction of bureaucracy.
Exercise new legislative restraint
There is a tendency in Germany to want to regulate every life issue, every new problem with a law.
We have to get away from that.
There may be good reasons for each individual law, but in the aggregate there is too much.
Fewer laws means: more time for federal ministries to implement quickly and more room for the German Bundestag to shape policy and control the government.
In the 19th legislative period, the Bundestag will have passed about 500 laws.
In the coming legislative period, we want to reduce the number of laws by 20 percent.
At the EU level, we are also committed to less and more targeted regulation.
Citizens expect that laws that have been passed are implemented quickly and well, and that money that has been passed arrives or is invested quickly.
We want to do much better here so that investment funds are no longer lying around but are actually spent.
In the German Bundestag, we will make the progress and impact of our legislation transparent once a year in an implementation week.
We want the new federal government to focus more on targets and key performance indicators when monitoring success, so that the new things actually reach citizens.
Almost all laws require something from citizens, authorities or companies.
The necessary communication, i.e., the exchange of information and documents, must be able to be handled digitally - for example, between authorities when it comes to issuing documents such as passports, or when a citizen needs to send information to the pension insurance company.
The digitization suitability of laws must be at the beginning.
We will put a digital TÜV before the legislative consultation.
The new digital ministry will be responsible for the central coordination of this.
8.2.Focus on the citizens
We want to rethink the state and its administration from the perspective of citizens and their circumstances, not from the processes and structures of state authorities.
Digital is the new normal.
We will create a legal entitlement for citizens to a digital citizen identity (e-ID).
This is intended to consolidate existing mappings, such as the tax ID or social security number, for use at all levels of government administration.
The digitization of administrative services should make it as easy and user-friendly as possible for citizens and companies to interact with the administration, submit applications and receive decisions.
Offer citizen service "from a single source
Anyone requesting a service from the administration should be able to complete all formalities and procedures at a single point, known as the single point of contact.
We will ensure that required information from citizens or businesses is collected only once and then recorded and updated only in a single location in the relevant competent registry.
To this end, we are vigorously implementing the resolved register modernization.
With automated decisions, we will speed up those procedures where there is little room for discretion: If you have a child, you get child benefit.
Anyone who has moved will receive a new certificate of registration.
Administrative processes for which citizens today still have to submit various applications or provide information multiple times will happen in automated sequence as soon as the birth of a child has been reported, for example.
Our longer-term goal is to ensure that in the future, social benefits are not only less bureaucratic, but also reach beneficiaries practically "as if from a single source".
In this way, we help those entitled and avoid multiple benefits.
This is because our highly structured system of social benefits is efficient, but difficult for citizens entitled to benefits to understand.
Guarantee digital administrative access for citizens
Currently, there are already some digital administrative services that citizens use only to a limited extent.
There are various reasons for this, but many citizens are also not yet equipped with all the necessary tools or the applications are not yet designed simply enough.
We want the personal wallet for all administrative processes, for everyone on their own smartphone.
To ensure that citizens and companies can use digital administration as securely and easily as possible, we will provide them with electronic identification tools, signatures and secure mailboxes as part of a basic digital service.
We will bring the ID card as a key element for comprehensive and full digital identification to the smartphone and consistently expand its application possibilities.
This solution needs to be scaled across Europe.
Its use will only become attractive for cross-border business if the solution works not only in Germany, but also in the surrounding markets.
Ensure participation for all
The CDU and CSU think politics from the middle of society and thus bear a responsibility for all citizens.
We also assume this responsibility in the digital transformation.
In doing so, we want to leave no one behind.
Therefore, we also keep an eye on those who have not grown up in a digital world and who have less knowledge in this area.
We will ensure that state services, especially those relating to services of general interest, remain easily accessible to everyone.
But that is only the basic supply.
We will be more ambitious and create opportunities for digital learning.
Not everyone has to go digital, but those who want to should be able to get help.
This can initially be done analogously in the adult education centers and then later via learning platforms or other online offerings.
All interested citizens should be able to continue their digital education on their own initiative in order to take advantage of the opportunities offered by a digital world.
We want early citizen participation.
Digitized processes in particular offer enormous potential for this.
The various hackathons last year and this year have shown that.
Citizens have worked concretely on proposals for solutions.
We want to promote this type of citizen participation in a targeted manner and establish it in administrative practice in the long term.
8.3.The public service as a modern employer
Public sector employees have done a great job during the pandemic: In kindergartens and schools, in the police, in the armed forces, in the authorities.
At federal, state and local level.
We are counting on the fact that only with their ideas, but also with their experience and commitment, will state modernization succeed.
In order to fully exploit the opportunities of digital change in our state and actively drive forward the modernization decade, we need an efficient public service with well-trained and highly motivated staff that engages with business, science and society and has the courage to take risks.
We need public institutions whose employees perform government tasks reliably and comprehensively.
In doing so, we stand by the tried and tested two pillars of the public service, the collectively bargained employees and the professional civil service.
Promote employees, recruit talent, modernize service law
A digital cultural change will only succeed together with public sector employees.
The decisive factor here is appreciation and openness to new ideas and suggestions.
The public sector must attract the best minds and give them opportunities to shape the future.
To this end, changes between business, science and administration must be made more possible and incentives must be provided for new ideas and new approaches - for example, through model projects.
We want to benefit from the experience of public sector employees.
In order to incorporate the suggestions and also make satisfaction measurable, we want to introduce a digital platform for employee surveys that are conducted anonymously across all federal agencies.
We want to strengthen employees in administration and make career paths more flexible.
We need a modern service law at the federal level and in all the states that stands for openness and permeability and that does justice to the individual performance and abilities of employees.
We will further develop the basis for promotion so that rotational, project responsibility and cross-departmental station changes are more rewarding by being considered for promotion.
This means that careers are not merely linear processes, but that rotation, job shadowing and periods spent abroad are more strongly encouraged.
It is not waiting times but the qualification for the specific task that must be decisive for a promotion.
In order to attract more skilled workers to the administration, new approaches must be taken, for example in terms of remuneration, especially in the area of highly specialized IT professions.
The introduction of allowances for IT professionals is a right step, but it will not be enough.
It fundamentally requires more creativity in personnel recruitment and greater flexibility in personnel deployment across departmental boundaries and between the federal, state and local governments.
New perspectives welcome - promoting diversity
We want to bring in new ideas and fresh impulses through external employees and unusual resumes.
There needs to be greater permeability between the public and private sectors for the reciprocal, even temporary, exchange of employees.
To this end, experienced lateral entrants are a welcome addition to the public service.
They bring a wide range of practical experience and new perspectives.
To ensure that more of them find their way into the administration, we must make the hiring requirements more flexible.
We want to clear the way for professionals who may not have a formal degree in their field, but have years of successful work experience or other qualifications.
An efficient and modern administration needs different perspectives.
We are committed to achieving equal participation of women in management positions at all levels in the civil service by 2025 in accordance with the reform that has just been adopted.
The diversity of our society should also be visible in the public sector.
We will also ensure that no woman or man is disadvantaged because of raising children or caring for dependents.
In the public sector, these periods should be taken into account as qualifications in promotions and job applications more effectively than before.
In this way, we want to improve family-friendliness in the country.
Establish new forms of collaboration
The current form of collaboration focuses very much on responsibilities and does not promote collaboration strongly enough.
Administrative work must become more agile and implementation-oriented.
We will make interdisciplinary project work the standard in administrations.
We want to accompany the necessary transformation in order to strengthen the importance of project work, promote in-process consulting and further training, and clarify legal issues.
Each addressed authority should participate in the project work.
This is especially true between administrative levels: Experts in the legal system and in higher-level issues in the federal and state ministries should come together with the implementing practitioners in cities and municipalities as project teams so that the best solutions can be developed jointly and directly as well as implemented well.
We will create modernization teams in all business units to lead the way and test and optimize innovations in strategic focus areas before they are established at great expense for entire ministries.
At the same time, as a "flexible reserve," such innovation units can use their capabilities to accelerate strategically relevant projects and help cross-cutting work succeed.
With real labs and digital model projects for the administration, we want to try out new ways of working in order to implement projects faster and more efficiently.
A new start requires openness to change, and that requires legitimacy and participation.
The experience from the pandemic has shown that good cooperation can also work from different locations.
This allows us to reduce business trips,
work more efficiently and
save costs at the same time.
We are committed to the agreements of the Bonn/Berlin Act.
We will locate more federal agencies in the new states.
A modern federal administration
In the federal administration, tasks and responsibilities are to be combined and handled jointly wherever possible.
The departmental principle must not become an obstacle to modernization.
Overlapping responsibilities, duplicate structures in different ministries and disputes over competencies between ministries are slowing down Germany's ability to act.
We want the Chancellor's Office to continue to play an active role as a control center for government action.
We need - especially for a digital ministry - cooperation in the federal government that defines clear responsibilities, but also enables powerful implementation in the most urgent, jointly defined areas of reform.
To this end, the ministries are to examine whether administrative tasks can be handed over to subordinate areas.
This is how we create new synergies.
We will expand the "Digital Service 4 Germany" as an innovation driver for user-oriented software development in the federal government
and intensify the exchange between administrative staff and digital talents.
Our goal is to attract the best software developers and IT minds to our community.
Improve exchange between levels
We want to define clear responsibilities and at the same time improve cooperation and communication between the authorities at federal, state and local level in order to be more crisis-proof, faster and more efficient.
It must always be possible to transfer solutions from one federal state to another or to establish communication between the federal agency, local authorities and service providers without media discontinuity.
8.4 Digital infrastructure
The backbone of the modernization decade is good infrastructure - throughout the country.
Our goal is to eliminate all white spots with stationary or mobile masts by 2024 at the latest and to establish the principle of "new frequencies only against nationwide coverage" in law.
With the mobile communications infrastructure company we have launched, we will create a nationwide 5G network throughout Germany by 2025 and provide a total of EUR 15 billion for gigabit networks by 2025.
We will accelerate network expansion through unbureaucratic, digital and rapid approval practices.
We will simplify procedures through digitization and standardization, thereby reducing the necessary effort.
Through increased staff training and support from federal and state experts, we will increase resources on the part of local governments, which will need to provide increased oversight of both legal and technical procedures here for a limited time frame.
Beyond speeding up procedures, we need to tackle bottlenecks in actual expansion.
Greater use must be made of the possibilities for alternative installation methods.
For example, alternative laying methods at shallower depths are already legally possible, but still meet with skepticism.
Measures already underway to raise awareness of these useful procedures must therefore be consistently reinforced.
In addition, the procedures should be certified quickly and comprehensively in order to directly eliminate possible doubts.
8.5 Sustainable state
We want to set a good example and achieve a CO2-neutral federal administration as quickly as possible.
The use of green electricity must play just as important a role as the energy-efficient refurbishment of federal buildings.
We want the federal government to take on a pioneering role in the area of sustainability and the reduction of plastic waste.
In addition to establishing renewable energies in buildings, we want to decarbonize the fleet as well as federal government flights via electric drives or via synthetic fuels.
In order to increase biodiversity, the federal government should take the lead in the management of its properties and land, and in particular strengthen green roofs and facades.
As a major purchaser of future technologies and a role model in sustainable management, the federal administration will align its actions and procurement with sustainability indicators.
We want to establish a binding sustainability assessment for all laws based on the German sustainability strategy for intergenerationally just policies.
Corresponding sustainability indicators map the economic, social and ecological dimensions of our lives in the best possible way and create an improved regulatory impact assessment for Germany's future.
9.new strength for more security - out of responsibility for our freedom
Our Union promise: We want people in our country to be able to trust in a life of security and freedom: whether at home, on the road or in squares, on buses or trains, by day or night, analog or digital.
They rightly expect a strong state to protect them.
We will continue to work together to achieve this.
In this, we stand firmly alongside those who make every effort every day to defend security in freedom.
Whether police officers or rescue workers, employees of law enforcement agencies, judges or public prosecutors - they all enjoy a particularly high level of trust.
Their efforts deserve our respect and support.
Thanks to this commitment, we can live more safely in Germany than in most other countries in the world.
But security and freedom are challenged anew every day: by burglars, criminal clans, violent extremists, international terrorists or attacks in cyberspace.
That is why we want to further strengthen the defensibility of our constitutional state.
In the modernization decade of the 1920s, we are focusing on an update of all security agencies with a triad of more personnel, better equipment, and contemporary competencies and powers.
For us, one thing is clear: In the spirit of subsidiarity and closeness to the citizen, the federal states are rightly responsible for the police.
Crises and disasters, however, have no regard for regional, state or national boundaries.
As little as criminals can be deterred by borders, borders must not hinder effective work by security authorities.
The opportunities for increased cooperation between the federal and state governments must therefore be fully exploited.
Where the federal and state governments cooperate on federal security matters, there also needs to be greater coordination in complex structural and investigative procedures - for example, in the fight against the enemies of our Constitution, against terrorists, in defense against threats from cyberspace, or in nationwide, including digital, disaster situations.
9.1.More security everywhere and anytime
Living safely within your own four walls
To provide greater deterrence to burglars, we have enforced tougher penalties.
But this alone is not enough.
We must also ensure that more burglaries are solved, perpetrators are more easily apprehended, and repeat or serial offenses are prevented.
That is why we have given the police additional investigative powers.
We are consistently continuing along this path.
In the future, we want to see greater use of software-based tools that can help predict burglars' crime patterns.
In this way, particularly endangered residential areas can be identified and specifically monitored with police patrols.
We continue to help owners and tenants better secure doors and windows.
To this end, we will expand government subsidies.
Show more police presence
Where boundaries are crossed, rules disregarded or laws broken, there is zero tolerance.
Safety is especially important where we are at home, in our everyday lives and in our neighborhoods.
We want to relieve the police of bureaucratic tasks.
This will bring it even closer to the people and make it more visible.
We need more police officers on the streets and squares - both in the city and in rural areas.
We are also focusing on security through a stronger police presence on trains, in train stations and at airports.
Those who experience neglect, dirty green spaces or graffiti on facades do not feel comfortable and therefore not safe.
That is why we advocate clean localities and well-kept neighborhoods.
Expand video protection at public danger locations
Cameras with intelligent video security technology help our police officers deter offenders and solve crimes.
The key here is: more security and targeted data protection through modern technology that is efficient and innovative.
We will always have to re-evaluate the extent to which the individual's right to protection of his or her personal data can be reconciled with the constitutional mandate to ensure security for all people.
We want to further expand intelligent video protection at public danger spots such as outside and inside soccer stadiums, at train stations and other transportation hubs, and on buses and trains.
In doing so, we want to make even better use of the opportunities offered by digitization and artificial intelligence.
In order to improve the search for serious criminals, dangerous persons and terrorists, we want to create the conditions for automated facial recognition to be used at danger locations in Germany.
Consistently protect emergency forces
Police officers, firefighters, paramedics and other emergency personnel stand up for the safety of all of us every day with their work and often with their lives.
To better protect those who protect us, we will increase the minimum sentence for assault to six months in prison, and for insidious attacks to one year in prison, making it a felony.
If the offender carries a weapon or other dangerous tool, a sentence of up to ten years should be possible.
Police officers must not only be well trained, but also well equipped so that they can protect us and themselves well.
We therefore want to improve education and training and ensure the best possible equipment, for example through the widespread use of body cameras - also for operations in residential areas.
In this way, operational situations can be recorded in an evidence-proof manner, attackers can be identified and crimes can be prosecuted more easily.
We want to hold criminally responsible those who join a violent crowd and do not move away despite police requests, thereby protecting active perpetrators of violence.
In order to strengthen the backs of police officers and other emergency personnel as well as soldiers, we want to reorganize their claims for compensation for pain and suffering.
Even if they are insulted on duty, the compensation for pain and suffering awarded by the courts should be advanced by the state.
The state then recovers the money from the offender.
We want to examine the pensionability of the police allowance.
9.2.Full protection for children and women from violence and abuse
With sexual abuse, perpetrators inflict immeasurable suffering on children.
Child abuse destroys children's souls.
For us, child welfare and child protection therefore have top priority.
We stand for the fact that no perpetrator should feel safe, and we put victim protection before perpetrator protection.
We have already achieved a great deal here - such as, most recently, punishing child abuse as a crime with a minimum prison sentence of one year.
But this does not mean that the battle is won for us.
Fighting child sexual abuse in the strongest possible terms
We want to expand the use of electronic ankle bracelets for sex offenders.
Anyone who abuses children and young people must never again have contact with them in a professional or voluntary capacity.
This requires a lifetime entry in the extended certificate of good conduct.
We have succeeded in ensuring that providers must report IP addresses to the Federal Criminal Police Office if they are aware of sexual offenses against children.
In addition, Internet services must be obliged to pass on inventory data such as stored telephone numbers, e-mail addresses or credit card data to investigators if they become aware of child sexual abuse.
Finally, providers should be able to use the digital fingerprints of abuse images to track them down in their databases.
Punishing individual offenders more severely is not enough if, at the same time, a large number of other offenders cannot be identified.
We therefore want to work again to create a regulation at European level on the storage and retrieval of telephone numbers and IP addresses that complies with fundamental rights and enables the use of so-called data retention as the sharpest weapon in the fight against child abuse.
We are committed to swift progress on e-evidence regulations at European level so that investigating authorities across Europe can more easily access electronic evidence, such as emails or documents stored in a cloud.
Protect children preventively
We need a comprehensive legislative approach that focuses on the protection of the child.
Looking and helping is important.
To better protect children and young people from sexual abuse and violence, we need a large-scale education and awareness campaign.
We want daycare centers and schools to become central places of protection against sexual violence and to introduce mandatory sexual education protection concepts.
We will promote child-friendly complaints procedures
and suitable support services for traumatized children.
Regular screening examinations open up an opportunity to detect child sexual abuse.
In case of reasonable suspicion, cooperation between physicians and youth welfare should be improved.
We also need to better protect our children in the digital world.
We will promote their media competence and oblige telemedia providers to adopt better child protection concepts.
It is important to us that child protection becomes a compulsory subject for all those who work with children: in educator training, in social work studies, in pedagogy, in training for the family court, in psychology studies and in the training of pediatricians.
Children must be treated as gently as possible when they are victim witnesses.
We want the legal rights of child participants in proceedings, such as audiovisual examination of witnesses, to be respected and enforced.
Rigorously punish violence against women
We stand by the side of girls and women who have been victims of violence and all those who are threatened by it.
We must be committed to their protection as a whole society.
We need more transparency about misogynist crimes.
That is why we want these to be recorded specifically in the police crime statistics.
From this, situation reports must be drawn up and courses of action derived for the police.
Victims of sexualized or domestic violence should be offered the opportunity to have their evidence documented confidentially and in court without having to initiate an ex officio investigation.
Protect prostitutes more effectively
Despite clear prohibitions, pimping, forced prostitution and human trafficking still exist.
This state of affairs is unacceptable to us.
It is important to fulfill the state's duty to protect the weakest members of society.
as well as the guarantee of professional freedom.
We want to ban prostitution by pregnant women as well as adolescents under the age of 21 - with appropriate punishment for the johns.
We want to work towards greater regulation of street prostitution due to the particularly inhumane conditions that often exist there.
We will improve federal-state cooperation so that the Prostitute Protection Act can be enforced more effectively.
We want significantly stricter controls on the prostitution trade
and more intensive investigations into human trafficking.
We want to bring forward the evaluation of the Prostitution Protection Act.
Those who exploit prostitutes or are guilty of pimping should be able to be punished more severely.
We want to provide greater support for exiting prostitution.
9.3.No room for organized crime
Cooperate more closely across regions and agencies
Nowadays, criminals are often highly mobile; gangs have long been operating across borders, for example in home burglaries, trafficking in people, drugs and weapons.
We are responding to this in the fight against crime.
We want police and investigative authorities in Germany to cooperate even more closely across regions and authorities.
At the European level, too, we will counter organized crime, mafia and criminal clans through more effective cooperation - also with a view to EUROPOL and the perpetrators' countries of origin.
We will further expand the already improved cross-border police cooperation.
In order to further strengthen border searches in special risk situations, we have made it possible for the federal police to record license plates with automatic readers.
We want to allow checks to be carried out everywhere in Germany with the help of a situation-based dragnet.
This is important not only in border regions, but also on internationally important transport routes and in the vicinity of train stations and airports.
To this end, we want to extend the border corridor that has so far applied to the federal police.
Combating money laundering and skimming off the profits of crime
It must be clear to everyone: crime does not pay!
That is why we have already tightened the definition of money laundering several times and made it easier to confiscate criminally obtained assets.
We follow the principle of "follow the money" and start right where it hurts the criminals the most: with the money.
We want to combat money laundering even more consistently and regulate in a constitutional manner that a complete reversal of the burden of proof will apply in future in the case of assets of unclear origin.
Acquiring land by paying cash should only be possible by means of banks, which must first verify the identity of the buyer and the origin of the money as part of an existing business relationship; the same applies when exchanging cash for cryptocurrency and vice versa.
We will further strengthen the police powers of customs, the tax investigation unit and the financial control unit for undeclared work.
We are working to ensure that Frankfurt a. M. becomes the seat of the new independent EU authority for combating money laundering and terrorist financing.
9.4.Zero tolerance towards criminal family clans
Organized crime committed by criminal family clans poses a special threat to security - especially in many large cities.
With our zero-tolerance strategy and policy of a thousand pinpricks, we will further increase the control and prosecution pressure on criminal clans.
Preventing parallel societies
The state's monopoly on the use of force is non-negotiable for us.
We declare war on the segregation into criminal parallel societies with their own rules and jurisdiction.
Ongoing consistent and focused individual measures, such as recurring raids, must continue to systematically disrupt criminal clans.
You can't have a moment's peace.
In this way, we also show in the case of minor breaches of the law:
The state is there and will not be fooled!
Effective cooperation against clan crime includes investigating and evaluating across countries and agencies, improving the presentation of situational awareness, strengthening international exchanges, and developing a coordinated approach to handling operational situations.
Law enforcement and social services agencies, as well as school authorities when necessary, must be able to share all relevant data.
We have ensured that deported serious criminals and dangerous persons who return to Germany despite an entry ban can be detained more easily.
Many clan members have German citizenship.
However, to the extent that this is not the case, all measures under residence law with the aim of expulsion and deportation must be applied to criminal members.
Support exit from clans
Due to isolation and negative role models of criminal family members, children in clan families are often prevented from positive development.
This represents a threat to the child's well-being and requires protective measures.
We therefore need close contact with these families and their constant monitoring by the youth welfare offices.
Clan members who want to get out of their criminal environment get our help.
To this end, we want to set up targeted, long-term dropout and witness protection programs that offer the chance of a regular life in safety.
Young clan members and women in these families are particularly worthy of attention.
9.5.Protecting our democracy from extremists and terrorists
Germany is a tolerant and cosmopolitan country.
But no one should misunderstand tolerance and openness to the world as weakness.
Extremists and terrorists endanger our security and peace in our country.
Fighting them and defending our freedom and open society are two sides of the same coin.
Resolutely confronting every form of extremism
We resolutely oppose every form of extremism and racism, every form of violence and terror - regardless of whether they are right-wing or left-wing extremists or violent Islamists.
We reject any form of weakening of the Office for the Protection of the Constitution.
Right-wing extremism remains the greatest threat to our open society and free democratic basic order.
The fact that right-wing extremist, xenophobic and anti-Semitic crimes have increased is worrying.
We are committed to creating special police units for so-called "cold cases" in order to examine unsolved serious crimes with a possible right-wing extremist background for new investigative approaches.
Left-wing extremism that is prepared to use violence must be consistently countered.
Anyone who questions the state's monopoly on the use of force or openly calls for violence against the state, its institutions and its representatives should not expect leniency.
The same applies to those who do not respect the property of others or attack critical infrastructure.
We are ashamed of the growing anti-Semitism in our country.
It is the responsibility of all of us to resolutely confront anti-Semitic hatred.
We must clearly name and combat anti-Semitism - regardless of where it comes from: from the far right, the far left or from immigrant milieus.
We stand with all conviction for Jews to always have a home in Germany, to live in safety and to practice their faith.
We want to strengthen exchange between Germany and Israel at all levels of society - in particular with a German-Israeli youth organization and more scholarship programs.
We will not tolerate Islamophobia in our country, nor will we tolerate antiziganism and other racially motivated devaluations of groups.
This form of hatred that spiritual arsonists want to spread is directed against all of us and against what holds us together.
We will fight them with all constitutional means and will not allow them to threaten our country.
Islamism is an extremist political ideology.
We fight him with the full force of our constitutional state.
This fight is for those who incite hatred and violence and strive for an Islamist order in
which there is no equality between men and women,
no freedom of opinion and religion,
and no separation of religion and state.
It applies to those who fight our basic democratic order,
reject Israel's right to exist,
endanger domestic peace
or violate law and order.
We will ensure that the ideological basis of Islamism is looked at more closely.
We do not tolerate any kind of retreat in the process.
Similarly, we want to create more transparency among foreign donors to mosques in Germany.
We want to strengthen the defenses of our democracy with legal regulations.
In the future, the German Bundestag is to receive regular reports on extremism from the federal government, which will shed light on developments in society as a whole with regard to hostility to democracy, anti-Semitism and racism.
Combating hate and incitement on the web
Freedom of expression is part of democracy.
Social media are important platforms for the exchange of opinions and democratic decision-making.
In this context, inflammatory slogans on the Internet are not protected by the constitutionally guaranteed freedom of speech.
On the contrary, they prepare the ground for further brutalization of language
as well as political debate
and contribute significantly to the radicalization of individuals and groups.
The spiral of the brutalization of language
We want to break through the barriers between the rule of law and political debate - with all the means available to a defensive constitutional state and a self-confident democratic society.
We want law enforcement investigations into particularly serious cases to be able to be initiated without charges being filed, if necessary.
We need a variety of preventive instruments
as well as free assistance for those affected.
Victim advocates are to be appointed to deal with particularly serious cases, and psychosocial support is to be provided for traumatized victims.
Freedom of expression must be actively balanced with the protection of personal rights and other legal interests.
The virtual domiciliary right in the terms of use of the service providers must not be used to influence the formation of political will as the core of democracy.
To this end, we want in particular to adapt the law on general terms and conditions in the Civil Code in line with the constitution.
Prevent radicalizations
Wherever isolation and intolerance run rampant in our society, the breeding ground for radicalization is created.
Preventive measures must therefore start as early as possible and in the immediate personal environment.
We want to use targeted educational work to ensure that everyone can recognize problematic developments in their personal environment at an early stage and react in good time.
Because enlightened and self-confident citizens are the strongest protection for our democracy.
Schools and clubs in particular, i.e. places where young people spend time outside their families, as well as social networks, play an important role in this.
Focusing on social networks is therefore one of the central tasks of the Office for the Protection of the Constitution, especially with regard to self-radicalized individual perpetrators.
Through intensive prevention work in prisons, we want to specifically prevent people from becoming radicalized there and being recruited for terrorist organizations.
We must not give up on people who are in an extremist environment.
We are committed to counseling those who have already radicalized or are considered at risk.
Anyone who wants to leave an extremist scene must receive concrete help.
We want to systematically evaluate, professionalize and standardize the federal government's prevention programs against extremism.
We want to reintroduce a democracy clause.
Recipients of funding must make a clear and explicit commitment to our free democratic basic order.
Use all instruments necessary to counter extremism
Whenever possible, all necessary instruments are to be used to combat extremism.
These include bans on anti-constitutional organizations and associations, bans on symbols of hatred and terror, entry and residence bans, expulsions, deportations, and forfeitures of fundamental rights.
We will ensure that dangerous persons are monitored using all legal means.
The human resources for this cannot be expanded at will.
That is why we will also use all technical possibilities for effective monitoring - such as the electronic ankle bracelet - and advocate for appropriate legal foundations.
We want to create the possibility of placing radicalized dangerous persons in preventive detention as soon as they come to the attention of the criminal justice system and thus demonstrate their willingness to use violence.
For example, anyone who trains to be a terrorist abroad is a great danger and belongs in prison.
We therefore want to use preventive detention for first-time offenders.
We want to make soliciting sympathy for criminal or terrorist groups a punishable offense again.
Weapons do not belong in the hands of extremists.
For this reason, we have introduced a regular query by the weapons authorities with the Office for the Protection of the Constitution and created the legal basis for membership in an anti-constitutional association to lead to unreliability under weapons law.
We want to continue along this path and facilitate the exchange of data between authorities.
We want to make it possible for judges to issue a blanket, lifetime gun ban directly upon the conviction of an extremist offender.
We want to significantly increase the minimum penalty for illegal arms trafficking.
In the future, it shall be punishable by a term of imprisonment of not less than two years.
Democracy thrives on controversy.
Democracy requires criticism.
And democracy can tolerate protest.
But the line is crossed when local politicians and other representatives of the state are attacked.
For us, the motto is: "Stop the beginnings.
We will not tolerate people who volunteer for political offices being intimidated or attacked by enemies of the constitution.
9.6.Strengthening our security agencies
We have massively strengthened our security authorities in terms of personnel, equipment and strategy.
We are consistently pursuing this path.
Intensify cooperation between safety authorities
The Joint Counter-Extremism and Terrorism Center (GETZ) has proven its worth as a platform for cooperation and communication.
The Joint Counter-Terrorism Center for Combating Islamist Terrorism (GTAZ) also stands for successful cooperation and division of tasks between the Office for the Protection of the Constitution and the police as well as the federal and state governments.
We will further intensify the cooperation of all security authorities and constantly adapt it to current challenges.
In particular, we are concerned that the joint tasks of the Federal Government and the Länder in dealing with dangerous persons should also be carried out jointly.
Cooperation between the federal and state governments must also be further improved for low-threshold challenges.
For example, politically motivated offenders who are known to the police and change their place of residence must be able to be automatically transferred to the relevant state protection agency.
Effectively shaping powers for the digital world
We will continue to fight for the security authorities to be given the powers they need to effectively investigate an attack.
After all, there must be no technical lead between those who plan attacks and those who are supposed to prevent them.
The powers of the police and the Office for the Protection of the Constitution must be as effective in the digital world as they are in the analog world.
If a court order allows telephone surveillance or a search of a home, the same must apply to encrypted messages and telephone calls, to the digital office on the computer or laptop.
We want to adapt the requirements for source tapping and online searches - both for danger prevention and law enforcement - throughout Germany so that these instruments can be used in a legally secure and effective manner.
When danger threatens, our authorities must be able to identify suspects quickly and reliably.
The federal and state governments must work more closely together and provide common software for a common legal framework that can be quickly deployed.
If threats, the perpetrators' modus operandi or the technical framework change, intervention powers must be adapted.
This also includes using the possibilities of artificial intelligence to identify and counteract structures at an early stage.
Data generated in the course of investigations can thus be evaluated better and in a more targeted manner.
Dry up terrorist financing
We will ensure that the financing of terrorism - both nationally and internationally - is combated more intensively.
The Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) must be significantly strengthened and enabled to uncover and dismantle terror financing networks and crimes committed by internationally active gangs.
This requires reconnecting them to the Federal Criminal Police Office.
In view of the terrorist threats, all state forces - including the Bundeswehr - must be able to be deployed in an emergency to protect the people of Germany.
In particularly dangerous situations, it must be possible to use the specific capabilities of the Bundeswehr in support of domestic operations in order to deal with terrorist threats - under police command and within defined limits.
We will continue to rely on joint interdisciplinary exercises by the police forces of the federal states, the federal police, and non-police authorities and organizations with security tasks.
9.7.Security in cyberspace
Responding to dynamic developments in cyberspace
Our basic supply of water, electricity and telecommunications and many other highly sensitive processes run via networked IT systems that are under continuous attack.
The methods of attack are becoming more and more sophisticated.
That's why we need resilient IT infrastructures and networks.
For us, what is forbidden in the analog world must also be forbidden in the digital world.
Cybersecurity is not static.
A level of protection today does not guarantee successful defense against the attacks of tomorrow.
We will therefore continually assess what is needed to respond appropriately to the dynamic developments in cyberspace.
Ultimately, this also means that we must be able to actively address the cause of serious cyber attacks in order to put an end to them.
We will create the necessary legal regulations and our own technical capabilities for appropriate active measures.
Strengthen information security and cyber defense
Close and trusting cooperation between the federal and state governments is an indispensable prerequisite for effectively meeting the challenges in cyber security as well.
To further deepen cooperation between the federal and state governments, we will expand the Federal Office for Information Security into a central office for information and cybersecurity issues.
It is to form a strong third pillar of the cyber security architecture alongside the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution and the Federal Criminal Police Office.
We want to further develop the National Cyber Defense Center so that it can coordinate a nationwide defense against threats and attacks in complex damage situations.
We need to invest more money in protection against cyber-attacks in IT procurement projects.
We therefore propose that in future a certain proportion of the material resources for federal IT projects be spent on information security ("cyber quota") in order to ensure secure digitization.
Advancing cyber security research
We want to strongly promote cyber security research in Germany.
Cyber security "Made in Germany" must remain a trademark.
We want Germany to become the world market leader for secure IT solutions and an attractive location for innovative cybersecurity companies.
This includes leading encryption technology and security-by-design solutions to make hacker attacks impossible, as
well as non-discriminatory algorithms.
This is the only way we can achieve the goal of Digital Sovereignty.
We want transparent certification of IT products that people can trust.
To this end, we want to equip the Federal Office for Information Security in such a way that it can compete internationally as a central certification and standardization body.
Better protect business from cyber attacks
We will create structures that will allow business to increase their protections against cyber-attacks.
This applies in particular to small and medium-sized enterprises, from craftsmen to hidden champions.
It is precisely these companies that are still insufficiently sensitized and protected today, although they are coveted targets of attack by international competitors, foreign intelligence services and criminals because of their innovative and economic power.
The economic damage caused by this is immense - up to and including insolvency and the associated loss of many jobs.
To better advise and support these companies, we want to further expand the role of the Federal Office for Information Security.
To support small and medium-sized enterprises even more effectively in strengthening their IT security, we want to examine further tax incentives, such as faster depreciation options for investments in IT security.
We want to further simplify applications for funding programs to raise awareness and provide support, and speed up application procedures.
9.8.Effective population protection
Safety also means helping people in elementary need.
To this end, we want to further strengthen civil protection and disaster relief.
We need a national disaster management strategy to make Germany more crisis-proof.
Strengthening and closer networking of civil protection
We need a reliable framework for nationwide crisis scenarios.
The next crisis may have its origins in climate change, be triggered by extreme weather events such as droughts, drinking water shortages, forest fires or floods, or be the result of cyberattacks or disinformation campaigns.
The distribution of responsibilities among various federal ministries, states, cities, districts, municipalities, relief organizations and the Federal Agency for Technical Relief (THW) enables a targeted response to developments both nationally and regionally.
At the same time, it is precisely in this web of responsibilities that functioning 360-degree situational information, established joint communication routines, good coordination and joint decision-making are the key to success.
Our federal system for civil protection in Germany is efficient, flexible and available throughout the country.
However, today's requirements are different than in the past.
We therefore want to develop new criteria for a cross-state disaster situation and establish modern civil protection between the federal and state governments.
We want to create a joint platform for closer networking and interlinking of all actors in civil protection at the federal, state and local levels, as well as aid organizations, based on the model of the federal and state defense centers in the area of homeland security.
We want to further expand the Federal Office of Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance so that civil protection can work together more closely than before in an integrative network of all actors.
Close cooperation between domestic and public health authorities is particularly important in the case of biological threats such as pandemics or bioterrorism.
That is why we want to strengthen the Federal Office of Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance and the Robert Koch Institute in their cooperation and in their respective coordination functions in legal, personnel and technical terms.
This applies to risk analysis, pandemic planning, and coordination of situation response.
As a lesson learned from the Corona pandemic, we want to create a new National Health Protection Reserve for critical medical supplies - such as personal protective equipment - and secure it legally and financially for the long term.
The same applies to the THW logistics centers that are currently being expanded.
The Federal Office of Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance will serve as a central information platform on national stockpiles of energy, water, health, and food.
Modernize warning media, strengthen non-police emergency response
We want to close blind spots in the warning system so that people in our country can rely on a well-positioned and reliable warning system in crisis and danger situations.
We want to make the warning media modern and targeted.
To ensure that warnings continue to reach the right audience quickly in the future, the warning mix of digital and analog media must be continually adapted.
This includes exploring the use of cell broadcasting technology as a complementary multiplier in the warning media mix.
With regard to so-called non-police security, we are focusing on an investment program to transfer the successfully managed growth of the federal security authorities in recent years to this area as well.
We want to equip aid organizations and fire departments so that they can respond even better to major incidents and long-lasting operations.
Unbureaucratic aid programs must be made available quickly for people and regions affected by disasters.
Accident care and emergency services only work in close cooperation between the federal government, states, cities, counties, municipalities and local volunteers.
Fire departments, the Federal Agency for Technical Relief (THW), rescue services and independent organizations are indispensable for our public services.
We want to maintain and further promote the proven system of nationwide fire and disaster protection.
Promote civic engagement, strengthen civil-military cooperation
The large proportion of volunteer forces not only represents an exceptionally high level of civic commitment, but also ensures a flexible system of efficient hazard prevention and assistance.
Those who work sacrificially and unpaid around the clock for the safety of their fellow human beings must be supported permanently.
They are role models in our society.
By offering further incentives, we want to inspire the many men and women who are already volunteering for safety to continue doing so in the future and to recruit more people for this task.
The people of Germany should continue to be able to rely on the Bundeswehr's specific disaster and civil protection capabilities to help them quickly and effectively in Germany - be it to provide assistance during snow or flood disasters or after major incidents.
For biological and pandemic emergencies - as well as other large-scale emergencies - we rely on regular exercises to improve coordination among federal, state and local health and safety forces.
9.9.Strong and citizen-centered justice system
A strong constitutional state requires a strong judiciary.
To be able to fight crime effectively, we therefore also need well-equipped, independent courts and efficient public prosecutors' offices.
People must be able to rely on the law being consistently enforced.
Our legal system applies to everyone who lives in our country - regardless of their origin or religion.
Our constitutional state does not tolerate parallel justice that seeks to supplant our laws and courts.
Accelerate criminal proceedings
A rapid response by the police, public prosecutor's office and courts in the event of criminal offenses plays a key role.
We want faster trials, where punishment follows the crime.
This must be especially true for delinquent youth.
Therefore, we want juvenile criminal proceedings to be accelerated and simplified.
Offenders between the ages of 18 and 21 should generally be punished as adults.
The application of juvenile criminal law must remain an exception in these cases.
Prioritizing victim protection over offender protection
Victims of crime suffer from their consequences for a very long time, especially in the case of violent crimes.
We therefore want to expand the information and participation rights for crime victims that have been incorporated into criminal procedure law in recent years and fill them with life.
We want to give victim protection greater weight in police and judicial training and continuing education.
We want to strengthen psychosocial process support and implement a legal right to free victim assistance.
We also want to focus our criminal law even more on victim protection and effectively remove intensive and repeat offenders from circulation.
In return, chain probation penalties are to be abolished.
If a custodial sentence is imposed again for a criminal offense within the current probation period due to an intentional criminal offense, this sentence may not be suspended again in the future.
Modernize our justice system
A modern judicial and legal policy must be comprehensible and service-oriented in order to be accepted by citizens.
We want to expand digital access options to ensure fast and cost-effective access to case law and legal advice.
This also includes swift and modern communication procedures.
We want to clear the backlog of modernization in our courts and create the same digital working environments for judges and public prosecutors as are common in the legal profession and the free economy.
We want to bundle the joint efforts of the federal and state governments in a pact for the digital constitutional state 2.0.
Conflicts and legal disputes can often be settled out of court.
We are therefore strengthening alternative approaches to solutions such as mediation and arbitration.
In this way, we relieve our judiciary of trivial matters.
10.New quality of life in town and country - for the love of our homeland
Our Union promise: We work for a good quality of life everywhere in Germany.
Whether it's a big-city neighborhood, a small town or a village, we respect and protect every form of home.
We are an open society in which everyone can realize their dreams - and no one should be told how to live.
For us, quality of life is not a question of zip code, but a universal mission that we take seriously because we are committed to creating equal living conditions throughout Germany.
In our modernization decade, we are addressing the challenges of the good life for people: from affordable housing in cities to new life in downtowns and village centers after the Corona crisis, from preservation of nature and economic development in all regions to good local supply and transport links.
Here, too, we are relying on a new way of thinking: We will not be able to solve all problems with more money.
Instead, we need a sensible mix of smart investments, new freedoms, fields of experimentation and incentive systems, and the strengthening of individual initiatives.
At the same time, we are committed to cohesion in society,
strengthening volunteerism and sports,
offering integration
and creating modern conditions so that culture and creativity can develop sustainably.
10.1.Good living in vibrant villages and cities
Our own four walls are our home, a very valuable asset.
The Corona pandemic has shown how important it is to have a home where you feel comfortable and have space to live and also to work there at least some of the time.
Enough housing in an intact environment is a goal of the CDU and CSU.
Where housing is expensive or lacking, as in many large cities, our motto is: build more, build fast, build modern and build affordable.
Where buildings are old, it is important to bring them up to today's standards and to renovate them for energy efficiency.
The desire for a home of one's own should come true more quickly.
A policy against single-family homes is against the interests of the people and cannot be done with us.
Create more affordable housing
The best tenant protection is and remains adequate housing.
We do not rely on legally questionable and inappropriate interventions, such as the rent cap, but tackle the problem at its root.
Rents can only remain stable if the supply of housing increases.
Our goal is for more than 1.5 million new homes to be built by 2025.
We are continuing our housing offensive
and focusing on a strong business sector,
good conditions and appreciation for our skilled trades and the liberal and planning professions.
As an investment incentive, we will extend the currently limited depreciation options for rental housing.
Those who create new rental housing will be able to deduct an additional five percent of the acquisition and construction costs from their taxes even after the end of 2021.
We will accelerate planning and approval procedures
and work with the federal states to remove obstacles to implementation.
We want to significantly reduce the number of building codes.
A building application for residential real estate should regularly be finally processed two months after complete submission of all necessary documents - otherwise it is generally considered approved.
We know: Space in major cities and metropolitan regions is finite.
That is why an honest construction policy also includes strengthening the surrounding area - especially through strong bus and rail connections as well as modern basic services.
Sustainable, affordable and age-appropriate construction
For us, sustainable and affordable construction means using environmentally friendly building materials and flexibly designating building land, but keeping land consumption low,
building barrier-free
and promoting social housing.
We want to promote building with wood and the use of recycled materials more strongly throughout Germany.
The construction industry should become a circular economy based on more domestic building materials - such as sand, gypsum and wood - and using recycled materials in building components.
We want to exploit the great potential of redensification, additions to buildings, additions and extensions, overbuilding of parking lots and supermarkets and brownfield development.
We will therefore step up brownfield development as part of urban development funding and promote redensification.
The Building Land Mobilization Act has made it easier for municipalities to designate building land and also to mobilize inner-city land.
We want to increase their options even further - while observing the principle of internal over external development - and give them even more flexibility.
We will continue to promote social housing construction and regularly adjust housing subsidies from 2022.
Housing must also be affordable for people with low incomes.
In the case of social housing, we will discuss with the states whether they should add at least one euro to every federal euro and earmark it for a specific purpose.
It is important to us that people are able to live in their own apartment, house or traditional neighborhood for as long as possible.
We will therefore support the necessary investments in age-appropriate and barrier-free conversion - in particular via KfW programs.
We want to mobilize more land for housing.
To this end, we will examine how landowners who make agricultural land available for building purposes can reinvest the income generated in the process in rental housing on a tax-privileged basis.
This is how we relieve the burden on cities and conurbations.
Renovate buildings for energy efficiency
The energy refurbishment of our building stock is a must.
This is the only way we can achieve the climate targets.
At the same time, tenants in particular must be protected from financial overload.
We take the housing associations to task.
In addition, we will further improve tax incentives for energy-efficient refurbishment, especially of commercial buildings and rented apartments.
Step-by-step renovation should be better promoted, as even smaller measures are important and effective.
We will promote "tenant electricity" and remove remaining obstacles - also to facilitate local associations.
Tenants should benefit from the energy transition just as much as homeowners.
Vitalize villages and cities
We want to preserve our city centers, district centers and local centers.
They must be redesigned after the Corona crisis and strengthened in their function as places of encounter and diversity.
Vibrant pedestrian zones, marketplaces and local retail make our cities worth living in.
At the same time, our retailers are facing enormous challenges with digitalization and e-commerce.
The Corona pandemic also represents a historic burden for them.
That is why we will forge a pact for the future of inner cities.
As an important part of the pact, we will launch an "Attractive Inner City" funding program in addition to the existing urban development programs, from which smaller cities and communities will also benefit.
With this, we want to make significantly more funds available, for example for the modernization of pedestrian zones or the conversion of arcades and retail stores.
Village and city center managers with relevant know-how should also be able to be promoted in this way.
We will develop smart city concepts
and launch a stand-alone program for more green spaces and natural diversity in the city.
We will also provide even greater support for village center redevelopment.
All age groups should be able to participate in public life in the middle of the village.
To this end, we will take a new look at housing in the village center for old and young,
promote the settlement of businesses and startups there with investment subsidies
, and support the expansion of multi-functional houses and village stores.
In rural areas, we will accompany the massive expansion of broadband
Promote co-working spaces for creative work.
In this way, we strengthen small towns, villages and rural areas and relieve the burden on urban centers.
At the same time, we are doing something for climate protection because many commuter flows are avoided.
Realize the dream of home ownership
Your own house and apartment are much more than living space; they are home, investment in the future and retirement provision.
We support all those who wish to own their own home.
People with normal incomes and families should also be able to afford home ownership.
We do not want a Germany in which only high earners can buy or build a house.
We will expand the KfW home ownership program for families.
Those who have children should benefit more.
To this end, loans, repayment subsidies or interest rate reductions should be staggered according to the number of children.
We will enable the federal states to grant an exemption from real estate transfer tax for the first-time acquisition of owner-occupied housing of EUR 250,000 per adult plus EUR 100,000 per child.
Prefabricated houses in modular construction style can be a means of combining individuality and resource efficiency in equal measure.
They therefore deserve more attention, especially with regard to the family home.
We will continue to promote the refurbishment of existing buildings
and a new conversion culture for more affordable housing
and breathe new life into old buildings.
Attractive lease-purchase models are intended to make it possible for young people with lower capital resources in particular to acquire residential property.
In this context, we are also looking into supporting cooperative housing models.
10.2.Equal living conditions and economic development in all regions
Achieving equal living conditions is a central task for a functioning society.
Many efforts are needed to achieve this - equal treatment of urban and rural areas in terms of digital infrastructure, strengthening our villages and towns in disadvantaged regions, new concepts for mobility, local supply and work, and further strengthening volunteerism.
Creating regions of the future: bringing urban and rural areas together
We have created an all-German support system for structurally weak regions.
In this way, we have laid the foundation for regions undergoing structural or demographic change to gain new strength and reinvent themselves.
We will continue to provide reliable support for structurally weak regions and rural areas and
invest heavily in infrastructure of all kinds there.
We want to further develop the "Joint Task for Agricultural Structure and Coastal Protection," which is funded by the federal and state governments, as an important funding instrument for rural areas and thus strengthen regional value chains in particular.
We will make model regions out of particularly structurally weak areas.
Here, we not only promote investment,
but also aim to reduce bureaucracy.
Those who invest can deviate from standards there that are not relevant to safety and the environment.
We will accelerate approval procedures.
Rural regions should be innovation spaces.
We want startups to be able to use vacant farm buildings and former stables.
This is expected to benefit companies in the green sector in particular, with new manufacturing processes for food or new agricultural methods, such as vertical farming.
We will remove obstacles in current building and planning law.
City and country must be thought together.
We will therefore increasingly tie federal funds to joint planning in the regions and allocate them to spatially meaningful planning alliances.
We are increasingly relying on regional budgets without thematic and organizational specifications.
In this way, we create space for the development of new ideas and pragmatic solutions on site.
Future East - Creating Opportunities for a United Germany
The Peaceful Revolution and German Unity have already celebrated their 30th anniversary.
In recent years, the citizens of eastern Germany have not only mastered a profound social and economic upheaval, but have also developed many regions into strong clusters in business and science.
We want to further strengthen this while also supporting rural regions.
We do not want to forget anyone, and we do not want our policies to lose sight of the special character of the people in the new federal states.
We want to drive forward international networking, especially to Central and Eastern Europe, and further strengthen ties with our neighboring countries.
Together with our Eastern European neighbors, we will be a strong Europe.
We stand by the agreed coal compromise.
The lignite regions, the energy companies affected, the suppliers and above all the employees can rely on us.
We will continue to locate further federal authorities in eastern Germany, especially in rural areas.
For example, we want to create a new digital training center for the Bundeswehr in the new German states.
With a focus on digitization, it is to be established not only as a training center, but also as an in-service training center for the Bundeswehr.
We will intensively expand the transport infrastructure to Poland and the Czech Republic with a special program and thus further strengthen our common border regions in the heart of Europe.
We want to use the good regional knowledge and neighborly experience of the new federal states in the border regions to strengthen scientific dialog and cooperation, especially with the neighboring countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
We will expand scientific relations with Central and Eastern European countries, for example by holding a regular science conference and establishing a German-Czech research institute.
In order to expand the innovation system on an international scale, the best scientific talent with an innovation orientation must be specifically promoted.
Together with the Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft and leading universities, we will promote a Joint Innovation Track for this purpose as a pilot project to further develop scientists towards a university appointment who combine academic excellence with an exceptional understanding of applied research.
This targeted promotion of young talent for the benefit of efficient technology transfer is to be tested in the new German states and, if successful, expanded nationwide.
We want to strengthen the Weimar Triangle France - Germany - Poland and promote understanding for each other.
That is why we will launch a youth exchange program between these three European states and provide incentives for new town twinning.
In this legislative period, we took a first step toward assuming a higher share in reimbursements to the pension insurance fund for entitlements from the special and supplementary pension systems of the former GDR.
In this way, we have eased the burden on the eastern German states.
In the coming legislative period, we want to take a further step.
The transfer of the Stasi files to the Federal Archives ensures that this aspect of the SED dictatorship will continue to be dealt with and researched on a permanent basis and that the tried and tested form of accessing the files will continue to be guaranteed.
The positioning of the Victims' Commissioner at the German Bundestag is an important milestone in overcoming the consequences of the dictatorship for those affected.
We want to explicitly promote and expand science and research on the SED dictatorship in the coming years as well.
Inspire people for rural areas and create jobs in the countryside
In many rural regions, workers are in demand.
Young people in particular, who have gone to the cities to study, are often unaware of the great opportunities in their home countries.
We will change that.
We also want to bring new skilled jobs to structurally weak regions with lighthouses in the countryside.
We support the nationwide establishment of home agencies.
They will actively court young people and families for rural areas and help local businesses find skilled workers.
We have already begun to decentralize authorities and research institutions and locate them primarily in eastern Germany.
In the future, we also want to shape structural change in the former coal regions in this way.
We will increase efforts to relocate educational, research and administrative facilities.
Likewise, companies, universities and associations are supported by our active structural policy to settle in rural regions.
Expanding tourism as an economic factor
Tourism is an important economic factor in the city and the country.
With the further development of the German government's national tourism strategy, we are creating the conditions for qualitative and sustainable growth in tourism.
We also take the tourism industry and tourism infrastructure into account when designing an all-German support system for structurally weak areas.
We are safeguarding the international competitiveness of German tourism by strengthening the foreign marketing activities of the German National Tourist Board.
Making villages and regions smart
Our claim is: Everything must be accessible from the village!
A good supply of all services of general interest, goods and services is possible if on-site offers, digital possibilities and good connections are brought together.
We are working flat out on gigabit connections and nationwide mobile connectivity, with 5G as soon as possible in the future.
Where the performance audit of companies to install fiber-optic lines fails, we will enable local authorities to drive forward broadband roll-out on their own.
At the same time, we will already be testing digital applications and creating framework conditions for their use in all areas of life.
We will develop integrated solutions for rural regions and implement them in "digital villages" as models.
With a new smart city and smart country strategy, we will support cities, municipalities and regions in digitization.
Ensuring good medical care in rural areas
The CDU and CSU's claim and goal is good medical care - regardless of age, place of residence or purse.
Together with the states, we will create 5,000 additional study places for human medicine
and at the same time increase the rural doctor quota in the allocation of study places above the current limit of ten percent.
To ensure that chronically ill and elderly patients receive good, continuous care, we are advancing telemedicine and using community nurses to complement traditional primary care.
We must make every effort to secure obstetric care close to home in rural areas and to expand nursing capacity.
Create the best transport infrastructure
Prosperity needs a transport infrastructure oriented to the needs of people, the economy and the environment.
Those who want equal living conditions must also recognize the diverse realities in urban and rural areas.
More and more people want to switch to trains or bicycles, but they also want to continue to be able to travel by car or bus - especially in rural areas - on good roads.
We are committed to the best infrastructure for our country.
We will maintain our transport network of railways, roads and waterways and continue to make it fit for the future.
To this end, we will extend the record level of investment we have achieved.
We will vigorously implement and further develop the National Cycling Plan.
We rely on well-developed and well-connected bike paths, bike expressways as well as more safety for cyclists and more parking facilities.
Where cities and villages are burdened by traffic, we will provide relief through smart traffic management and the strengthening of public transport.
However, we will continue to build local bypasses.
And where there is frequent congestion, we will expand our interstates and highways.
Less congestion means more climate protection.
At the same time, we are providing more noise protection along traffic routes and will review the noise limits.
Be sustainably mobile everywhere
People should be as mobile as they want to be: individual, flexible and environmentally friendly.
In doing so, we are just as concerned with the choice between transport options
as we are with the networking and digitalization of forms of mobility.
Mobility must be simple, flexible and comfortable for young and old - in the countryside, in the city and also for people with limited mobility.
Our goal is to ensure a basic public transport service that meets demand everywhere - including in rural areas.
We therefore want to create a nationwide minimum standard that gives everyone equal, barrier-free and easy access to public transport.
We will implement the "Deutschlandtakt" on long-distance and regional services.
The better informed people are about the services offered by transport companies, the more they will use public transport.
We therefore support the operation of digital, open, and non-discriminatory mobility platforms as the front door to all public transport services, including public transport.
We will take advantage of the opportunities offered by digitization for public transport and the networking of different modes of transport.
Real-time information with alternative recommendations for onward travel is a given, and complementary mobility services, sharing, scooters, cycling and walking must be integrated.
Attractive traffic concepts include a real interlocking between motorized individual transport and public transport.
We want to create mobility stations along important infrastructure
and form a backbone for sustainable mobility through networked path chains.
To this end, we will further develop existing Park & Ride offerings and, for example, integrate solar-powered charging options for cars, e-scooters and e-bikes.
Pooling services and on-demand stops are an important addition to public transportation, for which we have already created legally secure framework conditions and now want to advance the new mobility in passenger transportation.
We want to promote the sustainable design of mobility
and initiate developments through the establishment of real laboratories of future mobility.
In this way, urban districts and counties can test and experience what the mobility of the future will look like and what services we will be able to roll out across Germany in the future.
Germany is the land of ideas and innovations, of creative minds, initiatives, scientists, startups, industry and SMEs.
With the German Center for Future Mobility, we want to bundle and connect all of this.
Our specific aim is to strengthen the future viability of Germany as a mobility location, to
accelerate product developments, and to
generate enthusiasm for sustainable and innovative mobility - such as autonomous driving.
Protect all road users
Germany needs more cooperation between cycling, walking, public transport and motorized traffic.
Municipalities are to be given more leeway in the design of pedestrian and bicycle-friendly spaces and, for example, be able to designate bicycle priority routes.
Safety for all road users is our top priority.
The number of fatalities and serious injuries is expected to drop to zero.
In recent years, the number of traffic fatalities has already dropped significantly.
We will continue to drive forward and promote the introduction of driver assistance systems and automated driving functions to increase safety.
This is especially true for truck and car traffic.
Preserve creation
The conservation of natural resources, habitats and species is of central importance, also in order to promote biodiversity in Germany.
To this end, we want to preserve, further develop and better network our protected areas.
We will present a national biodiversity strategy based on the goals of the European Biodiversity Strategy and the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD).
We want to treat our soils with care.
We will continue to reduce sealing and promote the unsealing and reuse of already sealed areas.
Where use entails interference with nature and the landscape, we will review the compensation regulations of nature conservation and construction law and further develop compensation measures in such a way that they specifically promote biodiversity in the region.
In doing so, we rely on compensation integrated into agriculture, the qualitative enhancement of biotopes and the use of compensation payments for the maintenance and preservation of biotopes.
We will better protect endangered species on the Red List and their habitats.
To this end, we will continue to expand monitoring as well as research in order to better verify the conservation status of the species.
The biodiversity of our seas and coasts is a great treasure.
Therefore, it is necessary to improve the protection of the Baltic Sea, the North Sea and the Wadden Sea in accordance with the European Biodiversity Directive, taking into account fisheries.
We will introduce a national Climate Change Adaptation Act to provide for our existence and future in order to counter the consequences of climate change in the city, in the countryside and on the coasts, seas and in the mountains.
10.3.Strengthening cohesion and volunteering
The challenges ahead of us need strong social cohesion.
It grows out of social relationships, a positive attachment of people to the community, and a strong orientation toward the common good.
Our aim is to create an active civil society in which every individual can stand up for his or her fellow human beings and thus assume responsibility.
Promote honorary office
Civic, voluntary and honorary commitment is one of the central elements of a living democracy.
It is one of the essential foundations of social cohesion.
We have always promoted volunteering and launched new formats - such as the multi-generation houses, the Federal Volunteer Service and the German Foundation for Commitment and Volunteering.
The success speaks for itself: Today, almost one in three people over the age of 17 is involved in volunteer work.
The number of volunteers continues to rise.
We want to attract even more young adults to serve the community.
We want to further increase the attractiveness of voluntary services - for example, by adjusting the pocket money, offering a broad selection of opportunities and ensuring high quality - and introduce a legal entitlement.
More information about the opportunities for voluntary service should be provided in schools.
We will promote projects that support voluntary work and are also of particular importance in structurally weak and rural regions.
In addition to the activities of the German Foundation for Commitment and Volunteering, we will therefore support the establishment of contact points for volunteering in districts and municipalities.
They can advise the volunteers, facilitate their work and help with networking and qualification.
At the same time, we want to attract more senior citizens, people with a migrant background and people with disabilities to volunteer.
Understanding religion as a valuable part of our society
We consider it a valuable part of our Basic Law that it separates state and religion on the one hand
and allows religion to enrich our society on the other.
The churches and religious communities have provided an indispensable service to others, especially during the Corona pandemic, and have focused attention on those who had the hardest time during that time.
We are committed to the proven concept of religious constitutional law
and the cooperation model between church and state.
Religious freedom can only exist on the basis of the Basic Law, which gives expression to this freedom.
We have confidence in the potential of religion to transmit values and make an important contribution to the community.
The freedom of churches and religious communities to influence society must therefore remain inviolable.
We are committed to protecting Christian holidays as well as Sunday rest.
Religious education in schools is essential in this regard.
We stand up for the religious freedom of all people guaranteed by the Basic Law.
We understand this freedom of religion in a positive sense: religions should be a strong voice in the public sphere.
This includes regular exchange and dialogue with the various religious communities in this country.
We consider it important that imams preaching in this country are also trained in Germany and in the German language.
This facilitates integration.
10.4.Integration as the foundation of togetherness
Anyone who lives in Germany is part of our society.
It is important to us that migrant people can participate in all areas.
Their integration is also the prerequisite for social cohesion.
For us, integration consists of promoting and demanding.
A prerequisite for successful integration is a commitment to Germany's fundamental values and norms, its constitution, its laws, its institutions, its history, language and culture.
We have the expectation that people coming to us share our values, abide by our laws and speak our language.
Language is of paramount importance - for equal participation, but also for identification with our country and our culture.
We want to accelerate language acquisition and are increasingly relying on digital, flexible, and target-group-specific offerings.
Immigrants and their families from the European Union are also to receive better support through targeted information and language promotion measures in order to promote their move into skilled employment and the integration of the entire family from the very beginning.
For targeted early support, we consider a nationwide language assessment of children and the introduction of mandatory language support to be necessary.
We will support municipal integration specialists through a federal program and thus improve the counseling services in daycare centers and elementary schools in particular.
Women and mothers are underrepresented in integration courses and often face greater difficulties in labor market integration.
We want to support them in language acquisition through targeted digital offerings and promote them with low-threshold counseling services.
In this way, we also want to reach children better.
Improving opportunities for migrants
We want to make the labor market integration of migrants a success story.
The employment rate is rising steadily.
The many people with successful integration stories are important role models for successful integration.
We therefore want to further promote the recognition and transferability of foreign qualifications
and place particular emphasis on the labor market integration of women.
We are pleased about the willingness of migrant people to found a company.
With a temporary program, we want to impart knowledge about start-up steps, credit access and admission requirements in a targeted manner.
Equal opportunities should exist throughout society - in business, in education and also in the public sector.
We are encouraging more young people to choose a career in public service.
This also strengthens the identification of migrant people with our state.
Valuing displaced persons and ethnic Germans
We acknowledge the history of all Germans - including those who had to suffer a particularly severe fate as a result of the war.
The cultural heritage of the expellees and repatriates is a natural and valuable part of our identity.
Without the expellees, the reconstruction of our country after the Second World War would not have succeeded.
With their skills, hard work and cultural tradition, ethnic German immigrants are an asset to our country.
Expellees and their descendants, repatriates and German minorities abroad have built bridges of understanding in Europe.
A united, peaceful and strong Europe is a crucial foundation for the decade of modernization ahead.
The will of the expellees and ethnic German repatriates to understand each other and to shape the future is an important guideline for us.
We will strengthen the efforts of expellees and expellee associations to promote understanding and remembrance, cultural preservation and cultural work through future-proof funding.
It is also necessary to emphasize education and research in order to consolidate knowledge about this through modern methods of communication.
We will adhere to the legally guaranteed admission of ethnic German immigrants and continue to provide integration assistance.
We will take decisive action to counteract poverty in old age caused by others and disadvantages under pension law for ethnic German repatriates and ethnic German immigrants.
We want to continue to support the German minorities and ethnic groups in various countries in cultivating their language and culture.
It is important to us to strengthen the office of the Federal Government Commissioner for Aussiedler Affairs and National Minorities in a prominent position in the Federal Government.
We want to strengthen federal funding for the preservation of the cultural assets of expellees and refugees and for the promotion of scientific research in accordance with Section 96 of the Federal Expellees Act as an anchor point of expellee and repatriate policy.
10.5.Germany as a cultural nation
Culture is an important location factor.
But above all, it is one thing: it is an expression of humanity.
Culture creates identity, community and cohesion.
Cultural education and a vibrant cultural infrastructure are part of the everyday life of all citizens.
The opportunity to experience art and culture - whether broad culture or top culture - is a crucial prerequisite for equal living conditions throughout Germany.
We will consistently continue our successful cultural policy in the municipalities, the states and, above all, the federal government, with the involvement of the cultural associations.
We are doing everything we can to regain the high annual growth of the cultural and creative industries and their impressive economic dynamism that was achieved until the pandemic.
This industry, with its 1.8 million employees, stands for creative renewal like hardly any other, but also for cultural diversity and artistic quality.
In order to mitigate the effects of the pandemic, the "New Start Culture" program will be continued for all actors and disciplines.
We support culture in rural areas with funding programs such as "Culture in Rural Areas," the special program for the protection of historical monuments and the Future Cinema Program.
We are strengthening the cultural and creative industries and Germany as a film location, and thus not only culture
but also an important economic factor.
To this end, we will continue to promote film, music, literature, publishing and games, and will coordinate the funding instruments of the federal and state governments and the German Federal Film Board more closely.
The German language is a particularly important part of our identity.
We want to continue to promote and value it as a cultural, official and colloquial language.
We preserve our traditions.
For the CDU and CSU, cultural federalism in Germany, with its historically grown wealth of regional identities, is an enriching force of diversity that must be preserved.
We stand for the cultivation and preservation of old customs, traditional costumes and folk dances as well as native songs.
In particular, we will support amateur music and free ensembles.
The four national minorities in Germany - Danes, Sorbs, Frisians, German Sinti and Roma - with their traditions belong to the cultural diversity of our country, which must be preserved.
For this reason, existing subsidies are to be continued.
In the interest of sustainability, we want to do our part to ensure that cultural institutions, film productions or cultural events significantly reduce their ecological footprint.
The social security of artists is important to us.
We will therefore strengthen the social insurance for artists and provide better protection for artists and creative professionals by permanently expanding the protection provided by statutory health and long-term care insurance for self-employed non-artistic secondary employment.
In addition, we will examine how unemployment insurance for employees in the cultural sector can be further developed.
Keeping the culture of remembrance alive
The projects to preserve the culture of remembrance, to come to terms with the Nazi era and the SED dictatorship in order to raise the awareness of future generations against anti-Semitism, racism and extremism remain permanent tasks for us.
With the "Sites of German Democratic History" foundation, we will look back on great democratic moments at historical sites in order to strengthen the forces of civil society.
and strengthen the resilience of our democracy.
We want to expand the federal program "Youth Remembers" and bring eyewitness work into the digital age.
Provenance research, especially on the Nazi art looting as well as on cultural property confiscations during the SED dictatorship and colonialism, remains a focus of cultural policy.
Likewise, the protection of artists who are persecuted abroad and seek exile in Germany remains an important concern for us.
10.6.A modern media landscape
For us, free and pluralistic media are cornerstones of a responsible democratic society.
The further development of a diverse and sophisticated media system comprising press, broadcasting and online offerings remains a central component of our media policy.
We are committed to strong, independent public broadcasting.
We are committed to reforming the order to take account of technological progress and changes in user behavior.
We want to encourage and enable broadcasters to enter into stronger cooperations and create further synergies - also in the interest of the contributors.
We want to build Deutsche Welle into the strongest foreign broadcaster in Europe.
All citizens should be well informed about what is happening on their doorstep.
Subscription newspapers and advertising journals play a key role here.
We will develop targeted instruments to promote sales, further support and distribution, which, in addition to financial support, will also include facilitating the employment of delivery staff.
Setting the right framework for digital media use
In recent years, diversity of opinion has increased worldwide - due to the digital transformation, increasing media convergence, innovations and the associated higher reach.
At the same time, the unregulated advance of digital corporations has created risks: Opinion discrimination, manipulation, abuse of market and opinion power, or violation of privacy.
Modern and new regulations and control mechanisms are therefore needed.
Our goal is to strengthen the media and news literacy of all citizens.
We also want to raise the level of protection for young people on the Internet.
The large digital corporations must take responsibility and - where necessary - be regulated.
Citizens should be able to trust the accuracy of the news in the digital world as well.
Private and public audiovisual media offerings as well as journalistic-editorial content whose contribution is of value to the community should be easier to find on modern media platforms.
We will set the framework conditions so that the offerings of the arts and creative industries can be refinanced sustainably in the digital era.
10.7.Committed sports promotion
Sport and exercise strengthen health, social interaction, education, inclusion, integration and thus cohesion in our society.
Eight million people are involved in more than 90,000 sports clubs, making an indispensable contribution to the common good and a vibrant civil society.
Due to the pandemic, many children and adults have sorely missed their sports, and sports clubs and sports facility operators have been hard hit.
We will support sports development in all areas
and, above all, expand preventive health care.
Sports clubs should be able to get back to full speed.
Therefore, we will support them in retaining and recruiting new members.
We will sustainably reduce the renovation backlog at municipal and club-owned sports facilities and swimming pools, with a particular focus on energy-efficient renovation, accessibility and digitization.
We will provide greater support for the up-and-coming e-sports in Germany.
In order for sport to fulfill its social function, it needs committed trainers and exercise instructors.
We will provide tax incentives for their education and training,
as well as professional recognition.
We will also continue the programs against discrimination and racism.
and for integration and inclusion and promote them more strongly.
To combat sexual abuse in the context of sports, we will establish a central office for "safe sports" and strengthen existing prevention programs.
We will continue to develop competitive sports and offer our athletes a secure and value-based basis for their top performances.
To achieve this, we will establish even better training and competition conditions, modernize the base structure and professionalize the organization.
The control bodies for the fight against doping, manipulation and corruption are to be strengthened.
They must be more closely coordinated internationally and also controlled.
We support applications for major international sporting events in Germany.
These must be ecologically, economically and socially sustainable,
as well as meet with broad social approval.
