 E L E C T I O N P L A T F O R M O F T H E BULGARIAN SOCIALIST PARTY LET'S STOP THE DOWNFALL, LET'S RENOVATE BULGARIA * CHANGE * JUSTICE * SECURITY 1994 Dear compatriots, Pre-term parliamentary elections are giving a good chance to Bulgaria so that the country can overcome the crisis and alter the pattern of undergoing change. Opportunities are at hand to replace an erroneous economic and social policy which has brought degradation and sufferings. Now comes the time for change! The BSP calls forth the elections and it will be victorious for the sake of a new policy. The party shall do it with your votes and your trust! The hope of change for the better had never been dead during these three years after the last elections, but many illusions disappeared. Our people are threatened with poverty and instability. Crippled is the enterprising spirit of the citizens. The crisis is giving birth to criminal character never seen in the society before. Unimaginable incompetence and ill-intention are ruining industry that accounts for the economic strength of Bulgaria. Degradation and paralysis are suppressing the agriculture. Unemployment is on an increase. The prices are going up out of control. Enormous gap is dividing eight million Bulgarians into two parts - poor people and a handful of super nouveau riches. Fear is getting hold of millions of Bulgarians - fear for one's job ,health, home, children and future. We are able to stop this ruinous element! It is rooted in the restoration model of transition that had been imposed to Bulgaria at the end of 1990 counter to its national interests. This model only does service to the narrow-minded group egoism and inferiority complex to the "blue ruling top". It has contributed a lot to the compromizing of democracy and market economy. It has wasted out time, resources and trust which can not be easily restored in the difficult years to come. Prof. Berov's Government tried to get the country out of the muddle where it had been driven to. It succeeded in diminishing the confrontation and the zeal of revenge. But it was not able to perpetrate a real change in economic policy. The country actually needed a stronger Government but it had hardly been possible in the narrow framework of the 1991 election outcome. This autumn pre-term parliamentary elections will give a different answer - the correct one: THE BULGARIAN SOCIALIST PARTY IS A CONSTRUCTIVE FORCE Under the rule of Socialists Bulgaria will enjoy democracy and market economy. They will not imply ideological hatred and social egoism and will rely on good will, solidarity and responsibility. There will be neither serial "changes of the system" nor comeback to the blind allay experienced in the periods before five or fifty years. The BSP is seeking your trust of change for the better in your life. We are aware how to achieve this objective. We propose new, honest and achievable policy which can guarantee: PERSONAL SECURITY - putting under control criminal activity, reliable protection of life, of dignity and of individuals' property. PEACE ALONG THE BORDERS AND WITHIN THE COUNRY - worthy foreign policy, capable of restoring the state of respect towards us on the Balkans, in Europe and world-wide. HEALTH CARE - effective, up to date and available for all. WORK FOR YOUNG AND OLD ONES - restoration of production, encouragement of economic enterprising activity of the Bulgarian, chances for all by the means of social privatization. ROOF ABOVE THE HEAD - even for families worst affected by economic crsis. RIGHT TO FUTURE - free access to education and science for all young people regardless of their property status. SOLIDARITY - we are not going to leave alone nobody in these difficult times. We won't let unemployment, cold, hunger, loneliness and despair break down individual destinies of hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians. Social solidarity will be the other name of our state policy. The BSP is a party of realism. We understand the need of great efford so that the country can get out of the serious crisis. We can promise only things that can be achieved in the next four years. And we shall honour our promises. The Bulgarian Socialist Party deserves your trust! * For the sake of restoring production and working places! * For the sake of stopping the pauperization! * For the sake of individual and national security! CHANGE IN THE ECONOMY We, the socialists, will bring out Bulgaria on the desirable course towards social market economy. For the new parliamentary mandate we set forth four main economic objectives: Firstly: to transform productive recovery into a lasting economic growth with high rate of employment. Secondly: to curb the economic criminal character and establish clear rules for market relationships. Thirdly: to carry out structural reform in compliance with criteria of economic effectiveness and social justice. Fourth: to stop the decline in the real incomes of the population and lay the grounds for the beginning of its gradual increase. RESTORATION OF PRODUCTION Bulgarian production needs today a new industrial policy which combines the functions of the most suitable management, of restructing and of economic growth. We shall create conditions for stability of economic managers together with stronger requirements for professional competence and loyality to the owner, for clear and perspective bussiness programmes and their implementation. VIABLE ENTERPRISES that possess competitive products, a good technology base, qualified specialists and workers, original Bulgarian elaboration, an important place in industrial co-operation and in internal market will become the locomotion force for economic recovery. We shall ask every enterprise to present a clear vision on its future both in private and in state sector and to provide a concept of: -- financial and economic consolidation; -- technological and item oriented renewal; -- organizational and managerial upgrading. NEW MARKET POLICY is playing an important role for production recovery. We are going to restore part of lost traditional markets in the last few years and to seek new positions in other regions of the world by: -- measures that can expand the competitiveness of our goods; -- protection of the Bulgarian manufacturers from unfair competition and by introduction of economic measures applied by many advanced countries; -- state aid in financing the exports; -- prompt refunding of the tax credit with regard to the VAT in cases of export transactions. INVESTMENT RECOVERY will contribute to the general recovery of the national economy as a whole. Supported by companies' capital, budget funds received from the state and municipalities as well as by attracting foreign investments and concessions we shall open the way to recovery and later on to expansion and modernization of the productive base of the country. THE EXPANSION OF INFRASTRUCTURE CONSTRUCTION at a time of crises is one of the key issues of economic recovery and for creation of new jobs. This is the way how it should be tackled the issue of recovery, normal functioning and gradual modernization of electricity and water-supply, roads, transport and communications. There are good opportunities to achieve this purpose including the attraction of foreign capital and offers for current motor ways projects "West-East" and "North-South", tunnels, bridges on the Danube, airports, ports; telecommunication sites, residetial buildings, public utilities, water-supply. RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGICAL ACTIVITIES, badly damaged by the "blue broom" will be at least partially restored and left to service production. Bulgarian economic and technical intelligentsia is to recieve orders and opportunity for the revival and modernization of Bulgarian economy. PROTECTION OF THE OWNERS OF AGRICULTURAL PROPERTY Yet five years in succession the fields of Bulgaria have been producing more political passions than grain. Bulgarian agriculture has been almost completely ruined. OUR AGRICULTURAL POLICY suggests that Liquidation Commissions should seize to exist and give full account of its activities before owners and law. We shall finalize the restoration of the private property of the farming land in the way which preserves the benefits of mechanized agriculture. We are ready to start providing farming land to those who do not possess any, for the people with small amount of land and for the immigrants. We shall provide legal and economic framework for free choice of the productive forms - individual and family farms, co-operatives and joined-stock companies. We are going to find a just solution of the senseless war in which the owners and leaseholders of farming plots found themselves due to the policy of the Union of Democratic Forces. THE NEW LAWS - on protection of agriculture, land consolidation, land lease, privatization of processing enterprises as well as on facilitating participation of owners of agricultural property in new credit and insurance institutions and on promoting farming and collective production development. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCERS' INCOMES will be guaranteed by purchasing prices of grain, milk, meat, grapes and tobacco. We shall protect producers from the unfair competition of imported agricultural products. Benefical credits for agricultural development are to be provided within the framework of a special state fund. Effords will be made to set up a net of services for the owners of agricultural property. An active support for such a policy will save agriculture and will provide work and bread as well as more stable food supplies for the country. CLEAR-CUT RULES IN MARKET RELATIONSHIP We shall establish a financial order in the country. There will be no raise of tax rates. We shall prevent "blue monetarists" from imposing an indirect tax increase on the consumers at the expense of direct taxation of the companies. Measures are to be taken for improving tax discipline and for tangible increase of leviable taxes. TAX AND CREDIT POLICY will stimulate investments and economic recovery. We are to introduce tax and credit incentives for creation of new jobs and for technological innovation of industrial branches being of particular importance to the country as well as for growth of exports and for environmental protection. Incentives are stipulated to promote charity and sponsorship in the field of: -- health care; -- education; -- science; -- culture; -- sports. FREE MARKET PRICING has no alternative, however we won't let either abuse of the state of monopoly and artificially created deficit of goods or spongerly increased profit rates in sales and poor quality of goods. No abuse will be tolerated either as to the Bulgarian consumers who remain unprotected from foreign pressures. Transitions towards price levels and balances on international markets are to be gradually carried out while taking into consideration the effective payment in the country. There is a need to enlarge the range of goods and services with supervised prices and to provide strict control in the interest of the millions of consumers. OUR INCOME POLICY is pursuing the ambitious task - entirely in compiance with life's requirements - to stop the fall of real amount of the salaries and social benefits. Its growth may start at 1995 or in 1996 after a period of stabilization and economic recovery. More effective schemes will be used for income compensation with regard to the rate of inflation. More fair appraisal will be made to define income and property state as well as the right to social support. Ill-famed practice of treating both the poor and the rich rentier on an equal footing will be abolished. INCOMES BASED ON LABOUR AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP will not be curbed. We shall start filling the gap between payment in material production and in budgetary organizations. Qualified labour of the specialists and governmental officers in science, health care, culture, defence, internal security, central and local administration will be better paid. SOCIAL AND EFFECTIVE PRIVATIZATION We stand for mixed market economy based on three different forms of property - state owned, private and collective - which are equally treated by law and are engaged in a competition on the market. We support all forms of privatization but give preference to social privatization whose legal prerequisites we had defended in the Peoples Assembly notwithstandind resistance of other political forces. Social privatization gives an opportunity to all citizen of the country in lawful age to achieve individual and from there on social well-being on the basis of one's work, enterprise and good luck. Three generations of Bulgarian working men and women have built the national wealth with their own hands and each should receive his/her share in the process of its privatization. We shall carry out the first round of social privatization till the summer of 1995 and eventually end it in 1996. MARKET PRIVATIZATION wiil be accelerated too, however a shifted strategy wiil be applied. We won't let sell dirt cheap, bring deliberately to ruin enterprises to turn them into laundries of dirty money. We are trying to open new opportunities for the workers, specialists and economic managers so that they can acquire property in the respective enterprises. The staff or the leaseholders will be entitled to buy enterprises or shares of them without tenders and will enjoy space out payment and other benefits. Thus part of the national wealth will be transformed into a joint-stock property of the workers. THE TASK OF ATTRACTING FOREIGN INVESTORS is of a paramount importance for the country. We shall go on exchanging foreign debt for against property and in particular against environment protection projects. We welcome direct foreign investments which provide development of respective manufactures, creation of new jobs, access to foreign markets, new technologies and up to date management. An introduction of unified state policy with simplified procedures and incorruptible administration strictly abiding by the current law will contribute to this end. NATIONAL PRIVATE SECTOR OF INDUSTRY AND SERVICES will grow in the same, valid for all, legal and economic enviornment and on the basis of free market competition (not just a vicious symbiosis) with state sector. We won't let any kind of discrimination and foreign market aggression against the learning how to walk Bulgarian private business and particularly against small and medium-sized manufacturing enterprises. We guaranty the sanctity of restituted capital and we won't let any new expropriations. However, our taxation policy will encourage active entrepreneurship not parasitic rentier. BULGARIAN ECONOMY IN INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATION We shall make effords from the very beginning of 1995 to recapture at least part of the lost markets in the New Independent States, Central and Eastern Europe and Arabic countries. We shall expand trade with all our neighbours. Together with some other countries from Central and Eastern Europe, which may show interest, we shall make effords to create a zone of free trade. EXPANDING ACCESS OF UR GOODS TO WESTERN MARKETS will be key issue of the future intensive talks with the European Union. The future of Bulgaria lies in the unified European market. We shall keep going on preparing our country for further association with and joining the European Union. BULGARIAN RELATIONS WITH INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS will follow the course of intensive development. We shall maintain our positions among them with dignity, focusing on the national interests of Bulgaria. Right from the beginning of1995 we shall continue negotiations with the official creditors, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and G-24. We shall demand in a more categorical way on partial compensation of the damages inflicted by the UN embargo operations. We shall be cautious in our intentions to use new credits due to yet accumulated big debts. OUR POLICY OF INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL RECOVERY WILL CUT THE UNEMPLOYMENT TWICE JUSTICE FOR THE PEOPLE Humanism is the leading priciple in the social and cultural policy of the socialist party. The care for the people and their every day life, for their health and education make us look for and advance solutions in order to halt the decline in life standards and for getting out of the crisis in health care, education, science and culture. A BARRIER BEFORE POVERTY It is our political and moral duty to prevent a possibility some of our Bulgarian compatriots to live in poverty that may have ruinous impact on their health and threaten their lives. The struggle against poverty is not only a struggle against chaos and jobbery, but also against unemployment which has always been a personal, family and social drama. BETTER SOCIAL CARE NET requires along with money,aid in kind and services. We shall create work opportunities coming from the needs of some citizens to be assisted in person. We shall begin with improving the conditions at houses for social care and we'll develop new forms of social institutions. We shall introduce a tax concessions regime for the purposes of social charity. PROVISION OF MORE JOBS is our basic task. Along with our macroeconomic policy aimed at increasing the number of jobs, we shall also use system ofpart-time jobs and of retraining and redirection of long-term unemployed people. Financial preferences will open prospects for investments and initiation of activities and production lines in municipalities and settlements with high rate of unemployment, particularly along the border and in the mountains, namely in the worst-affected by the crisis agricultural, forest and mining areas. THE SEPARATION OF INSURANCE FUNDS FROM THE BUDGET can not be postponed any longer. During the new parliamentary mandate the socialists will carry out the legislative and organizational reform in the sphere of social insurance. Insurance system for old age, health problems and unemployment available in any other country with market economy will be developed on the basis of comparatively autonomous fund of mandatory and volenteer social assurance and insurance. OUR PENSION POLICY is just and realistic one. We offer guaranties for paying pension on a regular basis and for its actualization in due course in compliance with the rate of inflation and the cost of life. Our initial ambition is the average salary to surpass the current living standard and later on to improve its balance with the salary. The funds needed for these purposes will be raised by expanding the range of insured persons and by strict execution of the obligations of the employers to social insurance. SOCIAL PARTNERSHIP SYNDICATES are our natural partner in the social dialogue of looking for a solution of the social and economic crisis. They should freely carry out its activity both in state and private sector. Syndicates' protection of the labourers in the private sector, of the young ones, of the women and invalid people is a very important task for us. We won't let trade union pluralism abuse their rights. Legitimate syndicates and their lawful rights as well as the working contracts signed by them should be honoured by everybody. An election campaign in the syndicates will solve promptly all outstanding issues. SOCIAL PROTECTION OF THE YOUNG PEOPLE will be restored. We shall promote better conditions for employment, training, professional qualification and socio-political expression of the young people. The state and municipalities will promote propagation of attractive and necessary activities for leisure time, art, sports and tourism of the coming generation and the youth. We shall protect them from crime offence, prostitution, drug abuse and sects. All existing cultural, tourist and sports base should be used appropriately. SOCIAL EQUALITY OF WOMEN meets our unreserved support. We guaranty equality between sexes in the working process and entrepreneurshir, in gaining qualification and promotion in social and political life. Pregnant women and mothers with small children will enjoy a legal framework of their own for work protection and compensation and allowance rights. The amount of family allowances will grow proportionally to the minimal salary. We shall expand state regulation of prices of some children's goods and provide free drugs for socially weak families. INVALIDS will benefit from the whole range of really equal conditions along with the rest of the citizens at to their educational, professional, economic and cultural development. We shall provide the mechanisms which warrant free access to all spheres of society. Medical and social care and protection measures will be provided for them so that the invalids in need can carry out independent and worthy way of life. BULGARIAN TURKS, GYPSIES AND BULGARIANS OF MUSLIM RELIGION have been strongly affected by the economic changes. The rate of unemployment among them is very high. With their limited incomes they are often supposed to support large families. We shall open new working opportunities and part-time jobs for them in municipal economy. Those who want to work in the countryside will be given plots of land from the municipal land funds. We shall provide social aid for those, who are really in need. FREE MEDICAL CARE EVEN IN THE GRAVEST PERIOD OF THE CRISIS We offer available medical care for each and every Bulgarian citizen until the establishment of medical care insurance funds. THE SYSTEM OF SOCIAL HEALTH CARE will be financially guaranteed. The new cost rates of health care establishments are meant to stimulate mostly the quality of their activity. We shall dedicate our effords to the creation of opportunities for: -- an increase of the payment of medical specialists; -- an uncompromising struggle against corruption in health care establishments; -- a choice of personal and family doctor; -- an introduction of the insurance principle in the system of the health care financing; -- putting drugs pricing under state control; -- for a free drugs regular payment without bureaucratic delay. THE NATIONAL HEALTH PROGRAMMES are focused on the problems of the lonely and superannuated people, the patients suffering from grave and chronic illnesses, on reducing diseases of big social concern and children's morality rate. ALL FORMS OF MEDICAL PRACTICE can grow in favourable conditions in the interest of public health. Health of the Bulgarian should not depend on the thickness of his wallet. The society rather than the patient is much in debt with the Bulgarian doctor. AVAILABLE HOUSING Home is the basic necessity in any society. It is not simply the kind of good dependent on market mechanisms. Each family has the right to a home. BUILDING OF MUNICIPAL AND SOCIAL TYPE DWELLINGS for poor families and citizens will be stimulated through the credit regime. The same assistance will be given to those who want and can solve their housing problem by themselves. INTERESTS OF THE CITIZENS AFFECTED BY THE RESTITUTION will be warranted by law. The state should protect their rights of being tenants and bear their main housing expenses until the purchase, building or lodging of a new dwelling. CITIZENS WITH A LONG STANDING HOUSING SAVING ACCOUNTS will be protected much better by the law which war passed through the Parliament by the Bulgarian Socialist party long ago. THE DRAMA OF BULGARIAN CULTURE In times of hard ordeals or all-embracing uplift generations of Bulgarians have been ready to give anything for the prosperity of culture. Bulgarian speech and song have preserved national and historical memory, protected us from losing our identity and granted us proud self-conscience. Today our national culture is undergoing a drama against the deplorable background of degradation. High achievements and traditions are being destroyed, carefully developed institutions are in shambles, names of outstanding people are defamed, cultural links deeply rooted in Bulgarian tradition are being deliberately blown up. We shall stop this destruction. There can not be a true democracy in an envionment of cultural degradation. Accessibility to culture cannot only be a privilege of the richest. We shall again bring back culture to the people! THE PROTECTION OF NATIONAL CULTURE AND BULGARIAN LANGUAGE will be our priority. We shall propagate national democratic traditions in the field of literature, music, cinema, theatre, fine arts, amateur art activities, the Bulgarian book and press. LARGER SHARE OF THE STATE BUDGET should be allocated to culture development. We shall widen up the opportunities for out of budget financing and relief of expenses of cultural offices by: -- tax concessions on sponsorship and patronage; -- legal protection of monuments of culture, affected by restitution; -- encouraging different cultural funds and programmes. THE CULTURE OF POPULATED PLACES will be maintained and developed through laws and other regulations related to community centres, libraries, cultural homes, theatres, amateur art activities, museums, exhibition halls, public cinemas, orchestras, festivals and other autonomous local initiatives. SOCIAL STATUS OF THE CREATIVE PERSONALITY wiil be guaranteed by: -- concrete actions against unemployment amongst creators of the culture; -- contemporary pension insurance, related to the specifics of artistic work. EDUCATION AND SCIENCE - RIGHT TO FUTURE Breaking the deadlock of economic and moral degradation and preservation of Bulgarian statehood and national dignity are unthinkable without qualitative education and powerful science. UNIFIED NATIONAL STRATEGY for protection and propagation of education and science should be worked out and applied on the basis of social consensus. We need an educational policy free of old and new ideological prints, facing the national traditions and European standards. FREE TO ALL EDUCATION will be guaranteed by free of charge education to the students and to the widest possible range of higher education students. The Bulgarian Social Party will provide: -- state support for socially weak students; -- establishment of state fund in order to give credits to graduates, higher education students, post-graduate students under favourable conditions; -- encouraging flexible forms for getting wider training and qualifications beyond educational minimum. TAX CONCESSIONS for educational and scientific activities, for sponsorship and patronage will be widely applied. The BSP will guaranty payment of teachers above the average level for the budgetary sphere. NATIONAL POTENTIAL OF BULGARIA that has proved its qualities before the world must be preserved. The BSP stands for consolidation and development of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, of the Academy of Agriculture and other national and branch scientific institutions. There is a need for structural reforms with clear-cut goal rather than unshaped chaotic changes, justified by foreign models. The BSP stands for urgent legislative changes in the area of education which can regularize: -- statute of higher education institutes; -- unified norms of accreditation; -- liquidation of the Supreme Certifying Commission as an out of date institution. SHAMEFUL REPRESSIVE LAWS against scientific community will be abolished immediately. Scholar's effort should be measured only by professional criteria. High prestige and social status of teachers, university lecturers and scholars should be restored. SECURITY OF THE STATE Bulgaria is passing through difficult times. Law abuse is an everyday practice. Police is often powerless before arrogant criminals. Party bias is coming back to some courts. By means of demagogy, purges and brutal pressure the work of many offices of the National security comes to a standstill. Statehood is in crisis. Our aim is to transform Bulgaria into a democratic and legal state where laws are abide by, judges are taking just decisions on cases before the court and the criminal nature is held under control. Constitutionalism will be defended. We shall guarantee human rights in accordance with international standards. We shall preserve parliamentary identity of our republic. We shall revive public confidence in multiparty democracy. In the new Parliament the BSP will advance motion for changes in the basic law in order to curb authoritarian trends in the political system. STRUGGLE AGAINST CRIMINAL NATURE Wave of unprecedented criminal character has been flooding the country for four years in succession. Everyday is bringing us killings, thefts and violence - a really congeal picture. Organised crime becomes ever more brazen-faced. The "blue democrates" have turned to be patrons of lawlessness. They undermined the authority of the organs of order and encouraged vagabonds to openly trample the law. With there political orders they humiliated the courts, prosecution, investigating authority and police. They brought us back to the times when laws had been violated by the authority itself. We shall bring to an end this lawlessness. The backbone of the organised crime can yet be broken. Street violence can be stopped. And corruption - punished. AN EFFECTIVE STATE POLICY OF STRUGGLE AGAINST CRIMINAL CHARACTER is only possible if the effords of the legislative, executive and judical power, of mass media and of broad public oppinion are channelled in one direction. This can be done under the current laws. DECISIVE ACTIONS AGAINST CRIMINAL CHARACTER will be backed by legislative means. The BSP will insist on introduction of a new punishment - "life in the prison without the right to be pardoned" for extremely grave crimes. We shall restore mandatory preliminary arrest for persons who committed grave deliberate crimes. We shall guaranty quick and of the investigation process and acceleration of a legal procedures. Police will take part in the investigation of the crimes. It will be materially assured, prepared and fully-equipped with staff. Public order in the cities and villages, in the streets and on the roads will be restored. ECONOMIC CRIMINAL CHARACTER is today even more intolerable due to its irresponsible politization even at the highest state level. It will be altered by better laws, political stability and responsible administration. We shoulnd't delay for a single moment the necessary measures against this social evil: -- unconditional ban on simultaneous managing of business functions, in private and public sector; -- severe penalties on those hiding incomes and not paying taxes, for deliberate pushing of enterprises towards debt traps, damages and bankrupts, for negligent and faked accountancy; -- legal control on the origin of bank capital and on bank, exchange, foreign currency and fund transactions particularly abroad; -- decisive measures of legislative, executive and judical power against plunder of Bulgarian foreign assets, outflow of capital abroad, and getting money into the country, acquired by criminal means. ORGANISED CRIMINAL CHARACTER can and should be cracked down. Any kind of political speculations regarding this issue is irrelevant. The power will make effords towards revealing all the structures that support organised criminal character, icluding companies, syndicates and parties. The law will be applied in its full strength so that Mafia should be desrtoyed. EFFECTIVE AND UNCORRUPTED ADMINISTRATION. We shall make state administration more competent, more democratic and more economical. THE CLOSURE OF DUPLICATED AND UNNECESSARY UNITS will reduce bureaucracy. We favour prompt building of a new modern system of institutions of state control co-ordinated with a new economic and political system and first of all the establishment of a new Chamber of Accountancy. SECURITY OF THE CIVIL SERVANT will be restored. We shall put an end to the spiral of purges in administration. We shall arrange by law professional statute of civil servants. We shall fix accurately conditions and limits of direct participation of the officials of state administration in the management of state-owned and municipal property. Civil servant should be highly competent, honest and provided for. STRUGGLE AGAINST CORRUPTION is becoming ever more difficult with every passing day. There is more evidence that the vicinity of the state power is likely to absorb considerable amount of different formally non-specified interests. We stand for expanding the excess of different social, professional and other organizations to public institutions but at the same time we demand clear manifestation of their interests. It is an obligation first of all of the organizations themselves to facilitate public control on these contacts. An abuse with these contacts should be prosecuted according to the law. STRONG LOCAL SELF-GOVERNMENT, STATE SUPPORT FOR THE REGIONS The Bulgarian Socialist Party stands for municipality and settlement development, for local self-government consolidation and oppose the trend of their further pauperization and loss of identity. PERSONAL INCOME SOURSES in municipal budgets should be guaranteed. This will enlarge municipal potential for providing independently normal life standards for the people. We shall put an end to current financial policy that made municipalities fully dependent on state subsidy. We shall create legal conditions for protection and augmentation of communal property. DIRECT CITIZENS'PARTICIPATION in the local affairs management and control will be arranged by a law where the range of questions is defined to be answered at a local referendum or at a general meeting of the local residents. We withstand ceaseless taking away of the functions of the population in the settlements and municipalities by the central power. We shall restore the self-governing in big cities, disrupted by the Union of Democratic Forces through council elections held directly by the peolple from different districts of Sofia, Plovdiv and Varna. ACTIVE REGIONAL POLICY OF THE STATE will provide balanced and sustained development of the regions and adequate use of their resources. We shall introduce: -- incentive system for regions allocating state investments there; -- adequate tax policy; -- regime of tax concessions. REGIONS WITH SPECIFIC PROBLEMS - mountaineous areas, hilly regions, sites along the borders and the coast line, underdeveloped localities - require special attention. Appropriate state programmes for its development should be gradually restored. BULGARIA IN CONTEMPORARY WORLD -- CONFIDENT, SOVEREIGN, RESPECTED Without war - our army is now in a dilapidated state - this is the result of the negligence of three successive governments towards the most essential necessities of the army. Armed forces have no funds, officers are being humiliated, lads under shoulder strap are misunderstood by society. And all this happens at a moment when so close to our borders there is a war going on, the bloodiest in Europe since decades. WELL-SUPPLIED AND WELL-TRAINED STRONG ARMY - this is the reliable guaranty for the national security today. We shall do everithing possible and we are confident - the society will support us - that the army wiil receive all that is necessary so that it can fulfil its duty before the Fatherland. The prestige of Bulgarian military officers and the whole army should be restored. A NATIONAL MILITARY POLICY should be worked out and approved by consensus. Within short period we shall approve a doctrine of national security of the Republic of Bulgaria, military doctrine and the agreed upon the text of Defence and Armed Forces Act, whose passing through the Parliament is deliberately hindered. INTERNATIONAL GUARANTIES FOR THE NATIONAL SECURITY are to be seek in further rapprochement and association of the country in the European, Euro-Atlantic and world structures of security and through the "Partnership for peace" initiative. WORTHY FOREIGN POLICY BULGARIAN NATIONAL INTERESTS should be reliably protected by our foreign policy. They must warrant peace and security of the state, be able to win a worthy place for Bulgaria in international relations and contribute to the overcome of the crisis and to the furthering of democratic reforms in the society on the basis of human values and principles of international law. The foreign policy should not be a subject to struggles among the parties and should be placed on a broader national agreement as to its essence, goals and tasks. Energy, balanced attitude and high professionalism will become inalienable characteristics of Bulgarian diplomacy. MAYOR INTERNATIONAL TASK of ours at the moment is prompt integration of Bulgaria in the European and Euro-Atlantic structures - political, economic, military. Indivisibility of the continent requires the build up of all-embracing European security system, removal of all barriers on the way of all-European co-operation and not letting new division. BALKAN POLICY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA can not be featurless and second rated. The halt of military yugo-conflict and gradual achievement of complete lift of the yugo-embargo, non-participation under any circumstances in military activities on the peninsula, propagation of bilateral relations and new impulses for all-Balkan co-operation are viewed by the BSP as major confidence and security prerequisites on the Balkans. The party will go on with her effords to seek compensation for the damages being a result of the strict sanctions application. Together with the other Balkan countries and on the basis of good neighbourliness we are more in a position to shape our destiny. OUR MORE ACTIVE AND BASED ON EQUAL FOOTING RELATIONS with Russia and the USA, with mayor countries, particularly in Europe and with the world centres of power are serving the interests of Bulgaria. The restoration of Bulgarian positions in Central and Eastern Europe, in the New Independent States, in many countries of Asia, Africa, and Latin America is of key economic importance. SPIRITUAL UNITY OF ALL BULGARIANS IN THE WORLD and support by the state for any applicant seeking Bulgarian citizenship, education and walk of life will receive a new impulse. DETACHED AND INDEPENDENT FOREIGN POLICY is possible and necessary. By means of realistic, consistent and pragmatic international behaviour it will win a worthy place and a role of its own in international relations. Bulgarian socialists entirely reject a kind of behaviour that offences the prestige and interests of the state. The BSP is determined to provide pragmatic and successful foreign policy for the country. DEAR COMPATRIOTS, When we take the government of the country we shall rely not only on those who have supported us by their votes, but rather on all ingenious and industrious Bulgarians. Breaking the deadlock of the crisis, setting up democratic, social and legal state, modernization of Bulgarian society at the eve of the third millennium are impossible tasks to be acheived without conscientious participation of all citizens of Bulgaria - workers and entrepreneurs, intellectuals, farmers and traders, officers and managers, all those who with their own hands, knowledge and initiative will build the new economy and statehood of Bulgaria. Today each and every of us is seeking warrant so that the promises are to be kept, our prevations having not been in vain, our existence still needed and respected and our influence of people and events still strong enough. The BSP flatly declares: We are aware that there is a better road for Bulgaria! We have ideas, competence and will-power to go on this road! We offer a new, strong and responsible policy, so that we can build a modern, rich, worthy and of social justice society. We promise to install honest, competent and responsible government! We will make the changes which the country needs. We shall make the choice one and all together!
