ASK FOR THE CHANGE! RULES, SECURITY, JUSTICE
Election platform of the Bulgarian Socialist Party
Today, change is mandatory.
It began by the will of the peoples of the world, in Europe and in Bulgaria.
They demanded justice and spoke out against the overlords - the few who own 97% of the world's wealth;
who redistribute political power and economic power and look on impassively and callously at the many who live in hardship and poverty.
They demanded that when decisions are made about their lives, they should be participants, not victims.
They asked their leaders to give them back their dignity - national and human, and not to sell it for money and power.
The BSP started this change in Bulgaria with the victory of Rumen Radev and Iliana Iotova in the presidential elections.
It is our duty to continue and to see change through.
To point the way - another, different way.
Let us lead the way and be the guarantor that we will not deviate from it.
What kind of Bulgaria do we want today, but also in 20 - 30 years?
We want it to be sovereign - Bulgarian governments not to trade with the national interest.
We want it with rules and fairness.
Rules, the same for everyone, and retribution for anyone who breaks them.
We want it in solidarity - we are one people.
And our value is the strong, the able, the courageous to be a support to the weak, the frightened and the poor.
We want a Bulgaria that is anchored in its roots, in culture, in spirituality and in Bulgarianness.
Such a Bulgaria can be built by a strong, healthy, educated, working and united nation.
How to achieve this? First, by setting a concrete and long-term goal - 8 million Bulgarians and not a single one at or below the poverty line.
The means to achieve this goal: decisive action against mafia and domestic crime;
state care for the Bulgarian economy and production,
for Bulgarian agriculture;
education that guarantees literacy, jobs in Bulgaria and creates personnel for the economy;
a health system to which every Bulgarian has access;
culture and spirituality that build a system of values;
security at the borders and in every home.
We are aware that this long-term goal can only be achieved with the formation of a welfare state.
This is a welfare state of the active, the enterprising, the enterprising and the educated - a positive welfare state that can create conditions for reducing poverty and inequality, for supporting the most affected social strata.
In the contemporary Bulgarian context, we consider the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria as the basis on which to build our governance policy in implementation of our election platform "Demand Change".
GROWTH ECONOMICS
Economics
The country needs a new policy of strategic foresight and programming at the state level.
This is possible with financial support, a redirection of economic activity to individual regions and a sound budgetary policy.
It is important for us to implement an active state policy to support Bulgarian producers,
decisive measures to create a Bulgarian high-tech economic model with high added value,
new sources of financing for small and medium-sized enterprises.
This is how we will achieve accelerated economic growth, preserve the currency board and the Maastricht criteria.
Last but not least, to strengthen state assets in the economy and their management on a market basis.
Special legislation for companies with more than 50% state or municipal participation.
Introduction of professional managerial management on a competitive basis, accountability for achieving market objectives, transparency in management.
Market-based governance, cutting the dependence of the state and municipal sector on political change.
Ensuring revenue to the state and municipal budgets.
Strengthening public enterprises and turning them into a tool for accumulating financial resources and for the
Bulgarian state-owned companies to enter foreign markets.
A new model of financing Bulgarian enterprises:Establishment of an Industry Fund with an initial capital of BGN 500 million for equity financing of enterprises meeting certain criteria: a ten-year strategy for the creation and development of industrial capacities on a market and regional basis,
creation of a certain number of jobs,
recruitment of young specialists;
Increase of the capital of the Innovation Fund by BGN 150 million, with a focus on supporting young Bulgarian engineers and specialists to establish their own companies and develop their own brands.
The aim is to encourage our staff, in whom we have already invested millions of leva for training, to find their realization in the country.
A key role in this model will be played by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the country's universities.
Financing SMEs through the capital market:Supporting the European Commission's initiatives to create a Capital Markets Union
simplifying the prospectus requirements for SMEs, as well as the initiatives to create European Venture Capital Funds (EuVECA) and especially Social Entrepreneurship Funds (EuSEF);
Creation of a separate segment for small and medium-sized enterprises on the Bulgarian Stock Exchange, through which small, fast-growing companies without a long financial history can raise capital through a simplified procedure, without a prospectus for a public offering and without having the status of public companies.
Restructuring of the National Guarantee Fund.
The state retains a majority stake in the fund and attracts additional resources, enabling banks, investment funds and insurers to participate through the National Guarantee Fund (NGF) in financing and supporting individual projects of small and medium-sized enterprises.
Increasing the insurance capacity of the Bulgarian Export Insurance Agency to BGN 2 billion, i.e. more significant support for exports of Bulgarian products by small and medium-sized enterprises.
Establishment of a National Financial Holding under the management of the Bulgarian Development Bank, including: the National Guarantee Fund, the Bulgarian Export Insurance Agency, the Industry Fund, the Innovation Fund and the Financial Instruments Manager in Bulgaria Fund.
Supplementing the role of the Bulgarian Development Bank with a clear mandate to stimulate the export of Bulgarian enterprises abroad.
The ultimate goal is for Bulgarian companies to obtain equity or credit financing for their business, debt instruments and export insurance in one place and with minimal bureaucratic hurdles.
Zero rate of Profit Tax on annual turnover from commercial activity up to 150 000 BGN for start-ups established by entrepreneurs up to 35 years of age who create at least five jobs within 24 months.
In order to overcome the widening regional disparities, we will create new financial instruments that will provide long-term financing for important infrastructure projects through public-private partnerships and infrastructure bonds by the state and municipalities.
Creating conditions to stimulate and develop the "circular economy" (processing of separately collected waste) in order to use and save raw material resources more efficiently.
In order to reduce the administrative burden for citizens and businesses, the electronically received document will be equivalent to its paper equivalent for all state and municipal institutions.
Energy
Our goal is to overcome the prohibitively high debts of the state-owned energy companies, to
eliminate the risks to the security of supply
and the unfair and non-transparent relations between the entities in the energy sector.
We are in favour of a coherent policy to stabilise the energy sector and our attention is mainly focused on:State policy for financial stabilisation of the energy sector.
State support for the development of major Bulgarian energy infrastructure projects: the Belene NPP, a direct gas link with Russia and all other projects with proven economic efficiency and compliance with environmental standards.
State policy to create fair and transparent commercial relations between consumers and district heating companies through payment for actual consumption.
Support for new technologies in the energy sector - use of electric vehicles, electricity storage and smart grid development.
Doubling the coverage of households receiving energy benefits - from 250,000 to 500,000 households.
Transport
Our goal is for Bulgaria to develop a sustainable, balanced and efficient transport system to serve people and businesses.
A new Ministry of Transport and Transport Infrastructure to create a unified policy for balanced development of all modes of infrastructure and transport.
Urgent action to rescue BDZ through a two-year state guarantee to repay the liabilities to creditors and follow-up action to refinance the debt.
Creation of joint ventures for the production of new rolling stock - multiple unit trains, recycling and modernisation of passenger and freight wagons and locomotives.
A new style of corporate governance, tied to increasing the market share of the state operator.
Creating conditions for the construction of quality motorways and the introduction of a toll system on motorways and first-class transit roads in the country.
Intensive construction of new sections of the seven motorways through public-private partnership.
Using inland waterway and maritime infrastructure as a basis for the development of intermodality in partnership with leading international logistics companies.
Cancellation of the concession procedure of Sofia Airport and its development as a strategic infrastructure with state management.
Appointing professional management by competition,
expanding transit and transfer passenger traffic
and ending the vicious practices of draining the enterprise.
Agriculture
We will implement a comprehensive package of measures that include protection of property and effective land management;
formation of efficient production structures and active measures to support associations and cooperatives as a basis for the development of medium and small producers; increasing the
capacity for export of agricultural and processed agricultural products;
active state regulation based on the general principles and mechanisms of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP).
Food Law.
Encouraging Bulgarian food producers, farmers and breeders through a package of special measures:The name "Bulgarian" can only be placed on products produced in the country whose main raw material originates in Bulgaria;
Only fruit and vegetables produced on Bulgarian territory may be categorised as fresh fruit and vegetables;
In the assortment of retail chains with an annual turnover of more than BGN 2 million, the following minimum thresholds for products produced in Bulgaria must be introduced: 51% fruits and vegetables in the season of their production and 30% - outside it, 70% milk and dairy products, 25% meat and meat products (excluding chicken), 50% chicken meat, 75% wine and spirits;
The sums collected from penalties for non-compliance with the law are collected in the State Fund "Agriculture" and are used only to support Bulgarian farmers.
Supporting food production for local consumption by stimulating organic farming, "short supply chains" (i.e. eliminating the many resellers)
and through programmes encouraging the purchase of locally produced products.
Control of the 'ceiling' on direct payments to large farms by imposing a system for establishing eligible costs and employees.
Priority funding for livestock farming, horticulture and horticulture based on actual production (coupled support).
Adoption of an affordable irrigated agriculture programme.
Support for producers of tobacco, essential oil and medicinal crops that are traditional to Bulgaria.
Supporting the cooperation of small and medium-sized farmers - producers and processors.
Local government and regional policy
Our main task is the development of local self-government.
We will pursue a comprehensive policy of balanced development of all regions of the country, of overcoming deep regional disparities and a high level of employment in the municipalities.
Accelerated adoption of the Targeted Investment Programme for the integrated development of the lagging regions in Bulgaria - North-Western Bulgaria, Rhodopes, Strandzha-Sakar, border, mountainous and semi-mountainous underdeveloped regions.
Upholding and developing the principles of decentralisation and subsidiarity in local government.
Overcoming the vicious practice of the state transferring activities to municipalities without providing the necessary funding.
To this end, a complete overhaul of the distribution mechanisms of state transfers per municipality should be carried out based on the principles of objectivity and equity.
EDUCATION AND SCIENCE
The quality of the human capital, the chances for realisation in a world of knowledge and technology, the values - all this depends on the modernisation of Bulgarian education.
We need to prepare the young generation and every Bulgarian citizen to be competitive in a changing world.
We are for an education system that forms active, critically thinking
and responsible citizens who love Bulgaria.
The state must create the necessary conditions to encourage businesses and employers to invest in education and to use science as a factor for development and economic growth.
Revision of education reform.
Changes to the Pre-school and School Education Act.
Public funding for public and municipal schools only; curriculum
update from 1st to 12th grade; one textbook per subject, unlimited number of teaching aids.
Education - labour market:
National Education-Economy Map, developed by state, municipalities and business.
It plans the human resources prepared by vocational and higher education to meet the long-term needs of the economy and the labour market by region.
Business to participate with its own forecasts of labour market needs (horizon - 5-10 years) in the determination of the required staff for training in higher education institutions;
Establishment of a state order in universities based on planning of the needs of the workforce with certain qualifications and specialties.
The state takes over the tuition fees of students in priority specialties within the framework of the state order;
New law on vocational education - quality training in real conditions, in production, internship and work.
The involvement of business on four levels: early vocational orientation of students;
financial incentives for business to enrol students for internships in a real work environment;
building a career plan for students from vocational schools and making contact between business and future staff;
developing a pilot project that is worked on throughout education and business is in the role of mentor.
Education and science - technological and economic growth:
New Law for the Development of the Academic Staff of the Republic of Bulgaria;
Development of Development Centres and Technology Transfer Centres at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and at the Universities.
Enabling businesses to work with them;
Targeted support along the whole "innovation chain": from research through prototyping and demonstration models to commercialisation.
A program to provide equipment-minimum for modern education in cooperation with business - technology classrooms and laboratories in secondary and higher education.
Starting salary for a young scientist - not less than two minimum wages;
scholarships and programmes for PhD students and postdocs;
basic minimum wages for those employed in science under a basic employment contract in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the Agricultural Academy and state universities.
Education - for culture and national self-consciousness.
Strong presence of Bulgarian literature, history, art, music, scientific achievements and sports in the educational curricula;
Prevention of the substitution of Bulgarian history, the rehabilitation of fascism and the denial of the achievements of the socialist period in Bulgaria;
Targeted educational programs related to national identity, Bulgarian history, literature, culture;
Commitment of the state to the education of Bulgarian children living abroad.
Teachers - the engine of modern education:
Gradual and equitable increases in teacher pay.
Increase teacher salaries by no less than 15% in the first year of the mandate and 40% at the end of the mandate;
Include the teaching profession in the list of regulated professions.
Introduce standards for sports infrastructure and equipment for schools and universities.
Development finance.
State budget funds to reach in 2020: for education - 5% of GDP (vs. 3.5% in 2017);
for research - 1% of GDP (vs. 0.19 in 2017).
CULTURE AND MEDIA
In today's globalizing world, culture is an expression of national identity, understood as the unity of tangible and intangible cultural heritage and contemporary artistic creativity.
As a carrier of national spirit, morality and traditions, it is also a means of dialogue between peoples and states.
The sustainable development of culture is a guarantee for the formation of the personal value system and an indicator for achieving a higher quality of life.
Gradually achieve 1% of GDP in the state budget for the Culture function.
Improvement of the mechanisms for financing culture, including the creation of specialised funds: 'Support for debut projects', 'Contemporary Bulgarian art', 'Bulgarian cultural and historical heritage', 'Development of Bulgarian cinema art'.
Expand the process of decentralisation of cultural governance and increase project-based funding for the development of arts and cultural industries under national and European programmes.
State support for the development of the facilities and activities of cultural institutions - drama and music theatres, libraries, museums, galleries, community centres, etc.
Support young talents in arts and culture, artists and their associations to protect intellectual property and copyright.
Guarantee the media political, economic and programmatic freedom and high efficiency of public regulation of their activities, so that they can be the protector of public interests.
SOCIAL POLICY AND HEALTH
Social justice, support for young families and the elderly.
Decent remuneration of labour.
The supreme challenge we face as a nation is demographic catastrophe.
Our goal is to make the country a desirable place to live for today's and future generations.
We will continue to fight for: a reduction in deepening poverty and growing inequalities,
support for the most affected social groups, income
levels that ensure a decent standard of living.
We will achieve all this by raising real wages
and by investing capital in the skills of those employed in high-tech manufacturing.
Linking the minimum wage to the rate of increase in the average wage.
Linking the monthly cash allowance for raising a child from 1 to 2 years to the minimum wage (example: from BGN 340 to BGN 460 for 2017).
First steps towards family income taxation.
Deduction of up to £50 per month from the income tax payable by working parents for a child.
Extending the scope of assistance at the beginning of the school year beyond 1st grade to students from low-income families in 2nd, 3rd, and 4th grades.
Smooth exit from the "flat" tax.
Introduction of a 20% income tax on individuals (salaries, rents) with income of more than 120 000 BGN per year.
Recalculation of pensions and reduction of differences between old and newly granted pensions.
Health
For us, the starting point is to ensure a health policy that will allow the principles of equity, accessibility, quality and timely medical care to be put into practice.
We will subordinate our practical actions to the realization of this categorical constitutional right by:Abolishing the fingerprint system for patient registration.
Completely free, accessible and timely medical care for the insured.
Elimination of hidden forms of additional payment;
Increase by no less than two times the funds of the "Fund for the treatment of children" and simplification of the procedure for their allocation.
Establish a working mechanism for the medical care of persons who are objectively unable to pay health insurance contributions.
Adoption of legal regulations for the signing of preliminary contracts with medical trainees on state orders, who after completing their education and specialization are to work in Bulgaria for a period of 50% of the time paid for their training.
The same should apply to the training of dentists, nurses, midwives and laboratory technicians.
A medicines policy that, through continued price controls, will ensure patients have access to quality and safe medicines and medical devices.
Promote the marketing of quality generic medicines.
Preservation of state and municipal hospital medical care facilities in remote and hard-to-reach areas of the country.
Modernization and optimization of emergency care, responding to the demographic structure of the country.
Expansion and opening of new units in cities with high population concentration to provide coverage also in sparsely populated areas.
Changing the allocation of the NHIF budget and introducing a minimum threshold for the relative share of the NHIF budget for primary outpatient care (12%).
Reallocation of funds to: outpatient care, preventive care, maternal and child health.
Opening health clinics in schools.
Increase the salaries of professionals working in the NHS.
For specialists with a Master's degree starting salary not less than three minimum wages;
For specialists with a Bachelor's degree starting salary not less than two minimum wages.
NATIONAL SECURITY - FOREIGN POLICY, DEFENCE AND ARMED FORCES, INTERNAL SECURITY AND PUBLIC ORDER, FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION
Foreign policy
For an active and balanced foreign policy in favour of the national interests of the Republic of Bulgaria, guaranteeing the national security and territorial integrity of the country and the welfare of the Bulgarian citizens.
Bulgaria's full membership in the European Union and NATO and active participation in shaping the agenda of international organisations of which the country is a member.
Development of relations with Russia, China, India and other countries to expand markets and attract investment.
The foreign policy will be oriented towards improving and developing relations with Russia, including taking concrete initiatives and steps, in cooperation with other member states, to lift the EU sanctions against Russia.
Defence and armed forces
The changes in the global environment give rise to the necessity to develop a completely new National Security Strategy, covering in a complex way the contemporary risks and threats and the steps for building an effective counteraction system.
We are for a policy that guarantees the sovereignty, security and independence of the country.
Ensuring conditions for the armed forces to fulfil their constitutionally assigned responsibilities and tasks - guaranteeing the sovereignty, security and independence of the country and protecting its territorial integrity.
Effective use of the capacity of the Bulgarian military-industrial complex for the modernization of the Bulgarian army.
Updating by a minimum of 10% of the basis for determining the basic monthly salary for the lowest post of security sector employees.
Completion and maintenance of the barrier (fence) along the border with the Republic of Turkey.
Active action to return migrants who are not refugees from hostilities.
Repeal of Council of Ministers Decree 208 - concerning housing, payment of health insurance, provision of financial assistance and social services for immigrants.
Taking action to review the Dublin Agreement.
Internal security and public order The priority task for the country becomes the formation of a system of internal security and public order that guarantees the respect of personal rights and property of citizens.
Stabilization of the security system and a new concept of work in the sector:A new "police map", where new stations (posts) are established in the areas of the villages with permanent gendarmerie personnel and transport equipment.
The permanent post is responsible for several (not more than three) villages, providing patrol activity and immediate response to theft and all other criminal encroachments.
Adequate training of the Ministry of Interior to achieve full and objective investigation of crimes.
Qualitative development of operational and investigative activities against serious and organised crime.
Investigation of crimes with modern forensic techniques.
Full provision of the criminal police - with modern equipment and experts.
Establishment of regional forensic centres with a single database of forensic information (DNA, fingerprinting, ballistics, etc.).
Material and technical support and updated remuneration of police officers.
The police to enforce the principle of "zero tolerance": from the unconditional sanctioning of every violation on the road to the rapid response to every crime.
Using the full resources of the security sector in counter-terrorism.
Justice and fairness for all A fundamental requirement of a democratic society is a real rule of law.
It is the key guarantee of individual freedom,
the successful fight against crime and corruption.
We are determined to make efforts to ensure swift and fair justice for every Bulgarian citizen.
Criminal proceedings.
Amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure to ensure:Severely limiting the possibility of remanding cases from the court to the Prosecutor's Office;
Introducing strict time limits, as well as a "complaint for slowness" in the criminal process as a means to react and protect rights in case of unjustified delays on the part of the Prosecutor's Office and the court;
Establishing rules for working "fast-track proceedings" to be applied compulsorily in certain types of crimes - theft of personal property, causing bodily harm, robbery, etc.;
Extension of the range of offences in which criminal proceedings are initiated on the initiative and decision of the victim (so-called private prosecution);
Amendments to the regulation of pre-trial detention measures and enforcement of sentences in order to eliminate the possibilities of escape from justice.
Amendments to the Penal Code:
Enhanced protection of personal property and privacy;
New types of official and economic offences that meet the modern realities and the need to protect the public interest;
Abolition of recklessness as a form of fault in transport crimes committed after alcohol and drug consumption and more severe penalties in these cases;
Abolition of the application of the definition of "minority" in the case of offences against property;
Criminalisation of serious violations of environmental legislation causing major environmental damage;
Improvement of the mechanisms for judicial and administrative control over bailiffs and more effective protection of the rights of citizens - debtors in the judicial enforcement proceedings;
In order to eliminate corrupt practices, we will change some texts in the Public Procurement Law, such as: we will clearly and specifically define the elements "materiality" and "unforeseen circumstances", which are the basis for changing public procurement contracts.
We work for the protection of human dignity and the free realization of every person.
Together we will change our country and our lives.
Together we are walking the road to another - different Bulgaria.
Clear rules, security for every citizen, solidarity, justice.
ASK FOR THE CHANGE!
