How we were enslaved after the fall of the Berlin Wall
Bulgaria was colonized after 1997.
Since that date the Bulgarians have been working for foreign interests.
Everything that was built with the labour of our fathers and mothers was grabbed by foreign companies.
Many of the factories were closed because they were competition to Western companies.
The rest were taken for pennies and now bring profits to Western supranational companies.
One such foreign colonial company is Dundee Precious, which makes billions from our gold and leaves a 1.5% fee.
Such is � Neftohim" monopolist, which earns billions from high fuel prices on the back of the impoverished Bulgarian.
Such are CEZ, EVN, Energo Pro monopolists who have raised prices by 200% for the last 7-8 years and earn billions a year on the backs of the impoverished Bulgarians.
Such are the supermarket chains "Bila", "Kaufland", "Lidl", "Metro", "Carrefour", which bring Bulgarian producers of meat, milk, vegetables and fruits to their knees, blackmail them with prices and payment terms and practically rob them at the expense of their own high profits.
They even include a "birthday" fee in the bill of their clients to celebrate their birthdays with the Bulgarians' money.
Ninety-eight percent of the goods in the most aggressively advertised Lidl chain are imported.
These monopolists have entered Bulgaria with the active help of all governments since 1997 and
receive privileges at the expense of Bulgarian producers and traders.
You buy food, pay for electricity, telephone, water, petrol, take out loans - you fill other people's coffers.
The turnover of the German chain Kaufland for 2011 was BGN 821 million, of the Dutch Metro - BGN 728 million, of the Austrian Billa - BGN 454 million, of the German Lidl - BGN 372 million, of the Dutch Carrefour - BGN 209 million, of the Belgian Piccadilly - BGN 185 million, of the Dutch TMarket - BGN 125 million.
In 2011, a total of BGN 2 billion and BGN 894 million entered the coffers of foreign chains.
The poor Bulgarian feeds the rich Dutch, Germans, Belgians and Austrians.
For comparison - statistics show that on average a Belgian takes 39 euros per hour, while a Bulgarian - 2 euros per hour.
Twenty times less.
At the same time, goods in foreign chains are the same prices as Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands, and in some cases even more expensive.
Monopolists are also "Mobiltel" and "Globul", which overwrite phone bills and earn hundreds of millions a year from the poorest Bulgarians in the EU.
The annual turnover of the Greek state company Globul in Bulgaria is BGN 738.5 million, net profit - BGN 300 million.
The annual turnover of the Austrian company Mobiltel is 917, 4 million BGN, the net profit 405, 6 million BGN.
In total, Bulgarians pour BGN 2 billion and BGN 55 million into the foreign "Mobiltel" and "Globul" annually.
Such foreign colonial companies are the malls, which impose huge rents on the ordinary Bulgarian merchant
and he perishes under their dictates because he is forced to raise the prices of goods, and the Bulgarians have no money to buy expensive goods.
In 2011 alone Bulgarians left 6.5 billion BGN in foreign malls.
Foreign gas station chains are robbing Bulgarians with high and monopolistic fuel prices.
Five foreign petrol station chains are stealing Bulgarian drivers' money: the Russian "Lukoil" - with 2011 revenue of BGN 3.5 billion, the Austrian OMV - with 2011 revenue of BGN 1 billion and 840 million, the Dutch Shell with 2011 revenue of BGN 521 million, the Greek ECO - with 2011 revenue of BGN 475 million and the Romanian Rompetrol - with 2011 revenue of BGN 423 million.
In 2011, Bulgarians left a total of BGN 6 billion and BGN 759 million in foreign petrol stations.
The banks in our country are also colonial monopolies.
Of the 22 banks operating in Bulgaria, 16 are foreign.
Their revenues from fees in 2012 alone amounted to BGN 876 million.
For the period 2008 - 2012 foreign banks in the country have collected only from fees 4 billion 293 million leva.
A billion a year.
These are the levs that Bulgarians pay for every single movement of money.
This does not include the interest income that banks charge as and when they want to Bulgarian borrowers.
In 2011 they amounted to BGN 4.7 billion.
Greek banks alone, for example, hold 30% of the banking sector in Bulgaria.
The rest is held by Italian, Austrian, French and Turkish banks.
These are: the Italian Unicredit Bulbank - with assets of BGN 11.9 billion, the Hungarian DSK - with assets of BGN 8.6 billion, the Greek Piraeus with assets of BGN 3.2 billion, the Austrian Raiffeisen with assets of BGN 6.45 billion, the French Societe Generale with assets of BGN 3.29 billion, the state-owned Greek UBB with assets of BGN 6.7 billion, the Turkish Commercial Bank D with assets of BGN 623 million, 100% owned by the international embezzler Fuat Güven, etc.
In 2011, the Bulgarians left a total of BGN 5 billion 576 million in foreign banks as fees and interest.
First among the predatory monopolies are the EPPs.
Three foreign companies to which Bulgarian Energo was sold ten years ago.
Today the Czech state-owned CEZ, the Austrian state-owned EVN and the Czech state-owned Energo Pro are collecting the money from the electricity bills.
They are not investing and creating jobs, they are cutting jobs.
They are continuously raising electricity prices and the increase is already over 200% for the last few years.
They received a 360 million leva grid upgrade from the Bulgarian state in 2003 and since then they have only been exporting profits from Bulgaria by
violating licensing contracts,
overcharging high values for non-existent services and thus illegally transferring huge sums to their subsidiaries.
All this was found by an audit report of the State Water Commission, but the regulator did not take any more measures.
No government since 2003 has dared to take away their license and expel them from Bulgaria, as Hungary and Albania did.
In 2011, the foreign CEZ, EVN, and Energo Pro collected BGN 3 billion and BGN 873 million for the Bulgarians' electricity.
During Stefan Sofianski's term in office, Sofia Water was given on concession to a foreign company, which raised the water prices many times
and exported huge amounts from Bulgaria.
In 2011 Bulgarians paid 124 million leva to foreign companies as inflated water bills.
As a result of the colonization of Bulgaria, there is no longer a single retail chain that is purely Bulgarian, nor
a service sector that is Bulgarian and brings profit to the republican treasury, and
from there - to the national pension fund, to
the national health fund, as ATAKA wants.
So the national income of the Bulgarians is flowing out, and
here the government officials explain how there is no money for higher pensions and health.
2011 ONLY BULGARIANS HAVE LEFT IN THE COFFERS OF FOREIGN COMPANIES FOR FOOD, CLOTHING, GASOLINE, ELECTRICITY, WATER AND BANKING SERVICES 28 BILLION AND 257 MILLION LEVA!
For comparison - the total budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2011 is BGN 18 billion 236 million and 787 thousand.
All our departments, institutions, ministries, culture, health and education together receive 10 billion leva less per year than foreign colonizers!
And this is what the ruling parties call the normal and alternative situation of things in our country.
The debalgarisation of our services and industry is total and bleeding.
The Greek companies in the country alone are over 2000 and hold: the Pernik Steel, the metallurgical giant Vıahalk, Sofia Copper, the scrap supply.
The Greek state company Globul holds 37% of GS' subscribers in the country.
The Czech state owns two-thirds of electricity sales in Bulgaria through CEZ and Energo Pro, one-third is owned by the Austrian state through EVN.
The Italian state-owned company ENEL until recently owned the Maritsa-3 thermal power plant with a guaranteed profit contract of 18% for years to come.
Now the looting is being done by Americans.
Today, the largest company in the country is the German company "Aurubis" AD, which owns the MDK - Pirdop.
Aurubis plc's annual revenue is USD 4 billion.
This could have been the turnover of the Bulgarian MDC - Pirdop, if it had not been sold for pennies.
The poorest country in the EU - Bulgaria, sponsors the richest - Germany, with 4 billion dollars a year.
Every year foreign companies export over 10 tons of gold from Bulgaria worth 800 million dollars.
Chelopech alone has exported 100 tonnes of gold in the last 10 years, worth about $8 billion.
The concessionaire there is the Canadian company Dundee Precious Metals.
Bulgarian pensioners, schools and hospitals have been robbed of 8 billion dollars in 10 years.
In Bulgaria there is a firmly established presence of 1500 (one thousand five hundred) tons of industrial gold reserves.
It could be enough for half a century to extract 30 tonnes a year.
A tonne of gold is worth 80 million leva on the exchanges today.
If gold mining in Bulgaria is entirely in Bulgarian hands, the net income from these gold reserves will be 2 billion and 400 million a year.
This is the finished industrial resource of gold that can be immediately processed and mined.
But in general Bulgaria has much larger reserves that require further development and investment, but they are available on our land.
They are called "common resource gold".
According to expert estimates, the total gold resource in the country is 13,000 thirteen thousand tons.
Calculated in money, this amounts to BGN 1,040,000,000,000 (one trillion and forty billion leva) at today's gold exchange prices.
There is no reason to believe that gold will depreciate sharply in the next 30-50 years, on the contrary, it will appreciate.
One trillion and 40 billion leva lie in the bowels of Bulgaria in the form of gold.
Of course, the development and mining of all gold reserves in the country requires large investments and technological and personnel mobilization.
But this can and should be a state project that will take our country out of misery
and colonial dependence forever.
Cheap labour, big profits for foreigners, export of money - this is today's Bulgaria
There is no sector in our country that brings good profit and is not in foreign hands.
All orders for the construction of roads and other projects are given to foreign companies, mostly Turkish, and
the qualified Bulgarian builders who built projects all over the world 23 years ago are at best subcontractors who cannot get five times the Western European wages for months.
the lie that our socialist industry was unproductive and unprofitable has become obvious.
Who is this foreigner who will take over an unprofitable industry?
All foreign companies - state or private, export profits abroad,
invest nothing in Bulgaria,
cut jobs,
pay 10-20 times lower wages than in the EU,
and constantly raise the prices of goods and services inside the country.
One hundred percent of the food and medicine you buy is imported,
and with every purchase you make the foreign manufacturer richer
and contribute your bucks to foreign social security funds.
Every bottle of coca-cola, soda or mineral water, poured from the Bulgarian bowels, which you open today, contributes to the coffers of the giant colonial concern "Coca Cola" your lev and makes it even more gigantic.
Every day when you shop at a supermarket, you give 99 pence of every penny you spend to a foreign company that exports it.
Every time you go into a MOL and spend money there, you are subsidizing a foreign company, economy and country.
Every month, when you pay your phone and electricity, you put your leva into the coffers of foreign monopolies
and into the pension funds of Austrians, Greeks, Czechs, French, Americans, Turks, etc.
Every Bulgarian employee in a foreign company, and there are no others, subsidizes with his cheap labor this company
and increases its wealth much more than if it worked only on its own territory.
Every money transfer or other banking service of a Bulgarian citizen puts into the coffers of foreign banks 4 billion 293 million per year in fees.
Every home or consumer loan increases the wealth of foreign banks by billions and sharply increases your poverty and dependency.
Bulgarians, are we 9 times "inferior" to others in Europe, that we get 9 times less than the EU average?
Don't wonder why your pensions are low.
Because you pay half of Europe high pensions and subsidise foreign economies and banks.
Do not wonder why in Bulgaria the wages are 8-10 times lower than the European average.
Do not be surprised that the minimum monthly wage in:
Do not be surprised that the minimum pension in our country is 68 euros or 136 leva, and in Germany 900 euros or 1800 leva.
The average Bulgarian wage is 9 times higher than the average Bulgarian wage
This is because you have to endure the high standard of other European nations.
Your misery is the price you pay for Austrians, Czechs, Germans, French, Belgians, Greeks and other "superior" beings to you to live ten times better.
This is how you pay the salary of 25 000 euros per month of the head of the European Commission, Jose Barroso.
To the hundreds of other commissioners and officials who tell you whether to grow cucumbers or GM maize.
You pay the salaries of 50 to 100 thousand leva to the senior executives of foreign banks in Bulgaria - such as Unicredit, DSK, etc.
The monthly salary of the head of UniCredit in Bulgaria is 200 thousand leva.
You provide salaries of 100 thousand leva to the bosses of CEZ, EVN and Energo Pro.
Through your misery you make billionaires the owners of gold mining companies like Dundee, the Germans from Aurubis, the Greeks from Steel-Pernik, the Turks from Shishe Jam, the Americans from Maritsa 1 and 3.
You provide new yachts and Bentleys to their bosses - a little joy after their busy business day.
And you help their fathers and mothers by putting some of your money into their retirement savings.
Aren't you happy that you manage to feed so many foreigners?
Apparently you're not if you're taking to the streets angry.
Yes, you're right, it's not fair! It's not fair!
Yes, albeit late, but you have understood it and once again you have straightened out our intellectual and political elite who still dare not speak the truth or cannot see it staring at their navels.
You have realised that this is not a market economy, democracy and transition to a better life.
This is colonization, economic slavery and a path to the destruction of Bulgaria.
Bulgarians, do not let those who robbed you into politics!
Who is to blame for colonization?
The takeover of our country was done with betrayal from within.
Back in 1990, the national traitor Andrei Lukanov invited the American team of Richard Rahn and Ronald Utt.
These two officials of the American Chamber of Commerce drew up a plan for the colonization and subjugation of Bulgaria to the world financial power, which after 1990 rushed to destroy and conquer Eastern Europe.
Bulgaria was one of the victims.
The "�Ranat Plan" envisaged a rapid and total privatisation of the Bulgarian economy and natural resources, regardless of the cost,
cutting the social sector, until then subsidised by the state,
closing hospitals and schools
and reducing the Bulgarian population to 4 million.
Because the "masters of the world" in Washington have judged that at this number a nation no longer has the resistance to be independent as a state, economy and culture.
This genocidal plan was drawn up with the help of Bulgarian economists.
Here are their names:
1. Professor Ivan Angelov - Senior Economic Advisor to the Prime Minister
2. Ventsislav Antonov - HEI "Karl Marx "3. Rumen Avramov - Institute of Economics, BAS4. Valeri Borisov - Legal Advisor, Ministry of Economy and Planning4. Dr. Ventsislav Dimitrov - Institute of Economics, BAS5. Dr. Gencho Dimov - Senior Economist, Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations6. Stoyo Dulev - Deputy Minister of Economy and Planning7. Dr. Nikola Galabov - Institute of Economics, BAS8. Professor Iliya Georgiev - Institute of Economics, BAS9. Dr. Rumen Georgiev - Director General of Mineralbank10. Dimitar Kostov - Deputy Minister of Finance11. Dr. Ivan Kostov - VMEI "Lenin "12. Emil Herssev - Karl Marx University of Economics13. Tatiana Khubenova - Institute of Economics, BAS14. Dr. Dimitar Ivanov - Institute of Economics, BAS15. Professor. Lilia Karakasheva - Director General, Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations16. Dr. Nayden Naydenov - Deputy Minister of Economy and Planning17. Dr. Nevyana Krasteva - Research Fellow, Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations18. Georgi Pankov - Deputy Minister for Economic Reform19. Professor. Prof. Ognyan Panov - Director, Institute of State and Economic Governance20. Prof. Atanas Paparizov - Director General, Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations21. Dr. Ognian Pishev - Senior Economic Advisor to the President22. Dr. Ivan Pushkarov - Institute of Economics, BAS23. Prof. Ivan Pushkavič. Dimitar Shopov - Deputy Chairman, Committee on Labour and Social Security
24. Boyan Slavenkov - Institute of Economics, BAS25. Professor. Stefan Stoilov - Minister of Economic Reform26. Prof. Stefan Stolianov. Prof. Milcho Stoimenov - Institute of Economics "Karl Marx "27. Professor. Prof. Todor Valchev - Institute of Economics, BAS28. Prof. Hristina Vucheva - Research Institute, Ministry of Finance
Some of these names are very familiar to you, aren't they?
As a reward for their betrayal, some of them became ministers - like Ivan Kostov, Ivan Pushkarov, Hristina Vucheva.
One of them - Dimitar Kostov, was a deputy minister in several governments in a row (both blue and red) and now he is still on the board of the BNB.
You will see Emil Herssev defending neoliberal fundamentalism on all media.
Todor Valchev played the sinister role as head of the BNB to bankrupt the Bulgarian banks and to turn the currency crisis of 1996, which robbed the Bulgarians of their money and forced us into the colonial scheme through the offices of Sofianski and Kostov in 1997.
This disastrous plan for Bulgaria was also introduced in the Grand National Assembly and many of the clueless there later explained that they did not understand what it was about.
You, robbed Bulgarians, are obliged to know the names of all economists and politicians who helped the colonizers of our homeland.
You should remember every single national traitor in governments and parliaments so far, so that one day we can hold them to account, and
until then you should not give them a chance for a political career.
Don't vote for him and his party to show that you are not masochists, naive and fools, as these foreigners who rob you today think you are.
As you are considered by their Bulgarian helpers who sold you as slaves in the last 23 years.
The plan of the world masters from Washington was implemented through their instruments of colonisation of the countries of the world - the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the World Trade Organisation.
They were behind the "RAN-UT" program.
The IMF and the World Bank have been pressing the Bulgarian governments since 1990 for total and indiscriminate privatisation,
cuts in the social sector,
complete withdrawal of the state from the economy (which does not exist in Western Europe)
and complete opening of the financial and commodity markets to giant supranational corporations and speculative stock market players.
And this means death for national economies and stopping the economic growth of colonized countries, condemning their peoples to poverty.
In our country, the plan was delayed for several years and only came into full force in 1997.
Because of two "programme" governments - that of Dimitar Popov - December 1990 - October 1991, and that of Luben Berov - December 1992 - January 1994.
The SDS government (October 1991 - December 1992) with Prime Minister Philip Dimitrov and the support of the Turkish party DPS set out to implement the "Ran-ut" plan, but it did not have enough time.
However, every government until 1997 was guilty of robbing the Bulgarians because even without fully implementing the "Ran-ut" plan, it worked in this direction actively or simply by its inaction.
Here, the first government of Dimitar Popov, which melted the savings of the Bulgarians with 400% inflation:
Prime Minister - Dimitar Popov - independentDeputy Prime Minister - Alexander Tomov - BSPDeputy Prime Minister - Dimitar Ludzhev - UDFDeputy Prime Minister, Foreign Affairs - Viktor Valkov - BZNSfinance - Ivan Kostov - UDFindustry, trade and services - Ivan Pushkarov - SDS Home Affairs - Hristo Danov - independentdefence - Yordan Mutafchiev - independentscience and higher education - Georgi Fotev - independentculture - Dimo Dimov - independentenvironment - Dimitar Vodenicharov - independentjustice - Pencho Penev - BSPexternal economic relations - Atanas Paparizov - BSPemployment and social welfare - Emilia Maslarova - BSPpublic education - Matej Mateev - BSPhealthcare - Ivan Chernozemski - BSPtransport - Veselin Pavlov - BSPagriculture andfood industry - Boris Spirov - BZNSminister of construction,Minister of Architecture and Public Works - Lubomir Pelovski - BSP
Don't vote for these people and their parties! Collect data about their crimes against Bulgaria, so that one day they will be tried!
Here is the composition of the next government that liquidated our agriculture
and put Bulgaria in the orbit of Turkey and the USA:
The government of Philip Dimitrov
Prime Minister - Philip DimitrovMinister of Defence - Dimitar LudzhevDeputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs - Stoyan GanevMinister of the Interior - Yordan SokolovZam. Minister-President and Minister of Education, Youth and Science - Nikolay VassilevMinister of Justice - Svetoslav LuchnikovMinister of Finance - Ivan KostovMinister of Labour and Social Welfare - Vekil VanovMinister of Agriculture - Stanislav DimitrovMinister of Territorial Development, Housing and Construction - Nikola KaradimovMinister of Transport - Alexander AlexandrovMinister of Environment - Valentin VassilevMinister of Health - Nikola VassilevMinister of Culture - Elka KonstantinovaMinister of Industry and Tourism
Don't vote for these people and their parties! Collect data about their crimes against Bulgaria, so that one day they will be tried!
Here is the list of the next government that stimulates the development of the "economy", the racketeering and the robbery of small and medium-sized businesses by the groups:
The eightieth government of Bulgaria ruled from 30 December 1992 to 17 October 1994 with the mandate of the third largest parliamentary force - the MRF.
Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs - Lyuben Berov - independent
Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Trade - Valentin Karabashev - Deputy Prime Minister, Transport - Neycho Neev - Deputy Prime Minister, Labour and Social Welfare - Evgeni Matintsev - MRFarming - Georgi Tanev - IndependentEnvironment - Valentin Bosevski - IndependentFinance - Stoyan Alexandrov - IndependentHealth - Tancho Gugalov - IndependentDefence - Valentin Alexandrov-IndependentInternal Affairs - Viktor Mihaylov - IndependentJustice - Misho Valchev - IndependentIndustry - Rumen Bikov - APSterritorial Development and Construction - Hristo Totev - MRFeducation, science and culture - Marin Todorov - independent
He vote for these people and their parties! Collect data about their crimes against Bulgaria, so that one day they will be tried!
Government of Jean Videnov
Prime Minister - Jean VidenovDeputy Prime Minister - Svetoslav ShivarovForeign Affairs - Georgi PirinskiInternal Affairs - Lubomir NachevEducation, Science and Technology - Ilcho DimitrovEconomic Development - Rumen GechevFinance - Dimitar KostovJustice - Mladen ChervenyakovoDefence - Dimitar Pavlov
Industry - Kliment VuchevLabour and Social Welfare - Mincho KoralskiAgriculture and Food Industry - Vasil ChichiBaterritorial Development and Construction - Doncho KonakchievTransport - Stamen StamenEnvironment - Georgi GeorgievHealthcare - Mimi VitkovaCulture - Georgi KostovTrade and Foreign Economic Cooperation - Kiril Tsotchev
It should be clearly stated here that the currency crisis and the bankruptcy of the banks in 1996-1997 were triggered from the outside as a punitive action against Prime Minister Videnov, who refused to immediately implement the plan for rapid, total and indiscriminate privatisation.
During his presidency, a delegation of the World Bank came to Bulgaria, consisting of Gordon Hughes and his assistant - the Bulgarian Stalinka (Kristalina) Georgieva, today a commissioner from Bulgaria's quota, proposed by GERB.
Hughes and Georgieva instructed the government of Videnov: You should immediately privatize all structurally defining enterprises, at least 51%, and such as "Neftochim" and MDC "Pirdop" - 100%.
We'll tell you who to sell them too!
The "sale", of course, is far below market prices.
Between 1997 and 2001, over $150 billion in assets were "sold" for about $2 billion.
That's where your missing money is for pensions, health care and education.
Against the complete surrender of Bulgaria's economic assets and natural riches - gold and rare metals, into foreign hands for no money, the "masters" from Washington offer Bulgaria membership in the Euro-Atlantic structures.
This is our "civilizational" choice, as we have been led to believe by Filipdimitrovtsy, Ivankostovtsy, Zhelyuzhelevtsy, Petarstanovtsy, Georgipervanovtsy, Solomonpasity, Stanishevtsy and Borisovtsy.
As you can see, all of the above are from "different" parties, but they act like robots on one agenda - the agenda of colonizing Bulgaria
and its plundering by foreigners.
They were all from the party of servitude.
Some Bulgarians still have the illusion that the successive governments have pursued their own policies and acted "badly" because of ignorance, stupidity or lack of orientation.
Or because they were just thieving.
No!
They became such because such was their bargain with the lords.
The "masters from Washington" told them: you will give the main part of Bulgarian resources and assets to us,
you can steal something - from your own people you steal, not from us - what do we care, but the lion's pie is ours!
The ultimatum of Hughes and Georgieva, the messengers of the world masters, was made in June 1996.
There are no signs of a banking and currency crisis, and there is no economic reason for it.
Videnov, however, is pulling and delaying the implementation of the programme to plunder Bulgaria.
Immediately his internal party enemies led by Lukanov and the external ones led by Kostov were organized.
The world oligarchic mafia says: Then we will overthrow you.
And they orchestrated the currency crisis.
After a "spontaneous" attack on parliament with the VIS and SIC gangsters.
It was not difficult for large-scale financial speculators like Soros to cause a currency crisis, after all, he was the one who in 1992-1993 brought down the British pound, what is the Bulgarian lev to him!
In the autumn of 1996 a banking crisis was played out, which melted the Bulgarians' money and forced the naughty prime minister to resign.
A conspiracy of national traitors from the BSP and the SDS are organizing elections to put in power the already agreed Kostov, who will carry out the plan as the masters want it - to the complete dismemberment of Bulgaria.
After Soros and his minions in Bulgaria caused a financial shock and without any economic reasons made the dollar change for 2000 leva, the rest after that was easy.
For example, to scare people for years with the phrase: "You take low wages?
And remember the five dollar salaries!
I waste!"
In mass shock you can push the lies that BGA Balkan with assets worth billions and destinations all over the world is a "loser" and give it to a rogue Israeli company for 150 thousand dollars.
In case of shock you can push the lie that "Kremikovtzi" is a "loser" and give it away for 1 dollar, and then the buyers will resell it for nearly a billion.
This way you can declare the biggest refinery in Eastern Europe - "Neftohim", a "loser" and give it to Russian oligarchs for fifty million, which they earn on Bulgarian back in one month.
Thus, under the grave digger of Bulgaria Ivan Kostov, 3000 structurally defining enterprises were given for no money, most of them were then closed and sold for scrap.
The presence of the state in the economy was liquidated.
The public sector, education and health care were liquidated as state care.
Hundreds of thousands of skilled Bulgarians were thrown overboard and left unemployed, which created a huge social crisis.
This crisis today is deepened to intolerance.
Hundreds of institutes, which provided Bulgarian industry with innovations and a scientific base, were closed and liquidated.
A blow was dealt to the Bulgarian intelligentsia by liquidating the cultural institutions that the state used to support.
A fatal blow was dealt to Bulgarian agriculture, which became uncompetitive.
A blow was dealt to the Bulgarian national identity through an aggressive Islamization, which was supported by the government through the unconstitutional introduction of Turkish news on national television, through the adoption of the anti-Bulgarian convention on minorities, opening the way for Bulgaria's claims to become a "multinational state".
In this regard, in early 2000, Prime Minister Ivan Kostov announced from the rostrum of the National Assembly, "Today we buried Bulgarian nationalism!"
The servant of foreign masters hastened to triumph that his task, set from outside, had been accomplished and colonialism in our country had defeated its only brake - nationalism.
History and the Bulgarian people refuted it only 4 years later in the 2005 elections with the success of the first nationalist formation that broke through the parliamentary wall - ATAKA.
Here is the list of the colonizers from the Kostov cabinet:
Prime Minister - Ivan KostovDeputy Prime Minister, Education and Science - Veselin MetodievDeputy Prime Minister, Industry - Alexander BozhkovDeputy Prime Minister, Regional Development and Public Works - Evgeny BakardzhievForeign Affairs - Nadezhda MihaylovaInternal Affairs - Bogomil BonevFinance - Muravei RadevJustice and Legal European Integration - Vasil GotseDefence - Georgi AnanievLabour and Social Policy - Ivan NeykovAgriculture, forests and agrarian reform - Ventsislav Varbanovtransport - Wilhelm Krausstate administration - Mario Tagarinskyenvironment - Evdokia Manevahealthcare - Peter Boyadzhievculture - Emma Moskovatrade and tourism - Valentin Vassilev
He vote for these people and their parties! Collect data about their crimes against Bulgaria so that they will be tried one day!
Here is the list of the next government that sold out BTC, the EPP, closed the Kozloduy NPP by lying
and dragged Bulgaria into a new debt trap through the securities scams of Finance Minister Milen Velchev:
Simeon Saxe-Coburggotski's government:
Prime Minister - Simeon Saxe-Coburg-GotskiDeputy Prime Minister, Economy - Nikolay VassilevDeputy Prime Minister, Labour and Social Policy - Lydia ShulevaDeputy Prime Minister, Regional Development and Public Works - Kostadin PaskalevForeign Affairs - Solomon PassyInternal Affairs - Georgi PetkanEducation and Science - Vladimir AtanasovFinance - Milen VelchevJustice - Anton StankovDefence - Nikolay SvinarovAgriculture and Forests - Mehmet Dikmetransport and communications - Plamen Petrovstate administration - Dimitar Kalchevenvironment and water - Dolores Arsenovaminister without portfolio - Nejdet Mollovhealth - Bozhidar Finkovculture - Bozhidar Abrashev
He vote for these people and their parties! Collect data about their crimes against Bulgaria so that they will be tried one day!
Here is the next government of the triple coalition, with the mandate of the MRF, which imposed a flat tax,
continued the colonial policy,
turned corruption into a daily routine:
the government of Sergei Stanishev:
Prime Minister - Sergey StanishevDeputy Prime Minister,Foreign Affairs - Ivaylo KalfinDeputy Prime Minister,Education and Science - Daniel ValchevDeputy Prime Minister, state policy in case of disasters and accidents - Emel Etem Toshkovafinance - Plamen Oresharskiinternal affairs - Rumen Petkovjustice - Georgi Petkanovadefence - Veselin Bliznakovieconomy and energy - Rumen Ovcharovlabour and social policy - Emilia Maslarovaagriculture and forests - Nihat KabilRegional Development and Public Works - Assen GagauzovTransport - Petar MutafchievState Administration and Administrative Reform - Nikolay VasilevEnvironment and Water - Jevdet ChakurovHealth - Radoslav GaidarskiCulture - Stefan DanailEuropean Affairs - Meglena Kuneva
He vote for them! Collect data on the crimes of this cabinet for future investigations and retribution!
Here is the next government, which lied to the expectations of a million and six hundred thousand Bulgarians,
consolidated corrupt practices, and
pursued a colonial
and Turkophile policy:
the government of Boyko Borissov:
Prime Minister - Boyko BorissovDeputy Prime Minister, Interior - Tsvetan TsvetanovDeputy Prime Minister, Finance - Simeon DjankovForeign Affairs - Rumiana ZhelevaEducation, Youth and Science - Yordanka FandakovaJustice - Margarita PopovaDefence - Nikolay MladenEconomics, energy and tourism - Traicho Traikovlabour and social policy - Totyu Mladenovagriculture and food - Miroslav Naydenovregional development and public works - Rosen Plevnelievtransport, information technology and communications - Alexander Tsvetkovenvironment and water - Nona Karadzhovahealthcare - Bozhidar Nanevculture - Vejdi Rashidovphysical education and sport - Svilen Neykovminister without portfolio - Bozhidar Dimitrov
He vote for them! Collect data on the crimes of this cabinet for future investigations and retribution!
The colonial policy was maintained unchanged by NDSV and DPS, by BSP - NDSV - DPS and by GERB. Do not vote for them again!
There are still many Bulgarians who are slaves to the illusion that the bad governance of the last two decades is the result of incompetence and corruption of the successive governments.
On their lack of vision or unprofessionalism.
Hence the calls for so-called expert governance, which would be non-partisan and therefore good, because parties are a bad thing.
Parties are not a bad thing if they are pro-Bulgarian.
If they are anticolonial.
If all parties were like ATAKA, things in Bulgaria would develop in a different, good direction for our people.
Here is the main problem!
It is not down to incompetence, corruption or unprofessionalism of the government.
Even the most erudite rulers become traitors to their people if they agree to implement the colonial scheme.
We have seen that there are no left and right parties.
They called themselves different names, but they did the same thing - they sold our country for pennies, they
kept our incomes humiliatingly low with the lie that there was no other way, they
let foreign monopolies and companies milk us, milk and shear us like a herd, and then they took us one by one to the slaughterhouse.
The main problem is to break this scheme.
The colonial scheme.
The parties that have ruled so far have become bad for the people, because in their programs (to the extent that they had any) they agreed in advance to the colonial scheme and said to the "masters":
if we take power, we will do all your bidding, we will let you plunder and colonize us and we will not change the "Ran-ut" plan, the plan of genocide against the people of Bulgaria.
We have no desire, no will and no spirit to oppose this, we will be your servants!"
From then on it is child's play for the "masters" to point - you will play it "left", you - "right", you - "centrist".
You'll change, but you won't touch anything on our plan!
And we see - a supposedly left-wing government comes, led by BSP, and introduces a flat tax that serves the oligarchs and big money and hits the weak social strata.
The opposite of left politics.
A supposedly right-wing government is coming, of GERB and taxing interest on deposits, which is the opposite of right-wing policy.
Nationalists are the target of the world's oligarchs because they expose them.
All parties are good for the "masters", just not the nationalist ones.
Everything else is good for the American ambassadors, but ATAKA is bad.
Since the existence of ATAKA, the American ambassadors refuse to meet with our representatives, but accept socialists, right-wingers, centrists, greens and all kinds of political clowns.
Why is ATAKA unacceptable to the American ambassadors in our country?
Why is ATAKA scary for the American diplomatic establishment?
Because this elite is representative of the same "masters of the world".
The bankers who own the private company called the Federal Reserve.
This is the printing press for uncovered money, with which a handful of global oligarchs led by the Rothschild banks manipulate world finance.
They set interest rates, the value of currencies, they cause crises when it suits them, they bankrupt banks, funds and companies to appropriate them for free.
Nationalism is scary for this mafia power because it points out the real cause of the injustices in the world, exposes them
- the oligarchs standing in the shadows, reveals their plans to the world and fights against their ambitions to enslave the peoples.
How can the world mafia not hate nationalists?
How can I not denigrate them through their own media?
That is why American diplomats in our country insult Bulgarian patriots, call us "racists".
Who says this?
The Americans who massacred Native Americans and maintained slavery as a state policy until the second half of the 19th century?
And we, the Bulgarians, wrote in our Tarnovo constitution: 'Whoever a slave steps on Bulgarian land becomes free.'"
At that time, the grandfathers of today's U.S. diplomats still traded in slaves.
Is that why they call us "anti-Semites"?
Who says this?
The Americans who turned back ships with Jews fleeing Germany, while we, the Bulgarians, saved them.
The Americans who put Hitler's picture on the front page of Time magazine and declared him "Man of the Year" for 1938, not the newspaper "Attack".
And American bankers like Warburg and businessmen like Prescott Bush or Deterding, the founder of Shell, poured money into Hitler and supplied him with technology and fuel until the early 1940s.
When the Reich's economic minister, Yalmar Schacht, was told in his Nuremberg cell that they were going to press charges against German industrialists for aiding Hitler, he burst out laughing: 'They'll have to blame General Motors too, the Opel plants are owned by General Motors too.'
The American chemical giant Dupont was a partner before and during the war period with the German concern I. Г. Faben Industry, without whose products the Third Reich could not even start the war.
There are many facts about common actions of American business and banks with Hitler's Germany.
The US demagoguery and double standards have long been clear to the nations of the world.
And resistance to America's appetite to plunder the world's oil resources and the wealth of other countries is increasingly powerful and successful.
Nationalism around the world is going up, globalism is going down.
The nationalist movements around the world are the backlash against the colonial scheme of the same Wall Street overlords who financed Trotsky and Lenin, who financed Hitler, who nowadays finance the drug lords and war criminals of Kosovo to frame them as "freedom fighters".
Today, this ruling class also finances radical Islamist terrorists, just as in the 1970s it financed radical terrorist groups in Western Europe such as the Red Brigades, Carlos Chakala and others.
Ultra-left, ultra-right, terror, chaos, shock and turmoil - these are their weapons.
Wars to "cleanse" the world of the despicable lowlifes and to pile up the debts of countries to enter into greater dependence on the same bankster overlords.
To impose "pacification plans" and "imposing democracy", but in fact - conquering new oil fields and resources.
For this global mafia, nationalism is the only brake on their greed and unscrupulousness.
And in Bulgaria the name of this brake is ATAKA.
Because:
We nationalists want the gold and rare metals in our land to be a profit for the Bulshar people, not Dundee.
We nationalists want the energy sector to be flea market
and the profits to go to our education, pensions and healthcare, not to the Czech and Austrian ones.
We, the nationalists, want the profits from the telephone operator not to go to Greece or Austria, but to stay in Belshary and inhale our standard.
We, the nationalists, want the flea beetle not to get 20 times more than the white man, as is the sessha.
We nationalists want foreign military bases in our homeland.
We, the nationalists, want good paying jobs for all fleas
and they should not run abroad to be humiliated so..
We, the nationalists, want our fathers, grandfathers and grandmothers to have decent pensions and lives, and
not to receive shavra and food from their own country
We, the nationalists, want Belsharian agriculture to produce, to flood our market and to export abroad,
instead of importing from outside 98% of the fruits and vegetables in the heart of Europe - Belsharia.
We, the nationalists, want Belsharian enterprises to rule Belsharian industry, trade, banks, not
foreigners who despise and discriminate against us nationally.
We, the nationalists, want to build factories and factories, techno-factory centres, schools and hospitals, not hotels, casinos and brothels.
If what we want is bad, then we are bad.
But what we want is good for the Bulgarian people and this is crystal clear.
We are the good ones because we want good for our people.
Those who want our nation to be a slave to foreign interests, to live poor and without self-esteem, are against us.
They are the bad guys.
The main division of Bulgarian parties, politicians and statesmen is not "left" and "right".
The main division of Bulgarian parties, politicians and statesmen is: Traitors to the Bulgarian people - servants of foreign colonial interests;
Loyal to the Bulgarian people - fighters against foreign colonial interests.
So far, the former have had the upper hand.
The second we were isolated, vilified and slandered.
And not only in Bulgaria.
The fighters for national dignity, for more sovereignty of the nations and for national economies not enslaved by foreign monopolies, were subjected to the same media attacks and satanized as we, the attackists, the Bulgarian patriots.
Today comes another time.
Those whom I call "the masters of the world" are no longer as powerful as they were years ago.
A wave of discontent and opposition is rising in the world against the financial supranational oligarchy, which is causing crises in order to get richer and richer and throw the peoples of the world into misery.
The opposition to the global mafia by entire nations in Europe and the world is growing.
Nationalist and anti-globalist movements are taking over a wider territory
and European nations are waking up, as is the Bulgarian one.
They want socially just states, more state regulation and state presence in the economy.
They want an erasure of the huge wealth gaps between the superelite and the broad masses.
The peoples of Europe and the world are waking up to a new model, different from the unscrupulous colonial capitalist model.
This is the future of the world and of Bulgaria - more national origin, a
return to traditions and national values,
more sovereignty of nations and states at the expense of globalisation, which is killing national identity.
For Bulgaria, the path is only in this direction - Bulgarianism in the economy,
social justice,
protection of our history from falsification,
protection and promotion of the Bulgarian civilisational contribution to the world,
European standard immediately,
rejection of the colonial model.
That is why today in the elections for the Bulgarian National Assembly the Bulgarians with the right to vote have the duty to reject all politicians who are in the first category - traitors to the Bulgarian people and servants of foreign interests.
To reject all participants in governments so far and in the administration that has implemented the colonial plan.
Reject all those who voted for the colonial plan in parliament.
To reject all those who have propagandized and manipulated the Bulgarian citizens in the media during these two decades.
To reject all those who signed contracts for the predatory privatization, for giving concessions, for giving contracts that robbed the people's money, those who let foreign monopolies and companies steal from us.
All the politicians who have developed and applied the ideas of colonialism through speculations about "free market", "less state", the cult of the "foreign investor" and have denigrated the Bulgarian entrepreneur, those who have actually buried the Bulgarian entrepreneurs and traders, imposing privileges for the foreign ones.
All politicians and statesmen who have made bows to foreign ambassadors to the detriment of Bulgarian interests.
All the politicians and statesmen who have lied to you over the years that there is no money for higher incomes and you have to live on twenty times lower incomes than Western Europeans and this is normal.
All of them must be punished by you by not allowing them on the political scene anymore.
By not voting for them.
Whoever votes for sell-outs and servants of foreign ineres becomes their accomplice.
Those parties that have had governments or participation in them since 1990 until today should not get a single vote from you, Bulgarians!
ATAKA only has a complete plan for Bulgaria's path, a clear assessment of the colonial slavery we were forced into and a plan for liberation from slavery.
Here it is, laid out as a chapter-by-chapter management program, with each chapter corresponding to a ministry currently in place:
CHAPTER I EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
After 1990 Bulgaria had the opportunity to build a balanced and beneficial foreign policy strategy.
This did not happen because our rulers from Zhelev and Lukanov to Borissov and Plevneliev follow the policy of vassalage towards three foreign embassies in our country: the American, the Turkish and the Israeli.
All Prime Ministers and Presidents in the last 23 years have passed through these three embassies to get the blessing for their post.
The result today is a helpless, impersonal and harmful for Bulgaria foreign policy, subordinated to foreign interests.
the lack of an independent Bulgarian foreign policy is part of the colonization plan against our country.
An end to vassal politics
Together with the dismantling of the colonial scheme ATAKA has the clear intention to change the direction of the foreign policy.
From being vassal and subordinate to the Turkish neo-Ottomanist vision it became pro-Bulgarian and protected from Turkish encroachments.
From an appendage to the US aggressive, war spiral and double standards based foreign policy strategy, to become balanced and distanced from Washington's geopolitical dirty games.
Getting out of the orbit of American foreign policy intrigues, Turkish interests and Israel's sick ambitions is a sine qua non for Bulgaria's balanced foreign policy.
A vivid illustration of more political servility is the act of our last government, which pointed without any evidence to Hezbollah's involvement in the Burgas airport attack to please Tel Aviv.
In most cases, in problematic situations, our foreign ministers and prime ministers behave as agents of foreign countries, not as Bulgarian statesmen.
The foreign policy vision of ATAKA is built on the Bulgarian national interest, which throughout the centuries of our existence as a state has been one: the
unification of Bulgarians within one borders, the
protection of the borders of the country, the
protection of the dignity and property interests of all Bulgarians inside and outside our present borders,
non-commitment to military alliances, neutrality,
trade and cultural relations in all directions, without taking into account the external centers of power that direct the development of bilateral relations with individual countries.
Military neutrality!
The balance of our trade and cultural relations today is disturbed by the servile behaviour of our prime ministers from 1990 to today.
Important issues - such as whether to build a new nuclear power plant - are decided in the American embassy, not in our National Assembly.
Sending military contingents to conflict points like Iraq, Afghanistan and the like are a mistake and contrary to our interests.
ATAKA is for military neutrality and non-participation in military blocs like Switzerland and Austria - countries comparable to Bulgaria in territory and population.
"No to military bases in our country!"
In 2006, the government of the triple coalition gave four of our military bases to the US for free use with a total lack of control over what goes in and out of these bases.
The only political force that opposed the US bases in Bulgaria with mass protests throughout the country was ATAKA.
The GERB government continued the vassal policy and even promised new bases in Bulgaria to the US.
ATAKA is against the presence of foreign military bases on the territory of our country.
ATAKA is for referendums on membership in international alliances, including the EU.
No compromises for Skopje!
Regarding Macedonia ATAKA has a categorical position.
And it is: an uncompromising condition for Skopje to stop its anti-Bulgarian propaganda campaign, the
financing of separatist organisations in our country,
to stop falsifying Bulgarian history
and repression of citizens who identify themselves as Bulgarians.
Without the fulfilment of these conditions Bulgaria cannot maintain diplomatic relations with the today hostile ruling regime in Skopje, nor
can it support its EU candidacy.
Firmly to Turkey!
On Turkey ATAKA has a clear vision.
And that is: the immediate settlement of the question of compensation on the Turkish side for the properties of the East Thracian Bulgarians, seized in 1913, to the value of 10 billion dollars, and the properties of the Asia Minor Bulgarians.
Strict regulation and increased fees for Turkish cargo vehicles and strict control of their cargo.
A new regime at the border with Turkey, with the aim of stopping smuggling and the entry of illegal migrants, who are most often individuals linked to Islamist terrorist groups.
Imposing uncompromising conditions on Turkey to stop its interference in Bulgarian domestic politics through manipulation and treatment of the Muslim population and funding of various training centers.
Demanding an apology and compensation from the Turkish side for the genocide of the Bulgarians during the Ottoman rule.
Regarding the danger of aggressive Islamic fundamentalism ATAKA envisages a rethinking of the state policy, the creation of real counter-intelligence and intelligence services
and active partnership relations with all Orthodox countries for mutual assistance on the issue.
ATAKA has a plan to create laws that would put a sharp barrier to the invasion of Islamist emissaries in the form of foundations and others, who over the past two decades have turned entire regions here into jihadist territories.
Demands to Brussels, not servility!
Regarding the European Union ATAKA envisages a radical new active attitude and insistent defense of the Bulgarian interests, which was not done before.
First of all - exposing the lie that the EC wanted the closure of the Kozloduy NPP units.
This lie was refuted by the Luxembourg court and by the European Commission itself.
On this basis, we demand that the point in the accession treaty with the EU referring to the closure of our nuclear reactors be declared "based on fraud" and revoked.
Then we should open the 3rd and 4th units of Kozloduy NPP.
Before Brussels ATAKA will present a firm demand for equalization of the funds for agriculture, which now for Bulgaria are 25% of those for other European countries.
Before Brussels ATAKA has already raised, but will insist as a ruling party to solve the issue with the recognition of the so-called treaty of Noyos as invalid after the collapse of Yugoslavia
and the return of the so-called Western suburbs to the borders of Bulgaria.
ATAKA stands for a permanent break with the illusion that someone in Europe is concerned about Bulgaria's prosperity.
Today's leading figures in the EU are the descendants of those who cut our homeland into pieces at the Berlin Congress, of those who imposed the humiliating and defeating treaty of Nice and who wanted Bulgaria to be wiped off the map of Europe.
Only with our own strength, flexible and beneficial for our country policy can we count on progress.
History proves that tacit consent and vassal politics towards foreign interests only lead to enslavement, from which we are still falling.
Real investments from economic titans
As an overall foreign policy ATAKA relies on a significant reorientation of the country's foreign policy towards Russia, China, India, Brazil, the Middle East and the countries with which we have traditionally had good trade and cultural relations.
Genuine investments from these directions will give Bulgaria a significant increase in the gross domestic product and thus in the standard of living in Bulgaria.
There is a need to rebuild the trade missions in our embassies abroad, as well as
to revive our cultural centers, which have the budget and the trained personnel necessary for the full presentation of the millenary culture and civilization of Bulgaria.
Active our advertising from outside!
ATAKA relies on an active foreign policy with ambassadors who are lobbyists for Bulgaria in the world, not faceless bureaucrats and ambulant retailers.
Active promotion of Bulgaria abroad, which requires special budgeting and logistics.
Attracting foreign Bulgarians
ATAKA envisages a facilitated regime for attracting Bessarabian, Moldovan and Ukrainian Bulgarians to work, study and settle in Bulgaria.
Special legislation will be created for the settlement of our compatriots abroad from all directions on Bulgarian territory, for their settlement and provision.
A quick and easy regime for their Bulgarian citizenship.
CHAPTER II HOME AFFAIRS
The Ministry of the Interior is the largest and most expensive governmental structure in the country - with 63 000 staff and an annual budget of BGN 1 billion.
In terms of numbers, it is twice the size of Bulgaria's military forces.
Although it has been depoliticized since 1990, in practice this ministry continues to be more of a political tool of any ruling party or coalition.
The latest scandal - from April 2013, with the wiretapping of politicians, journalists and businessmen under the GERB government, is an illustration of the last two decades.
This violation of citizens' rights was also done under previous governments.
No more confusion about who's a watchman, who's a robber
During the two decades of transition, the leadership of the Ministry of Interior and the individual services were in direct contact with the bosses of organised crime and were an umbrella for many of them.
A number of prominent leaders of pre-criminal groups had cards from the DGCC or NSS in the exercise of their criminal activities.
This intertwining of the underworld and the leadership of the Ministry of Interior and its services has not been stopped to this day.
The practice to date in the Ministry of Interior is the shurabajanash appointments to senior management positions of persons without the necessary training, at all levels in the system.
There is a need to end the failed system of competition for these officials in Spain, which has been introduced here.
A certain circle of people are accumulating money at the expense of the heads of the police stations, who do not know their people because they have no right to select.
Their du-ma is not respected.
An end to the absurdity of "a policeman without a computer and petrol!"
In spite of the billions of dollars in the budget of the Ministry of Interior, there are no basic funds for equipment, fuel and equipment of the police, because the priorities and money go in directions outside the direct and substantive activities of the Ministry of Interior.
For example for PR, luxury equipment for bosses, overseas business trips, etc.
No more "Gypsies beat up a policeman" cases
There is currently no adequate legal basis for the MIA.
The policemen on the street are without any rights and are subject to abuse by all sorts of lumpens, gypsies and thugs.
Because of corporate, company or personal interests, because of financial ties of bosses, the work of the police is paralysed
and therefore its results in the fight against crime are unsatisfactory.
Due to pressure from outside for all kinds of restrictions, for reasons of economy, the number of uniformed personnel is reduced at the expense of the administrative staff, sinecure posts and even whole departments and directorates are created and maintained, which have no efficiency.
The Bulgarian policeman - well protected, good looking and well paid!
Radical change is needed.
ATAKA is for: the creation of a real, in line with today's reality, law for the Ministry of Interior, which protects the police officer and guarantees his rights.
Cuts should be made in administrative and inefficient staff at the expense of uniformed police and operational staff.
It is necessary to reallocate the budget in the direction of technical equipment of uniformed police officers and departments working directly against crime with everything necessary for a modern state.
A clear and precise regulation for recruiting staff and meeting professional criteria.
ATAKA envisages a reorganization of the Interior Ministry and purging the leadership of corrupt and incompetent personnel.
There is a need for a reduction in the composition of the Ministry of Interior,
European pay for the employees on the job
and high requirements for professionalism.
An end to gypsy crime in the villages!
Domestic crime has been the number one scourge of the Bulgarian population for twenty years in the small villages of the country and in the neighbourhoods of the big cities.
In the villages of Bulgaria it is now impossible to grow agricultural produce in retail or simply to exist if there are settled gypsy groups nearby.
Hundreds of thousands of elderly working Bulgarians are the target of undisturbed gypsy aggression, they are robbed, raped and killed by gypsy gangs without any intervention from the authorities.
Despite its billion budget, the Ministry of Interior is absent from the small settlements of Bulgaria and this is the number one problem for our country.
Well-equipped police units are thrown against protesting Bulgarian citizens who want a decent life.
There is no action against the gypsy robbers, rapists and murderers.
There are internal directives in the structures of the Ministry of Interior not to intervene when gypsy groups commit crimes.
And when a Gypsy criminal is arrested, he should be released immediately.
This creates double standards in the approach to the perpetrators of crimes and leads to self-defense of Bulgarian citizens, including with weapons against attackers of Gypsy origin.
Every Bulgarian village will be provided with police presence and immediate intervention in cases of domestic crime.
Not a hundred cameras on the Eagles Bridge, but cameras in the villages of Mechka, Litakovo and Butan!
Measures for trespassing and violence against citizens will be increased.
The use of firearms to protect one's property and family would be allowed.
ATAKA has created a law for the formation of voluntary units for the protection of the population from domestic crime and will adopt it in its governance.
So far it has been rejected by the incumbent rulers.
Under ATAKA the Ministry of Interior will work in the service of the Bulgarian citizens from all social strata.
The Bulgarian policeman will be good looking and well dressed, well paid and well insured, but with high demands.
If he is found to have links with mafia structures or criminal elements, he will be put on trial and thrown out of the system forever.
Real municipal police and sheriffs
ATAKA envisages the creation of a real municipal police, which would have all the powers of the police units
and be subordinated to the mayor's office of the respective municipality.
There should be discussion and consultation with the people on the introduction of elected chiefs of local police, of the sheriff type, who should come up with specific programmes to keep order in their community.
There is also a need to create a police force within the prosecution
or to transfer the current judicial police to the prosecution.
If anyone asks why, the answer is a simple example: who should the Attorney General today assign to arrest an Interior Minister who has committed a crime?
The minister's subordinates?
The Ministry of Interior under ATAKA's rule will turn from a political tool for crushing opponents of the government
and from a structure intertwined with the underworld
into a real body of law and order and security of ALL Bulgarians, not of the oligarchy and some close to the government.
CHAPTER III HEALTH
Today, Bulgarian healthcare is of the lowest quality in the EU according to the European Health Consumer Index.
The biggest drawbacks according to this study are: waiting for expensive surgeries,
increasing out-of-pocket payments for the patient
, and a shortage of modern medicines.
The number of newborn babies fell in 2011 and 2012 by 17.5% .
13 345 fewer babies are born per year.
The percentage of children who are born with Bulgarian as their mother tongue is already below 50%.
Bulgaria ranks first in Europe in population mortality.
In 2050, if this continues, we will have a population of 4 531 000, of
which ethnic Bulgarians may be a minority.
The market principles of the health reform in Bulgaria, instead of transforming the system for the benefit of all citizens of the republic,
have fundamentally destroyed its structure
and created instead a specific mafia organization for the obsession of the huge monetary resource from the budget.
To distribute the funds and control their use, the Health Insurance Fund was created, which quickly became an instrument of this obsession.
Market-led healthcare has drastically deteriorated the quality of healthcare and
deprived a large number of Bulgarian citizens of health care, as evidenced by the increased mortality rate and the declining birth rate in the country.
There is a constant lack of medicines for the chronically ill.
Due to low pensions, most elderly people cannot get treatment.
Thousands of Bulgarian citizens are not able to make health contributions and remain uninsured.
In Bulgaria, two thirds of the monetary resources are invested in hospital care and only one third - in outpatient care, while in all European countries it is the opposite - two thirds are invested in outpatient care and one third in hospital care.
In recent years, the rapid bankruptcy and privatisation of some hospitals has begun, with the tendency for very few to remain state-owned.
In the parks and courtyards of privatized hospital buildings, constructions have started that have nothing to do with health care.
In 2006, the EU adopted an opinion listing the core values and principles of health systems: universality, good access to treatment, equity and solidarity.
These principles are absent in our healthcare.
It appears that the parties, referring to Brussels for their every action or thesis, which have ruled so far, do not even respect the principles of their beloved EU.
The Health Insurance Fund is an unnecessary intermediary
The NHIF is a monopoly that can be dissolved without sanctions against the Bulgarian state.
The administration of the NHIF has nothing to do with medicine, but enjoys privileges, buildings, official cars, equipment that come from the people's money.
The health monopoly must be broken up
and the state should take over the health care functions as it was before 2000.
It is also a vicious practice that all pharmaceutical companies are linked to the NHIF, from which they make profits at the expense of people's health.
The NHS is limiting, not helping to heal the nation - referrals do not heal.
ATAKA proposes to take health care away from the mafia and return it to the Bulgarian people.
ATAKA is for a transition from "market", i.e. corrupt health services, to a system of providing health care to every Bulgarian, regardless of his social status.
Making money cannot be at the expense of the health and lives of Bulgarians.
Bulgarian citizens have the right to this care, and
the state has the obligation to provide it, and
to provide it of the highest quality,
with equal access for all.
The concrete measures that will express this policy are: the liquidation of the Health Insurance Fund
and the formation of a State Fund of Public Health, which will take over all the costs of medical services and activities, as well as the entire diagnostic and treatment process.
10% of GDP for health!
Health care in Bulgaria should be financed from the budget revenues.
To introduce a Health Income Tax to provide the funds in the budget.
Other funds to be raised through a percentage of the extraordinary revenues generated by the expropriation of illegally acquired property.
In total, the health budget item cannot be less than 10% of GDP.
End the criminal privatisation of health care facilities.
Hospitals and polyclinics - state!
Hospitals in district towns to become regional health units providing quality healthcare through structural change with one level of management.
These hospitals to be subordinated to the district level, thus aligning funding with regional health needs
determined by a district health council comprising representatives of all municipalities in the district.
All hospital and polyclinic buildings to be a state fund to be provided free of charge to medical institutions for use and maintenance.
Hospital facilities to be restructured from trading companies into health care companies.
The salaries of medical staff to be determined by a special classification for the Ministry of Health, in accordance with the qualifications and performance of the individual subject.
Private medical facilities to be subject to the general rules, but not
to be financed from the budget.
Priority development of reproductive medicine (fertility and child health),
oncological medicine,
chronic diseases.
Special status of oncology health facilities.
Particular attention to high-tech equipment for these activities.
Emergency aid - in a single centre with civil protection and fire brigade
Ambulance Service Centres (ASCs) to remain the exclusive priority of the state as an element of the country's national security.
Emergency care to remain an independent unit, integrated at central and regional level with the structures of civil protection and the fire brigade with a single management centre.
This will lead to improved synchronisation in disasters and emergencies,
reducing financial resources as they will be directed to a single integrated unit.
These units must be well equipped, well trained and have clear objectives and priorities for action.
At the discretion of the specific topography and population density, provide helicopter equipment suitable for assistance under the appropriate conditions.
Such provision will ensure timeliness, timeliness of transportation and access to all points of the country.
No VAT for medicines!
Medicines should not be subject to VAT, and
life-saving and chronically ill medicines should be provided by the state budget in the necessary quantities without intermediaries.
medicines for children up to 8 years of age and for cancer patients and the seriously chronically ill in Bulgaria should be paid for by the National Health Fund.
Pensioners with minimum pensions receive free medicines.
End the practice of monopoly in the supply of medicines through effective legal changes.
The right to open a pharmacy will have a master pharmacist: a pharmacist with up to four pharmacies.
Financing of medicines, supply for the insured and especially for expensive medicines to be centralized through the MoH with the participation of the non-governmental sector in the face of various patient organizations and those defending patients' rights.
This approach will allow for transparency and efficiency of the process by making medicines and consumables cheaper and also
removing the monopoly of certain companies imposed through lobby pressure.
No pharmacy monopolies, with fixed prices for medicines!
The national pharmacy system will be removed from the terms of the liberal, pure market economy.
State regulation is introduced to build a socially relevant structure for the supply of medicines with state-fixed drug prices.
Economic and administrative prerequisites for saturation with pharmacies of all settlements are created.
Assurances that pharmaceutical care, not services, will be provided to citizens by qualified Master Pharmacists.
Optimizing and effectively reducing the cost of drug treatment for citizens and the National Health Insurance Fund by utilizing the resources of qualified Master Pharmacists.
Introduction of clinical pharmacists in hospitals.
Free drugs at birth, free "in-vitro"
the drugs administered at childbirth should be free,
all "in vitro" procedures and drugs should be free.
Maternity homes and children's clinics to receive a special premium from the state to lower infant mortality, especially at birth.
A separate fund for the treatment of children with serious illnesses in foreign clinics.
The nation's health resource will be as much as it needs to be in order for every Bulgarian citizen to receive budget-paid health care.
This will be done with reallocation of money from other areas and cash flows brought to light.
To the current model of public insurance should be added the model of state financing, which should be focused mainly on hospital care, supply of medicines and emergency care.
Such an integrated model will achieve better and balanced equitable financing of these key areas so that
citizens can receive truly accessible, qualified and timely medical care.
Medical care for every Bulgarian, to every village!
Because of the current Law on Medical Institutions, on 01.06.2014 the practices of hundreds of general practitioners will be closed, serving tens of thousands of patients who have not started specialization in general medicine.
This will lead to a breakdown in health care
and tens of thousands of patients will be left without medical care in localities, especially remote ones, and will have to travel tens of kilometres to receive primary medical care.
Since its introduction in Bulgaria, the specialisation in general medicine has continuously encountered difficulties of various kinds.
There are dozens of reasons why hundreds of general practitioners have not started specialisation, such as:
distance from postgraduate training centres,
lack of a postgraduate training centre, lack of
distance learning,
attendance at .odules for specialization during working hours when they have to attend to their patients,
high average age of general practitioners,
doctors with severe chronic diseases ,
se.encial, social, etc. reasons for which attending courses is intolerable for the affected doctors.
At the same time, these doctors have been working as general practitioners since 2000, and at some point they will find themselves in a situation where they cannot carry out the work they have been doing for 12 years.
This is absurd and discriminatory to say the least.
That is why we are changing the text of the law.
So that doctors who have a recognised specialty in surgery and ENT other than those quoted below, and have been working as GPs (general practitioners) for more than 5 years, have the same rights as those who have an acquired specialty in internal medicine, paediatric medicine and emergency medicine!
Thus, physicians working as OPDs enrolled for specialty training who have not acquired a specialty in general medicine by July 1, 2017, will continue to work as OPDs but will be paid 80% of the pay of physicians with a recognized specialty in general medicine until completion of their specialty training.
In places where there is a persistent lack of medical care, allow specialist paramedics to carry out curative activities in collaboration with the nearest doctor.
In these cases to be able to carry out and medicine supply to the people in remote areas.
ATAKA guarantees this with an already prepared change in the law.
A real health card!
Developing a real health card, enabling the provision of health services even in the most remote corners of the country.
Introduction of electronic health cards for each citizen with data on health status
and financial resources covering the basic package of health insurance.
Every citizen to pay personally with the electronic health card for the health services provided, so the money follows the patient and no medical referrals are needed
Every Bulgarian citizen - health insured!
Health insurance for people with no or very low income should be covered by the state.
To change the current model of hospital care, achieving equal and equal access in all areas of the country.
To this end, the state should maintain hospitals in all regional centres with adequate funding in accordance with the number of the population, which
together with the emergency medical care centres should adequately ensure the health of the population.
Improve the financial situation of the health care system by allocating contributions from excise taxes on cigarettes, alcohol and fines for violating factors affecting people's health.
Assaults on doctors and medical personnel at their workplaces or visits to addresses - criminalised by law!
The health of Bulgarians is not only the result of the work of the health system.
In solving this problem, all factors that affect human health through their direct or indirect activities should be involved, such as:
environmental impact;
the control of animal and plant foods;
smoking and alcoholic beverages;
pharmaceuticals and food products, etc.
Through increased control of these factors, firstly, reduced financial resources are ensured for diseases caused by these factors
and from the sometimes harmful and fatal influence on the human genetic material, requiring very large financial costs to maintain health.
The right approach to this problem also solves the long-term fundamental issue - the future and growth of the nation.
CHAPTER IV AGRICULTURE AND FOOD
Bulgarian agriculture was the first victim of colonisation imposed from outside.
The land that had been commandeered under socialism was returned to its real boundaries, and in chaotic conditions by land commissions composed mostly of fraudsters.
Due to the great age (almost half a century) of the land consolidation it was possible that the land division became a big scam where thousands of owners were deceived and did not receive their inherited lands within their real boundaries.
The land commissions, formed on a mixed party and shura-bajan basis, were instruments of this rampant plunder.
The tribal racial populations of cattle, pigs, poultry were wiped out.
Huge areas of heli-tarian varieties of orchards and vineyards were destroyed.
Bulgaria's arable land is fragmented into thousands of small plots, more than a third has been abandoned for years, and consolidation is mainly done through renting.
Of the 12.5 million acres irrigated by 1990, 360,000 acres are now irrigated.
Unique irrigation systems with which Bulgaria was ahead of Western European countries were destroyed and sold for scrap by gypsy gangs.
Ownership has changed in a way that is extremely damaging to production agriculture.
Large tracts of land have been bought up by foreign companies, mostly Turkish, who do not cultivate the land or, when they do, exploit the Bulgarian peasants in an outrageous way.
The small and medium farmers (called "farmers" in Anglo-Saxon parlance) are constantly plundered by large merchants - resellers.
They have no support from the state and therefore cannot withstand the competition of imported products subsidized in the respective foreign countries.
ATAKA opposes the unequal treatment of Bulgaria by the EU for agricultural subsidies.
Now Bulgaria receives 25% of the agricultural subsidies of other European countries like Germany, France, etc.
Full subsidy!
Ataka insists on subsidising Bulgarian agriculture using the two main methods of the EU's main economic policy, namely the Single Payment Scheme (SPS)
and the Single Area Payment Scheme (SAPS) to Bulgarian farmers, and at 100%, like other EU countries.
The Bulgarian farmer should be competitive with the Western European one, and
it is not right and proper not to receive equal European subsidies.
This violates the principles of competitiveness set by the EU, putting Bulgarian farmers in an unequal position on the common market compared to European ones.
The subsidies will be used to develop the competitiveness of agriculture,
resilience to market conditions,
protection of the land stock,
resilience in the event of disasters and adverse climatic factors,
fully organic farming to protect the health of citizens.
ATAKA also insists on an increase in subsidies for dairy farmers - both state and EU.
The Bulgarian yoghurt with its content of both types of bacteria - Lact "bacıllus bulgarıcus and Strept "c "ccus ther""phılus, has proven medicinal and dietary qualities.
On the other hand, the change in the geopolitical orientation of Bulgaria has led to the loss of traditional and secure markets for Bulgarian agricultural production, mainly Russia, the former Soviet republics and the Arab countries.
Bulgarian exports are mainly directed to the European Union countries, where due to the higher productivity and four times higher subsidies of the local production, the production of our agriculture cannot compete.
Bulgaria's nature has also suffered severely from the criminal transition from socialism to capitalism.
Forests and waters, game and fish are exploited uncontrollably and profitably, which means destruction of resources.
Illegal logging, predatory concessioning, lack of maintenance for the water reservoirs, unstoppable poaching are destroying the Bulgarian nature
and at the same time are subject to hardly measurable corruption.
Legislation relating to agriculture and the environment is designed according to the economic rules of neoliberalism and colonialism.
This puts Bulgarian farmers in an unequal position compared to producers in the European Union and other countries,
breaks the producer-consumer link
and creates conditions for their labour to be plundered by monopolist buyers.
ATAKA believes that the current organization and management of agriculture is completely wrong and harmful to Bulgarian interests.
It forces the Bulgarian peasant to lead a hopeless, miserable life.
Change in Bulgarian agriculture can only come with radical measures in favour of producers.
Revision of land and forest transactions!
ATAKA wants a change in the ownership and use of agricultural land and forestry by:
A complete revision of the return of lands to their true owners or their heirs.
Court and stiff penalties for those involved in fraud, perjury and falsification of land ownership documents.
Full audit of all transactions related to state and municipal agricultural land and forest land - swaps, concessions, leases, purchase and sale, privatization transactions.
Change in the Agricultural Land Act.
State, municipalities and natural persons - Bulgarian citizens shall have the right of ownership.
Companies to be able to farm land only for rent.
Absolute ban on changing the status of pastures and meadows.
Change in the Forest Law - forests to be only public or exclusively state property.
The status of forest land should be changed only in exceptional need - for military sites, sites of national economic importance, communications and infrastructure.
The change of status of agricultural land to be an exception - for military sites, constructions of exceptional economic importance, for communications and infrastructure.
New law for agricultural cooperatives!
ATAKA is for the creation of a qualitatively new law for agricultural cooperatives.
And to implement a state project to develop nearly 5 million acres of vacant and uncultivated land
No to concessions for the dams!
ATAKA is for the review and termination of concessions and contracts for the use of dams and lakes, as well as the
possible pollution from their use.
The country's water resources - dams, lakes, springs, streams and rivers - to be exclusive state property in order to guarantee and satisfy the population's need for drinking water and not to be given away on concessions.
Agency for EU funds!
ATAKA is in favour of the creation of a special non-governmental agency for EU funds;
precise criteria for subsidies;
subsidies, not only for areas of arable land or number of animals,
and for quantity of production (subsidies are not to cover losses, but to improve conditions, respectively increase yields).
Relief for the Bulgarian producer!
Creation of a special law to encourage farmers - fuel, electricity, fodder, fertiliser and water used by farmers to be exempt from VAT and excise duties.
For every kilo of produce exported outside the EU, extra money should be paid to producers, not traders.
Change in the VAT Act - milk, wheat, eggs, fish, fruit and vegetables produced in Bulgaria should not be subject to VAT and
the rate on other Bulgarian products should be 5%.
Import products to be traditionally taxed with VAT and excise duties.
ATAKA is for a correction in the customs tariffs.
Agricultural produce imported into our country from outside the EU should be subject to a duty of 100% on the current market price of our produce.
ATAKA is for the creation of a new State Environmental Agency, directly subordinated to the Council of Ministers.
Functions and responsibilities forests, water, game, fish, hunting and fishing, nature conservation, combating natural disasters and industrial accidents.
Agricultural Science Act!
We need a repeal of all existing laws that only hinder and harm producers.
New laws are needed on: animal husbandry, fisheries and aquaculture, veterinary medicine, animal protection, animal feed.
A law is needed for rural development according to the European Rural Development Programme.
We need an agricultural science law.
Create a special law for agricultural institutes, which are currently undergoing looting and ruin.
Energy Farming Act!
ATAKA is for a law on agricultural branch organizations - an independent national organization of agricultural producers
with permanent representation in the Committee on Agriculture in the National Assembly,
opinion during debates in the National Assembly,
legislative initiative,
permanent representation in the Advisory Council to the Ministry of Agriculture,
permanent representation in the Agency for EU funds.
We need a national agricultural exchange!
with the main objectives: to ensure that all producers buy their produce at real market prices according to quality.
This will eliminate the long chain of resellers
and ensure a minimal gap between farm gate prices and the retail network.
Law on agricultural branch organisations!
On the basis of free and voluntary association.
This law should regulate the following powers of the national agricultural organisation: permanent attendance at the meetings of the Agriculture Committee of the National Assembly
and the right to an advisory vote.
Right to speak during debates in the National Assembly on agriculture.
Legislative initiative on agriculture.
Representation in the EU funds agency.
Ensuring the supply of machinery, equipment, fuel, fertilizers, chemicals, feed and consumables to any producer at preferential prices.
Ensuring the export of production!
As a summary - ATAKA believes that it is necessary to revise all the agreements with the EU for quotas of agricultural production because they do not correspond to the real possibilities for production of Bulgaria and they harm our country.
The rationalisation of agricultural production proposed so far will increase the quantity and quality of Bulgarian production.
As a first consequence, Bulgaria's status as a member of the European Union in terms of agriculture needs to be reviewed.
The Accession Treaty, respectively quotas and regulations, was concluded on the basis of the parameters and resources of Bulgarian agriculture in the late 1990s, when its capabilities were set back more than half a century.
In this sense, all conditions for the development of Bulgarian agriculture need to be reviewed, rewritten and renegotiated.
Secondly, traditional international diplomatic, economic and cultural ties with Russia and the former Soviet republics, as well as with the Arab countries, must be restored.
In this regard, any hostility towards these countries should be abolished from Bulgarian practice in international relations.
Not to satanise Russia,
not to show a flexible policy towards the former Soviet republics,
not to send Bulgarian "peacekeeping" forces to the Middle East.
Restoration of the services of the commercial attachés to the Bulgarian embassies, mainly in countries with prospects for active trade.
Bulgaria needs to calculate the real and sufficient gross domestic product needed for the Bulgarian nation, as well as the
as well as the possibility of it being worked out with the strength of its own economy.
A targeted policy towards the natural resources available in our country should also be implemented and
used to improve the welfare of the people.
The Bulgarian state should finally step into its role as such
and direct its forces into the development and proper use of its strategic resources in order to be able
to overcome the crisis and its effects more easily.
World practice has shown that countries that have strategic resources - such as iron, coal, gold, oil, natural gas, uranium, etc., emerge from crises much more easily and quickly
and their economies grow rapidly.
V CHAPTER ECONOMY, ENERGY, TOURISM
The economy in Bulgaria is based entirely on colonial foundations.
This means that everything that can bring profits is in the hands of foreign companies.
After the 1997 memorandum with the IMF and the World Bank, which destroyed our country, our country headed towards its final destruction as an independent country with industrial development.
The fact is that before 1989 Bulgaria was a more industrialized country than today.
Back then, more than two-thirds of GDP was accounted for by capital goods production.
Consumer goods accounted for 32% of GDP.
Now it is the opposite and even worse in proportions.
The political programmes of the parties that have ruled so far do not move Bulgaria out of the colonial model and change the economic course.
They confirm it by repeating the thesis that: there is no money for higher incomes,
there is no way to get back Bulgarian resources into Bulgarian hands
and that everything in our country must work for the sake of the so-called foreign investor.
History has clearly shown that after 1990 there were no real foreign investors in Bulgaria, only seekers of easy and guaranteed profits.
The opening up of the economies of the Eastern European countries after 1990 to the Western economies and financial institutions brought only losses to the Eastern European countries.
According to Friedrich List, a classic of nineteenth-century German economic thought and a proponent of national economies, the opening of the market between a more developed economy and a less developed one leads to losses and impoverishment of the less developed one.
We have experienced this truth for ourselves.
In order to correct the wrong and damaging economic scheme in which we are forced, we need:
Bulgaria should get out of the agreements with the IMF and the World Bank!
These agreements are colonial and enslaving.
That's what former World Bank Vice President and Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz has to say.
He defines the International Monetary Fund as a colonial instrument that kills the domestic industrial growth of less developed countries
and forces them to liquidate their public sector and social systems.
Natural resources to pass into the hands of international companies
and not to build a middle class.
Everything to be privatised quickly to the benefit of outside companies, and
countries to go into debt crisis.
This leads to the impoverishment of large segments of the population and the creation of a comprador, oligarchic, corrupt overlordship.
This IMF-World Bank scheme, applied to Third World countries and Eastern Europe, was exposed in detail by Stiglitz in a series of lectures and books that gained worldwide notoriety.
In our country, however, the foreign economists and the representatives of foreign foundations continue to convince that there is no other way than the colonial dependence applied through the IMF and the World Bank.
Let us remember that in the last ten years the level of the minimum wage and pension depended on the IMF representative, not on the Bulgarian trade unions or professional organisations.
This total external slave dependence must end.
Bulgaria should build protection for the goods it produces, stimulate its own production
and build its own industrial capacities.
The exit from the IMF and World Bank agreements is the shortcut to liberation from colonial rule.
Revision of privatization deals!
Return the looted assets back to the state resource.
Creation of a dedicated institution and an emergency law with retroactive effect to conduct such a review.
The primary measure of evaluation will be the retention and development of productive capacity.
Privatized enterprises that produce goods and services, especially those exporting goods and services that have created and preserved jobs, receive preferences in valuation and are not subject to penalty.
The rest are returned to the patrimony of the state and the
privatisers are held accountable according to the extent of the damage caused to society.
Payment of debts of privatised enterprises to their former and current workers.
Revision of the concession deals!
They were concluded under unfavourable conditions for Bulgaria.
Repeal the land swaps and restore the status quo before the land swaps.
A change in the ownership of the means of production of goods and services of a monopolistic nature and of particular social importance.
Containment of electricity distribution companies!
Also of the water supply companies,
liquidation of parasitic intermediaries - such as the heat accounting companies;
nationalisation of the already sold out district heating companies.
Through these measures, society will regulate the monopoly prices of electricity and heat, the
monopoly prices of water
and thus protect citizens from the plunder they are subjected to today.
Kozloduy NPP reactors 3 and 4 open!
Moreover, ATAKA is for the development of all opportunities to make Bulgaria an energy independent country.
Nuclear energy,
gas and oil supply,
alternative sources of electricity and alternative fuels must always be on the radar of the public and its state.
The stopped nuclear reactors of Kozloduy NPP should be started up,
two more reactors should be built at the same plant,
construction of Belene NPP should be accelerated.
Construction of the Upper Arda Cascade by the Bulgarian state with Bulgarian companies.
ATAKA insists on the use of garbage for the production of heat and electricity.
In a number of countries in Europe, waste and garbage are used efficiently to generate electricity and heat.
Currently, only 1 thermal waste incineration plant is operating in Bulgaria, near Sofia, which supplies electricity to 2500 households.
Built for BGN 2 million, its return is BGN 1.5 million per year.
The basic argument here is that a household pays £0.22 per kWh of this electricity, and also pays a garbage charge.
This leads to a drastic increase in the cost of the service for the end user.
A model could be implemented whereby the garbage fee and the cost of electricity could be reduced
and this could be used in the future for any such plant.
These plants can and should also produce heat energy and thus
supply heating to a number of large Bulgarian cities.
This will lower the prices of hot water and heating paid by Bulgarian households and companies.
Priority of Bulgarian business!
Macroeconomically, ATAKA is for creating a working and predictable environment for Bulgarian business.
For this we need: to remove administrative and legislative obstacles to entrepreneurs in Bulgaria.
To ease the licensing regime to a minimum.
Reducing time limits for obtaining permits.
Precise and clear specification of the required database.
Introduction of test licensing.
It is necessary to create schemes for productive investment - joint stock companies with production and investment purpose, which should be built with both state and private participation,
excluding the monopoly.
ATAKA is in favour of ensuring priority to Bulgarian business in obtaining state contracts, participation in privatisation and infrastructure projects.
Now Turkish companies are building the main highways in the country.
ATAKA is for protecting Bulgarian production from low-quality dumped imports.
ATAKA is for the restoration of the lost Bulgarian markets outside the EU.
ATAKA is for an active state policy to advertise Bulgarian goods and services with money from the budget.
ATAKA proposes a special attention of the state on the problems of small and medium business:
-subsidized lending to small and medium enterprises by the Development Bank and the market banks;
-direct subsidization through financial and credit .mechanisms. and through.
partial co.subsidy from the budget of interest rates on bank loans;
-an interest holiday of one week for business loans to .alky and medium-sized enterprises;
-shortened procedures for the state's indebtedness stopped.o .alky and medium-sized businesses to lead to a.nalena .ejufir.e indebtedness;
-liberalization and simplification of the resolution regime.
-licenses, permits, control, introduction of a system of .in.ial resolution,
introduction of the declarative principle and the principle of .silent consent in the conduct of business activities.
Introduction of test licensing,
reduction of time limits for obtaining permits.
Clear and accurate formatting of the required database.
Priority for Bulgarian business in government procurement, participation in privatisation and infrastructure projects.
Now mostly Turkish companies are building roads, highways or pavements in the cities in Bulgaria.
In order for the Bulgarian business to actually profit from projects, the criteria and documentation for applying for projects - European and state - should be clearly and precisely defined.
It is mandatory to train companies and citizens to apply for European programmes and funds.
The capacity of the EU's Cohesion Fund, which gives the right to build not only motorways, has not been fully used,
but also industrial development, rural development, infrastructure and improvement
- with orders for Bulgarian companies!
Bulgaria should defend its position for not reducing the EU cohesion policy funds, which are for Bulgaria, because in any case there are 1/3 of the total funds allocated from the EU budget, and
with its low absorption of EU projects Bulgaria is mostly a donor rather than a user of the money in question.
Here it should not only be seen as money, but also for the purposeful improvement of infrastructure, habitat and the lives of the inhabitants of given areas.
Large infrastructure projects should be implemented by Bulgarian companies.
ATAKA is for the creation of an intensive program for the renewal of the intercity infrastructure,
executed entirely by Bulgarian companies.
Real measures for SMEs!
Here are the specific measures that ATAKA envisages regarding small and medium enterprises.
They are coordinated with the public organisations that represent their interests in the country.
Adoption of the draft law for amendment and supplementation of the Law on Protection of Competition, which was introduced in the National Assembly in September 2012, providing real competitive conditions for entrepreneurs.
Adoption of amendments to the Labour Code to regulate part-time and hourly employment for small and medium-sized enterprises.
Regulatory change in the Social Security Code in determining the thresholds for social security contributions with the possibility to decompose them according to the size of the enterprise.
Statutory change in the Public Procurement Act to prohibit the imposition of additional conditions, including the disposition of certain percentages of working capital.
Sectoral, regional and municipal employers' structures to be involved in the formulation of procurement specifications.
- Introduce a ban on public procurement with deferred payment.
Speed up insolvency procedures and eliminate the possibility of retroactive insolvency.
Adoption of a law that sets economic incentives to attract Bulgarians who have left our country to permanently settle, work or develop business in Bulgaria, especially in areas with serious demographic problems.
VAT to be paid on a cash basis - when payment is received, not when invoiced.
At the moment, small and medium-sized enterprises are receiving interest-free loans from the state instead of it creating conditions for their development.
The National Revenue Agency to return bonuses received when their acts fall in court.
Small and medium-sized enterprises to be liable for the tax credit only for the first supplier in the chain, as is the European practice.
To create a credit guarantee fund with the participation of the state to support the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises in the absorption of European programmes and in the implementation of projects for the development of their business.
Simplifying procedures, documentation and deadlines for small and medium-sized enterprises when applying for EU programmes.
More real measures to help small and medium-sized businesses:
Adoption of a programme for the protection and development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Bulgaria based on the principles set out in the Small Business Act adopted by the European Commission.
Establishing a regulation for state aid to small and medium-sized enterprises in accordance with the exceptions provided for in the EC Small Business Act.
Appointment of a senior civil servant to be responsible for the implementation and enforcement of the provisions of the EC Small Business Act in Bulgaria.
A change in the methodology for determining the garbage fee, by abolishing the scheme to set the fee as a pro rata on the balance sheet and tax valuation of assets and switching to actual waste accounting.
Currently, the garbage levy for businesses with large assets is commensurate with and even higher than the corporate tax.
Creation of an agency to deal with priority policies for the protection and development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Bulgaria.
Establishing regional markets for small and medium-sized producers who do not have access to supermarket chains and are victims of resellers.
Special export insurance rates for small and medium-sized enterprises.
Establishment of e-government in an accelerated timeframe, incl. through public procurement ("turnkey") by teams that have implemented similar solutions - Finland, the Netherlands, Estonia, Georgia, etc., incl. on the basis of a domestic bond loan or new external debt
- Introduction of mandatory publication in a single public online register of: all fees, tariffs and interest conditions of the banking system;
all tariffs and conditions of insurance operations.
Unlike most other parties, however, ATAKA believes that in Bulgaria should be predominantly Bulgarian not only the small and medium business, but
also the big!
By creating joint ventures with 51% state participation and 49% Bulgarian private participation
, entire sectors of heavy industry and engineering can be developed, as we have had.
The banking sector, communications, electricity distribution, water, petrol stations and retail chains should also be in predominantly Bulgarian hands!
Nationalists say Bulgaria should be a high-tech country!
The colonial scheme into which Bulgaria was inserted gave financial capital great advantages over industrial, productive capital.
Investments - foreign and Bulgarian - are mostly in real estate, retail chains and entertainment, which practically do not contribute to the development of Bulgaria as a high-tech economy.
In such an environment, public attitudes are concentrated in the development of tourism (because of the quick return on investment) and agriculture (because of EU subsidies).
However, the world experience shows that all modern economies have as their basis highly developed industrial production with profiled segments - specialization by individual profiles.
In other words, only with tourism and agriculture Bulgaria will not rank among these countries and will always be in the last places in the modern world.
Since 1996, all transition governments came to power without a programme and strategy for Bulgaria's technological development.
On the contrary, under Ivan Kostov's regime nearly 3,000 enterprises were privatised and then immediately looted, others were drained and bankrupted.
The myth was created that all of them were obsolete and unfit to function in the new conditions.
However, the inspection shows that at least 30% of them were equipped with Western machinery and had secured markets, while others could be upgraded if invested.
Nothing of the sort happened and the country's economic development was set back decades.
As a result of this policy Bulgaria is constantly in a state of drastic trade deficit, which is a sure indicator of its economic backwardness.
This policy was pursued not only by the government of Ivan Kostov, but also by that of Simeon Saxe-Coburggotski, Sergei Stanishev and Borissov.
In Bulgaria there is a complete lack of a technology policy and strategy.
As a result, our industry is dependent on expensive resources and cheap labour, its productivity and energy efficiency are many times lower than those of the same sectors in EU countries.
The goods thus produced are weakly competitive, making exports limited and
the trade balance negative.
The European Union has virtually failed in terms of technological development.
On paper there are intentions, but they are not being implemented.
In 2000, the Lisbon Strategy was adopted, which provided for the accelerated development of research, development and innovation in the countries of the European Union.
As a result of its implementation, by 2015 the technological levels of the USA and Japan were to be reached.
Nothing like that happened.
The Lisbon strategy was not implemented without sanctions.
The realization of the technological leap was only wishful thinking, but not mandatory.
At the same time, the bulk of the Union's budget - €40 billion - was going to subsidise agriculture, which accounts for only 1/6% of the economy and provides only 4.7% of jobs.
The Europe 2020 strategy was also adopted.
It proposes three priorities for the countries of the Union : Smart growth - building an economy based on knowledge and innovation.
Sustainable growth - promoting a greener and more competitive economy, using resources more efficiently.
Inclusive growth - fostering an economy with high levels of employment that creates the conditions for social and territorial cohesion.
In this regard, 5 main targets have been set to be achieved in 2020 and to become national targets.
Intensification of research
Ex.etion of the climate and energetics
High level of education
Fight against poverty
Bulgarian governments from 2007 to 2013 made no effort to meet these five targets.
They only swore by European integration, but in practice they worked against it.
Neither employment increased, on the contrary, under the party called "Citizens for European Development of Bulgaria", which ruled for the last 4 years, another 400 thousand Bulgarians remained unemployed.
Nor has scientific development accelerated.
On the contrary, GERB tried to destroy BAS.
The fight against poverty was not at all led by the last "pro-European" government,
on the contrary, poverty has increased and according to international reports it is today the No 1 problem in Bulgaria.
In fact, the last two governments, especially the last one, have worked AGAINST, not FOR, the European development of our country.
Bulgaria does not fit into the European space because it does not have a high-tech industrial capital base.
It has a modern education that, despite the damage done by the colonial model, still has the potential to match the world's education centres.
The research potential still exists, especially of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and some universities.
In the absence of a technological industrial base, however, the achievements of education and knowledge have nowhere to be applied.
These results are used by the economies of other countries - the best scientists go to work in foreign universities and research centres, the best research is used by foreign industries.
We are an intellectual donor to countries richer than us, and this is again calculated in billions of money given to foreign economies.
In order for Bulgaria to implement the Europe 2020 strategy, it is necessary to create a national high-tech base in a market economy, which means with financial instruments.
What does this mean?
The financial instruments of a modern market-organised economy are taxes on the one hand and the credit system on the other.
The flat income tax and the flat VAT rate put all economic operators on an equal footing.
Therefore, in order to give priority to modern industrial production, it is necessary to change the current tax system, which in its current form gives great advantages to the unsustainable sector: real estate, trade, financial intermediation.
The flat tax should be replaced by a progressive income tax with special rates for the development of modern production.
It should receive certain advantages through levels far lower than those in highly developed industrial countries.
The value added tax should be differentiated with advantages for industrial high-tech production.
Low rates for high-tech industries and exports of their products should be within 5-10%.
The credit system needs to be changed in the direction of easing credit to high-tech production of goods and services.
The National Guarantee Fund should guarantee loans and the Bulgarian Development Bank should guarantee low-interest loans with a long grace period for this sector.
In addition to the financial ones, legislative and structural instruments are needed to ensure a technological leap of the Bulgarian economy.
The main research and development unit in Bulgaria is the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, followed by the Medical Academy and Sofia University.
During the transition, research work in Bulgaria was almost abandoned and, most importantly, subjected to the most vicious attacks by various actors.
Researchers have been and continue to be subjected to the absurd condition of being self-supporting through their direct research, which is not the case anywhere in the world.
Research pay in Bulgaria is at extremely low levels compared to even the least developed EU countries.
As a result, the number of research scientists in Bulgaria is far below the lower limit in Europe and continues to fall sharply, especially in the last year.
The ratio of R&D investment to GDP is as follows : Japan - 3.4%, USA - 2.6%, Europe 2% and Bulgaria - 0.5-0.6%.
The reform of the scientific research work in Bulgaria to achieve high technological levels of production cannot be expressed in the permanent reduction of personnel, but in their attestation and control.
State funding for research should have a stable and increasing level in the budget and should not depend on the financial situation.
Initiatives are needed in legislation to induce private capital to invest in research, invention and innovation.
The development of Bulgarian industry should reflect not only the priorities mentioned in the EU directives - information and communication technologies, clean energies, efficient use of resources, but also the
development of modern technologies in mechanical engineering, metallurgy, industrial chemistry, pharmaceuticals, business and household appliances, military production.
The pogrom perpetrated on Bulgaria's technological resources can only be forgotten by the extraordinary efforts of the whole society, organized by state policy.
That is why ATAKA proposes to denounce and condemn the political class of the transition, which together with all other crimes destroyed the technological resources of the country.
ATAKA is ready with a national strategy "Technological Bulgaria"!
High technology is the leading sector in highly developed European countries and the strategy based on high added value production and services rests on it.
Bulgaria, which had the highest level of human potential in information and communication technologies in Eastern Europe, is now the "white spot" of Europe.
Without a development strategy, leading high-tech companies have no interest in opening manufacturing branches.
State ownership occupies key economic sectors: energy, health, education, railways, defence, police and others.
The huge state administrative apparatus together with other state structures assimilate a huge part of the national budget.
Governance and public administration do not create the conditions for an economic upturn based on EU development funds.
Specifically: European funds are seen as funds to be absorbed without a vision and strategy for investment development leading to high value-added production;
It is not planned for the long term, but always within the framework of a single term of government, as a result of which a future "bomb" is planted,
as it does not rely on the maintenance in high technology, where without the transfer of know-how and production in the country the future maintenance and expansion of the network is doomed to an external monopoly
and huge costs from the national budget.
As a consequence, especially of the last government, the society is condemned to poverty, low gross domestic product, limited production with low added value.
It is necessary to form and implement a new economic development path, which in its foundations aims to include:
a strategy based on high technology, with high added value of products and services.
A path towards economic cooperation through the establishment of joint ventures with leading high-tech European companies.
Identify strategic directions in the economy that are in line with the European strategy formulated in the White Paper;
Direct state participation in addressing strategic objectives on the basis of public-private partnership.
Higher education and participation of higher technical universities in this strategic path: policy - high-tech business - education;
Support for active development of small and medium-sized businesses opposing monopoly companies.
The development of the "high technology" sector covers the main and priority areas of the EU economy
and is a key part of Europe's highest priority projects - specifically in the rail sector the construction of the Single European Network.
It will be the basis for the complete electronification of the country, which will have a global impact on the optimization and modernization of key sectors such as education, health, the interconnected national railway network, a leap in the development of sectors such as mechanical engineering, instrumentation, agriculture and others.
ATAKA is for the creation of a strategic sector "Electronic State"
The e-state incorporates the management of key sectors in the administration, the governance of the state, the control of key sectors such as transport, water resources, disasters and accidents, defence, health, fire, etc.
The goals we achieve through the e-state are: by electronifying the administration we achieve a strong reduction in its number while guaranteeing more efficient services for the population.
Water resources control and disaster prevention response.
We are building an intelligent system for tourism information, booking and payment of services, as well as its promotion in Europe.
An information system linking doctors, pharmacists and the NHIF is being introduced and built in the health sector.
Through the unification of services and functions, all major parts of healthcare are integrated informationally
and the treatment process of electronic data storage is controlled through full computerization.
The management of the state is centralized through the integration of all information systems of national importance in a single dispatch control centre.
Enables preventive control and extreme decision-making in disaster situations.
High efficiency of services.
The services are merged and single tickets are issued for combined modes of transport.
The maintenance of important industries is being improved and modernised.
The main projects to achieve the goal of the "Electronic State" are: the "Electronic Government"- information system for unification of services, management and control in the state administration;
Implementation of the control, monitoring and management system in the Ministry of Defence (C41&8), which aims to cover the most important aspects of our defence system;
Centralised information system for control, monitoring and management of water resources.
The project is set as an important and promising one, secured under the EU funds;
Centralised information system in health care through the introduction of an electronic health card.
The project integrates the entire health process of insured persons between the treatment process, memorization of treatment information and receipt of prescribed medication;
Information system for monitoring ""lı "e"" operation of the tourism business;
Electronic tickets (e-ticket) for all modes of transport - land, water, rail transport;
Creation of complex automated systems for control, management and maintenance in the railway sector, covering: Railways, High Energy Network, Telecommunication Network, Train Control System, Signalling System and Rolling Stock Maintenance System;
Establishment of a centre for integration of information and subsequent control and management in a centralised structure of the State based on the C41RS.
The information brings together all information networks: police, water control, disaster and emergency, Ministry of Defence, fire and others.
Tourism Sector
The construction of a centralized video system, broadcast by TV signal,
and a "lıve" surveillance system at tourist and archaeological centers.
The system solves the following main tasks: real-time video information of the tourist centers, transmitted via TV and ZG channels in real time;
Tourist information centers are united in a common information network for receiving information and booking;
Inclusion of "o "lı "e information from the tourist centers in the European tourist channel TW1;
Video information of traffic in the main centers with heavy traffic of major cities;
Information from the main archaeological centers of Bulgaria.
Active involvement in Europe's Joint Innovation Activity (JTI), involving higher education.
Emphasis on technology education!
One of the most important components in the overall economic strategy of the country is education.
In the field of high technology, the relevant higher technical universities must have a direct and technological link with the relevant business.
This is achieved by the following initiatives: Establishing scientific technical business parks;
They are connected through "wıreless" centres with the respective business; They are
involved through the established European telecom networks with the equivalent European business centres
and work on cooperative projects in the leading innovation themes;
They have secured funding under the European programmes for the innovation projects.
Through the methods and strategy of modernization of the state, using innovative products in high technology, the main priority tasks are being solved in all areas, leading to high-tech production with high added value of the product and services, while
optimizing the administrative apparatus.
The main goal that is focused on is a sharp increase in gross domestic product and an improvement in the welfare of society.
VI CHAPTER CULTURE
The culture of the Bulgarians remained outside the attention of the authorities throughout the transition.
In the programmes of the proto-governments and especially their performances it has always been one of the last places.
ATAKA believes that culture requires exceptional attention because it defines the identity of Bulgarians and their place in the modern world.
This attention requires a fundamental re-organisation of institutions.
The Ministry of Culture should be abolished and instead formed:
Ministry of Tourism and Cultural Heritage and Arts Agency
This will make the structures far more functional than the present ones
and create greater opportunities in the organization of spiritual life in the country.
Cultural heritage
ATAKA accepts the cultural heritage as one of the main factors for the identity of the nation and its state.
Our millenary cultural heritage - a lasting source of income for the country!
Bulgarian cultural heritage should be in the patrimony of the state, like the EU countries that are in the same cultural zone.
The state takes care of movable and immovable monuments, invests and regulates private investment in their identification, preservation and legitimacy.
The main funds for this are raised through tax deductions from tourism.
ATAKA stands for an uncompromising fight against the archaeological activity, speculation and illegal export of cultural heritage monuments.
Changes will be made to the Criminal Procedure Code to give the police, prosecutors and the courts incomparably greater opportunities to fight organised crime in the field of cultural heritage.
ATAKA is for the active study and wide socialization of cultural heritage monuments.
Development of a strategy for their conservation and maintenance, setting timeframes for achieving the objectives.
Funding for municipal, regional and national museums and other related structures should be increased manifold.
The remuneration of their assistants must be subject to a common classification for all those working in the field.
A major overhaul of the current cultural heritage law in line with the philosophy of a leading role for the state in its preservation.
Establishment of a Cultural Heritage Fund under the Ministry of Tourism and Cultural Heritage for project funding of priority programmes.
Establishment of a Chitalishta Fund at the Ministry of Tourism and
Cultural Heritage for priority funding of Bulgarian Chitalishta.
Art - state care!
Bulgarian art reflects the spiritual development of the nation and is the main product of this development.
It represents Bulgaria to the world and a significant part of our legitimacy as a civilized society directly depends on it.
Over the past more than two decades, Bulgarian art has been deprived of its former excellence, which
has had a negative effect on Bulgarian society and held back its development as a modern nation.
ATAKA believes that without the decisive intervention of the state Bulgarian art is doomed to a painful death.
The national spirit cannot be exported to the market and depend entirely on it.
In a country with a population of 7-8 million, writers, artists, composers, filmmakers, and entertainers cannot support themselves from the market, no matter how developed it is.
All fields of art need state subsidies, and in an amount that allows for the reappearance of excellence in art, comparable, for example, to the legacy of writers such as Dimitar Talev, Dimitar Dimov, Emilian Stanev, Iordan Radichkov.
Funding for art should be implemented through programmes and competitions through the Bulgarian Art Fund and European funds.
Competitions should be open and fair to avoid the current shuffle and corruption.
State prizes for the various fields of art, the size of which should be in line with the real requirements of Bulgarian life, and not be symbolic.
The organisation of cultural life in the country within the arts is entrusted to the Arts Agency, reorganised and reformed on the basis of the relevant departments in the current Ministry of Culture.
ATAKA is in favour of special measures regarding taxation in favour of Bulgarian art.
Immediately, VAT on the national cultural product should be reduced to 5-7%, and
in some areas, such as children's book publishing - to 0%, as in many EU countries.
CHAPTER VII EDUCATION
Education is a main pillar in the nationalist vision of the development of our country.
The attempts to break it down during the years of colonial slavery failed
and we have the potential to revive and develop Bulgarian education on a modern level, which has always been pointed out by outside observers as our social Bulgarian phenomenon - since the era of the Ottoman yoke and in the complete absence of a Bulgarian state.
ATAKA has a clear vision for reviving a patriotic and modern Bulgarian education.
A new law on school education is needed with the following important highlights:
full coverage of 5-year-olds in pre-school compulsory education
and the obligation of the state to provide places in kindergartens and schools for all 4-year-olds.
New curriculum, teaching content and textbooks.
Providing the student with clear and accessible information for their age.
True and objective content in history and other subjects, education in the original Bulgarian virtues.
Throwing out of the textbooks the false theories of "Turkic", "Altaic", "Chud", "Finnish" origin of the Bulgarians and other invented and tendentious versions, humiliating us as a nation and belittling our contribution to world culture.
legitimizing the true and proven by modern DNA experts theory of the indigenous (local) origin of the Bulgarians.
Consolidation in textbooks and encyclopaedias of the truth about our millennia-long residence in the lands that are today the homeland of the Bulgarians.
Establishing the true thesis of the Thrako-Bulgarian origin of our people and the oldest civilization of the Thrako-Bulgarians, whose works have been found here and are dated back more than 7 thousand years - before the Sumerian and Egyptian civilizations.
The oldest worked gold in the world is from the Varna necropolis and is 7500 years old.
It is high time to present the true history of the ancient Bulgarian civilization and for this the efforts of all academic communities in the sectors of "history", "archaeology", "ethnography", "anthropology", "genetic studies" and "linguistics" should be harnessed.
Compulsory subject "Religious Studies"
ATAKA is firmly in favour of introducing a compulsory study of the subject "Religious Doctrine" or "Law of God" as it was studied until 1944.
These are the basic, alphabetical principles of the Orthodox faith, which every Bulgarian baptized child should learn from the first grade in the compulsory curriculum.
For those children and students who are not Orthodox or are atheists, this will not be compulsory and they can study Ethics or History of Religions instead.
Children of Bulgarian citizens of other faiths may study the principles of their faith on the basis of private tuition or other extra-curricular forms
under strict state control, which shall ensure the non-proliferation of socially dangerous sects and fundamentalist unconstitutional teachings.
This view of ATAKA is unconditionally in line with our constitutional norms.
Article 13, para. "Traditional religion in the Republic of Bulgaria is the Eastern Orthodox religion".
The Bulgarian teacher - well paid and protected
The Bulgarian teacher from Renaissance times was among the first authorities of our society.
The colonial period humiliated his status and dignity.
ATAKA is for raising the authority of the Bulgarian teacher again by improving his social status
- doubling the average salary for the sector,
state funding of qualification and retraining courses,
joint seminar closed lessons to unify practices
and increase the requirements for teaching.
Legal protection and special sanctions for abuse and violence against teachers.
ATAKA is in favour of tenure of school principals - no more than two consecutive terms of 4 years.
ATAKA is against state aid for private schools and kindergartens.
Through a change in the Education Act, we will focus on vocational education and training
- vocational schools should provide trained personnel, specialists with secondary vocational education, so necessary for production.
Not less than 5% for education! No VAT for textbooks!
ATAKA is for: the public sector in education to be financed under the State Budget Law in a volume not less than 5% of the gross domestic product.
The private sector to be financed by legal and natural persons.
The state should provide additional funding for secondary schools in so-called working-class neighbourhoods, small towns and villages.
Salaries to be based on a single state classification for budget salaries.
Textbooks and teaching materials for primary and secondary schools to be exempt from VAT.
Pre-school education should be compulsory from the age of 5
and should be conducted according to programmes for education in love and respect for the homeland.
The material base in pre-school education to be subject to state requirements.
Pre-school education cadres to be trained in a separate specialty with Bachelor's and Master's degrees.
School education to be subject to new state educational requirements for programs and textbooks for humanities knowledge with moral-ethical
and patriotic orientation.
Conversion of vocational schools
and opening of new technical schools with modern technical centres.
Establishment of after-school interest clubs and
sports clubs with modern facilities.
Higher education - quality and affordable for everyone!
We need to reduce the large number of higher education institutions.
With its 52 higher education institutions, Bulgaria ranks first in Europe in terms of population.
At the same time, we are one of the last in terms of the quality of higher education.
The demographic problem and the lack of sufficient students graduating from secondary education to fill the capacity of higher education institutions are further arguments for reducing their number.
The reduction of the number is carried out under a clear normative regulation - by raising the criteria for initial and ongoing accreditation assessments by the National Agency for Evaluation and Accreditation (NAEA).
Emphasis on research universities rated "Very Good" and only eligible to accredit doctoral programmes.
No fees at state universities!
ATAKA is for: to abolish paid tuition in state universities.
Any funds needed for them should come from the state budget, not from student fees.
Additional project-based funding in public-private partnerships and increased research is possible.
There is a need to increase the rights and responsibilities of the NEA for the evaluation of higher education institutions, to
improve the recruitment and quotas of young scientists in this important institution.
It is necessary to introduce national criteria for scientific advancement and habilitation of Bulgarian scientists.
Random selection to be applied in the formation of the scientific juries.
Eliminate subjectivism and the uncontrolled swarming of docents and professors.
Introduce an appellate second level for appeals of academic staff development procedures by an independent arbitration scientific board.
To merge the Research Fund and the Innovation Fund into a single structure subordinate to the Council of Ministers.
To regulate the procedures for applying for state funding of scientific projects, which procedures exclude corruption, opacity and subjectivism.
European pay for teachers! Interest-free loans for students!
Salaries in the sector are determined by a uniform classification of budget salaries in the country, and the
average salary of a habilitated lecturer cannot be less than two average gross salaries in the budget sphere.
State scholarships are awarded on the basis of success and income - for excellent grades a scholarship is awarded automatically, and
for very good grades a scholarship is awardedon the basis of income - within limits set by regulations.
Interest-free lending to students through the state-owned Bulgarian Development Bank.
If the borrower remains working in the country for a period of not less than 10 years, the loan is forgiven after graduation.
Exceptional measures to retain graduates in Bulgaria by attracting private industrialists.
ATAKA is for exclusive attention of the society and the state to knowledge in scientific sense
Scientific research in Bulgaria to be financed by the state budget with no less than 2% of GDP (now 0.19) - by domestic and international programmes.
To provide for the budgetary support and supplies of the research institutes and units of BAS and SAA.
Researchers' salaries to be determined according to a uniform classifier for budget salaries in the country, with
the average salary of a habilitated scientist not to be less than two average gross salaries in the budget sphere.
To classify the scientific fields with regard to financial resources
and to regulate the procedures, to ensure transparency with new regulations.
A new law on degrees and titles is needed with national criteria.
Introduction of an appeal mechanism through an arbitration scientific board in the National Agency for Evaluation and Accreditation.
CHAPTER VIII ENVIRONMENT AND WATER
Bulgaria's natural resources, landscape and biodiversity are fundamental for the country's economic development.
Today in our country it is practically impossible to know the exact picture of our natural resources - rare and precious metals, ore minerals, water resources and mine springs.
The brutal liquidation of the research institutes that studied these sectors has led to chaos and lack of adequate information on what our country has in terms of wealth.
During the period of the national betrayal called "transition", the following were destroyed: the Committee on Geology, the Na-scientific Research Institute of Mineral Resources (NIPR), the Exploration Directorate, which included: geological mapping, geochemical research, geophysical works.
The geophysical equipment was uni-located.
And the current Ministry of Environment and Water destroyed all the geological mapping, for
which ATAKA will seek judicial responsibility to the hole from the relevant ministers and officials.
A complete map of the natural riches of Bulgaria!
ATAKA is working with a circle of highly prestigious scientists who are able to rebuild the scientific basis for the study of our natural resources and planning their full use.
According to inter-national data, BULGARIA IS FIRST IN THE WORLD IN LEAD PER HEAD OF POPULATION!
For the period 1948-1985 we were the eighth largest producer of lead in the world and the 12th largest producer of zinc.
BULGARIA RANKS FIRST IN EUROPE IN GOLD DEPOSITS!
Our country has 13,000 tonnes of gold in its subsoil as per the 30 metallogenic-forecast maps made from different regions of the state.
There are proven billions of tons of industrial reserves of rock-forming and building materials - pearlites, zoolites and marbles, as well as raw materials for cement, which are currently
not exploited because of the colonial regime imposed on us.
BULGARIA IS THE RICHEST IN THERMOMINERAL SPRINGS IN EUROPE!
We have 650 active springs with a flow rate of 730 l/s, plus as many more springs from non-hydrological drilling.
Today, gold, copper, silver and other strategic metals worth billions of euros a year are exported by foreign companies under criminal concession conditions, harming our country.
ATAKA will immediately terminate the concessions for gold and rare metals!
With a special law on natural resources ATAKA will ban the concession of gold, silver, copper and any metal and coal deposits.
The same applies to the oil and gas fields in our country and on the Black Sea shelf, as well as to
our mineral and water resources.
All Bulgarian natural resources under ATAKA will be exclusive state property, without the right to sell or concession.
Their extraction and profit will by law be Bulgarian state only and will work for our whole society.
Profits from these sectors will guarantee a state pension fund and a state health fund
For the proper and nationally responsible exploration and extraction of all our natural resources, ATAKA envisages the transformation of the Ministry of Environment and Water into a
Ministry of Natural Resources!
Under his umbrella, the services and institutions destroyed by the nationalist governments after 1997 will be restored.
The national mineral resources exploration agency is established!
This agency will be directly under the Council of Ministers and will work on a national exploration programme for precious, valuable and strategic metals.
The Agency will be funded from the national budget with sufficient resources to fully work on the creation of a metallogenic-forecast map of the country
and exploration for profitable mining of gold, silver-copper, lead-zinc, iron-ore and manganese polycommon deposits.
ATAKA will implement the main decisions of the IV National Symposium on Metallogeny of Bulgaria by 27 highly prestigious academic representatives of science in the country.
They are: given that Bulgaria is one of the mineral-rich countries in Europe, it is appropriate to establish a National Mineral Resources Geological Exploration Agency under the Council of Ministers.
To re-establish the Research Institute of Geology of Mineral Resources of the National Geological Survey Agency.
It is to support the forecasting, prospecting and exploration of mineral deposits with a long and short term concept for their integrated study with a view to their economic exploitation.
For example, there is a single Geological Institute of the National Agency for Mineral Resources in Romania, with 1 800 staff.
To re-establish the liquidated geological mapping at the Mineral Resources Institute, which is one of the main methods for 1:100,000 to 1:25,000 scale forecasting, prospecting (1:25,000 to 1:5,000 scale) and exploration (1:5,000 to 1:1,000 scale) for minerals, as in all European geological surveys.
To establish a modern geophysical base for mineral prospecting and exploration, as well as
regional gravimetric (M 1 : 50 000) and magnetometric (M 1 : 100 000) surveys.
It should be acknowledged that only the former Institute of Geology and Geophysics concentrated all the equipment, methodological developments and this field research.
To continue the application of geochemical prospecting and exploration methods, showing the mineralization and structures of the deposits, which have led to the discovery of new productive gold deposits in the Eastern Rhodopes: Ada Tepe, West Sarnak, Perunika, Rozino, Gornoseltsi and others.
To re-establish the metallogenic group at the Institute of Mineral Resources to continue the production of large-scale and detailed metallogenic-forecast maps, of which there are 28 so far.
Attention should be focused on the fields and deposits most important for ore mining: Chelopech, Asarel, Elatitse, Madan, Rudozem, Zlatograd, Luki, Kardzhali, Bakadzhik, Gramatikovo, Malko Tarnovo and others.
These maps are to be accompanied by the mandatory preparation of conceptual search and exploration projects.
To prepare national atlases for license prospective blocks for exploration of deposits of precious metals, gemstones, industrial minerals and rocks, thermo-mineral waters by highly qualified specialists at the Institute of Mineral Resources in cooperation with MSU "St. The Institute of Mineral Resources of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is a joint venture between the Institute of Mineral Resources and the Institute of Geology.
This has been done in the development of the national and regional programmes on prospecting, exploration for precious metal deposits and the results are definitely positive.
For all these actions ATAKA refers to the UN documents: 'The right of peoples and nations to permanent sovereignty over their natural resources must be exercised in the interests of their national development
and the well-being of the people of the State concerned' - says the UN General Assembly resolution 1803 of 14 December 1962.
An end to unnatural seaside and mountain development!
Equally important is the ecological problem of balancing nature use, reproduction and environmental protection.
Regionally, there is a pronounced imbalance between the exploitation of natural resources, their conservation and the provision of a healthy living environment.
The few striking examples are: overdevelopment of some regions (the Black Sea coast, the ski resorts, the big cities) and as a counterpoint - depopulation of significant territories in Western Bulgaria, the Rhodope Mountains and some high mountain parts of the country;
Incompatibility with climatic and ecological conditions, development of alternative energy sources (wind and solar farms, microworms and plant-based energy production - rapeseed, turnip, miscanthus, forestry and agricultural crop residues) and conflicts with biodiversity conservation.
Many of these crops can be grown in areas with poor soils, where there are large areas of abandoned farmland, instead of such fertile land as in Dobrudja - the breadbasket of Bulgaria.
This is a matter of pricing policy, land ownership and regulation by government authorities.
There is a similar problem with the extraction of ballast from the river beds - instead of excavating from the river bed, to use the adjacent areas, where water areas are formed (after the completion of the byre), as is the case with the formed ponds and marshes along the river. This is the case of the ponds and marshes of the Iskar River near Sofia.
This creates the conditions for recreational and other beneficial uses of these sites.
Such cases, as well as many other investment intentions, are not professionally assessed through environmental assessments (EIA, ES, EA) due to the creation of party-closeted NGOs without qualified specialists in them.
The refusal to have these procedures carried out by licensed experts, which was the norm a few years ago, is a retreat from quality environmental assessments.
It is also possible to radically change tourism policy:
ski resorts are the object of conflicts between tourist expansion and nature conservationists in the mountains, unfortunately very often with a weak ecological base and low conservation training and culture.
What solution could be proposed?
In Switzerland, one of the leading countries in the world in the field of ski tourism, due to warming in recent years there has been a shift away from ski tourism in resorts below a certain altitude and towards other forms of alternative tourism.
In our country, most of the hiking trails are located in the forest zone of the mountains, for the construction of which large areas of forests were cut down.
The thickness of the snow cover there is less than one meter.
Instead of each municipal authority to continue this trend, where there are conditions for ski tourism, an environmentally friendly strategy for the development of ski tourism in our country should be considered in two directions:Международен ski tourism
At the preassessed by the state authorities with the participation of experts from environmental institutions and business tourist organizations to designate no more than two new places in our high mountains (unfortunately on the territory of the Rila NP and Pirin NP), above the upper boundary of the forest with use only during the winter period (at the discretion of probably from November to March), where the snow cover is usually over 1.5 meters and snow retention one month longer.
The skiers should be transported via suitable platforms over the forest.
Only low-lying annexes for ski facilities, restrooms, teahouses, and portable toilets should be allowed there.
b) Family and recreational ski tourism should be developed only below the lower forest boundary.
This is to be done through spatial planning by municipal authorities under the control of the regional governments and the MoEW Regional Inspectorate for Environmental Protection.
Addressing (a) and (b) require legislative solutions.
Other neglected or very underdeveloped areas with huge potential and great impact on the country's economic development are alternative tourism and organic farming.
They should be enshrined as key sections of a future national doctrine and strategy for Bulgaria's long-term development.
To competently solve problems related to natural resource management, environmental protection and maintaining a quality living environment
, it is desirable to have public councils formed by experts from academia, universities and business organizations, profiled in the relevant issues, in the relevant state, regional and local authorities.
Here are the other demands and measures that ATAKA will implement if it is in power:
Sustainable development to be the main thrust of the country's economy.
Full commitment to environmentally sound and sustainable development in investment and technical cooperation.
Publicity, accountability and state responsibility for the population's right to healthy living and working conditions.
Simultaneous consideration of environmental and social considerations in all activities.
Reducing the administration
and introducing a structure, functions and organisation of the activities of the Ministry of Environment and Water and the regional inspectorates that correspond to the new circumstances and needs of the country.
Water management to come under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the provision and consumption of water in settlements and the Ministry of Agriculture for water used in agriculture and fisheries.
Improvement of the management structure and activities for the implementation of environmental projects and activities in the implementation of national and municipal environmental strategies and programmes,
financing of environmental projects of municipalities,
granting of loans for the financing of environmental projects and activities of municipalities, individuals and legal entities,
financing of non-investment projects and activities contributing to the implementation of the state policy in the field of environmental protection and restoration.
Training of environmental protection specialists,
adolescents and the general population in an environmentally friendly attitude to the environment, environmental culture and conservation of natural values.
Accurate implementation of regulations of the jurisdictions in which the environmental projects take place, including legislation implementing obligations under international environmental law.
Timely updating of the tariff for fees collected under the Environmental Protection Act, Water Act, Waste Management Act, Clean Air Act and other regulations.
Improvement of the scope and coverage of the Environmental Protection Act and the regulations on the main environmental areas.
As well as the creation of a new law on public information on the environment that corresponds to the contribution of the population to the country's budget and its needs for free information on the true state of the environment.
Establishment of regulations of the Ministry of Environment and Water and regional inspectorates with well-defined and extended powers that allow preventing and restricting actions of legal and natural persons that contravene legal provisions.
Striving to work with high environmental and social standards.
Aligning sustainability for domestic purposes with goods and services that meet environmental requirements and standards.
The environmental and social assessment of projects in the state to include: the environmental and social impacts and issues; the
capacity and commitment of the state, population and business to address these impacts and issues in line with the overall environmental policy of the state.
State support for projects that have the potential to deliver co-benefits, such as:
socio-economic benefits to project-affected communities;
equal access to environmental benefits for all project-affected parties in all cases where appropriate and technically feasible;
priorities for projects that incorporate environmental and accompanying social issues facing the region and
and which support climate change mitigation and adaptation strategies, desertification, biodiversity conservation, energy efficiency and resource efficiency, among others.
Committing business to help strengthen management capacity in the area of environmental issues, to
increase the utility of the activities undertaken,
to improve the long-term sustainability of development.
A precautionary approach to the conservation, management and sustainable use of natural resources,
of biodiversity,
wild flora and fauna,
fisheries and forestry,
Seek measures to protect critical habitats and, where practicable, enhance natural habitats and the biodiversity they support.
Through public policy, contribute to the implementation in practice of the principles and rules of international law on the environment, labour, corporate responsibility and public access to environmental information.
Projects that are inconsistent with the State's obligations under relevant international treaties and agreements on environmental protection and sustainable development, as identified in the project appraisal, are not allowed.
Implement best practices in environmental management
(including energy efficiency
and resource efficiency,
waste reduction and recovery)
and human resource management
(such as equal opportunities,
work-life balance, occupational
health and safety).
Promote government activities that are consistent with international good practice on sustainable development
and that meet requirements such as environmental
and social assessment and management;
labour and working conditions;
pollution prevention and abatement;
health, safety and security of local communities;
land acquisition;
involuntary resettlement and economic growth;
biodiversity conservation and sustainable management of natural resources;
population;
cultural heritage;
stakeholder information and involvement; and
Intentions for private investment must bring significant environmental and social benefits.
Adequate and targeted environmental protection strategies by sector, including in border areas and with neighbouring countries.
Advanced risk assessment, auditing, environmental and social impact assessment, including comprehensive analysis of potential problems.
X CHAPTER DEFENCE
For the revival of the Bulgarian Army and a profitable military-industrial complex PP ATAKA proposes:
1. National referendum on the issue of the Republic of Bulgaria remaining in NATO.
Our membership in the pact did not bring anything good to the Bulgarian army.
Instead of getting stronger, combat capabilities are shrinking dramatically.
Our country is being dragged into NATO military operations that have nothing to do with the Bulgarian national interest.
Bulgarian servicemen perform non-prestigious service activities.
2. Immediate withdrawal of our military contingent from Afghanistan.
Apart from the annual contribution to NATO, which is more than BGN 8 million, our participation in missions abroad costs more than BGN 60 million a year, most of which is for our contingent in Afghanistan.
The participation of Bulgarian units in missions abroad should only be carried out,ако the budget of the state is not burdened and the costs are borne by the UN, the EU, NATO or other international organizations and member states.
3. Termination of the contract with the US for the joint military bases on Bulgarian territory,
renegotiation of the terms and requiring a fair rent in case the US wishes to use them.
4. Restructuring of the armed forces so that the priority is national defence and not participation in overseas operations.
5. Bringing back conscription of 6 months
and creating conditions to attract volunteers for military conscription.
Only in this way will continuity in the military training of Bulgarian citizens be guaranteed, as they will be trained for the protection of the homeland.
Gradual rearmament of the army under clear and transparent criteria.
Mandatory competitive start and mandatory requirements for foreign suppliers for offset programs with investments in the Bulgarian economy and military-industrial complex.
Opening of the military-industrial complex to new markets in Asia, Africa, Europe, South America and cooperation of production in leading world producers of special products.
Demanding responsibility from those responsible for the unfavourable contracts concluded in previous years and the military property and equipment sold at no price.
ATAKA has a comprehensive concept for Bulgaria's defence policy (2013 - 2023):
Mission of Defence
To guarantee national independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity and the defence of national interests through the preparation and use (where necessary) of armed force.
The defence of the country is the duty of every Bulgarian, not just a limited professional group.
When necessary, the defence of national interests by armed force may be carried out beyond national borders, either alone or with allies.
Under the current circumstances, the Bulgarian Army has two main purposes:
1.  To ensure the implementation of its peacetime tasks,
Namely: the defence of national sovereignty in peacetime,
which includes: airspace control and protection
Control and protection of maritime space
Assisting civil authorities,
which includes: critical infrastructure protection
Antiterrorism
Land border control
Assisting a distressed population
Participation in operations outside national territory
Humanitarian (assisting populations)
For peacekeeping
Interventions and recovery
2. To build capacity to respond to regional and global deterioration, including:
Creation and maintenance of a high combat capability with the potential to deter any possible aggressor
Preparation and maintenance of the armed forces reserve
Preparation of the population
Preparing the economy
Analysis of the environment
А. External environment
After 1991, the world's liberal circles seized the slogan of their pretended adversaries in the communist bloc and proclaimed "the end of history" - the unqualified victory of Western liberalism in the world.
Today, more than 20 years later, this idea has failed completely.
The world we live in is already multi-polar.
The global hegemony of Rah A "erıca is coming to its logical end, and
international politics continues and will continue to be guided by the interests of individual states, including through the use of violence.
Bulgaria cannot afford to rely on the utopian ideas that its security will be guaranteed only by allied countries or by foreign military bases on its territory.
Б. Internal environment
The 23-year pogrom over the army, disguised as "reform", has brought the Bulgarian armed forces to a state of virtual collapse.
If the army is struggling to fulfil its tasks of assisting a distressed population, and participation in expeditionary operations is limited to security functions, then the protection of national independence and sovereignty is assured only on paper.
Extremely low funding, coupled with the implementation of the very expensive model of an all-staff army, condemn the armed forces to gradual decline.
The Army relies heavily on equipment from the 1970s and 1980s that is often "older" than the soldiers, sergeants and junior officers who operate it.
But even this armament cannot be sufficiently maintained.
An additional problem is created by the fact that after the abolition of conscription there is virtually no form in which the population can be prepared to respond to future conflicts or disasters.
The last GERB government inflicted new defeats on the Bulgarian army and defence:
responsible for the unemployment in the Ministry of Defence (MoD) and the destruction of the fighting potential of the Bulgarian Army (BA) is the GERB Minister of Defence Anu Zapryanov Angelov, known in the military by the infamous nickname Anu Noyski.
Angelov should be held criminally liable in respect of:
unprecedented weakening of the military power of the Republic of Bulgaria and damaging the state with financial resources in particularly large amounts:
Reducing the size of the combat units of the Bulgarian Armed Forces to 20,500;
Reducing the size of the Bulgarian Army Reserve to 3,400 volunteer reservists;
Reducing the size of the combat units of the Ground Forces to 14,000;
Closing garrisons and leaving the whole of North-Western Bulgaria without a military presence and the whole of Western Bulgaria with only one garrison stationed in the South-West;
Unacceptable weakening of the Navy by liquidating the submarine fleet
and leaving the Navy's battleships without the necessary technical support and with token and insufficient armament;
Disruption and weakening of the air defense and air force system by liquidating the combat capabilities of the Army's fighter and attack aviation by unacceptably reducing the number of serviceable and combat-ready equipment.
Closure of two-thirds of the Air Force's anti-aircraft missile divisions (AAMD), including those associated with the air defense of the capital Sofia;
closure of radar stations of the RTV and disruption of air defense for the country (The incident with the French paratroopers near the village of. Koilovtsi, Pleven region, about which aircraft there is no information); the
transfer of ownership of airfields to the Air Force or their sale (Dobroslavtsi, Uzundzhovo, etc.), limits the Air Force's capabilities for combat dispersal and maneuvering, as well as
for emergency landing and rescue of the symbolic in number serviceable aircraft.
Establishing air superiority over a potential adversary or air parity is already laughable.
The Air Force barely managed to carry out the Aır P "lıcı "g (air border protection) mission.
Probably too soon a neighbouring NATO country will take over this function.
Demotivation of the personnel and lowering the fighting spirit by taking away social compensations and opposing different categories of servicemen (e.g. soldiers against everyone else).
depriving the personnel of compensations, which Minister Anu Angelov personally benefited from to the full extent when he was a staff officer.
An immoral, unbelievably despicable and treasonous act for a senior officer, which could be called a stain on the colours and a trampling on officer's honour.
Depriving the State of financial resources on a particularly large scale in connection with the conclusion of an unfavourable deal for the maintenance of the Spartan transport aircraft.
Reference - the deal for the same number of aircraft and under the same conditions by the Ministry of Defence and the Lithuanian Air Force, which is significantly cheaper than the Bulgarian one.
Civilian control and civil-military relations:
Turning civilian control into a complete farce by mass appointment of hundreds of military retirees of marginal age without competition and on a friendly and political basis to civilian senior positions in the MoD and the structures of direct subordination
and thus stopping the career development of civilian expertise and clogging the MoD system.
Creating and maintaining the most expensive administration in the country, made up of retirees of marginal age receiving the nation's maximum pensions and the highest salaries for chiefs and civil servants in the country.
And all this" against the backdrop of a severe financial crisis, record unemployment (including youth unemployment), an increasing migrant flow and depopulation of the territory.
This is a "waste of financial" resources on a particularly large scale and harming Bulgarian taxpayers and socially vulnerable groups.
Maintaining duplicative parasitic structures that do not exist elsewhere, neither in Bulgaria nor in the EU and NATO countries.
There are three directorates for information and public relations in the MoD system, one in the MoD, one in the Executive Agency for Military Clubs and Military Recreation and one in the National Museum of Military History.
This is a squandering of huge financial resources intended for the maintenance of the image of Minister Anu Noyski and to the detriment of the Bulgarian citizens and taxpayers.
These structures continue to employ military retirees, close to Minister Anu Angelov.
Thus, the public spending of the MoD is subordinated not to the public but to the private interest of Minister Angelov and his political cabinet
and can be defined as a criminal waste of the Bulgarian taxpayers' money in the conditions of a severe financial and economic crisis.
Crushing of the Defence Staff by pushing it into four directorates in the "integrated" MoD,
depersonalization of the functions of the Chief of Defence and his de facto transformation into an adjutant of the Minister and his deputies from the GERB political cabinet in the MoD.
Unacceptable reappointment of members of the GERB Political Cabinet in the MoD to positions of superiors and directors for civilian civil servants in the MoD and subordinate structures, including in the G. С. Rakovski" during the mandate and at its very end by Minister Angelov.
Seeking personal judicial responsibility from Minister Angelov in connection with the serious peacetime incident with human casualties caused by the explosions at the ammunition base "Straldzha - Marash" near Petoluchka.
They left behind three dead bodies and seven wounded.
Angelov justified himself to the company that was the contractor of the ammunition disposal.
As if the missiles and shells in question are not the property of the MoD until they are actually disposed of or destroyed.
We did not hear his apology to the relatives of the dead and wounded.
Seeking personal judicial: responsibility of Minister Angelov in connection with the serious peacetime incident caused by the broken wall of the Ivanovo dam, which caused the death of 11 people in the village of. The incident caused 11 deaths in the town of Ivanovo and the Haskovo region.
In this case, the minister tried to convince that the dam was not owned by the MoD, but only the land under it, but did not explain who was in a position to manage a facility in a protected military zone.
A year after the incident, the prosecutor's office refuted it, which means that Angelov-Noisky lied most brutally and brazenly to the institutions and the entire Bulgarian people.
Again, we have heard no apology to the relatives of those killed and injured in the flooding.
In both cases, Anu Noyski tried to wash his hands in a Pilatovian way and to shift the blame onto other institutions, departments and companies.
For the first time since 1923, soldiers and combat equipment were being withdrawn from the barracks amid civil unrest and acute social civil conflict.
The deployment of military police units during the civil protests on 19 February 2013 in the centre of the capital was ordered by Defence Minister Angelov-Nyoiski.
The military police was also in readiness for action during the peaceful civil protests of the Rakovski Officers' Legion and the military-patriotic unions and organisations that supported it.
Conclusions
All of the above leads to the view that if we want the army to be able to guarantee national security
and its constitutional obligations, then a defence
policy must be urgently formulated and implemented to restore the potential and combat capabilities of our armed forces in line with the realities and challenges of the modern world.
In line with this requirement, the vectors of a new defence policy should be twofold: an
Army that is the responsibility of the entire nation, not an isolated professional group.
An army that is modern and strong and can guarantee the Bulgarian interests in the modern conditions.
The Management Programme
No country can afford a structural reduction in defence spending because of temporary changes in the economic situation, such as the current crisis.
For Bulgaria this is even more true, because for more than 20 years the army has not been modernised and other countries have not stood still.
By 2017-2018 (the end of the next government term), the Bulgarian Army should be at the apogee of a comprehensive transformation program that could objectively be completed by 2022-2023.
Otherwise, the army will continue to be in a state of "existence".
The main tasks for the next government are: restructuring the army - to introduce limited conscription and more rational use of national resources.
Comprehensive rearmament - to bring the army into the twenty-first century and to build up its combat potential to make it a modern and adequate armed force.
Restructuring
Mass recruitment armies are an anachronism that does not fit modern conditions.
In Bulgaria, however, the formula of an all-staff army was quickly adopted without taking into account the experience of countries with similar characteristics.
All European countries that are members of NATO and the EU have cadre soldiers.
But many of them - especially in northern Europe - maintain a mixed system of manning their armed forces.
There are several reasons for this: combat training of the population
The existence of the concept of civic and national duty
Lower price
Greater flexibility
In such countries (e.g. Finland, Norway, Sweden, etc.) the majority of the military personnel are cadres - officers, non-commissioned officers (sergeants) and some soldiers.
Thus, part of the army formations are in continuous readiness (the majority of the navy and aviation and part of the ground forces), while the rest act as training camps.
Retaining a conscript element does not mean a "mass" army.
The armed forces of these countries are relatively small, with 10-15 thousand men passing through the barracks annually (6 months each).
This conscription is combined with an actively training reserve force and a number of associations to support the army - for example, rifle clubs and other paramilitary formations that are built on civilian initiative with state support and tutelage.
Thus, the armies of Sweden, Norway and Finland have high-tech (some of the most advanced in Europe) regular forces that are relatively small in number (up to 15-25 thousand men, of which up to 5-10 thousand are conscripts), but
many times more reservists who are able to support the regular army in time of war.
Some of these reserve forces are organized into maneuver formations, i.e., modern armed regiments and brigades that are capable of opposing a conventional army on equal terms.
However, because this option is too expensive (no country can maintain a modern armed reserve just "in case"), the bulk of the reserve is being trained to operate in independent, relatively small light infantry-type formations that are able to operate asymmetrically against a large conventional army.
Bulgaria for objective reasons will have difficulties in creating a high-tech army.
The country spends 4-10 times less per soldier (in absolute terms) than modern European armies.
As things stand, the country cannot afford a high-tech, fully staffed army.
It is advisable to build an army with a cadre, a well-trained core that is highly technological,
and a relatively more numerous supporting element that can be used in situations that now seem unlikely.
The model will have three main elements - a regular army (mainly cadre), training formations (conscript forces) and a reserve with adjacent civilian associations.
Considering that up to 10-15 thousand soldiers will pass through the regular army annually, general conscription may not be introduced, or may serve only as a supplement to voluntary service in the army.
In the event that there are not enough volunteers to complete the reserve, a system could be put in place that requires service in the reserve if citizens want to exercise certain rights - for example, gun ownership.
Given the nature of the above, it is appropriate to structure the Bulgarian Army as follows.
A nucleus of fully professional formations (professional officers and sergeants and cadre soldiers), which will ensure to a large extent the performance of the peacetime tasks of the Army.
Within this category are the high-tech formations of the Air Force and Navy, as well as the Special Forces and part of the Ground Forces.
Б. Training formations (enlisted forces) - with professional officer and sergeant personnel whose primary purpose is to train enlisted soldiers.
Such will be part of the supporting joint (Army-wide) formations of the Ground Forces (to the greatest extent), as well as supporting (ground) formations of the Air Force and Navy.
The main purpose of these formations is to provide citizens with military training and thus to supply the reserve with personnel (needed in war), as well as
to prepare citizens for action in emergency situations.
It is imperative that a sufficient number of soldiers in the formations are well trained at the same time so that they can be used, if necessary, to protect the population or other crisis (including military) situations.
В. Reserve - formations that are intended for action in crisis (including military) situations.
Reservists will be divided into categories according to their merits (and remuneration).
One part will be prepared to replenish the regular military forces.
Another part will enter formations that can act against a conventional (army) or unconventional (paramilitary) enemy.
The third part will have support, security and territorial defence functions.
Conscript soldiers and reservists
Conscription - with 25-30 thousand personnel per year the Bulgarian army will need 10 to 15 thousand conscripts.
Up to 5-7 thousand conscripts will be in the barracks at any one time.
The period of training (service) will be not less than 3 and not more than 6 months.
Service will be taken between the ages of 18 and 20, and it will not be possible to defer it (special rules will be developed for those applying to higher education institutions for admission and deferment of the start of studies).
The number of conscripts required will be filled: from volunteers and from serviceable, physically and mentally healthy (certified by a military medical board) young men.
If there are more than the required number of youth, service will be delayed until the next recruitment.
Reservists - are divided into two categories: Replenishers - serve as the immediate reserve of regular formations.
They are paid to be "on standby" and to replace regular personnel when needed (in peacetime and wartime).
Their number is up to 10% (2-3 thousand people) of the regular army.
Reserve formations - small light infantry combat units capable of conducting combat operations against a conventional or unconventional enemy.
Larger modern armed combat units can be formed if financial opportunities are available.
Reserve formations will be up to 100% or greater in number than regular forces.
Reservists' salaries will be paid by the Ministry of Defence for the period of training or use in operations to protect the population.
The main form of manning the reserve is voluntary.
If there are not enough volunteers, some categories of citizens (e.g. firearms owners) may be required to serve a certain amount of time.
Rearm
Since the mid-1990s, and especially since 2005, there has been a clear trend in Europe towards a new generation of weapons.
The main armaments available to the Bulgarian army were delivered in the 1980s and are a product of Soviet military-technical thought of the 1970s.
Notable exceptions are the MiG-29 fighters and the newly acquired 12 AS-532 C "ugar helicopters, 3 AS-565 Pa "ther helicopters and 3 C-27J Sparta military transport aircraft."
The so-called post-Cold War gap in the acquisition of new equipment has very different dimensions in different countries.
In the Western world, less equipment was acquired in the 1990s, but developments did not stop and since the beginning of the new millennium, and
especially after 2005, there has been a trend towards total rearmament (i.e. the adoption of new generations of weaponry, of course not on the scale typical of the previous period).
In Eastern Europe, the 1990s were a "missed" time, mainly due to the socio-political transformations and the general trend of limiting state spending.
After 2000, however, the countries of the so-called Visegrad Four (Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia), but also Croatia, Slovenia and the Baltic States, gradually started a process of rearmament, which is not as large-scale (for comparison, 90% of the main weapons systems of the Netherlands were models introduced in the 1990s and later).
In the Balkans, the processes are slower as even Greece and Turkey, which have the highest defence spending (in absolute terms and as a share of GDP), in their main part have generally old equipment.
In Greece and Turkey it is characteristic to maintain large armies which objectively cannot be re-equipped with modern equipment due to its high cost.
In order for the Bulgarian Armed Forces to have adequate equipment in their main part by 2020, a large-scale rearmament programme should be launched in 2013-2014.
It should include the acquisition of the necessary military equipment for the respective troops, according to the specific combat need, and
the range of possible suppliers should not be limited to Western ones, but should also include Russia, China, India, etc.
Financial parameters
The implementation of the rearmament programme will cost 4-6 billion leva over a period of 10 years.
In order to secure them, defence spending needs to be brought back to 2007-2009 levels, i.e. to 2.5% of the country's GDP.
This will mean personnel and ongoing maintenance costs to be provided within a little more than BGN 1 billion per year, with a
further BGN 300-500 million per year earmarked for the acquisition of new weapons and equipment alone.
This level of funding is not as "unaffordable" and "radical" as it seems at first glance - in the period 1999-2009 defence spending ranged between 2.5 and 4% of the country's GDP.
One of the ways to make the financial burden related to the rearmament of the army more manageable is the optimisation of some sectors of the armed forces.
The truth is that, despite repeated defence reviews, the reform strategists have so far not assessed which capabilities of the armed forces are really priorities.
We have already said that some of the costs will be reduced by the partial adoption of conscription.
However, another part can be saved by a careful review of what should remain in the army's composition.
In spite of the continuous cuts in it over the last 15 years at least, there is the suspicion that which structures remain and which are reorganised or abolished are determined on a principle other than sober and reasonable analysis.
It is very strange, for example, how countries operating with 50 or more multirole fighters and at least as many other aircraft have 2-3 times less personnel than the Bulgarian Air Force, which is more than 6000 thousand people, while operating with 10-20 fighters, 5-10 attack aircraft, no more than 20 helicopters and another 10-15 aircraft (training and transport).
Overcoming the resistance of different lobbies within the army, the government should soberly assess what kind of army Bulgaria needs.
The interest of the officer corps is clear - the more people on the payroll, the better.
But it is unacceptable in the face of extreme resource shortages to wish to maintain capabilities (i.e., people, machines, buildings, combat training, etc.) that are not needed by the country.
Economic consequences
Given the limited capabilities of Bulgarian industry, there are legitimate concerns that these 4-6 billion leva may simply "leak" from our already decapitalised economy.
Instruments have long been established among developed European countries to help address this problem.
In principle, the expenditure on the acquisition of new military equipment is of a strategic nature.
Their absolute value is estimated at billions of dollars (for countries like Bulgaria).
No sensible country can afford to simply spend these funds in exchange for acquiring "machinery" that may never be used.
Expenditure on new armaments should be in the nature of an investment in the national economy as a whole.
The so-called offset or offset agreement, often translated into Bulgarian as "compensatory agreement", has long been known and practiced in global and European practice.
It should be stressed that offset is a form that is implemented when acquiring new rather than used equipment (with rare exceptions).
The essence of the offset lies in the obligation of the foreign supplier to invest in the national economy of the buying country, often with the investment reaching over 100% of the contract value.
In other words, the seller puts part of the amount, the whole amount, or even more into the buyer's economy.
It should be remembered that financial investments are not the only ones.
No less important are the technological ones - i.e. by applying offsetting, the national economy can acquire technologies that it would otherwise never have access to.
The forms of offset implementation are varied.
One of them is the production of parts, i.e. the use of subcontractors from the buyer side.
In the case of Bulgaria, in the presence of production of electrical wires for cars, production of small arms, electronics, optics, etc., the supplier of armoured combat equipment can and should be required to use domestically produced products.
Another form is the construction of repair and maintenance facilities on national territory.
The third form is the complete production of a part of the ordered machines.
However, this is linked to the existence of a technologically adequate own heavy industry.
If one is not available, the contract must require the supplier to create one.
This will ensure jobs, markets and the availability on national territory of high-tech manufacturing.
The main idea of the offset is that the national capitals of the less developed countries should not flow to the richer and more technologically developed ones.
At the expense of defence spending and rearmament, the country can (if the government and the national economy are adequate) be injected with capital, technology and ultimately
jobs for highly skilled personnel, with all the resulting consequences for the economic, educational and social systems.
X CHAPTER JUSTICE
Why is there a lack of fairness?
The feeling of prevailing injustice, inequality before the law and before the authorities that apply it, the
impossibility to realize and uphold the basic civil and human rights accompany the everyday life of Bulgarian citizens.
This true feeling and the just discontent it awakened are a more direct consequence of the state's inability during the so-called transition period to fulfil its obligations in the areas of justice and domestic order.
We live in a time of direct and unsanctioned violation of the texts written in Art. 1 "Fundamental Principles" of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, which proclaim:
equality before the law (Article 6);
the prohibition of the formation of parties on ethnic, racial or religious grounds (Article 11, paragraph 4); the
exclusive state ownership of subsoil resources (Article 18, paragraph 1); the
guarantee of equal legal conditions for economic activity by preventing monopolistic abuse, unfair competition and consumer protection (Article 19, paragraph 2).
We are witnessing the state's escape from its responsibility to implement and guarantee the constitutionally established "Fundamental Rights" of citizens:
right to life (Article 28); the
right not to be subjected to inhuman or degrading treatment (Article 29, para. 2); the
right to privacy
and the right to defend oneself against unlawful interference with one's private and family life and against attacks on one's honour, dignity and reputation ( art. 32); the
right to inviolability of the home (art. 33); the
right to work (art. 48).
In the context of open and flagrant violation of the texts of the supreme law, whose norms by virtue of Article 5(2) of the Constitution have immediate effect and priority over other laws, it is
not out of place to observe the severe distortions in the structure and functioning, as well as the
scandalous lack of fairness in the results of the overall activity of the bodies and institutions in the field of justice and internal order.
It is also worth noting the humiliating situation of our country's still ongoing monitoring under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism, which started during the negotiations for Bulgaria's accession to the European Union in 2007 and was agreed to continue until significant progress is made in the six areas envisaged:
independence and accountability of the judiciary,
transparency and efficiency of the judiciary,
prosecution of corruption at high levels,
fight against corruption at all levels in the public sector and
the fight against corruption in the public administration.
Obviously, progress in the above-mentioned areas has not yet been achieved both according to the assessment of the majority of Bulgarian citizens and according to the standards applied by European observers.
New law for the judiciary!
Adoption of amendments to the Judiciary Act to ensure the completeness, transparency and effectiveness of the control exercised by the Supreme Judicial Council over the work of judges, prosecutors and investigators
by providing complete, correct and objective information in the reports submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria.
According to Art. 130, par. 7 of the Constitution, the Supreme Judicial Council shall submit to the National Assembly the annual reports of the Supreme Cassation Court, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Prosecutor General on the application of the law and the activities of the courts, the prosecutor's office and the investigative bodies.
The reports are perceived as dry statistics, reflecting the activities of the magistrates during the reporting period - positive results achieved and negative results in numbers.
The indicators and evaluation criteria carry over the years and the reports are remarkably similar in appearance, content and conclusions.
They are also similar in the fact that there are no practical results of the MPs' familiarisation with them.
Clear criteria for magistrates!
PP ATAKA proposes the introduction of additional criteria and indicators in the preparation of the reports for reporting on the activities of magistrates,
from which the specific consequences for the persons whose interests have been affected by the admitted deviations from the rules in the work of magistrates, a description of the violation, the existence of convictions and compensation paid at the expense of the state and the responsibility sought for the guilty, including the cases of dismissal of a magistrate who has acquired the status of irremovable for serious misconduct or systematic failure to perform his duties or for actions that undermine the prestige of the judiciary, should be clearly outlined.
It is our understanding that only by removing the identity, actions and consequences of those magistrates who have broken the law from anonymity will the crackdown be effective.
We see the immediate adoption of the above-mentioned amendments to the Judiciary Act as a step in the direction of a comprehensive change in the model by which magistrates are selected and grow in their careers.
The lost trust in the judiciary requires radical changes that would ensure the possibility of direct election and mandate of magistrates.
Citizens' access to the SCC!
To achieve the ultimate goal - the feeling of justice being done by the final court decisions.
PP ATAKA proposes the confirmation, with a change of the current procedure, of the unconditional possibility of review of judicial acts before three courts.
This decision corresponds to the fullest extent to the provision of Article 124 of the Constitution, which entrusts the Supreme Court of Cassation of the Republic of Bulgaria with the exercise of supreme judicial supervision over the accurate and uniform application of the law by all courts.
The current provisions of the Civil Procedure Code restrict the right of citizens to obtain justice by having their disputed right adjudicated by a panel of the Supreme Court of Cassation.
This act of supreme jurisdiction and justice, no matter in which town or village of the country the dispute has developed, is now unattainable in the vast majority of cases.
The introduction of preliminary proceedings for the admission of the dispute before the highest instance and the condition that this is possible in the presence of two hypotheses limited by the Civil Procedure Code unreasonably restricts access to justice.
Such an approach fails to take into account the diversity in the particularities and specificities of legal disputes
and creates the possibility of clearly flawed judicial decisions coming into force.
It is dangerous when this opportunity is deliberately abused to the detriment of one - usually the economically weaker party - in the dispute.
It makes possible the existence of unlawful and vicious regional practices based on the expectation that the judgement of the appellate court having local jurisdiction will be final.
The gravity of the consequences of such decisions is underestimated in vain.
We are talking about Bulgarian citizens illegally, unverifiably and irreversibly deprived of their rights and property for reasons beyond the law.
Now defending against these consequences by knocking on the door of the Supreme Court of Cassation is virtually impossible.
The Bulgarian forced to settle for local justice has no choice but to remind himself that God is high, and unfortunately the "king" is unreachably far...
Real protection of property and life with guns!
One of the unrealized goals of the State's criminal policy is to guarantee the inviolability of the person and respect for the rights of citizens.
The crisis in these relations has its roots both in the weaknesses of the executive and the judiciary in the area in question and in objective conditions.
The focus of European observers and governments in recent years on the course of so-called landmark cases does not help people to bear more lightly the daily infringements on their property and personal rights.
The prerequisites for the high level of rampant domestic crime - the result of inadequate management decisions and practices - can be
addressed with large-scale and therefore long-term measures, such as the adoption of a new Penal Code and the completion of a comprehensive judicial reform.
We in PP ATAKA know this, but at the same time we see that time and life do not wait!
Today, in the conditions of poverty and severe social problems, the property of the inhabitants of small settlements, mainly in villages without a permanent law enforcement presence, is being targeted by mass crime in the form of organized gangs.
Often, resistance to these raids ends in violence against the person, in many cases resulting in death, while looting small amounts of money or valuables.
This problem is particularly significant in areas with mixed populations.
As a result of the raids of gypsy gangs, houses, neighborhoods and entire villages are depopulated, people's livelihoods are abandoned because the fruits of their labor are plundered...
Countering this process, given its scale, is no longer within the power of the state, which is objectively unable to stop it by expanding the police presence.
Legislative solutions are needed that, taking into account reality, introduce in due course legally regulated forms of collective and individual protection of people.
The actions of citizens in collective defence of property, health and life - their own and that of their relatives - in the event of an imminent attack on them, need clear legal regulation.
Of utmost importance is the clear and comprehensible regulation of the institution of inevitable defence known in our law.
It is important that the legal regulation be understandable to those whose interests it is intended to protect, namely the potential victims of an attack who would confront it.
It is necessary to know to what extent the powers of the assailant extend and the limits within which he may exercise them without his becoming liable for the damage caused to the assailant.
The way in which the inevitable defence is regulated in the current Penal Code contains too much conditionality and ambiguity, which makes it practically unworkable.
To become a fit-for-purpose remedy, the inevitable defense should be authorized by law under clearly delineated hypotheticals that would both give the assailant peace of mind and certainty in performing the act of lawful defense
and at the same time have a cautionary effect on the mind of the potential assailant.
Taking into account the opinion expressed in the Constitutional Court's decision in case no. N13/1997, PP ATAKA will continue to defend its efforts to turn the institute of inevitable defense into a real guarantee for the protection of the inviolability of the property and person of the citizens of Bulgaria.
Volunteer squads in every village!
PP ATAKA adequately and timely responded to the problem by submitting a bill for the adoption of a law on voluntary public safety units, which remained unadopted in the mandate of the 40th and 41st National Assembly.
The solution proposed by the draft law, supplemented and adapted to the circumstances that have arisen since its drafting, unconditionally remains a priority of PP ATAKA in the attempts to protect by legal means the property, health and life of the people.
It is quite clear that the very existence of these formations would have the effect of discouraging the attackers.
Members of these groups will be able to be quickly contacted by the local authority, the police to report offences and call for help and intervention.
We foresee the provision of clear powers to apprehend and detain offenders and hand them over to the competent authorities.
Our view is that there is no more reliable and at the same time feasible way to ensure the protection of citizens' rights, and at a time when the state is demonstrating its utter helplessness to tackle the problem.
The rights of the victims - over the rights of the criminal!
PP ATAKA proposes the introduction of a legally regulated systematic control by the victims of crime over the work of the law enforcement institutions - the investigation bodies,
the prosecution and the court during the activities of detection,
detection and investigation of crimes, the
filing of charges in court and in the course of the court proceedings.
We find that citizens, whose rights have been severely infringed by a criminal violation, are unfairly removed from the opportunity to be informed of the timelines and stages in which investigations are conducted,
are deprived of the right to influence decisions for active and timely action,
unreasonable and harmful delays in the procedures provided for by law.
Often the victim receives vague and cryptic answers about the reasons why the investigation is delayed.
It is true that crimes, by their very nature, affect social relations protected by law and involve the intervention of the State, which prosecutes the perpetrators through its authorities.
It is true, however, that the direct damages caused by the criminal act are in most cases inflicted on specific natural or legal persons who fit the figure of the victim.
There is no doubt that it is the victims who would exert the most pressure and control over the timing of actions to identify the perpetrator and reveal the circumstances under which the crime was committed.
depriving victims of the right to be informed about the progress of the case favors cases of unnecessary and fatal delay in the search for the truth by law enforcement authorities
and the strengthening of the feeling of distrust in the authorities, helplessness in the citizens.
The changes envisaged in the draft of PP ATAKA aim to achieve full transparency on the course and location of criminal proceedings,
to achieve effective control over the procedural discipline
and to restore citizens' confidence in law enforcement authorities.
CHAPTER XI REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS
The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is among the richest ministries.
It spends 310 million leva a year.
This ministry is responsible for the regional development of the country, the spatial planning of the territory, the
construction of the main networks and facilities of the technical infrastructure.
The department is responsible for the proper development of the different regions of the country, as well as
for the construction of national infrastructure projects.
Here are the guidelines and the sectors it is obliged to work on: regional policy, geospatial data, geodesy and cadastre, housing policy, state property, sustainable and harmonious spatial planning, management of water and sewerage services, road infrastructure, prevention and mitigation of landslide processes.
Municipalities have no money for co-financing from EU projects!
At the moment there is a lot of reliance on the money that is coming in under the EU Cohesion Fund.
The problem is that in today's conditions when applying for EU projects to the Ministry, individual municipalities, state institutions and companies have to have independent co-financing.
They don't have them, and there is no money for co-financing from the state.
That's why municipal and state properties are often required to be pledged.
This and slashed budgets are the reason why in some municipalities across the country, a large number of these properties are now owned by banks.
One of the priorities of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is the effective and efficient use of EU funds
and strengthening the trust of European partners.
Its implementation provides for effective management of the Operational Programme "Regional Development" and the territorial cooperation programmes for which the MoRDB is the managing authority, national partner authority and national contact point.
Their implementation should lead to the creation of conditions for the development of the regions in Bulgaria,
increase cross-border economic cooperation with neighbouring countries,
stimulate tourism
and the development of border regions.
Last but not least, work in this priority area should strengthen cooperation and communication with EU partners.
However, this has not been done since the date of our accession to the EU.
The country's first regional development law was adopted in 1999, a new regional development law was adopted in 2004 and amended in March 2005.
In 2006, 264 municipal development plans were adopted by 2013 and have not been implemented, 28 rural development strategies that have remained on paper, and 6 planning area development plans of which nothing has been done to date.
In addition, the National Strategy for Regional Development, the National Operational Programme for Regional Development, the National Regional Development Plan and other similar heavy-sounding documents were developed.
As a result, however, there is no real regional development of the Bulgarian regions, nor a tangible increase in the standard of living and employment there.
The reports and summaries of the Ministry of Regional Development are only findings of the demographic collapse in the country, of the declining economic condition of the regions and nothing more.
Between 1989 and 2005, the amplitude between the municipality with the smallest population and the municipality with the largest population increased from 699 to 1,037 times, and at the planning area level from 3.4 to 4.3 times.
As of the beginning of 2006, the number of settlements in Bulgaria was 5332, including 250 towns distributed in 264 municipalities.
The average number of settlements per municipality is slightly more than 20.
More specific analysis reveals significant deviations.
For example, there are municipalities such as Krichim, Perushchitsa, Yambol, Koprivshtitsa, Anton, etc., which are formed by one settlement, and at the same time municipalities such as Gabrovo - 134 settlements, Elena - 124, Kardzhali - 118, Tryavna - 106 settlements, etc., which necessitates the need for a qualitatively different policy for management, organization and planning of the municipal territory.
These marked differences are not addressed in the content of the development plans and strategies being developed.
Another worrying trend is the increasing number of settlements where the population is below the critical minimum for functioning.
Over 84% of the settlements in the country have a population of less than 1000 inhabitants
If in 1989 about 50% of the population of Bulgaria lived in 5.0% of the settlements, by 2005 about 49% of the population lived in 0.6% of the settlements, and in 2012 this percentage was about 60.
The negative demographic situation in the country poses a series of constraints to economic development.
Regional analysis of the main economic indicator, Gross Domestic Product, reveals that the variation between the North West and South West planning regions increased from 5.6 to 6.6 times between 1990 and 2005.
A comparative analysis of GDP per capita by planning area (between the South Central and South West regions) shows an increase from 1.6 to 1.8 times, and between the North West and South West - 3 times.
Consequently, economic development is also dominated by processes and states of inequality and increasing regional contrast.
The difference in the average salary between employees in Smolyan and Sofia is also huge - 1:2.
Even more pronounced regional contrasts are revealed in the analysis of foreign direct investment.
For example, in 2000, the South-West region accounted for 62.4% of the total investment in the country, while Kyustendil region accounted for only 0.4%.
In 2004, the same region accounted for 64.5% of the total foreign investment in the country, and
the differences by region are growing - for example, the Sofia region accounted for 85.4% of the investments of the South-West region, and the Kyustendil region - 0.1%.
As of 2005, about 40% of the country's population used wastewater treatment plants, and in a number of districts - Vidin, Ruse, Llovech, Targovishte, Silistra, Shumen, Blagoevgrad, Haskovo, Pazardzhik - not a single plant had been built.
We go to two or three megacities, the other - a wasteland
The huge disparity in the different regions of Bulgaria - in terms of demography, economy, GDP per capita and road network, leads to a concentration of more and more residents in the big cities - Sofia, Varna, Plovdiv.
Here is the data: the majority of the population, 63%, is concentrated in the southern part of the country.
It lives more in cities than in villages.
The most urbanized regions are the Northeast and the Southwest.
Five of the Bulgarian regions are in the bottom ten with the lowest GDP per capita in the EU in terms of purchasing power parity.
The North West region - with 26% of the EU average, the North Central region - with 27%, and the South Central region - with 27%, occupy the last three places in the ranking, while the South East and the North East regions have 31% and 32% respectively.
Of the Bulgarian regions, the South-West stands out with 62%.
A significant amount of economic activity is concentrated in the capital and it remains the most attractive location for business and employment in the country.
The South West region contributes the most to the aggregate GDP at around 45%, while the North West region contributes the least at 8.3%.
Big difference in the division of the resorts
There are 142 officially declared resorts in the country, of which 58 are spa resorts, 56 mountain resorts and 28 seaside resorts.
Despite its rich geographical, natural and cultural-historical resources, Bulgaria relies, and will continue to rely in the future, mainly on sea and mountain tourism.
Cultural, business, rural, balneological, spa, nature, religious, hunting, sports, extreme and hobby tourism are not sufficiently developed due to insufficient supply and weak marketing of various tourism products in the interior of the country and outside the major resorts.
Aggregate revenue from overnight stays in 2009 for the country amounted to BGN 626 491 217 million, with the first places occupied by the North-Eastern region - BGN 184 667 640 million, followed by the South-Eastern region - BGN 205 827 071 million.
Compared to prominent in tourism
Our road network is a tragedy
By region, the road picture is as follows:
NORTHWEST REGION
The district with the largest length of road infrastructure in the North-West region is Pleven - 791 km, which represents 23.4% of the total, and the one with the lowest share is Montana - 602 km, which is 17.8%.
The only area through which the highway passes is Lovec - 7 km.
The county with the lowest share of first class roads in the region is Montana 52 km, which represents 13.4% of the total first class roads in the region.
In the part of second class roads, the district with the highest share of them is Vratsa - 231 km, which represents 30.1% of the total second class roads in the North-West region.
The area with the lowest share of secondary roads in the region is Lolovec - 78 km, which represents 10.2% of the total secondary roads in the region.
The district with the highest share of third class roads is Lowicz - 557 km, which represents 25% of the total third class roads in the North-West region.
The district with the lowest share of third-class roads in the region is Vratsa - 344 km, which represents 15.5% of the total third-class roads in the region
NORTH CENTRAL REGION
The district with the largest length of road infrastructure in the North Central Region is Veliko Tarnovo - 938 km, which represents 31.7% of the total, and the one with the lowest share is Razgrad - 501 km, which is 16.9%.
There is no area in the region through which a highway passes.
The district with the highest share of first class roads is Veliko Tarnovo - 153 km, which represents 33.1% of the total first class roads in the North Central Region.
The district with the lowest share of first class roads in the region is Razgrad - 56 km, which represents 12.1% of the total first class roads in the region.
In the part for second class roads the district with the highest share of them is Razgrad - 162 km, which represents 25.4% of the total second class roads in the North Central region.
The district with the lowest share of secondary roads in the region is Gabrovo - 30 km, which represents 4.7% of total secondary roads in the region.
The district with the highest share of third class roads is Veliko Tarnovo 643 km, which represents 34.5% of the total third class roads in the North Central Region.
The district with the lowest share of third-class roads in the region is Ruse - 247 km, which represents 13.3% of the total third-class roads in the region.
NORTHEAST REGION
The district with the largest length of road infrastructure in the Northeast region is Dobrich - 826 km, which represents 31% of the total, and the one with the lowest share is Targovishte - 523 km, which is 19.6%.
The districts through which the motorway passes are Varna and Shumen with 58 km and 26 km respectively.
The district with the highest share of first class roads is Shumen - 188 km, which represents 38.9% of the total first class roads in the North-Eastern region.
The district with the lowest share of first class roads in the region is Targovishte - 77 km, which represents 15.9% of the total first class roads in the region.
In the part of second class roads, the district with the highest share of them is Dobrich - 242 km, which represents 51.8% of the total second class roads in the North-Eastern region.
The district with the lowest share of secondary roads in the region is Varna - 42 km, which represents 9% of the total secondary roads in the region.
The district with the highest share of third-class roads is Dobrich - 501 km, which represents 30.7% of the total third-class roads in the North-East region.
The district with the lowest share of third-class roads in the region is Shumen 315 km, which represents 19.3% of the total third-class roads in the district.
SOUTHEAST REGION
The district with the largest length of road infrastructure in the Southeast region is Burgas - 1169 km, which represents 36.9% of the total, and the one with the lowest share is Sliven - 541 km, which is 17.1%.
The districts through which the motorway passes are Burgas and Stara Zagora with 35 km and 52 km respectively.
The district with the highest share of first class roads is Burgas - 249 km, which represents 41.7% of the total first class roads in the South-Eastern region.
The district with the lowest share of first class roads in the region is Sliven - 85 km, which represents 14.2% of the total first class roads in the region.
In the part of second class roads, the district with the highest share of them is Burgas 261 km, which represents 34% of the total second class roads in the South East region.
The district with the lowest share of secondary roads in the region is Yambol - 89 km, which represents 11.6% of the total secondary roads in the region.
The district with the highest share of third class roads is Burgas - 624 km, which represents 36.4% of the total third class roads in the South-Eastern region.
The district with the lowest share of third-class roads in the region is Sliven - 254 km, which represents 14.8% of the total third-class roads in the region.
SOUTH CENTRAL REGION
In the South Central Region, the district with the largest length of road infrastructure is Haskovo - 1063 km, which represents 26.7% of the total, and the district with the lowest share is Smolyan - 539 km, which is 13.5%.
The districts through which the highway passes are Pazardzhik, Plovdiv and Haskovo with 51, 50 and 21 km respectively.
The district with the highest share of first class roads is Haskovo - 160 km, which represents 37.1% of the total first class roads in the South Central Region.
The district with the lowest share of first class roads in the region is Pazardzhik - 59 km, which represents 13.7% of the total first class roads in the region.
There is an area in the region that does not have a first-class road, and that is Smolyan.
In the section of second class roads, the district with the highest share of them is Plovdiv - 240 km, which represents 31% of the total second class roads in the South Central Region.
The district with the lowest share of secondary roads in the region is Kardzhali - 74 km, which represents 9.6% of the total secondary roads in the region.
The district with the highest share of third class roads is Haskovo - 735 km, which represents 27.7% of the total third class roads in the South Central Region.
The district with the lowest share of third-class roads in the region is Pazardzhik - 427 km, which represents 16% of the total third-class roads in the region.
SOUTHWEST REGION
The district with the largest length of road infrastructure in the South-West region is Sofia - 1483 km, which represents 45.3% of the total, and the one with the lowest share is Pernik - 546 km, which is 16.7%.
The only district through which the highway passes is Sofia - 118 km.
The district with the highest share of first class roads is Sofia - 363 km, which represents 59% of the total first class roads in the South West region.
The district with the lowest share of first class roads in the region is Pernik - 80 km, which represents 13% of the total first class roads in the region.
In the part for second class roads the district with the highest share of them is Sofia - 346 km, which represents 55.9% of the total second class roads in the South-West region.
The district with the lowest share of secondary roads in the region is Kyustendil - 54 km, which represents 8.7% of the total secondary roads in the region.
The district with the highest share of third-class roads is Sofia - 656 km, which represents 34.2% of the total third-class roads in the South-West region.
The district with the lowest share of third-class roads is Pernik - 400 km, which represents 20.8% of the total third-class roads in the region.
No strategy for motorways
Bulgaria does not have a strategic document for the planned construction of the highway network of the country, as a system of roads of transport infrastructure in connection with those of our neighboring countries.
The only document related to the future Bulgarian motorway network in the medium term is the Strategy for the Development of the Transport Infrastructure of the Republic of Bulgaria until 2015, but it does not concern only motorways.
In fact, Bulgaria does not have a long-term plan for the development of the motorway network as an independent transport system, which allows for measurability and accountability.
For this reason, highway construction is chaotic, primarily advertising and media hype with little end result.
Currently there are 6 motorway projects in Bulgaria: "Trakiya", "Hemus", "Struma", "Maritsa", "Cherno More" and "Lulin".
Of these, only the "Lulin", 19 km long, is fully built.
Of the "Thrace" are made 90% from the 70s of the twentieth century to today.
The deadline for the completion of "Trakia" - January 2013, was not met by the GERB cabinet.
Only 34% of Hemus, 12% of Struma, 36% of Maritsa and only 9% of Cherno More have been built.
The biggest problem for the country, however, are the secondary and tertiary roads, which have not been repaired since the 1970s and 1980s.
In some villages of Bulgaria during the winter season simply can not go.
The infrastructure there is in a terrible state.
There are many settlements with poor quality water and sanitation.
In recent years, the state has not invested in the improvement of water supply and sanitation not only in small settlements, but in regional cities.
The main activity that the ministry has been engaged in so far is the construction of lots of highways, repair of individual sections of the national road network, construction of Danube Bridge 2, construction of a high-speed railway from Plovdiv to the Turkish border and very few water treatment plants and water pipelines in individual municipalities.
The funds are distributed very unevenly, as exemplified by the projects in Southern Bulgaria and the almost absence of such in Northern Bulgaria.
Of the 5332 settlements, all 277 are fully sanitized. Only 2% of the villages have sanitation.
The water supply network covers about 98% of the population.
The number of settlements supplied with water is 4517, which represents 84.6% of all settlements (100% of towns and 81.32% of villages).
The main problems related to outdated water networks, water use regimes, etc., are pronounced in the villages most commonly
used for ecotourism accommodation.
Even more serious is the problem of sanitation.
The number of settlements with completed or partially completed sewerage network is only 277 out of 5332.
Of these, only 2.1% are villages with sanitation.
In most of the villages, wastewater from buildings is discharged to septic tanks.
there is no real improvement of road infrastructure between settlements.
There are stretches of highways and first-class roads that look like military training grounds, not roads.
Large Bulgarian cities still do not have modern sewage treatment plants.
The water and sewage networks have not been replaced everywhere, leading to a deterioration in water quality.
The latest pride of the ministry is the renovation of residential buildings.
But the program, by the way it is enrolled, assumes an initial 100% funding from residents in the buildings and then the eventual return of 50% of the funds.
For this reason, it will not take place on a large scale, which will also not lead to the desired results.
In general, the state uses mainly EU funds.
But these funds will be recouped once the projects that have been started are completed, and we do not yet have one complete project.
The ownership of all water reservoirs in the country is still unclear, something GERB promised in 2009.
It was seen that there is no control and it is not clear in what condition the bridges and dams are in the country.
End of corruption in the Ministry of Regional Development! State-owned infrastructure companies!
By creating a specialised state agency for EU funds at the parliament ATAKA envisages the money for infrastructure,
sewerage
and wastewater treatment plants to be strictly controlled.
At the moment, procurement in the Ministry of Regional Development is without practical public control.
This leads to corruption,
over-subscription of orders,
non-implementation of agreed projects.
Major infrastructure projects can be executed by predominantly state-owned companies with 51% state ownership and 49% private Bulgarian ownership.
A single information system will provide data on each site, its financing and implementation.
Then we will see that secondary and tertiary roads, dams and water sources can be repaired in our country so that they do not cause floods and disasters,
remaining more than 90% of Bulgarian settlements can be sanitized.
CHAPTER XII TRANSPORT, INFOTECHNOLOGY AND COMMUNICATIONS
The economic growth of a country directly depends on the development and competitiveness of the different modes of transport.
During the mass privatization, the governments that ruled Bulgaria sold structurally important enterprises directly related to the transport sector.
In 1999, the government of Ivan Kostov sold the state-owned national carrier BGA Balkan to the Israeli company Zeevı Gr "up for 150 000 dollars, including all assets, spare parts, buildings.
Instead of injecting capital, according to the contract, to repay the debts and stabilize the company, the Zeevi Group sold the real estate and led Balkan to bankruptcy.
This deal harms the state with billions and destroys BGA Balkan - a company with a long-standing is-toria, competitive and well positioned among the leading companies in aviation.
In its strongest years (1967-1985) BGA Balkan was a well-developed structure supporting dozens of inter-national and domestic air routes.
At present, the Bulgarian State does not own a national air carrier.
In the aviation sector, the Bulgarian state does not have its own re-sources and is not able to provide passenger and freight transport
or to sub-secure the future development of any sector by providing it with a flexible state transport policy through aviation.
The situation in the water transport sector is identical.
State-owned enterprises such as KRZ Odessos - Varna, Varna Shipyard JSC, Burgas Shipyard JSC, Ship Repair Plant - Burgas.
All shipbuilding and ship repair plants were privatized.
The situation is similar with ports and ferries.
strategic ports were liquidated, the servicing of vessels on the river was neglected or completely destroyed. Danube.
The state does not have its own resources in the field of water transport.
The state's refusal to participate in shipbuilding prevents it from owning and developing a fleet for civil and commercial purposes.
As a consequence of this policy, the state is currently unable to guarantee economic growth by stimulating any sector directly or indirectly related to water transport.
No to the privatisation of Freight!
23 years after the transition, the state has been involved in the transport sector only through BDZ.
Rail transport is part of a country's national security.
In the event of unpredictable, large-scale natural disasters or military action, the only mode of transport that remains operational is rail.
In addition to the undisputed advantages in transporting dangerous goods, high security, easing traffic on motorways and high environmental friendliness, rail transport is among the most efficient in transporting large quantities of goods over long distances.
Rail is among the most energy-efficient means of mechanised surface transport.
It is also characterised by efficient use of space - a double track railway can carry more passengers or freight in a given time than a four-lane road.
Worldwide practice in rail transport shows that a railway's profitable item is its freight traffic.
The geographical location of Bulgaria provides the prerequisites for rail transport to become the backbone of the economy under good management.
In the years of mass privatisation, looting and destruction of profitable enterprises, no government has dared to privatise sectors of the railway.
The idea of destroying BDZ and selling below cost freight transport to a foreign company was launched by the GERB government and their transport minister Ivaylo Moskovski.
Privatisation of the only profitable unit of the railway - freight transport would lead to its bankruptcy.
The desire of the GERB government is to sell BDZ - Freight to cover the holding's debts.
This statement is false because the freight liabilities exceed six times the announced price of BGN 100 million.
For 2012 BDZ - Freight ended with a negative financial statement of BGN 10 million, with 7 million less losses than the previous year.
With well calculated state subsidies, it is possible that the liabilities do not accumulate but are cleared each year.
Today Bulgaria maintains an economy without air and water transport, if BDZ - Freight is sold, Bulgaria will remain without rail transport.
Ignorance of the railway and misunderstanding of how it works has led the Transport Minister to conclude that the most important metric in rail is profit.
Opinions of specialists in the rail transport sector indicate that the main activity of the railway is to provide the country's economy with quality, safe and reliable freight transport.
Bulgaria has one of the best developed railway networks in Europe and has the largest share of electrified network (62%).
Bulgaria has traditions in the training and preparation of personnel in railway transport, we have experts who participate in international organizations.
Rail development is a matter of priorities and government policy.
For reference, the Austrian railways OVV have a current track of 4931 km, equivalent to our network, their staff numbers 42 574 people.
As of 2012. BDZ employs 3872 people.
Recovery and development of the Bulgarian railways!
Programmatic solutions of PP ATAKA for recovery and development of the transport sector:
RAIL TRANSPORT
Immediate suspension of privatisation procedures of BDZ - Freight
Ltd Holding BDZ EAD and State Enterprise National Railway Infrastructure Company are state-owned enterprises which are not subject to sale or privatisation under any conditions and at any price.
The Government is preparing a long-term strategy for the recovery, development and modernisation of BDZ Holding EAD.
The strategy is for a period of at least 25 years and includes a phased renewal of the rolling stock.
The government guarantees, through a low-interest government loan, the survival of the railway undertakings.
The National Assembly adopts amendments to the Railway Transport Act guaranteeing a level playing field in terms of market criteria between road and rail transport in the Republic of Bulgaria
Restoration of the system of free or discounted travel for railway workers, their families and pensioners, which will confirm the social function of the railway.
The remuneration of the management bodies of Holding BDZ EAD and State Enterprise National Railway Infrastructure Company to be formed on the basis of achieved results and reduction of the projected losses.
No more wasteful road repairs!
To the Ministry of Regional Development: the main priority for PP ATAKA will be the reconstruction and development of the infrastructure of the highway projects
and the improvement of the road network in the settlements.
Rehabilitation of intercity roads.
The inter-urban and inter-municipal roads for which the municipalities are responsible have not been repaired and rehabilitated for years.
Their condition is a major factor in the ever-increasing number of road accidents that kill hundreds and injure tens of thousands every year.
The value of the human lives lost in these road accidents is immeasurable and
the material damage is hundreds of thousands of leva.
Municipalities with smaller budgets do not have the resources to take care of the roads.
An important element in the program of PP ATAKA will be the restoration of road specialists in the municipalities of Bulgaria.
Regulations and strict requirements for the composition of transport committees in municipal councils.
They should be taken over by specialists and experts in the field and thus stop the leakage of funds into repair works of poor quality and poor traffic organisation.
A complete ban on road repairs by crews from Energy Distribution, Water and Sewerage and other companies that use infrastructure around and under road surfaces.
PP ATAKA will not allow the continued destruction of the country's road network
and will hold the road owners responsible for any action that leads to misuse of funds.
New road transport law!
Introduction of a common traffic organisation valid for the whole country,
with a vision to support businesses and citizens.
Drafting of a new Road Transport Act
Prohibition of the use of vehicles weighing more than 7.5 tonnes per axle.
In order to improve the condition of Bulgaria's transport fleet, PP ATAKA will create clear rules for the maintenance and operation of vehicles with clear traceable responsibility of all participants in the process.
The animosity that has been built up over the years between different groups of road users should be stopped and brought to a higher level of awareness, with an
emphasis on the acquisition of knowledge and skills by every citizen.
Educating citizens about road safety should be the first priority of every country.
From an early age, children need to know the danger they face on the road.
Knowledge must be acquired throughout the life of the citizen, so that they are always aware of new changes in the law.
Covering the environmental requirements of vehicles,
reducing pollution from oil products
and recycling of transport waste will be the main priorities for PP ATAKA.
New state airline!
Creation of a national carrier with 51% state participation.
Today in Bulgaria are operated 5 out of 8 airports, those in Sofia, Varna, Burgas, Plovdiv and Gorna Oryahovitsa.
St. Zagora, Ruse and Targovishte airports to be put into operation to serve tourist destinations,
as well as meeting the market's freight needs.
Restore the merchant and fishing fleet!
Construction of a ferry in. Silistra.
Participation of the state in the implementation of shipbuilding and ship repair activities through the establishment of a 51% state-owned enterprise.
Priority development of a state fishing and fishing fleet.
Development of river transport on the Danube.
Giving special status to fishing villages.
ATAKA proposes general measures to be adopted.
They lead to a sharp leap in economic development and are mandatory for our European integration:
adoption of a development strategy in line with leading European practices;
complete reorganization and restructuring in coordination with Brussels in the state structures: the National Railway Company, the Ministry of Transport and Communications;
establishment of independent state structures for notification, licensing and certification;
Establishing tendering procedures based on leading European practices that guarantee high added value production with cooperation with leading European companies, including long term framework contracts and maintenance and extension of the railway network;
. Establishment of an "Extended Black Sea Economic Zone" with neighbouring countries bordering the Black Sea.
This provides the opportunity to build a combined transport network connecting the Black Sea countries.
Conditions are created for the expansion of economic trade territories;
6. Creation of a national rail transport master plan for the development of:
-Intra-national rail network;
-Trans-border rail network;
-International common corridors.
On this basis, a master plan for the modernisation of rail transport is being developed.
Establish a common master plan for the implementation of common corridors to Europe with neighbouring countries.
Generate a common financial and time schedule for implementation, agreed with the committees in Brussels;
Partner in the general implementations of the common corridors with a leading European country in this sector;
CHAPTER XIII LABOUR AND SOCIAL POLICY
Under the heading "labour and social policy" are included the obligations of the state in the field of income and living standards, social security, unemployment protection and employment promotion, labour market, labour migration and free movement of people, occupational safety and health, social investment, social protection, social inclusion, support for children and the family, demographic development, ethnic issues, equal opportunities and anti-discrimination in accordance with the laws of the country.
After 1990 the number one problem for Bulgaria became the price of labour.
In the period 1997-2001, when the biggest plunder of our industrial capacities took place, the then prime minister invited the colonizers from outside with the cheap labour of the Bulgarians.
This more aboriginal wage policy was continued by the governments of the NDSV, the triple coalition and GERB. the
lack of protection of the price of labour of the Bulgarians was the main sin of the trade unions, which had to fight for it.
Instead of an active and genuine struggle for incomes, the co-existing trade unions in our country play "tripartite" with the governments
and let these governments maintain the colonial system of aboriginal wages and pensions
and tolerate the supranational and foreign companies in our country that exploit the labour and resources of the Bulgarians.
We are 10 inferior to the French!
At the moment, the gap between wages in Bulgaria and in the old EU member states is huge.
The minimum wage in Germany is 3116 BGN per month, in our country - 290 BGN per month, i.e. 12 times lower.
In France the minimum monthly wage is 2730 BGN, or 10 times higher than the Bulgarian one, in Austria it is 2000 BGN.
Or 7.4 times the Bulgarian one.
In Cyprus the minimum wage is 1818 BGN.
Monthly or 6 times more than Bulgarian.
The minimum pension in Germany is 1800 BGN, in Bulgaria - 136 BGN.
This is a direct discrimination of Bulgarians
and ATAKA is categorically against the racist thesis that Bulgarians are 10 times inferior to Germans or French and 6 times inferior to Cypriots.
The labour market needs a revolution!
The state of the labour market in Bulgaria is the worst in the EU.
Naturally, in EU reports, the labour market is described as "unreformed", but we know better what state it is in.
Analysts predict a second wave of the global crisis.
This will have new negative effects on the labour market in Bulgaria.
There is a need to seek appropriate short and long term solutions over the next 10 years to reduce this impact.
The Bulgarian economy is small and open, it operates in conditions of monetary restriction within the currency board adopted in 1997, which limits the flexibility of national economies.
We currently have large contingents of illiterate, low-educated, low-skilled, discouraged people affecting the level of labour income and social payments.
Thus, even weak shocks in the European or global market lead to tangible upheavals in our country.
Two are the most worrying trends for the labour market - a decline in the number of the active population and at the same time - an increase in the number of unemployed and people without prospects.
Between the last two censuses the population of Bulgaria has decreased by 564 331 people (7.7%).
Adverse trends in the changing age structure are intensifying - about a quarter of the population is over working age.
As a result of demographic problems and the crisis, the active population aged 16-64 is declining.
The largest peak of the labour force was recorded in 2008 - 3504.7 thousand people, after which a steady trend of its decrease was maintained.
In the second quarter of 2011 alone, it decreased by over 42 thousand people.
One of the reasons is the continued growing emigration.
Despite the 6.2% growth in public sector jobs, the number of existing and newly created jobs fell.
In two years, the number of jobs decreased by 262 868, the number of employees - by 319.6 thousand people, the number of employed - by 287.3 thousand people, and the number of self-employed - by almost 36 thousand people.
The number of enterprises without employees is growing (150 thousand enterprises, or 46% of all active enterprises).
The quality of existing and newly created jobs is deteriorating.
The sectoral structure of employment has also worsened - over 60% of employees are in sectors with low value added and wage levels such as: security, trade, services, restaurants, as well as agriculture, public sector and public administration.
Investment, which is a determinant of job creation, is falling sharply.
Investment, measured as gross fixed capital formation, fell from BGN 23.3 billion in 2008, to BGN 19.7 billion in 2009 and to BGN 16.5 billion in 2010.
Even in the first quarter of 2011 they reached only BGN 3.1 billion and were less than those in the first quarter of 2010.
Similarly, foreign direct investment in Bulgaria fell from EUR 6.7 billion in 2008 to EUR 2.4 billion in 2009 and to EUR 1.6 billion in 2010.
In the first quarter of 2010 they were EUR 52.7 million and in the first quarter of 2011 their flow was negative (- EUR 59.7 million), which is an indicator of the outflow of foreign capital from Bulgaria.
Almost 1/4 of the workforce is employed in the public sector.
There is a bloated, inefficient and under-staffed state administration.
The contingent of the unemployed - 370 thousand people, and of the people without prospects - 231 thousand people.
There is a big distortion and a wide scissors cut in pay between economic sectors.
The average annual salary per employee in 2010 ranged from BGN 5,067 to BGN 16,566.
The highest wages are in the sectors "Production and distribution of electricity, heat and gaseous fuels" and "Financial and insurance activities", without an assessment of their efficiency and real contribution.
The average monthly wage in these sectors in the second quarter of 2011 exceeded BGN 1,450, which is 2.1 times the national average wage.
This is an indicator of the presence of monopolistic and quasi-monopolistic structures.
The outflow of educated and skilled people from the country is increasing - 175 244 people have emigrated permanently between the last two censuses.
The flow of students wishing to study abroad is increasing.
This process will accelerate once the restrictions on the European labour market are lifted.
Bulgarians working abroad are not returning as expected - most of the skilled workers have kept their positions or are waiting for offers from the local labour market.
The practice of the new EU member states shows that a radical reversal in this trend can be expected only after a sharp increase in GDP in Bulgaria and in the standard of living.
The course of genocide must stop!
What does this picture show?
That Bulgaria is depopulating, ageing and marginalising its population as a result of the Rann-At plan, as a result of the colonial slavery imposed by successive national traitor governments.
This course of genocide can and must be ended with decisive measures and changes.
With a formula of growth of the economy, the
stimeli for increasing employment, the
role of the state in the economy,
in attracting investment from the intensively developing countries of the world.
Concerning the pension system ATAKA stands on firm positions for the cancellation of the raising of the retirement age, which GERB pushed through.
We will repeal it when we have a majority in parliament and the executive power in our hands.
ATAKA is for a cardinal revision of the pension system, for the abolition of the so-called point system
and for a sharp increase of the minimum pension to the level of the lowest European levels.
For Bulgaria, the target of the floor, the minimum for pensions, should be 250 euros, or 500 leva.
This minimum pension should be linked to the minimum wage and rise along with it.
There is money for this, but it is being exported out of the country in the form of profits from foreign monopolies.
ATAKA is for: no increase of the retirement age in the next 10 years.
Pensions to be indexed every year according to the inflation rate.
The state pension fund, guaranteed by real state property, would be replenished by a percentage of VAT, bank transaction fees, a tax on television advertising, gambling and a percentage of excise taxes on alcohol and cigarettes.
Imperative measures that ATAKA in power will impose:
Family Income Tax, so that people who work and pay taxes get tax relief when they have one, two or more children in their families.
The income of the parents should be divided by the number of family members and if it does not exceed 700 leva, it should not be taxed.
If it exceeds, tax only the part that is on top.
This way, families will have more left over than child benefits are now.
This will encourage Bulgarians to have more children.
1000 BGN per month for a child of students.
ATAKA provides for families in which one of the parents is a student, the monthly child allowances to be not less than 1000 leva per child in the first and second year from birth and this amount to be indexed to inflation, and
until the child reaches the age of sixteen and the children to receive an amount corresponding to the real maintenance of a child according to prices and inflation.
Bulgarian families will thus be able to plan the birth and upbringing of their children.
Suspension of child allowances and social benefits to irregulars.
ATAKA is against giving child allowances and social benefits to people who do not want to work,
do not respect the obligation to send their children to school,
or if the parents do not have at least a basic education.
This act alone will release a resource of about 3 billion leva a year.
What else is needed? ATAKA proposes measures coordinated with industry and NGOs:
Implementation of an effective e-government to reduce the number of employees in administrative services, to
sharply reduce the cost of administration, to
improve and modernise services for citizens and companies, to
improve the business climate
and to curb corruption.
Encouragement of investment in the creation of new jobs,
including through a targeted policy to attract investment in economic activities for in-depth processing of Bulgarian raw materials, materials and products, replacing imports or providing exports - to create higher added value,
including for so-called foreign investors present on our market, to transfer part of these activities to Bulgaria.
Encourage investment in development, marketing and other science-intensive activities.
Reforming the education system, including:
deepening the link between education and business through: tax breaks and other incentives.
Establishing a national quality assurance system for vocational education and training, including the quality of teacher training courses.
Establish uniform standards for specific professions.
Developing tools to legitimise knowledge and skills acquired informally.
More is needed:
Limiting the inflow of foreign nationals into the labour market without the necessary education and qualifications.
Speeding up the issuance of the so-called blue card for third-country nationals of Bulgarian origin and Bulgarian identity
and attracting them to the Bulgarian labour market.
Introduce incentives for voluntary boarding education for pre-school children and minors
to remove minors from their civilization environment for certain social and ethnic groups and ensure their social inclusion and demarginalization.
Amendment of the Labour Code, the Employment Promotion Act and their implementing regulations aimed at ensuring favourable conditions for meaningful training of employees.
This is done by drawing up annual plans for the professional qualification of workers,
including in collective bargaining conditions for qualification and retraining,
creating a new type of contract aimed at developing qualification and retraining processes,
creating new forms of work aimed at or linked to these processes,
and creating incentive systems for qualification and retraining.
Establish a legal framework to encourage employers to set aside funds for the training and retraining of their employees
and for protection in the event of unemployment through the creation of company and branch funds, these funds being tax deductible expenses.
The accumulation of these special funds will support the vocational qualification and retraining of workers,
young people, for the acquisition of missing professional experience, as well as
laid-off staff.
CHAPTER XIV PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND SPORT
One of the priority areas for PP ATAKA, related to healthy lifestyle,
motor skills and habits of adolescents,
working capacity
and restoring the sporting glory of Bulgaria.
State policy in this area is determined by the guidelines for funding, sports facilities, organization of sports clubs and federations, as well as setting priorities in the short and long term.
During the discussion of the National Strategy for the Development of Physical Education and Sport in the Republic of Bulgaria (2012 - 2022) the proposals of the MPs from the ATAKA group in the 41st National Assembly were accepted, related to the increasing public funding of this area from 0.1% at present to 0.5% of GDP by 2022.
Let's invest more in the development of sport!
For the management period 2013 - 2017. PP ATAKA is committed to doubling the public funds for physical education and sport to 0.2% of GDP.
1. From the state budget - for the construction, maintenance and modernization of sports facilities of national importance;
for the funding of physical education and sport programmes in pre-schools and the system of organised sport for all;
for educational and training activities in state sports schools;
(For the academic year 2012 - 2013, the state sports schools funded from the state budget through the budget of the Ministry of Physical Education and Sports are: sports school "Gen. G. Stoychev" - Sofia, sports school ,,G. G. Stojtojovski Sports School - Pleven, Sports School "Major Atanas Uzunov" - Ruse, Sports School "Yuri Gagarin" - Burgas, and Sports School "Georgi Benkovski" - Varna).
to support the activities of sports clubs and federations;
for the preparation and participation of Bulgarian athletes in European and World Championships, Olympic Games;
for research and applied activities and medical supervision of athletes;
2. Municipal budgets.
At the moment, however, only 160 municipalities have adopted ordinances for financing sports clubs from municipal budgets.
For the 64 municipalities in Bulgaria, the IFVS has no information on their sports activities.
According to PP ATAKA this is an unacceptable divergence between the state and municipal policies in the field of sport.
3. From the Bulgarian Sports Totalisator - according to estimated data for 201Z, BST provides for sports about 21 million BGN.
Under the Gambling Act 1/4 of these proceeds are for "sport for all".
PP ATAKA will bet on higher values for "sport for all", with a guaranteed quota for "sport for students".
4. From private entities - through advertising and sponsorship to support national and local sports organizations;
providing scholarships for students in state sports schools
and for students with physical and sensory disabilities from special schools who have achieved high sports results.
(For 2012 only 140 scholarships were provided).
PP ATAKA is committed to tax breaks to support Bulgarian sport.
In the 41st National Assembly bills in this direction were submitted by the ATAKA group, but the government rejected them.
Make sport an everyday activity for students and workers!
ATAKA is committed to the following priorities in the development of physical education and sport.
Currently 600 Bulgarian schools do not have gyms.
During the first two years of PP ATAKA's government a gym will be built in every school,
and new sports halls will be constructed for the existing buildings in case of construction impossibility.
University sports development - free use of sports facilities for state universities.
Support university teams and hold annual tournaments.
Emphasis on sport in leisure - sport at the place of residence, neighbourhood, family and other community level.
Together with the municipalities, build outdoor playgrounds, bicycle paths, mini playgrounds, outdoor gyms, etc. for free use close to home or work.
Reviving sport in the workplace.
The deputies from the ATAKA group presented bills for amendments to the FFVS and the LTA, which revived the good legislative models in the Sports Act of 1933.
It was proposed that every employer in a building with more than 100 workplaces must provide and organise a sports facility for its employees.
The possibility of a single sports mini-centre being built and used jointly by several employers shall be provided for cases of backlog or for financial expediency.
This proposal was rejected.
PP ATAKA commits this bill to be among the first five laws submitted to the 42nd National Assembly.
Let's bring back the old sporting glory of Bulgaria!
Sport for excellence should be planned in two stages.
The short-term stage for Olympic sports follows the Olympic cycle - Winter Olympics in Sochi 2014 and Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro (2016)
During his visit to Moscow in October 2012. The PP ATAKA held important bilateral meetings with the Initiative Committee for the preparation of the Winter Olympic Games in Sochi, as well as with the leadership of the Russian Duma and the Russian Olympic Committee.
On the proposal of the members of the ATAKA group the amendment to the Law on Physical Education and Sport was adopted to the Olympic medalist coaches after reaching retirement age to receive a lifetime bonus of one minimum wage, starting from 01.01.201Z.
In the management program of PP ATAKA the coaching staff in Bulgarian sport is a central figure in the preparation of athletes, the organization of sports training and participation in sporting events, with corresponding powers with financial incentives.
The long-term stage in the development of Olympic and Neolymian sports of excellence requires a broad public discussion and courageous management decisions to define the traditionally strong, currently developed and promising Bulgarian sports, which the state will take care of as a priority.
The message of Pierre de Coubertin, the "father" of the modern Olympics, "that participation in the games is important" is relevant for its time, but the present - with a price of several million leva for a medal and several thousand euros only for "participation" paid by the state, requires to a greater extent the definition of Bulgarian sports that will consolidate the sporting glory of Bulgaria in the international arena with victories, not only with participation.
Plan and think when building facilities!
Since 2009, only 25 outdoor sports grounds have been built and upgraded.
Only the Arena Armeec Multifunctional Sports Hall and the National Anti-Doping Centre have been built.
Armeec Hall cannot be used for athletics competitions due to a gross error in the design and construction "missing" several meters of the length of the athletics track, according to national and international standards.
Currently, there are data on 2,774 sports and tourism facilities, of which 1,591 are sports facilities, 94 are tourism facilities, and school sports facilities (gyms and playgrounds) in 1,089 schools.
The Ministry of Sports and Sports did not fulfill its obligation, according to the National Strategy for Physical Education and Sport, to submit to the Council of Ministers for adoption by 31.08.2012 a National Concept for the Development and Management of Sports Infrastructure - location, type of ownership, user and conditions of use, capacity, etc. for each sports facility on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria.
Governance chaos at sports venues and facilities makes it impossible to implement a long-term economic sports policy.
PP ATAKA undertakes in the first 6 months of its governance to present to the Bulgarian sports community the long-awaited analysis and perspectives in the management of sports infrastructure.
No more black toto
and hooliganism!
Unresolved problems remain in the area of sports hooliganism
and black toto.
PP ATAKA is committed in the first 3 months to propose an improved law on sports hooliganism, and
on the second issue - to apply with all the rigor the amendments to the Criminal Code, proposed by the PP ATAKA and adopted in the 41st National Assembly.
XV CHAPTER FINANCE
Today's Bulgaria is pointed out by almost everyone as an example of financial stability with a small budget deficit and a small public debt, amounting to only 14.75% of GDP, or about 12.5 billion leva, with low inflation and a stable currency.
External debt accounts for about 60 percent of total government liabilities.
The picture at first glance does look respectable against the backdrop of a debt-to-GDP ratio of 85.1% for the EU and 90% for the euro area, which
gives the neoliberal governments that have ruled us since 1997 a reason to boast and be proud of their achievements.
However, until now we have not asked ourselves what this debt means, how it came about, what it has been spent on and how it should be managed in the future.
Bulgaria's main creditors are the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Cyprus, Germany and, it is understood, the international financial institutions.
The external public debt began to grow in the 1970s, but was accumulated mainly in the period 1985-1989, when it tripled to a level of $11.2 billion.
An ad hoc commission of inquiry concluded that the People's Republic had generously given out loans to countries in Africa, the Middle East, Latin America and Europe at a low interest rate of 2%, without asking for guarantees of repayment.
To patch up the losses, the totalitarian regime of Todor Zhivkov borrowed at high interest rates of around 8%.
The official version of events further states that on the eve of the changes the growth of debt became unstoppable.
In March 1990, Lukanov unilaterally suspended payments on the debts and the whole world understood that Bulgaria was bankrupt.
The foreign exchange reserve of 7.15 billion dollars was melted down completely and distributed in briefcases, and the next prime minister - Dimitar Popov, found in the treasury 50 million dollars.
Subsequent negotiations with creditors lead to the recognition of the totalitarian debt as state debt.
However, under the government of Videnov, the deferment on its repayment, agreed by Philip Dimitrov, expired.
The government fails to negotiate a new extension, Bulgaria's credit rating collapses and financial destabilisation begins.
The draining of the banks and the irresponsible role of the BNB, which stimulated the credit expansion, lead to the devaluation of the lev, hyperinflation and political crisis.
On July 1, 1997, the new government of Ivan Kostov introduced the currency board, which linked the lev to the deutsche mark.
Under the leadership of the IMF and the WB, stability has been achieved, which in fact enslaves us colonially.
Outwardly, everything is presented as a singular and alternativeless development.
They lie to us about financial stability!
The fairy tale ends where the results of the policy of financial restrictions, deregulation and mass privatisations shine through:
Bulgarian industry is collapsed,
economic growth is stunted and the
population's incomes are ridiculously low.
The subsequent debt operations carried out by the NDSV government are emblematic.
In 2002 - 2003 Milen Velchev harmed the treasury with more than 1 billion leva with the deal of revaluation of the foreign debt from dollars to euros.
Before that, with a series of unacceptable statements, Velchev created the impression that the Brady bonds would be exchanged and bought by the state, making them more expensive for the benefit of the bondholders and to the detriment of the state.
Against the backdrop of Velchev's robbery, Oresharski turned out to be a far more far-sighted finance minister, even managing to buy and reduce the debt by 1 billion dollars, spending only 160 million.
Velchev, however, went unpunished and in early 2013 the state repaid over 879 million euros on the loan taken by the NMSV government, which in the opinion of Krustyo Petkov Djankov has defrauded the treasury by 2 billion leva!
Then we have to wonder why the fiscal reserve has reached BGN 4 billion, well below the critical legal minimum.
They tried, so far unsuccessfully, to dig into the Silver Fund.
With a budget deficit of BGN 1.1 billion set for 2013, by the end of February alone it was already BGN 536 million, 80% above the budgeted amount!
It was in February that the cabinet urgently and surprisingly issued 800 million in government bonds to pay the EU subsidies to grain producers.
On March 1, the World Bank's ex-employee Kristalina Georgieva called for an increase in the public debt.
The actions of the state institutions in recent months show that the situation is alarming and far from the rosy picture that is presented in the various statistical tables, probably falsified.
The financial turbo-capitalists are already looking for a way to implement in Bulgaria a scenario that will rob us and turn us into debt slaves.
We need to solve the inter-company indebtedness of 157 billion!
In this situation, the next government will have the difficult task of reigning in the country with a severely reduced fiscal reserve, growing gross external debt, huge domestic indebtedness, plus economic stagnation.
The growth of problem loans calls into question the stability of the banking sector.
The public debt is currently low, but
combined with the colossal indebtedness of the private sector, inter-company debts have reached 227% of GDP, it is a ticking time bomb threatening to liquidate national sovereignty
- no one can guarantee that in the conditions of a global financial and economic crisis interest rates will not rise dramatically, debt will not become uncontrollable and the country will not fall into insolvency, which will benefit speculators.
The task of the patriotic forces will be to organise the resistance against the prepared scenario.
Preventive action should be aimed at driving the economy by stimulating growth, leading to GDP growth.
This, by the way, is one of the ways to reduce the debt.
The means to achieve this goal include the nationalisation of strategic sectors of the economy, a
new progressive tax system
and a sharp jump in incomes.
We don't need the Eurozone!
In this regard, Bulgaria should firmly denounce the ratification of the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), turning the EU into a debt union through a solidarity participation of all member states in the repayment of the debts of those in debt.
We should not even think about membership in the eurozone - this would deprive Bulgaria of vital monetary policy tools.
On the contrary, in the long term, we should even think about leaving the currency board, so that the state can actually influence the economic process.
The government, following Hungary's example, needs to take back control of the BNB, which is subordinate to the global financial elite,
and investigate it for its malign role over the past 23 years.
The other direction to minimise the debt should include the formation of an international control commission to examine in detail who, when and for what purpose took loans on behalf of Bulgaria.
Let's all find out what the truth is - why did Lukanov bankrupt the country with a debt of only 52.5% of GDP covering today's Maastricht criteria,
why and how was GDP collapsed so that the debt shot up to over 100% in 1991 and was this number really contained and melted down by the governments after 1997 to today's 14.75% of GDP?
In this regard, the public debt is suspiciously overexposed and the total gross external debt, currently amounting to 37.8 billion euros, or 95.6 percent of GDP, is overlooked.
The truth is that the state debt has been melted as a figure as a result of the total state-building, and a large part of the state's debts have not disappeared, but simply transformed into private ones.
In reality, the total external indebtedness today is double that of 1989
and completely refutes the propaganda lies that social policies accumulate debts and austerity policies accumulate surpluses.
It turns out that in just 4 years the Reagan administration managed to accumulate 1.6 trillion dollars of debt - more than the Treasury has borrowed in the entire history of the United States.
In fact, it is the last 4 "ew-style" Republicans in the White House who are responsible for the growth of the debt to a staggering $16 trillion.
Romania, having melted its debt under Ceausescu, today has twice the national debt of ours.
Some of our debts can be declared "illegal"!
The same applies to the "Chilean Miracle" of neoliberalism and to Argentina - everywhere the Chicago School boys set foot, debts skyrocket!
The investigating commission of Bulgarian and international independent experts should assess what share of the Bulgarian debt should be declared illegal at the most inappropriate moment for the creditors, being accumulated by the totalitarian government before 1989
and by corrupt anti-Bulgarian governments after that date to the detriment of the people.
This must be done in an intelligent and educated way;
in line with the international legal principle of "odious debt" and in cooperation with other indebted countries.
Such an operation could free up several hundred million to several billion euros to be invested in rebuilding Bulgaria's devastated economy
and social peace.
We need to lobby Brussels immediately
Let's get back the 10 billion dollars owed by Turkey!
Ankara owes this money for the Thracian properties seized in 1913.
Only under these conditions will we truly embark on a new path outside the colonial scheme.
An active role of the finance ministry for the public good!
The Ministry of Finance is concerned with the collection and redistribution of cash flows in the country.
The ministry has a leading role in the preparation of budgets, banking supervision, securities market regulation, customs and tax policy.
The "belt-tightening" policy pursued so far has practically dumped the crisis on the poorest layers of society.
The incomes of pensioners and mothers were frozen for a period of 3.5 years.
The tax system was not changed to redistribute cash flows in a social model.
No light was shed on the banks and their operations.
And today the banks are robbing 3 skins from the back of the poor Bulgarian without anyone to hang them.
VAT siphoning and tax evasion in Bulgaria are an everyday occurrence and the government has done nothing against it.
Our customs are notorious for their corruption throughout Europe.
The GERB government drained the fiscal reserve and is currently on the verge of reaching its legal minimum.
GERB did nothing for the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
The finances were not allocated as a rule in the direction of development of high technologies, construction of factories and plants, as well as
in the direction of reduction of poverty and unemployment.
We need to change the model of the pension system as well as
the NHIF.
Until now, these funds have been siphoned off by governments when they need them to fill "holes" in the budget.
The prison should work for the people, not for the government and the colonizers!
Radical and immediate changes are needed in the behaviour and formation of the state's finances.
The budget and the money of the state should work for the good of the Bulgarian people, not
in the service of Western colonizers.
What will ATAKA do in power with the budget:
Shifting money towards raising incomes.
Indexation of pensions and wages to the European average.
The money for the overseas military missions, the
increased budget of the Interior Ministry for wiretapping
- to go to health care.
Increase funding for innovation development, research, high technology
and education.
Subsidising and developing domestic production,
including agriculture.
Increase in the redistributive function of the state with budgetary funds.
Tax policy : Changing the tax system.
Elimination of VAT on certain groups of products food, medicines, textbooks, books, etc.
Introduction (return) of progressive income taxation and abolition of the flat tax;
abolition of the tax on interest on deposits of individuals;
severe penalties for VAT abuses;
abolition of the vicious practice of VAT evasion, where losses are in the billions of leva per year.
Increase the collection of debts
and reduce losses from uncollected taxes and fees.
Introduction of a new model for revenue to the Treasury from taxes, excise duties and fees.
Customs:
Stop smuggling through Bulgarian customs.
Eliminate corrupt practices in the agency.
Stop VAT evasion through bogus imports and exports through customs.
Aggressive protectionism on the part of the agency in the import of food products - at the slightest doubt in the quality of production, shelf life or documents, the goods should not be allowed on Bulgarian soil.
Banks:
Establishment of state-owned banks for targeted lending -
small and medium businesses, for the construction of production facilities and agriculture.
Creating full transparency in the banking sector when setting interest rates on loans.
Increased control and regulation in the banking sector.
Dropping a number of fees that banks charge their customers.
Regulation of interest on loans by special law.
Fiscal reserve: pension fund and NHIF:
Stop draining the reserves and funds of the state by the ministry to fill budget holes.
Transparency and publicity in the management of the country's funds and reserves.
The fiscal reserve can be used with priority in the construction of factories and plants in the country.
Establish a special fund for the development of research, high technology and patents.
CHAPTER XVI MANAGEMENT OF EU FUNDS
The absorption of EU funds is measured mainly in the percentage of money contracted, paid and reimbursed.
As well as in ki-miles of roads, water mains and sewers, number of trained unemployed or admin staff.
However, it is still unclear which type of investment has the greatest effect on the quality of life in the country.
There is also no system to show how the EU funds affect the standard of living, the economy and the unemployment rate.
A system that monitors the effect of the money invested is still expected to work.
It should give information every two months.
However, the data will be on a macro level.
To be able to measure how the EU money affects each municipality, the
way national statistics are done needs to change.
It should also provide data on municipalities.
For this to happen, legislative and administrative measures of the next government are needed.
The 2012 budget for the EU funds is BGN 3.8 billion.
January to August 2012 Bulgaria has absorbed 467.14 million BGN from August to August.
This is how much Bulgaria has received from the EU funds from the beginning of the year until mid-August, according to the Ministry of Finance.
The amount is only 12% of the 3.8 billion BGN set in the budget for this year, which should be paid from Brussels under the 7 operational programmes.
Requests for reimbursement of about 404 million BGN have been sent, which will raise the percentage to 23.
At the end of last year, EU funds management minister Tomislav Donchev said that "the absorption of the BGN 3.8 billion is fully realistic".
That sounds like a joke today.
If the backlog of 3.8 billion BGN is not caught up, it will put a strain on the system in 2013.
Then twice as much money has to be paid.
At the same time, the operational programmes for the next programming period from 2014 to 2020 will have to be prepared. .
Bragging about the absorption of EU funds is a bubble!
Not a single leva has been absorbed under the large Regional Development Programme from January to the end of July 2012.
Payments were previously held up because of checks on approved projects.
Now the Ministry of Regional Development, which manages the programme, explained that as of 3 September they have already recovered 139 million BGN.
However, they did not explain what accounted for the zero result by the end of July.
Payments under the Competitiveness for Business programme are also lagging behind.
Less than 50 million BGN have been reimbursed under it. - 12.5% of the mandatory amount for the year.
In 2012, the largest amount of EU funds was received in the accounts of the Operational Programme Transport - about BGN 152 million, or 38% of the planned amount.
Under "Technical Assistance" the recovered money is 39% or BGN 4 million.
This puts it at the top in terms of the share of money used.
However, it has a small budget and is aimed at the administration.
Thirty-five percent are the payments from Brussels under the operational programme "Environment", which, however, lags behind with the payments to the municipalities.
The budget for water supply and roads is over
Unlike absorption, Bulgaria is doing much better with negotiating EU funds.
Since 2007, 84.27% of the total EUR 15.6 billion has been distributed.
The data are from the EU Funds Monitoring Information System and are as of 10 August.
The champions in terms of contracting are the infrastructure programmes "Transport" and "Environment".
Almost their entire budget has already been allocated, although the deadline is at the end of 2013.
It is expected that more money will be agreed soon for both programmes than the previously set budget.
This is already the case for rail and road infrastructure funds under Transport, as well as
for water and sewage networks,
wastewater treatment plants
and biodiversity under Environment.
The Competitiveness programme is in the contracting queue.
It has been slow for years because of bureaucracy and the difficulty of securing co-financing from companies in the crisis.
After years of being in last place in absorption, Transport now tops the provisional ranking in payments.
So far 35% of the budget, or BGN 1.37 billion, has been allocated to the projects.
Although it is the second largest program in terms of percentage of money disbursed, the ecology program is at the tail of the payments.
Out of BGN 3.5 billion, 13.39% or BGN 471.6 million have been paid for five years.
According to Minister Tomislav Donchev, there is no risk of loss of funds so far.
However, 150 million BGN of the money for water and sewerage has already been allowed to be redirected to measures to improve clean air.
The penultimate programme in terms of percentage of payments is the Human Resources Development Programme.
More than €1 billion have already been paid to farmers and entrepreneurs in villages under the largest EU programme - "Rural Development".
The subsidies disbursed to projects represent 32.5% of the programme budget, which is €3.2 billion, as of 1 August 2012.
Seventy per cent of the EU funds under the programme have already been agreed.
When spending the money from EU funds, the rule applies that subsidies for a given year must be paid to farmers up to 2 years later.
Thus, the 432 million euros for 2010 should be given to farmers by New Year.
Otherwise, the unused part will be lost.
Some time ago, former EU funds management minister Tomislav Donchev explained that there was a risk that some of the money would not be absorbed and options were being sought to prevent this from happening.
You have the same problem last year, when the country could have lost BGN 335 million. BGN 237 million of them were saved after they were redirected to a guarantee fund for the lending of farm loans.
To prevent this from happening again this year, the Ministry of Agriculture has launched an action plan.
The aim is to minimise or avoid losses under the programme.
Since 1 August this year, the deadlines for approval and payment of projects under 8 measures have already been shortened.
Advances are also disbursed faster.
In June, Brussels allowed the transfer of 600 million BGN under the programme from unattractive measures to those in which there is great interest.
The funds for them were exhausted already in 2009 and many projects remained without funding.
Under the other programme managed by the Ministry of Agriculture - "Fisheries", 55.2% of the total 212 million BGN have been contracted.
This is according to the statistics as of 31 August from the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture.
32 million BGN have been paid for aqua projects.
At the end of 2011, our country lost 4 million euros under the programme.
The poorest region takes the least
Since 2007 the poorest region in Bulgaria - the North-West - has attracted the least funds from the EU funds, the statistics as of the end of August show.
The districts of Vidin, Lom, Montana and Vratsa managed to win 797.5 million BGN from the operational programmes.
Five times more EU funds - BGN 4.39 billion - have been contracted in South-Western Bulgaria, which includes Sofia and almost all state institutions that absorb EU funds.
Almost 30% of the money from the EU funds has gone to this part of Bulgaria so far.
Only Sofia Municipality has won EU projects for 654 million BGN.
The second place in terms of attracted EU funds is the South-Eastern region, which includes Burgas - BGN 2.36 billion.
It is followed by the South Central Region with the centre of Plovdiv, where EU projects for BGN 2.3 billion have been won.
It is envisaged that after 2014 the operational programmes will include a list of projects reserved for underdeveloped areas.
It is not clear how much Bulgaria would receive from 2014. By 2020.
Twenty laws, strategies and plans should be written by the government as a condition for EU funds after 2014.
The plan has already been adopted by the cabinet, with many tasks in the fields of ecology, labour market and health.
The list includes documents such as a strategy for labour mobility, the
development of a national health strategy
and a new mechanism for setting water prices according to consumption.
The deadline for the adoption of the documents to ensure reforms and policies in the different sectors is 31 December 2016.
If it is not respected in one of the areas, Brussels will stop funding for it.
The government's plan foresees most of the commitments to be implemented by the end of 2013.
Some will still remain for after the start of the new programming period.
Negotiations on the EU budget are still ongoing and it is not clear how much money Bulgaria would receive for the period from 2014 to 2020.
For the period from 2007 to 2013 the country has 15.6 billion BGN under the seven operational programmes together with the national co-financing.
The programme maximum for the next period is an increase of 15 - 26% and the minimum is keeping the same budget.
It all depends on how much money Bulgaria will absorb and whether the proposal will be accepted that the money from the EU funds be equal to 2.5% of the country's GDP.
But if the proposal for an additional ceiling is accepted, the money for Bulgaria could decrease.
What ATAKA offers
for good administration and management of EU funds:
1. Establishment of a state agency to manage all funds under the operational programmes.
At the moment the situation is as follows: each operational programme is managed by a so-called managing authority (a ministry), which in turn has outsourced some of the functions, tasks and administration to a so-called intermediate unit: for example, under OP "Competitiveness", aimed mainly at business, the managing authority is the Ministry of Economy and Trade, and the intermediate unit was the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises (EAPME).
Since May 2012 the intermediate unit has been merged with the MEET and now the projects are moving much faster and more efficiently, because before a project was once administered by IANMSP, then controlled by MEET and there was double work, and
there were discrepancies between the opinions of IANMSP and MEET on a case.
I.e. in case of an approval of a case by the IANMSP a few months after the approval it turns out that the MEET as the managing authority of the programme refuses the approval and the beneficiary is in a deadlock.
Proposal:
Creation of an agency to gather all the expertise from the public administration, which would manage all operational programmes.
This would improve the situation in the following ways: increasing the efficiency of project management processes;
shortening deadlines;
unification of procedures and rules (currently each managing authority develops its own internal procedures, rules and templates, which is unnecessary work and effort and makes it difficult for beneficiaries when implementing projects under different operational programmes);
Increasing the capacity of experts - i.e. exchange of knowledge and experience between experts from different departments managing the different operational programmes;
cutting administration costs;
shortening the payment deadlines (currently the money moves from the EC to the Ministry of Finance and from there - to each ministry, and the agency, if created within the Ministry of Finance itself, would ease the process of planning, control and disbursement of funds to beneficiaries).
Review of the regulatory framework related to the absorption of EU funds: a
complete review of the regulatory framework to facilitate procedures for both the beneficiaries of the programmes and the
public administration managing the programmes.
At present, the legislation includes rules and procedures that complicate the absorption process without being required by European directives.
That is, it is necessary to clean up the procedures from "parasitic" practices left over from the pre-accession period, which currently unnecessarily burden beneficiaries and state administration.
Changing the monitoring, control and reporting mechanism for FE projects.
A huge amount of documentation is currently being generated to record project activities and expenditure.
The reporting mechanism needs to be reviewed and changed, and the lists of documents required to prove activities carried out should be drastically reduced.
Even if the documents continue to be required, the requirement to submit all documentation in 2-3 copies to the relevant managing authority should at least be removed.
To introduce electronic submission of documents.
To facilitate communication between beneficiaries and the managing authority (i.e. communication by phone, email, etc., not just formal letters).
4. Change in project application mechanisms.
Abolish the practice of launching "competitive selection" procedures with a deadline for project selection.
I.e. currently most of the application procedures are announced with a deadline of about 2-3 months from the date of announcement.
The quality of projects will be sharply improved if beneficiaries are able to apply on an ongoing basis for all programmes and procedures.
With the possibility to apply on an ongoing basis, the number of outstanding projects will be reduced, as
beneficiaries will apply only when they have a clear vision for the project, and will not apply just because the programme is open at that moment.
Planning in investment projects is key to their successful implementation, as
the possibility of ongoing application will increase the percentage of successfully implemented projects.
5. Improve the mechanisms for securing advance funds for beneficiaries when implementing projects.
Currently, there are agreements with several commercial banks and they distribute loans to the private sector for the implementation of projects,
using financial resources provided by the operational programmes, which serve as a guarantee to secure the loan.
But the banks are given the opportunity to put additional requirements to the beneficiaries
and in the end the private companies still mortgage properties, mortgage anything and get a loan to finance their project with 6-8% interest.
This is not normal.
If a contract is signed with the state for the implementation of a project, the interest rate should be 3-4%.
But because the civil service is unpredictable,
banks are not confident that the beneficiary will ultimately get their grant.
And banks are also given the ability to set their own loan terms, although they guarantee part of their loan with a fund set up for this purpose.
For projects implemented by municipalities and hospitals (as a priority), it is necessary to increase the amount of the grant advance (it varies from programme to programme, but is generally 20%).
Municipalities are unable to self-finance their projects due to a lack of working capital.
A FLAG fund has been set up to provide loans to municipalities for infrastructure projects, but
there are projects without an infrastructure element (i.e. those for social activities for example), municipalities are not eligible to apply for funding from the fund.
Without the quick and real implementation of these measures, proposed by ATAKA, the EU funds will remain for the Bulgarian companies, municipalities, organizations and entrepreneurs a cake behind the window.
