PATRIOTIC FRONT of the NFZB and IMRO
POLITICAL PROGRAMME 2014
PATRIOTIC FRONT -NFSB and IMRO sets as its highest goal the selfless and dedicated defense of the interests of our Motherland and the long-suffering but great Bulgarian people.
For PATRIOTIC FRONT -NFSB and IMRO a healthy, rich and strong nation is the basis for the rise and prosperity of Bulgaria and its becoming a key factor both in the Balkans and in the EU.
We are for the revival and affirmation of the basic Bulgarian virtues - love of the Motherland, hard work, modesty, honesty, humanity.
PATRIOTIC FRONT -NFSB and IMRO is for the preservation and development of Bulgarian identity, culture and traditions.
The freedom of citizens and the freedom of our homeland, the Republic of Bhupgaria, which our forefathers and fathers bequeathed to us, must be defended by all means.
Bulgaria and our people must preserve in their memory the memory of all those who fought for freedom, sacrificing their lives.
1. ECONOMICS AGAINST UNEMPLOYMENT
Globalisation, enriching a minority at the expense of working people, leads to increased unemployment, reduced
growth and demand, and
reduced competition to the detriment of consumers.
Thousands of firms are failing, with hundreds more moving from higher to lower categories.
1. Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), according to PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO, have been turned into a cash cow by the ruling institutions, subjected to suffocating control and regulatory arbitrariness.
They have been removed from large state and municipal projects, awarded to companies close to GERB, BSP and DPS.
PATRIOTIC FRONT -NFSB and VMRO is for the introduction of tax and licensing exemptions, as well as
for the creation of a National Fund to support SMEs, as well as
for the fragmentation of state and municipal projects into smaller parts to make them accessible to smaller companies.
There is a need to create a paperwork roadmap for every business, thus easing the bureaucratic hurdles for businesses at the state and municipal level.
Introduce the "implied consent" rule for delays of more than one month in the issuance of business licences.
Government authorities and officials should provide full cooperation and comfort to any company producing for export.
The introduction of e-government will be a priority for PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO.
Municipalities should make industrial zones with established infrastructure available at minimal cost (or for free) to companies that commit to creating real, not fly-by-night, jobs.
Tax breaks for software and hardware manufacturers on the territory of Bulgaria should be provided for in a law for high-tech parks.
The state is keen to create marketplaces where small and medium-sized Bulgarian companies can offer their goods directly to customers.
This will stop price gouging by middlemen and resellers and avoid the enslaving conditions of the big retail chains.
BAS and the scientific potential of Bugri should be harnessed to serve the national economy, SMEs and farmers.
The state should stimulate the enterprising Bulgarians as they create national wealth and jobs.
2. Bulgaria'sagriculture is fragmented and chaotic, out of touch with global trends
and stifled by smuggled imports of low-quality goods.
PATPIIOTIICHEH FRONT -NFSB and VMRO believes that the state should support farmers through a National Rural Guarantee Fund
and stop smuggled imports from Turkey, Macedonia and other non-EU countries.
The adoption of a law on rent is necessary to protect more than 2 million owners, as well as a regulation on land use.
PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO is for the stimulation of micro-business - breeding of animals and agricultural production by one family, providing the purchase of animal and agricultural production - hens, eggs, cows, pigs, etc.
A new subsidy distribution model is needed with more support for small farms, vegetable and fruit production, and livestock farming.
The initiative of farmers to produce must be stimulated, not stifled behind the facade of European directives.
PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO is for the development of a long-term strategy for the revival of the domestic canning industry and the return to traditional markets in Russia and the Middle East.
3. Bulgaria's energy industry has been monopolized and mafiotized.
This is the reason for the prohibitively high prices of energy - electricity, gas, heating, fuel, etc.
The rulers have conveniently given up control and are in effect participating in the robbery of the end user.
The drastically inflated costs of coal extraction in Maritsa East should be revised immediately, as this is used by the US smelters to further increase prices.
The State Energy Regulatory Commission cannot be an authority for price increases - it must restore its control functions and with the help of narrow specialists reassess the real value of coal, limestone, electricity, heat, gas, etc.
Small companies should also be allowed to tender in large energy companies, which will automatically lower the price of the final product.
PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO is for continuous control over the import of Russian oil to Lukoil and the unaccountable sale of fuels on the domestic market, as well as over the inflated value of extracted coal, sham repairs and extracted energy from renewable energy sources (RES).
PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO is for the development of nuclear energy with proven necessity and economic benefit.
For the brazen schemes, harming the state around the Belene NPP and the contract with Westinghouse for the Kozloduy NPP, an investigation should be launched and responsibility should be sought.
We believe that the primary task of any government is the immediate exploration and extraction of natural gas from the Black Sea fields (Khan Asparuh block, Silistar, etc.).
This will limit dependence on imports of expensive energy carriers.
The opposite is national treason!
4. Tourism in Bulgaria is low-budget (alcohol), traditional beach tourism, developed in unsightly concrete complexes.
PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO is for a long-term national strategy in promoting non-traditional forms of tourism - cultural, medical, archaeological, ethnographic, rural, balneo-tourism, i.e. to use the rich diversity of the different regions.
The strategy should include special measures for the return of traditional tourists from Russia, Germany, Ukraine, the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, etc.
We support the development of medical tourism, as Bulgaria is a country with professionally trained medical staff.
PATRIOTIC FRONT-NFSB and VMRO is against the sale of BDZ, as well as the revision of all concession contracts for the extraction of raw materials and natural resources.
5. Monopolies are the main factor for robbing the Bulgarian people and the bad environment for business.
PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO is the only political force that over the years has resisted their greed.
The numerous protests against the price of the flow and the EPP, against "Sofiyska Voda" and others were our work.
In Parliament we will continue to defend our theses for a transition to fully state-owned water supply and regulated water prices, abolition of heat accounting companies, etc.
11. BUDGET AND FINANCE
1. PATRIOTIC FRONT-NFSB and VMRO is for maintaining the flat tax for businesses and progressive income taxation with exemption of the lowest incomes from taxation.
To exempt minimum wage income from taxation.
Introduce family income taxation.
Indirect financing of private banks should be stopped, with government fees collected by state-owned banks.
Strengthen the role of the central bank and legally prohibit banks from unilaterally changing interest rates against borrowers.
2. PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO is in favour of the flexible change of VAT for certain types of goods.
For example - for medicines, textbooks, children's goods, groceries, etc.
We are in favour of an accelerated VAT refund to companies so that their working capital is not blocked.
3. PATRIOTIC FRONT-NFSB and VMRO is for the deduction of overpaid corporate tax independently by the companies, without notifying the NRA.
In the case of taxpayers who have paid the tax due without default for the last 12 months, the VAT due must be refunded without revision within one week of the application (if the amount does not exceed BGN 10 000).
We are in favour of introducing a new turnover tax on large retail chains to subsidise local farmers and processors - they are the ones who are disadvantaged when it comes to accessing large chains.
PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO insists on limiting the funding of political parties by introducing a stepwise reduction of the subsidy compared to the larger parties.
Banks in Bulgaria are often oligarchic structures.
For two decades now, the law has been built solely for their benefit and to the detriment of borrowers, i.e. people and real businesses.
We believe that the risk of banking transactions should be distributed fairly and we will propose legislative changes to do so.
We will propose a maximum allowable amount of bank fees for transfers to accounts of state and municipal institutions, and
the maximum amount of credit fees for individuals to be set by the BNB with a special tariff in consultation with the Ministry of Finance.
III.  DEMOGRAPHIC DEVELOPMENT, SOCIAL POLICY AND HEALTH
1. According to PATRIOTIC FRONT-NFSB and VMRO in need of an urgent demographic program.
Its primary task should be to save the Bulgarian nation from extinction.
It is necessary to create a responsible state institution - the Ministry of Social Welfare, Demography and Bulgarians Abroad.
2. Regionalism is one of the main factors of the demographic catastrophe.
We will insist on: decentralisation and the creation of a second level of self-government, with maximum independence of the regions from the centre and a direct link with Brussels, and the
distribution of investments from the budget or from EU funds to the regions must be carried out according to a fully socially fair scheme.
20% of the taxes collected in the municipalities should remain in the municipal budgets.
Legally guaranteed preferences for infrastructure and industrial investments are needed in areas with demographic problems and with unemployment levels above the national average, Northern Bulgaria and border regions.
The catastrophic trends will be difficult to resolve without a planned attraction of population of Bulgarian origin from other countries to the areas with the most critical demographic problems.
3. Social policy must be tailored to the specificities of Bulgarian socio-economic development.
Ensuring a dignified old age should, in our view, include both a continuous increase in pensions and linking the retirement age to life expectancy.
The use of the experience and qualifications of pensioners should be the subject of a specific government programme.
Employers employing disadvantaged people and young people in their first job should be encouraged.
There is also a need for special attention to youth issues and curbing youth unemployment.
For areas with declining populations, we envisage a "Housing for Young Families" programme: the state should systematically increase its housing stock and provide housing for preferential rent or purchase on concessional terms.
Welfare benefits should be paid in return for actual public work.
PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO is against the transformation of motherhood and poverty into a profitable business.
We are against the payment of benefits for more than two children, and in the case of a fourth child the benefits of the first two should be stopped.
PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO is for a radical change in health care.
Health care, according to PATRIOTIC FRONT-NFSB and IMRO, has been turned into an anti-people business.
The monopoly of the Health Insurance Fund - the main reason for the sluggish, cumbersome and ineffective healthcare - must be broken immediately.
In the home of health insurance, Germany, there are more than 140 competing health insurance companies.
To equalize the health contributions of public employees-4%?! With those of private sector workers-8%.
Bulgarian patients are serfs of their doctor and do not have the freedom of choice of treatment.
Health bureaucrats developed so-called "medical standards" and thus centralized and monopolized medical services through meaningless "clinical pathways."
Emergency care has been ruined by continual ill-conceived reforms, insufficient funds and poor organisation.
It now rests on the personal efforts and dignity of miserably paid doctors, nurses, coordinators and drivers.
There is an immediate need to adopt legal measures to protect and recognise their work as Category I, and the detention officers working there with special privileges.
The pharmaceutical giants buy the Doctors' Union, patient organizations and state officials, cruelly robbing Bulgarian citizens with inflated prices of medicines and drugs.
Cheap (generic) medicines have been replaced on the market by newer, ten times more expensive medicines (more expensive than medicines in Turkey, Greece and many other countries).
The vicious health policy of the state offers more and more expensive medicines instead of teaching people how to protect themselves from diseases.
There is a lack of any care or guidance for healthy living for those discharged from health facilities, as well as for the chronically ill.
Cheap treatment methodologies such as homeopathy, herbalism, etc., which have proven to be effective, are being persecuted because the medical mafia needs sick people, not people who know how to protect themselves from disease.
PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO is for a change of the model of the native health care, focusing on prevention and awareness of the people.
The production and import of cheap medicines should be a state policy, as should the establishment of institutes and offices of homeopathy, herbal medicine, etc.
The drain of trained medical personnel is a crime for which the government is responsible.
The monopoly of the Health Insurance Fund should be removed and the process of treatment in all its phases should be facilitated and accelerated.
PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO is for the return of hospitals in small towns.
We are in favour of legal changes guaranteeing the sale of medicines in villages by paramedics, travelling pharmacies and drugstores.
To create a state strategy to fight mass diseases - cardiovascular diseases, spinal distortions, mental disorders, drug addiction, etc.
IV. SCIENCE, EDUCATION AND CULTURE
1. PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO is for a comprehensive educational reform, return of the Renaissance spirit and national consciousness in schools and universities.
Patriotism in the educational system should be the basis for the education and uplifting of the Bulgarian spirit.
We are in favor of introducing the study of the subject "Patriotism", as well as an hour of PE every day, until the completion of secondary education.
The role and place of the teacher in the educational process needs to be enhanced, the vicious practice of appointing teachers on fixed-term contracts needs to be stopped.
Strengthening discipline in schools through stricter controls and educational and administrative punitive measures.
PATRIOTIC FRONT-NFSB and VMRO insists on a truly free secondary education.
2. Science and education must be subordinated to the creation of practically trained specialists, and to the
immediate application of all patented inventions and innovations.
PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO is for the inclusion of ethnic groups from an early age through the implementation of legal measures to master the Bulgarian language in kindergarten.
PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO is against the admission of Islamist doctrines in the form of religious education in the Bulgarian education system.
3. PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO is for the revival, preservation and strengthening of Bulgarian identity, culture, traditions, language.
Cultural policy should be directed towards state support of Bulgarian works - festivals, plays, TV and film productions, etc.
According to PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO the state should subsidize the broadcasting of authentic folklore, Bulgarian films, serials and customs on Bulgarian media.
There is a need to revive and strengthen the Bulgarian virtues - hard work, modesty, honesty, humanity.
PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO is clearly and categorically opposed to the grafted vulgarity and cynicism in the everyday life of the Bulgarian people, such as chalgalisation, demonstrative pornography, inculcation of vulgar, primitive ideas and practices.
V. ECOLOGY
1. The protection of the unique Bulgarian nature is one of the most important goals of PATRIOTICFUND-NFSB and IMRO.
We are for the revision of all building permits on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast, mountain resorts, and against the predatory logging and export of Bulgarian forests.
A moratorium on logging in Bulgarian forests and a halt to the export of raw timber should be imposed immediately.
PATRIOTIC FRONT-NFSB and VMRO is for the introduction of draconian measures against eco-violators.
On the other hand, PATRIOTIC FRONT-NFSB and VMRO does not accept the placement of 35% of the territory of Bulgaria in "Natura 2000", with an average percentage for European countries of 12-15%,
and believes that this extremely burdens the economic activity in the otherwise backward mountainous and semi-mountainous areas, drowning in poverty and poverty.
PATRIOTICFRONT-NFSB and VMRO believes that the state should subsidize environmentally friendly agricultural production and ban the testing and use of GMOs.
3. PATRIOTIC FRONT-NFSB and VMRO believes that the development of new underground resources should only take place after a regional referendum.
The environmental institutions should monitor hourly the harmful emissions of large industrial pollutants such as Lukoil, TPP, Maritsa-Iztok, cement plants, etc.
The state to reinstate district rendering plants as an emergency measure against the risk of dangerous epidemics.
Vl. JUDICIARY AND INTERNAL SECURITY
1. PATRIOTIC FRONT-NFSB and VMRO is determined 3for a fair administration of justice, for the elimination of double standards in the judiciary.
We are for the immediate elimination of the criminal practice of fusion of crime with law enforcement, political and oligarchic elite.
The huge expectations of the people are to solve the problems of domestic crime.
PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO is for legal changes that promote the right to self-defense as the quickest and most effective solution in the fight against crime.
To increase the proportion of summary proceedings for intentional crimes and to increase the punishment for repeat offences - petty theft, hooliganism, etc.
Prisons should be transformed from "schools for criminals" into places of re-education through hard work for the benefit of society.
The goods produced can be used to furnish orphanages, community centres, schools and other municipal and state institutions, and
in the process prisoners can acquire vocational training and general literacy.
Welfare should be stopped for felons with pending cases.
2. The fight against crime is a top priority for PATRIOTIC FRONT-NFSB and IMRO.
We are in favour of the police departments being transferred to the municipalities and we propose that the police chief be elected.
This does not mean that the state should be exempted from the fight against crime and from its financial obligations in this respect.
To this end, a complete structural change should be introduced and units should be created to supervise the work of the police.
The large-scale smuggling of fuel, cigarettes, alcohol, drugs, etc., tolerated by the government, is the basis of the marriage between politicians and criminals.
Bulgaria has the largest police apparatus relative to its population in the whole EU.
However, it is also the most ineffective, because instead of fighting, it has merged with crime.
To ensure that the law is respected in the gypsy ghettos that have become a state within a state.
3. Customs officers secure the contraband in exchange for a share of the profits.
Recently 1200 people applied for 20 places in the Customs - Burgas.
The conflation of police and crime is ruining the nation's value system.
The governance of the country by people with a criminal past and present is a cruel blow to national morality and dignity.
This legitimises the criminal schemes involving criminals, policemen and politicians.
Instead of establishing law and order, young people are looking for a lucrative place in the respective scheme that would provide them with easy and quick gains.
The Ministry of Interior tolerates prostitution and drug trafficking.
PATRIOTIC FRONT -NFSB and VMRO is for a change of police leadership at all levels, as well as for civilian control of the police.
We are in favour of stabilising internal security and reforming the structures of the Ministry of Interior by creating an
Internal Investigation and Anti-Corruption Office in the Ministry of Interior, fully independent of the police leadership.
The same applies to the problem of wiretapping and other abuses of power by police leaders.
A decisive change in pre-trial proceedings is needed to facilitate effective investigation.
4. The judiciary must be freed from political patronage and quota party distribution.
The current system of the SJC as a politicised body for appointing judges, prosecutors and investigators is copied from the notoriously inefficient Italian system and should be replaced.
PATRIOTIC FRONT-NFSB and VMRO is for the legalization of the right of any citizen or organization to appeal to the Constitutional Court for irregularities in the legislation, including to ask for interpretation of the Constitution or the laws on a given issue.
Bulgaria is the only country in the EU where citizens do not have this right.
We oppose the flawed system of steadily increasing court fees and a virtual denial of justice.
Fees in all civil cases should be within the range of 10-100 leva, regardless of the material interest, so that everyone can defend their rights in court, regardless of their property status.
At the moment, access to justice is guaranteed to citizens, without financial obstacles, only in the administrative courts, where the fees are up to BGN 50.
Many citizens who are victims of property fraud find it difficult to pursue cases against fraudsters because they are not always in a good financial position due to old age, illness or other objective reasons.
This significantly helps organized criminal groups - swindlers, usurers - to enrich themselves at the expense of poor or sick people who cannot protect their property from criminal encroachment.
Compulsory payment of court fees or deposits of costs at the cash desk of the relevant court or the possibility of payment by fee stamps should be introduced.
The prosecutor's office should immediately file cases on all crimes of office, which have become public knowledge, such as the criminal privatisation of the RMDs from the time of Videnov and Kostov, the criminal privatisations of monopoly state companies such as NHC, BTC, TPP Maritsa-Iztok1 and Z, BGA Balkan, mining companies and many others.
PATRIOTIC FRONT-NFSB and VMRO is for the gradual limitation of all concessions for the extraction of natural resources on the territory of Bulgaria and the continental shelf for a period of up to 10 years, with the immediate termination of those concession contracts for which it has been established that the conditions under which they were concluded are violated - without the possibility of extension for a new term.
PATRIOTIC FRONT-NFSB and VMRO is for the compulsory voting and the recognition of Bulgarian citizenship after a Bulgarian language test for all Bulgarian citizens in the country and abroad.
This is also to put an end to electoral tourism from neighbouring Turkey.
The Law on Direct Participation of Citizens in State Power and Local Self-Government should be amended as demagogic and unworkable, and other constitutional means of popular initiative of citizens - the right to consider petitions, with the introduction of reasonable and enforceable conditions for popular consultation - should also be introduced.
PATRIOTIC FRONT -NFSB and VMRO is for changes in the Electoral Law, as the right to vote can have citizens who have completed primary education and have proven good command of written and spoken Bulgarian language.
Vll. ATTITUDE TOWARDS ETHNIC GROUPS
According to PATRIOTIC FRONT -NFSB and IMRO, ethnic groups cannot form their own laws and rules of conduct, including in their families, which contradict the traditional national, historical and moral values of Bulgaria, which are shared by the indigenous Bulgarian population.
1. As a mono-ethnic state, Bulgaria must establish mechanisms and institutions working towards the inclusion of ethnic groups and the preservation of our national identity.
Clear rules of the game must be created for integration into society.
According to PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO the rules for equality are for everyone.
Integration is not only the task of the Bulgarians, but of each of our compatriots or foreigners who would like to live in our homeland.
Integration is only possible of a minority into the majority, not the majority integrating into the minority and conforming to its rules and customs.
2. PATRIOTIC FRONT -NFSB and IMRO declares zero tolerance in refusal to integrate.
Fluency in Bulgarian is the first step towards integration.
Children of ethnic groups with a mother tongue other than Bulgarian must take a language test one year before starting school.
If they fail the exam, they must complete an intensive course in separate playgroups, which must be paid for by their parents.
This is the only way these children can become equal and get the education they need.
PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO is for urgent measures to break the encapsulation in Gypsy ghettos and Turkish-speaking regions.
The reason for the growing gypsy crime is the refusal of state institutions to enforce the laws in their country.
PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO is for a national strategy for the inclusion of Gypsies, encouraging those who earn a living with honest work, educate their children and pay their bills and taxes.
To the rest, who thrive on smuggling, racketeering, child and domestic crime, prostitution and drug distribution, the law must be applied with all its force.
PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO envisages as a start the removal of all illegal buildings in the gypsy ghettos and the creation of separate settlements outside the large settlements in a deserted state fund (vans) with minimal funds, providing them with the minimum necessary living conditions: electricity, power, water, municipal sanitary facilities, bathrooms.
A round-the-clock police presence is required, as well as compliance with environmental and health regulations.
Transport to the nearest school should be provided for children
and hard work and subsequent vocational training encouraged.
Support voluntary birth control by offering free contraceptives, gynaecological care and education to young parents.
The law on the minimum age for marriage to be strictly enforced and violators to be sanctioned under the fast track procedure.
The state must ensure rapid inclusion for anyone who wishes and makes the effort to do so, and isolate anyone who does not, by providing them with the basic conditions and means of existence.
Funds for the implementation of the above programme should be sought from European institutions and countries affected by the Gypsy emigration.
The isolated settlements described above can be turned into tourist attractions, which is a common practice in the most developed democracies (Indian reservations in the USA, aboriginal settlements in Australia, gypsy settlements in the Czech Republic and Hungary, etc.).
Funds saved for social benefits, maternity benefits and allowances described in the social policy section can also be used for this purpose.
Vlll. STATE AND RELIGIONS
1. PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO is for a secular society in which the church and the state are completely separated.
Religious choice is the right of every Bulgarian citizen, but it cannot be exercised before the age of majority.
We stand for the support and upliftment of Eastern Orthodoxy, the traditional religion of the Bulgarian people, and the affirmation of Orthodox Christian values and morals.
We consider it outdated and undemocratic to include underage children in any religion.
Every religious community in our country must accept that women and men have equal rights.
Forced marriages, child circumcision, oppression and violence against women violate the Constitution.
This can in no way be disguised by freedom of religion.
Religious groups that reject or even challenge the separation of religion and state, as well as those that engage in political causes, should immediately lose their legal recognition.
The construction of new religious buildings must comply with all laws, as well as a state-regulated number of practitioners of the religion in question and a referendum.
The state must respect the right of the citizens of Bulgaria to vehemently oppose the construction of mosques and minarets, as it happens in the countries of Western Europe - Germany, Austria, Belgium, Switzerland, etc. 2
. PATRIOTIC FRONT -NFSB and VMRO is for an immediate ban on daily calls from minarets.
We believe that the use of technical means and appeals outside Muslim places of worship is a gross violation of freedom and gives rise to ethnic tensions.
Therefore, we are in favor of a categorical prohibition of any calls and services outside the temples, except for the accepted traditional Christian religion.
The Religious Denominations Act requires them to conduct their services exclusively in Bulgarian.
Religious denominations must be fully subject to Bulgarian laws, including financial laws.
PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO is for the mandatory placement of the Bulgarian tri-color on the highest point of every temple on the territory of Bulgaria as a priority to national belonging and duty over religious.
3. In Bulgaria the law prohibits the masking of people in public buildings, public places and lo the streets.
We are determined to oppose the breaking of the law, i.e. the compulsory headscarves for girls and women as a religious and political symbol.
This violation is against the principle of equality and basic ethical rights, a manifestation of the notion of women's inferiority and the oppression of women by men.
4. PATRIOTIC FRONT -NFSB and VMRO is for the prohibition of any parties based on ethnic and religious principle.
We are in favour of banning all ethnic or religious privileges.
IX. NATIONAL DEFENCE
Bulgaria's defensive power was dealt a cruel blow.
From being a country with significant influence on the Balkan Peninsula, Bulgaria has become the country with the smallest army and low combat readiness.
1. PATRIOTICFRONT-NFSBand IMROe for the restoration of conscription lasting at least 6 months, for the restoration of labour troops as a place to acquire a profession and to build a sense of responsibility and commitment to society.
Military training in secondary education should also be resumed.
2. As an urgent form of opposition to foreign military aggression, PATRIOTIC FRONT -NFSB and IMRO is for the immediate restoration of missile bases in Southern Bulgaria.
PATRIOTIC FRONT -NFSB and VMRO is for the immediate withdrawal of all Bulgarian troops from foreign countries.
Х. FOREIGN POLICY
1. According to PATRIOTIC FRONT-NFSB and IMRO, Bulgaria's policy towards the world powers should be subordinated to the useful balance for the Motherland in favor of the national interest.
We are in favour of reviewing the agreement with the US on military bases on our territory.
PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO believes that providing the military bases only to the USA is a prerequisite for Bulgaria to become a target for large-scale terrorist attacks, including ballistic missiles.
2. PATRIOTIC FRONT -NFSB and VMRO is for Europe of nations, as our presence in the European Union should be subordinated to national interests first.
Our diplomats and MEPs must be true patriots and defend only the positions that are beneficial for Bulgaria.
Independence, dignity and national sovereignty should be the main goal of Bulgarian diplomats.
3. PATRIOTIC FRONT -NFSB and VMRO is against the accession of Turkey to the EU - because of the fundamental differences in religion, culture, traditions and mentality.
The acceptance of 70-million Turkey as a full EU member brings a serious threat Bulgaria to disappear.
PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO is for the renegotiation of the transport agreements with Turkey, according to which tens of thousands of heavy trucks destroy the republican road network for free.
4. Bulgaria should develop its relations not only with the USA and the EU, but also with countries such as China, Japan, Russia, India, Brazil and with countries in the Middle East region.
PATRIOTIC FRONT - NFSB and VMRO is for a special foreign policy strategy towards Bulgarians abroad, as well as towards foreign citizens with Bulgarian identity living in Macedonia, Serbia, Turkey, Romania, Ukraine, Moldova, Russia, Tatarstan, North Caucasus, etc. 5
. Bulgaria's embassies must stop being a resting base for bankrupt politicians.
Commercial attachés, instead of working for themselves and their cronies, should be replaced by technocrats who will research and secure our economy with scientific and technical patents, innovations and discoveries.
On the other hand, they should provide markets for any Bulgarian company that creates products for export.
BULGARIA ABOVE ALL!
