BSP offers concrete commitments for radical change.
For a change that would return the state to the people,
restore the country's economy
and address the most acute socio-economic problems - unemployment, poverty, hopelessness.
For a decent life in Bulgaria.
For investment in production, to increase employment and labour income
We are working to create the conditions for the creation of at least 250,000 jobs during the mandate through internal and external investments, including from EU funds.
We are preparing legislative changes to enable every young person to be offered a job or employment training no later than 4 months after leaving education.
We create employment opportunities through new programmes for certain groups - young people, people with disabilities and those in pre-retirement age
by increasing the funds - from the state budget by at least BGN 100 million per year and through European funding;
We envisage a 10-year programme for the creation of industrial enterprises, provided through a national investment fund, formed with European funds and targeted external and internal sources, including commercial banks.
We propose to adopt a decision to restart the Belene NPP project
and to start negotiations for the withdrawal of the claim against Bulgaria for 1 billion euros.
We will stop the privatisation of BDZ
and will take steps for the financial recovery of the company with clear state commitments.
We declare against the privatisation of Bulgarian Posts.
We are accelerating the construction of Bulgaria's motorway ring
and railway infrastructure along important corridors and routes;
we are significantly improving the maintenance and completion of Class I, II and III roads.
We are developing sea and river ports
and building container terminals at the ports of Varna and Burgas.
We guarantee payment of the funds owed by the state to the business in a shortened time.
We defend the real equality of economic entities
- to prevent biased treatment of participants in the economic activity through state structures - NRA, Ministry of Interior, Customs Agency.
We are facilitating lending to small and medium-sized businesses
by further capitalising the Bulgarian Development Bank and making it a solid instrument for government policy in the banking sector.
We are enhancing the capabilities of small and medium-sized enterprises by securing European funding of no less than BGN 500 million a year.
We have measures to support what is produced in Bulgaria, to put Bulgarian producers on an equal footing with large retail chains.
We are easing the procedure for the use of the compensation fund in the event of company bankruptcies so that workers get what they are entitled to.
We are drawing up a regional policy with state-provided funds and project funding for economic regions, especially those that are lagging behind.
The country's budgets should take into account the interests of the poorest regions - the North-West and almost the whole of Northern Bulgaria.
We demand a review of the major privatisation and concession contracts concluded in the last 15 years, with priority given to those with the greatest public interest.
We demand that offshore companies be banned from participating in privatisation/concessions and from owning financial institutions and media.
We commit to the minimum wage to reach 450 leva by the end of the mandate.
We propose replacing the "flat" tax with a progressive income tax on individuals.
We are starting to work for a comprehensive change in the taxation of personal income, in order
to introduce family income taxation in the second half of the mandate.
From 2014, we are introducing: - Zero tax on minimum wage income;
- A 10% tax rate for income above the minimum wage up to BGN 4,500; - A
20% tax rate for the part of income above BGN 4,500.
The corporate tax remains at 10%.
Alongside this, we are offering incentives to retain and create jobs, especially for young people and people of pre-retirement age
, and to invest in areas of high unemployment.
To curb monopolies and energy arbitrage
We are introducing a lower tariff for electricity paid for consumption up to a certain limit.
We propose to repeal laws adopted by the previous government that impose an uncompetitive environment and provide a monopoly to a narrow range of companies.
We are preparing to "break up" artificial monopolies and prevent cartels - in fuels (through easier access to excise warehouses), in medicines (by limiting the horizontal and vertical concentration of pharmacies), in communications, in the financial sector and in trade.
We propose to verify the legality of contracts concluded
and commissioning of renewable energy sources in recent years.
We want a review of existing concession contracts;
preservation of a significant public share (state or municipal) in the most important concessions.
We protect borrowers from unilateral changes in contract terms by banks.
We support the introduction of 'personal bankruptcy' to protect the interests of citizen borrowers.
We insist that citizens should be exempted from paying bank charges when making transfers to the budget, or that they should be able to pay these charges at special cash offices.
Incentives for raising children in the family
We propose to increase:
- childcare allowance up to the minimum wage;
the child allowances - in accordance with the age
and revision of the income criterion for their receipt;
- the targeted benefits for first-graders in accordance with the minimum wage; -
the one-off birth grant to stimulate the raising of three children; - the
incentives for raising children with disabilities in a family environment.
Support for the elderly and people with disabilities
We suggest:
- stopping the increase of the insurance period and the retirement age; - introducing
flexible retirement conditions in case of a shortfall of 2 years of insurance and/or age;
- updating pensions annually in line with inflation and the growth of insurance income.
Periodic recalculation of the old pensions; - The
minimum pension for length of service to be closely aligned with the poverty line by the end of the mandate.
We are working to expand the scope of persons who benefit from "personal assistant" and "social assistant".
For healthcare with care for people
We are reorienting the health system towards prevention and prevention of socially important diseases.
Abolish limits on referrals to specialists and delegated budgets for hospitals.
We facilitate the specialisation of young doctors.
We are introducing financial incentives for work in remote and hard-to-reach areas, as well as
targeted subsidies for municipal hospitals there.
We transfer the treatment of infectious, mental and other socially significant diseases, as well as
public health activities (vaccinations, assisted reproduction, etc.) from the Health Insurance Fund to the state.
We are striving for a de facto restoration of polyclinic services by stimulating group medical practices.
We insist that the funds from health care contributions should be used only for health care; they
should be distributed according to the principle of equality
and fair competition.- The
contracting partners of the NHIF should not receive additional payment from patients.
Reduce again the "access" fee for a visit to the doctor for pensioners to BGN 1.
Most of the cost of prescribed medicines for chronically ill patients to be paid by the Health Insurance Fund.
 
Education for Universal Literacy and the Advancement of the Nation
We insist that the state should fully and solely provide for the maintenance of state and municipal schools, and
support schools in small settlements, including with additional subsidies.
We are taking measures to sharply reduce illiteracy and dropout rates by providing schooling, meals and school clothing in addition to tuition;
by creating and using "Second Chance" schools.
We develop vocational education according to the economic and social needs of the country and regions.
We advocate for raising the prestige and improving the social status of Bulgarian teachers by increasing their salaries
and introducing a state standard for teachers' work.
The state order in higher education institutions should be determined not only by their capacity, but mainly by social needs and the quality of education.
Strengthening the interaction between universities and business through incentives for joint educational and research activities.
We propose to reduce the share of fees in state universities paid by students - to 1/4 of the determined maintenance.
We support the introduction of national criteria for academic posts.
We demand public funding for science and innovation, support for high-tech industries.
To support agricultural production
We commit to:
- state aid for weak links in the sector - fruit and vegetable production, livestock farming;
- support for cooperatives by changing the current policy that privileges large farmers;
- support for small and medium-sized producers through targeted funding
and the introduction of a "ceiling" on subsidies paid to a single agricultural firm;
- protection of agricultural landowners who receive a minimum guaranteed rent; -
development of agricultural processing
and ensuring market access for small and medium farmers through investments in municipalities.
For clean nature and natural resources for society
We insist on:
- Immediately stop illegal and contrary to the public interest procedures on the Black Sea coast;
introduce permanent monitoring and control over the management of state properties along the coast.
- Promptly designate all designated Natura 2000 sites and ensure their protection.
- Defend the ban on shale gas exploration and extraction by hydraulic fracturing.
- safeguarding the State's interest in geological mapping of processes and resources in the Black Sea subsoil and adjacent area.
 
For a country that belongs to the people
Ø Take immediate measures to control and reduce crime through a greater police presence "on the ground"
and interaction between the police, municipal authorities and citizen initiatives.
Ø Counter corruption through open governance, strict disciplinary and financial accountability for violations of the law by public officials;
by sharply limiting conflicts of interest.
Ø We intend to use parliamentary scrutiny to hold the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers publicly accountable to the National Assembly and the public for the delivery of the Government's programme.
Ø Insist on direct election of district mayors and district councils in the largest cities.
Ø We support the direct election with the participation of all magistrates of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council from the judicial quota.
Ø We propose to create a public fund to finance the media when they perform public and cultural functions.
We stand against media monopolies, including in the distribution of the press and TV channels.
Ø Bulgaria's active participation in the European Union in line with national interests and avoiding a two-speed Europe.
Ø We advocate maintaining and strengthening the European Union's special approach to economically less developed countries
and the EU's support for convergence and reducing disparities between European regions.
Ø We pursue a foreign and security policy that defends national interests, including through the country's Euro-Atlantic membership.
Ø Intensify interaction with Bulgarian communities abroad.
Ø We restore Bulgaria's position in multilateral cooperation in South-Eastern Europe and the Black Sea region
and intensify existing initiatives therein.
For civil dialogue
We rely on the activity of citizens.
We commit to them:- to hold a forum under the motto "Responsible Parliament", in which the priorities of the work of the Parliament in the first months of the 42nd National Assembly will be discussed with the participation of civil society organizations;
- to initiate an extraordinary cycle of dialogue between the local authorities and the National Assembly by the end of June 2013. to coordinate urgent actions to support municipalities;
- to introduce and support a bill that would lower the barrier for validity of national and local referendums;
- to include citizen experts to monitor the activities of regulatory bodies and state and municipal public procurement committees; -
to create a public register in each department and municipality of public contracts won and funds provided by the state/municipality.
 
PLATFORM
Unemployment, financial meltdowns and unprecedented inequality are shaking much of the world and Europe.
Everybody sees it.
But we have to name the real reasons - neoliberalism and the dictates of finance capitalism.
Our country remains the poorest in the European Union because in Bulgaria the economic model was the most wrong.
Half the population is already living in poverty or at risk of poverty.
At the same time, people in power, and even more so those they serve, continue to enrich themselves at the expense of society as a whole.
The governance of the country in the last term left over 630,000 unemployed and discouraged - almost 20% of the working population.
Tens of thousands of businesses have gone out of business.
This government halved the fiscal reserve and increased the public debt - a total of BGN 8 billion liability, without attracting serious investments and increasing individual consumption.
Freeze wages and pensions, and the cost grows.
Corruption and crime rule.
Suicides out of desperation are on the rise.
Brutality and cruelty flood us from everywhere.
A system of brainwashing has been created, which includes media, sociological and advertising agencies.
Tens of thousands continue to leave the country to seek a living abroad.
All this never was.
These are the results of the current management.
Authoritarian rule is only an outward expression of politics in the service of monopolies and oligarchic power.
This policy, instead of containing the crisis, has exacerbated it to the extreme.
The impasse has brought hundreds of thousands of people to the streets.
The majority wants nothing less than radical change.
Now, first of all, we have to put out the fire.
The state should guarantee security - personal, economic, social.
To revive the hope that there is a decent place for everyone in Bulgaria.
But the fulfillment of every hope needs time.
This is the time of accountability to the voters and the law.
By the end of the year we have to stop the country's decline and
then achieve growth and progress, to lift the country and the people out of poverty and misery.
To stop the domination of soullessness and vulgarity.
To support knowledge and culture,
to increase funding for science and innovation.
The BSP is for Bulgaria's active participation in the European Union in line with national interests and avoiding a two-speed Europe.
We share the Europe 2020 objectives of combating poverty, social inclusion and education.
BSP offers what it cannot do without.
What sets us apart from our opponents.
Now everyone is trying to speak on behalf of the people, it is important who will stand on their side.
The state and democracy
GERB's rule drastically limited social and civil rights, including freedom of speech.
The massive civil protests that led to the resignation of the government showed the dissatisfaction with this government, with the harsh life and the injustice.
But the problem is deeper - low trust in state institutions and in the whole political system.
The BSP, as part of the political life of the country in the past decades, when most Bulgarian citizens feel wronged by the transition, is also responsible for the current state of the country.
But unlike our political opponents, we have always stood up for the social role of the state, we
have defended democracy and parliamentary governance in Bulgaria.
Now we propose a radical change to restore citizens' trust in politics, to
make the state accountable to them, to
restore its administrative capacity.
We rely on a functioning and democratic state through which
to implement our socio-economic policies.
It is time to get to the true meaning of democracy as the power of the people.
Let us combine representative and direct democracy, both with citizen participation and control.
The problem is not in the Constitution, but in the disregard of fundamental rights proclaimed by it.
The BSP is ready to discuss changes in the basic law, but
will not allow democracy to be limited behind their facade.
Change dictates that we free politics from private interests
and external dependence.
The state should regulate the market,
influence the distribution of capital
and protect society from the omnipotence of money.
To become a shield against monopolies.
All this requires the people to take back their country.
The BSP is for a parliament in whose overall activity and in the legislative process the most important issues for the people are discussed and decided in accordance with their interests.
We will use parliamentary scrutiny to hold the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers to regular public account to the National Assembly and the public for the delivery of the Government's programme.
The BSP is in favour of increasing the ability of the administration to work for the citizens.
Instead of "cripples" and corrupt officials there should be only competent and loyal to the law officials.
The BSP relies on an active local government, which in cooperation with the state will successfully deal with local problems and take up the socio-economic development of the municipalities.
We are taking immediate steps to curb and reduce crime through a greater police presence "on the ground"
and interaction between it, municipal authorities and civic initiatives.
We fight corruption through open governance, strict disciplinary and financial accountability for violations of the law by public officials;
by sharply limiting conflicts of interest
and introducing citizen oversight of the activities of state and municipal bodies.
We insist on the direct election of district mayors and district councils in the largest cities.
We are for direct election of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council from the judicial quota with the participation of all magistrates.
BSP relies on the activity of the citizens.
We commit to them to introduce and support a bill that would lower the barrier for the validity of national and local referendums.
We propose to create a public fund (on a competitive basis) to finance the media when they perform public and cultural functions.
We stand against media monopolies, including in the distribution of the press and TV channels.
We stand for public information about the ownership and funding of all media;
for their equal access to public funds.
Bulgaria - an economically active country
For the BSP the priorities are employment creation,
income,
education
and health.
An economically active state is needed to solve these problems.
We reject the current policy that leads to the dictatorship of monopolies
and to the exhaustion of the Bulgarian economy by foreign companies.
Instead of big capital, the state is exerting its power on small and medium-sized businesses, which are increasingly
suffocated by bureaucratic obstacles,
unjustifiably high sanctions
and even political and administrative racketeering.
We need to restore the balance between the real economy and the financial sector, between production and services.
We advocate an active fiscal policy to stimulate investment and individual consumption in order for Bulgaria to come out of the depression faster and achieve sustainable growth.
The state must participate in the economy - as a regulator, as
an investor
and as an owner.
By planning the directions of economic development and identifying priority areas for growth.
The BSP is for active regulation and for increasing state participation in structurally determining industries:
" In the financial sector:
- Making it easier to lend to small and medium-sized businesses
by further capitalizing the Bulgarian Development Bank and making it a solid instrument for implementing government policy in the banking sector.
- We are strengthening the supervisory role of the BNB.
" In Energy:
- We propose a decision to restart the Belene NPP project.
- We want a check on the legality of contracts concluded
and commissioning of renewable energy sources in recent years.
" In infrastructure:
- We are accelerating the construction of the motorway ring of Bulgaria
and rail infrastructure on important corridors and routes;
significantly improve the maintenance and completion of Class I, II and III roads.
We develop sea and river ports
and building container terminals at the ports of Varna and Burgas.
- We make effective use of government communication networks.
In agriculture - effective targeted use of the state land fund to increase product diversity
and to close the circle - production - processing - sale of agricultural produce.
In the other priority sectors - extractive and manufacturing industries and tourism - the role of the state is to ensure favourable regulatory conditions for their development in the interest of Bulgarian society.
For the BSP, the salvation from unemployment lies primarily in the re-industrialisation of the country and in the development of production.
We are counting on our foreign policy and diplomacy to target not only European markets but also countries with sustained high growth.
We propose to adopt a 10-year programme for the creation of industrial enterprises, provided through a national investment fund, formed with European funds and targeted external and internal sources, including commercial banks.
We set ourselves the task of restoring Bulgaria's position as a strategic transport hub in the Balkans by building and maintaining a modern transport infrastructure, including Black Sea and river ports.
Before that, we will stop the privatisation of BDZ
and take steps to reschedule the company's debts.
We declare against the privatisation of Bulgarian Posts.
We insist that where state resources and finances are made available there should be a clear owner.
Accordingly, offshore companies should be banned from participating in privatisation and concessions, from owning financial institutions and media.
People should not be held hostage by monopolies and
businesses should not be racketeered by the government.
We see access to electricity and water as a human good and a right.
A modern pricing policy is needed.
To this end, we propose that an anti-profiteering law be passed once again to prevent excessive profits and protect consumers.
Our ambition is to significantly increase the share of Bulgarian products in feeding the population.
In order to achieve this goal, we foresee measures to support what is produced in Bulgaria,
to put Bulgarian producers on an equal footing with the big retail chains.
In the future, the environmental crisis may overshadow the financial one.
We defend the demands of the people for environmental protection
and for the use of natural resources primarily in the interests of the Bulgarian people.
Bulgaria - a welfare state
The BSP aims to significantly increase jobs and halve unemployment during its mandate.
Efforts are aimed at achieving sustainable employment.
We propose a national youth policy based on accessible and quality education
and a state guarantee for youth employment.
For the BSP the basic principle for spending public money for social purposes is: public money - for public needs - mainly in public institutions.
According to this principle the health
and the education system.
Life-saving and corrective measures are needed for Bulgarian healthcare.
We insist that citizens' health contributions are used only for healthcare.
The health system should be reoriented towards prevention and prevention of socially important diseases.
This calls for a change in the healthcare model to strengthen the role of the state
and to change the status of medical institutions as commercial companies.
We focus on healthy lifestyles by creating conditions for systematic exercise and sport, especially for children and young people.
For this, we propose that adolescents use sports facilities provided by the state and municipalities free of charge or at low fees.
To raise the cost of sport for every pupil and student.
Let's move from passive to active social assistance.
The social worker should work not only at the desk and with documents, but also where people live.
Good education is increasingly becoming a condition for national development and prosperity.
Education, especially vocational education, needs to be linked to the economic and social needs of the regions.
We set ourselves as an immediate task to sharply reduce the high illiteracy and lack of qualifications.
The school to restore its traditional moral values and educational functions.
To us, a student is not a "piggy bank" that moves from school to school.
The role of the state is to ensure the maintenance of state and municipal schools,
to support schools in small settlements, including with additional subsidies, and not to finance private education.
The school must create a social environment for the equal development of students from all social groups.
Bulgaria is in a critical demographic situation.
The BSP's answer to this problem is: - Increase the amount of childcare allowance to the minimum wage.
- Incentivising the raising of three children by increasing the amount of the one-off birth grant.
The state should create conditions and require the fulfilment of the obligation to acquire minimum education
and work skills.
- We put the problems of the Roma first and foremost as part of the acute social problems in Bulgaria, relying on national and European funds to solve them.
Bulgaria has large regional imbalances.
In order to reduce them, BSP proposes:- The country's budgets to take into account the interests of the poorest regions - the North-West and almost the whole of Northern Bulgaria.
Developing a national position to preserve and strengthen the European Union's special approach to LDCs
and adopting additional economic measures to accelerate convergence.
- Conduct a national regional policy with state-provided funds and project funding for each of the economic regions, especially the lagging regions.
- Introduce minimum social standards to be met by each municipality.
- Development of decentralisation through the delegation of activities, including social activities, from the State to local authorities with the provision of the necessary funding.
The BSP will direct public spending as a priority towards investments in employment,
education,
science and innovation,
health
and social sectors.
We are committed to:- Increasing tax collection and other revenue sources;
sharply curbing smuggling and shrinking the informal economy.
We propose replacing the flat tax with a progressive personal income tax.
We are starting to work for a comprehensive change in the taxation of personal income,
to move in the second half of the mandate to family income taxation.
From 2014, we are introducing:- Zero income tax at the minimum wage.
- We retain the 10% tax rate on income above the minimum wage up to BGN 4 500.
- 20% rate for the part of the income above BGN 4 500.
- The corporate tax remains at 10%;
alongside this, we offer incentives to retain and create jobs, especially for young people and people of pre-retirement age
and for investment in areas with high unemployment.
- Protecting borrowers from unilateral changes in contract terms by banks.
- Citizens to be exempted from paying bank charges when making transfers to the budget or to be able to pay these charges at special counters.
- To create a mechanism for the state to protect those in "debt bondage"
and prevent foreclosure on the only home that borrowers are paying off.
To finance the announced policies and the listed commitments, we rely on several additional revenue sources to the state budget: - Increased collection of state claims by BGN 1-1.5 billion per year.
- 4-4.5 billion BGN per year from the utilization of the funds under the EU programmes and from the EU funding for the new programming period.
Use internal and external financial resources for productive investments to develop the economy
and increase employment.
Dear Voters,
At this critical moment for the country, our policy is in line with the current national tasks, with the interests of the vast majority of Bulgarian citizens.
Let us unite without distinction of age, gender, religion, ethnicity, all Bulgarian citizens who accept the change we propose and the creation of a national responsible government.
Only your convincing support is a guarantee that we will not have to renege on our commitments.
Earned credibility for our stated policy is more important than power at any cost.
The proposed radical change will make some of those who have left the country to return to it and others to stay here so that there is a future for all of us in Bulgaria.
Dear voters, vote for BSP, for Coalition for Bulgaria - for a decent life in Bulgaria!
To increase employment and labour income:
- Create the conditions for the creation of at least 250 000 jobs during the mandate through internal and external investment, including from EU funds.
- Every young person should be offered a job or employment training no later than 4 months after completing their education.
- Create employment opportunities through new programmes for specific groups - young people, people with disabilities and those of pre-retirement age - by increasing funding - from the state budget by at least BGN 100 million a year and through European funding.
- Creating a fund to stimulate employers who hire people with disabilities.
- Relaxing the procedures for using the compensation fund in the event of company bankruptcies so that workers get what they are entitled to. -
Increase the minimum wage to reach BGN 450 by the end of the mandate and
the minimum pension for length of service so that it is close to the poverty line by the end of the mandate.
Increase the amount of age-related child allowances
and revise the income criterion for receiving them.
- Increase targeted allowances for first-graders in line with the minimum wage.
- Increase incentives for raising children with disabilities in a family environment.
- Extending the scope of persons benefiting from a 'personal assistant' and a 'social assistant'.
- Stopping the increase in the retirement and pensionable age.
- Introduce flexible retirement conditions for those who are under 2 years of pensionable service and/or under retirement age. -
Annual updating of pensions in line with inflation and growth in insurance income;
periodic recalculation of old pensions.
- Increase the maximum monthly amount of insurance income to 10 minimum wages.
Modification of the conditions for retirement of servicemen
and restoration of their forfeited social rights.
To curb monopolies and energy arbitrage:
- Introduction of a lower tariff for electricity paid for consumption up to a certain limit.
- Taking action to bring the state back into energy, including electricity distribution.
- Review of the concluded long-term power purchase agreements
and reducing the share of expensive sources in the energy mix.
- Stopping the runaway growth of solar power plants.
- "Breaking up" artificial monopolies and preventing cartels - in fuels (through easier access to excise warehouses), in medicines (by limiting horizontal and vertical concentration of pharmacies), in communications, in the financial sector and in trade.
- Revision of existing concession contracts;
Retain a significant public share (state or municipal) in the most important concessions.
- Freeing small and medium-sized businesses from administrative arbitrariness;
reducing permitting and licensing regimes.
- Adopt a schedule for the timely payment of funds owed by the state to businesses.
- Increasing lending opportunities for small and medium-sized businesses through the Bulgarian Development Bank.
- Ensuring real access to more public procurement for small and medium-sized companies by removing discriminatory conditions in public procurement.
Healthcare with care for people:
- Restoration of the dispensary form for monitoring socially significant diseases - cardiovascular, oncological and others.
- Special attention to maternal and child healthcare.
- Emergency medical care to become truly urgent and remain state-run.
Introduce financial incentives for working in remote and hard-to-reach areas,
as well as targeted subsidies for the municipal hospitals there.
- The treatment of infectious, mental and other socially significant diseases,
as well as public health activities (vaccinations, assisted reproduction, etc.) to be borne by the state.
- Removal of referral limits and delegated budgets for hospitals.
- Rapid change to facilitate specialisation of young doctors.
Introduce a fair uniform methodology for evaluating the work of categories of staff in hospitals
and pay according to individual contribution.
- Establish a fund to finance health care for socially disadvantaged citizens.
- De facto restoration of outpatient services by encouraging group medical practices.
- Changing the healthcare model by strengthening the role of the state in healthcare.
Public funds to be allocated on the basis of the principle of equality
and fair competition.
According to him, the contracting partners of the NHIF should not receive additional payment from patients.
- Reducing again the "access" fee for visiting a doctor for pensioners to BGN 1.
- Most of the cost of prescribed medicines for the chronically ill to be paid by the health fund.
Education for universal literacy and advancement of the nation:
Taking measures to drastically reduce the number of early school leavers by providing school meals and school clothing in addition to tuition;
by creating and using Second Chance Schools.
- Raising the prestige and social status of Bulgarian teachers by increasing their salaries
and the introduction of a state standard for teachers' work.
- The state order in higher education institutions should be determined not only by their capacity, but mainly by societal needs and the quality of education.
- Introduction of financial incentives for establishing interaction between higher education institutions and business.
- Reduction of the share of fees in state higher education institutions paid by students - to 1/4 of the determined maintenance.
- Establish national criteria for academic positions.
- The state should give priority to funding science, innovation and stimulating high-tech industries.
We are in favour of state support for contemporary Bulgarian cultural projects and authors,
for the preservation and development of community centres as spiritual centres,
for the preservation and promotion of the national cultural heritage.
We support cultural industries and protect copyright.
To support agricultural production
We are committed to supporting Bulgarian agriculture
and the Bulgarian countryside,
to stabilising the forestry sector by:
- Combining the EU Common Agricultural Policy with national sectoral priorities and rural development.
- State aid to support weak links in the sector - fruit and vegetable production, support for livestock farming.
- Support for cooperatives by changing the current policy which privileges large farmers. -
Supporting small and medium-sized producers through targeted funding
and the introduction of a 'ceiling' on subsidies paid per farmer.
- Protecting farmland owners who receive a minimum guaranteed rent. -
Establish a Land Agency to use agricultural land efficiently
and to prevent abuse of the state and municipal land fund.
Development of processing of agricultural products
and ensuring market access for small and medium farmers through investments in municipalities.
For clean nature and natural resources for society:
- Immediately stop the illegal and contrary to the public interest procedures on the Black Sea coast;
Introduce permanent monitoring and control over the management of state properties along the coast.
- Prompt designation of all designated NATURA 2000 sites and ensuring their protection.
- Stop indiscriminate deforestation
and forest regeneration.
- Defend the ban on shale gas exploration and extraction by hydraulic fracturing.
- Effective use of mineral and geothermal waters for the development of the Bulgarian economy and tourism.
- Ensuring the state interest in geological mapping of processes and resources in the subsoil and adjacent zone of the Black Sea.
For civil dialogue
We appeal to the civil organizations and to the participants in the civil protests with a proposal for:
- Holding a forum under the slogan "Responsible Parliament", in which the priorities of the work of the Parliament in the first months of the 42nd National Assembly will be discussed with the participation of civil society organisations.
- We will initiate an extraordinary cycle of dialogue between local authorities and the National Assembly by the end of June 2013 to agree on urgent actions to support municipalities.
- Include citizen experts to monitor the activities of regulators and on state and municipal procurement committees.
- Launch a review of major privatisation and concession contracts concluded in the last 15 years, prioritising those with the greatest public interest.
- Establish a public register in each department and municipality of public contracts won and of state/municipal funds made available.
