Election Programme
MRF Programme Declaration
The MRF is a Bulgarian liberal political party, which emerged at the beginning of the transition to democracy as a natural reaction in the struggle to restore the rights and freedoms of Bulgarian citizens that were taken away by the totalitarian regime.
The MRF and its founder and honorary chairman, Dr. Ahmed Dogan, constructed and implemented the Bulgarian ethnic model in public and political relations, thanks to which Bulgaria preserved the peaceful nature of the transition to democracy against the boiling ethnic cauldron of the Balkans.
The Bulgarian ethnic model is still relevant today in view of the conflicts in the region, the Middle East and Europe, because its essence is to involve all ethnic groups in the political process and the realization of Bulgaria's strategic goals through their participation in the governance of the country.
The MRF has made a decisive contribution to the realisation of these goals - EU and NATO membership.
The membership itself was realised during the participation of the MRF in the government as a coalition partner (2001-2005) and mandate holder (2005-2009).
During these two terms of government the country achieved impressive political and economic results:
growth of around 6% per year, a twofold increase in pensions and wages, foreign investment of around 60% of GDP per year
the lowest level of public debt - 12% of GDP the
introduction of the lowest taxation in Europe - 10% corporate tax and 10% flat tax on FTT
the highest levels of employment, etc. - results not achieved to this day by all governments that have governed Bulgaria since this period.
We assess the upcoming early parliamentary elections as extremely important and crucial for the development of the country in the coming years.
The world is facing serious geopolitical and economic changes.
Our united Europe is facing problems that could lead to the break-up of the Union and must therefore find a "modus vivendi" to preserve its unity and future.
The migrant wave, the security of citizens, the economic problems have given rise to serious nationalist and even xenophobic sentiments.
The political parties and movements that represent these sentiments are gaining more political ground and pushing the EU towards disintegration.
The MRF sees as the country's main foreign policy priority the preservation of the EU through its reform.
We want Bulgaria to play an active role in this process and to use the tools of the EU presidency, which we are about to assume from 01.01.2018.
For this to happen, the systemic political parties need to be able to form a stable majority and elect a strong government after GoI-2017.
Therefore, the MRF believes that the main political clash in these elections should not be along the axis of "left-right" as the main political-economic ideology of the parties, but along the axis of "systemic, pro-European parties - nationalist, populist and xenophobic parties and movements".
The systemic parties in Europe have long pursued a policy of coalition with the aim of isolating nationalist formations and politicians from power.
The MRF defines as its main domestic political goal the formation of a pro-European values coalition majority and preventing xenophobic parties from coming to power.
After ten years of full EU membership, Bulgaria is still the poorest country in the Union
with the highest negative population growth.
MRF will propose a debate of all political forces to form a national consensus on three priority strategic goals for Bulgaria. Measures to overcome the demographic crisis;
II. Combatingpoverty;
III. Proactive policy of preserving and reforming the EU.
The main focus of the MRF programme for the next political cycle is on: //| Fighting poverty
А. Economic and Fiscal Measures - It is well known that economic growth has a determining role in solving all economic and social problems of society.
Policies to stimulate growth will continue to be the foundation of the MRF's policy.
To the extent that investment, consumption and exports are the engines of economic growth, we are focusing our main priorities on them.
1. Investment - along with the traditional incentives for investors - good business environment, reduction of regulations, low taxes, European programs, after a thorough analysis of the problems in the investment process we propose a completely new approach:
Establishment of integrated registers in order to relieve natural and legal persons from the obligation to prove data from these systems to the administration
Compliance with the principle ,,information available in one public authority not required by another,
Engage the state and municipalities in the process of expediting all necessary permits for investment.
The state issues all permits in a "one-stop shop" within a shortened time frame.
Permits for investments above BGN 5 million - within 90 days from the Investment Agency, for investments below BGN 5 million - within 60 days from the regional governments and municipalities.
To this end, the laws regulating all permits for the investment process will be changed.
The budget funding will create the necessary capacity of the Investment Agency, the regional governments and the municipalities.
Upon expiry of the time limit, the principle of "tacit consent" will come into force.
Accelerate the decision-making process on appeals of investment decisions by creating capacity in the judiciary through permissive budget funding and changes in relevant procedural laws.
Stimulating the launch of the fund of funds as a means to facilitate the launch of small and medium-sized businesses and start-up programs.
Creation of a fund of 500 million BGN to support investments in agricultural processing enterprises.
Stimulating the full and effective use of the opportunities of the new EU investment instruments, such as the European Fund for Strategic Investments.
2. Consumption - raising incomes is a key instrument for influencing consumption.
The principle we will follow here, as we have done so far, is to increase incomes at the expense of economic growth, employment and increased budgetary discipline.
The debate that started in the 43rd National Assembly on increasing pensions was populist, because with 2-3% economic growth an increase of minimum pensions by 30-50% is impossible.
We will do it in the next 4 years, first by recalculating the 2008 pensions.
Reaching the minimum pensions up to 300 BGN and increasing the minimum and average wages are not impossible goals, because in the period 2005-2009 they grew by almost 100%, but under the condition of economic growth of over 6%.
This will be the goal of the MRF's income policy.
Fiscal policy - effective financial policy has a strong impact on economic growth, especially in a currency board environment:
strengthening and preserving financial stability and gradual financial consolidation.
Maintaining the general tax burden and in particular the flat personal income tax.
We are ready to discuss the introduction of a tax-free minimum and individual elements of family income taxation as a measure to overcome the demographic crisis.
Б. Agriculture - the ten years of EU membership and the implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) have given our country enough positive but also negative experience. The MRF is in favour of:
Rethinking our current position as a raw material appendage on world markets for basic products such as wheat, sunflower, maize, etc.
The goal we are formulating is a higher share of added value of Bulgarian agriculture in the food produced in our country, in parallel with the direct and catching-up increase of added value per unit of arable area.
Increase the rate of investment for modern agriculture in small and medium family farms by restoring the practice of low-interest lending for investments (the interest is shaped as a capital subsidy) under the SFA.
Creation of flexible lending schemes for small and medium-sized businesses and young farmers by the BBB and the National Guarantee Fund.
Stimulating all effective forms of credit to farmers and agricultural processing by international and private financial institutions.
New Irrigation Policy - Establish and launch a National Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Program, the goal of which would be to increase the current half million acres of irrigated land by a factor of about 5 at the end of the program.
В. Social policy - social policy measures must be concrete, effective and realistic.
1. Realistic increase in employment - to reach 76% by the end of the programme period.
2. Increase in labour income for people of working age - increase in minimum wage.
3. Pensions granted by the end of 2016 are recalculated in four steps, depending on the year of granting the pension.
This will ensure a real and equitable increase in pensions, with the necessary additional funds spread over a wider time horizon.
Г. Health - In the health sector, a cross-party effort is needed to create a consensual, step-by-step strategy followed by the political forces, regardless of who is in government.
Only in this way is it possible to take unpopular and even - painful measures to create an effectively functioning health system.
The restoration of confidence in the system, as well as the reduction of the financial deficit, can be achieved by creating conditions for real competition, effective control and quality of medical services, as well as a gradual increase of the funds for healthcare in the state budget to over 5% of GDP.
The MRF will propose and seek agreement on the following PRIORITIES: changing the mechanisms for payment in the system by adjusting the financial model - demonetization of the health insurance fund, improvement of the health insurance model, competition of financing funds.
A national health map, under a demonelized model, with the aim of - preventing regional disparities.
eHealth on the basis of a single information system with all its components (electronic record, electronic card, electronic prescription and electronic referral), with the aim of transparency and efficient use of financial resources
Д. Education, science and digital society
I. Education - The MRF proposes that priorities for education development be differentiated according to the different levels of the education system.
1. Common priorities:
Adapting the education system to the labour market.
Building a system for qualifications and career development of pedagogical specialists.
Alignment of teachers' salaries to the national average.
Expanding the autonomy of educational institutions to formulate and implement their own policies and to govern themselves through Public Councils.
2. Priorities in secondary and vocational education.
Ensuring equal access to high quality education.
Reducing the number of early school leavers and dropouts.
Development of vocational education as a means to combat youth unemployment.
Mother tongue learning to be an integral part of state education policy.
3. Priorities in higher education.
Updated infrastructure of specialisations in relation to the labour market.
Improvement of the higher education funding system in line with the realisation of graduating students.
Uniform state standards for degrees and positions within academic autonomy.
II. Science - making research and development a top priority for Bulgaria by:
Promoting applied research
Support for start-ups, investment in innovation and development infrastructure
III. Digital Society
Final establishment of e-government
Formation and effective implementation of a strategy for Bulgaria's participation in the Fourth Industrial Revolution based on the European Commission documents and the experience of Germany, France, Great Britain, Spain, etc.
Е. National Security Policy - MRF proposes the following priorities:
1. Organisational, structural, material and personnel provision of the activities of the structures of the defence system and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria.
Operational and administrative autonomy of the Defence Staff.
2. Cyber Security
Establishment of a national cybersecurity authority to implement state policy and coordination with international bodies in this area.
3. Restricting illegal migration through the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria.
4. Building a system of civil security and civil protection.
Rights, freedoms and religion - the economic crisis, the refugee wave and the horrific terrorist acts have caused a severe crisis of tolerance in Europe.
This crisis is deepened by the policies and rhetoric of nationalist parties, movements and personalities.
Unfortunately, Bulgaria is no exception to this process.
Moreover, in the last two years, without any political necessity, GERB brought into power the so-called "Patriotic Front", consisting of parties that the Council of Europe calls fascist.
In doing so, it formalises hate speech and division in society.
Laws and individual legislative texts were adopted in the legislation, completely contradicting the Bulgarian Constitution, the European norms and the Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms.
The classical liberal idea has an old tradition and it is the basis not only of united Europe, but also of successful countries in the world in general.
Therefore, facing the expectations of the Bulgarian citizens for reforms of the political parties, the MRF is ready to be a Bulgarian party of the 21st century with a strong liberal tradition and modern policies, written by you and transparent and accountable to you, the Bulgarian citizens.
Bulgaria's proactive policy to reform the European Union
According to the MRF, Bulgaria has an important role to play in reforming the EU by making concrete proposals to: streamline the work of the European institutions, improve coordination between them, design and implement a flexible, transparent, efficient and understandable for citizens EU budget.
Linking cohesion policy to effective reforms in member states.
Enhancing the security of European citizens
Reducing regulations
Note: This MRF Programme Declaration is an open political document, which will be complemented during our meetings with voters and business organisations during the election campaign, after which it will be finalised as a programme for governing the country.
