ELECTION PROGRAM HA UNITED PATRIOTS - NFSB, ATAKA and BMPO - 2017
I. ECONOMICS AGAINST UNEMPLOYMENT
Reviving the Bulgarian economy,
stimulating Bulgarian production
and urgently raising the incomes of Bulgarians.
The introduction of tax, accounting and licensing exemptions, as well as
the creation of a National Small and Medium Enterprise Assistance Fund.
Legislation against speculation.
II. BUDGET AND FINANCE
Increase of the minimum pensions for seniority and age to BGN 300 and recalculation of the rest.
Exempting minimum incomes from taxes.
Strengthening the role of the Central Bank and prohibiting unilateral interest rate changes.
Reduction of VAT on medicines, textbooks, etc.
Decentralisation - 20% of the taxes collected to remain in the municipalities.
III. SOCIAL POLICY, HEALTH
A demographic program to save the nation.
Social benefits - only in return for actual work.
Suspension of benefits for more than three children.
Effective and affordable healthcare
and fair social policy.
Bring medical care back to small settlements.
Cheapening of medicines.
Creating a healthy and employable nation.
IV. SCIENCE, EDUCATION AND CULTURE
Comprehensive educational reform, return of the Renaissance spirit and national consciousness in schools and universities.
Studying the discipline of "Patriotism",
an hour of PE every day
and introducing military training.
State support for the Burgher culture.
V. ECOLOGY
The protection of the unique Bulgarian nature is among the most important goals of the United Patriots.
Introduce draconian measures against eco-violators,
but also stop the dictates of paid pseudo-ecologists.
VI. JUDICIARY AND SECURITY
Fair administration of justice and stopping double standards in the judiciary.
Measures against the fusion of crime with law enforcement, political and oligarchic elite.
Stop the massive smuggling through customs.
Reduction of court fees.
VII.TREATMENT OF ETHNIC GROUPS
National strategy for ethnic inclusion in compliance with the law.
Removal of illegal buildings,
underage marriages,
linking social benefits to real work and children's education.
Law on the Bulgarian language - only those who have completed primary education and speak Bulgarian should have the right to vote.
VIII. STATE AND RELIGIONS
A secular society in which church and state ca entirely separate.
Religious services and rituals - only in Bulgarian.
Raising the Bulgarian flag in front of every religious temple.
Stop the sonic terror from the minarets
and the interference of political figures in religion.
Removing pro-Turkish parties from power.
IX. NATIONAL DEFENCE
Restoration of conscription and labour troops as a place for the acquisition of
profession, responsibility and commitment to the society of Burghers.
Immediate restoration of missile bases in Southern Bulgaria and withdrawal of all Bulgarian troops from foreign countries.
X. FOREIGN POLICY
Bulgaria's foreign policy to be subordinated to the balance useful for the homeland in favour of the national interest.
Hue we are against foreign military bases on our territory, as well as
against Turkey's accession to the EU.
Establishment of the Ministry of Demography and Bulgarians in Chubjina.
