Stable Bulgaria. Reform Agenda. PP GERB - 2014
Power is not an end in itself
GERB is a centre-right party, a member of the European People's Party family.
We share and apply European values and standards for democracy and civil rights and follow European policies for growth.
We uphold right-wing political values in central and local government and, as the most influential party, we implemented a successful centre-right governing mandate for the country.
We have proven that we are not only able to gain public trust, but also to preserve it.
Both in government and in opposition. GERB has been the first and most influential political force in Bulgaria for eight years.
We proved that we can build the country.
We gained experience in management. We have acknowledged and realised our mistakes, shortcomings and weaknesses.
Today we feel confident and ready to take over the governance of the country again in a difficult moment.
Power is not an end in itself for us.
We see it as an opportunity to implement the political and governance ideas of the centre-right government that our country needs.
The attempts at left-wing governance failed and did not lead to a positive result for the country and the citizens.
We are deeply convinced that the road to the stable and successful development of Bulgaria necessarily passes through right-wing governance.
The cooperation with our partners from the European People's Party gives us the strength to make it happen.
We are confident of our success because of the positive results of the policies implemented in our mandate.
Europe is on a successful path and is solving its problems thanks to the right solutions and the policy we started together back in 2009.
European citizens realise this and 3 months ago, at the European Parliament elections, they gave their trust again to the parties of the EPP family.
That is why we are convinced that we are on the right path
Today we are determined to fight again for the trust of the citizens and to get it because of the qualities and ideas we have.
We don't rely on trust in advance or choice for lack of better options.
We believe that responsibility for the governance of the country can only be borne by those who have the trust and support of the Bulgarians and who stand with their face and their ideas before the people.
Bulgaria has only one way forward - the way of European development.
We have followed this direction so far, and we will continue to do so.
Bulgaria has lost a lot in the last year.
Lose direction, lose opportunities.
The country has lost the trust of our partners and lost time - time for development, time for building.
The link between the citizens and the government, which is indispensable for democracy, was also lost.
So today it is time to tell the truth.
Time for bold decisions
Improving the lives of Bulgarians and raising incomes can only have a result after a lot of effort from everyone - politicians and citizens.
So it's time for work, lots of work.
Because only stable governance can lead to development and a growing economy.
Stability means security today and in the years to come.
This is the opportunity to plan your life and development; to be sure of your future and to ensure the development and fulfilment of your children.
Stability is a guarantee for success, for more money, for a better life and security for all.
Stability requires functioning institutions, a
developing economy, a
strong civil society,
active citizens.
Stability is an opportunity to create jobs,
have modern production
and earn more.
The stability of the state gives us more investments,
makes us a reliable and respected partner on the European scene.
Stability is a necessary but not sufficient condition for our common progress.
We need stable governance.
That is why we will work - to replace backstage with transparency,
arrogance with responsibility,
chaos with stability,
incompetence with expertise,
indecision with will,
destruction with creation.
Our political opponents make loud political promises.
We do not underestimate the intelligence of Bulgarians.
Do not mislead them with unattainable prospects and promises.
GERB can only honestly say that we will move forward, even if this is difficult.
We will work harder, even if it is impossible.
We build today to build tomorrow.
Success will come faster the more people are involved in the process.
We need to build Bulgaria as a modern European state that does not allow doubt or retreat from its strategic political orientation.
For the sake of its citizens and future generations, we need to move quickly and decisively on the only right way forward - reform and decisive action for change in problematic sectors of society at all levels.
By changing the state, we will change the environment for business development and the lives of citizens.
In the last year, we have wasted a lot of time in wandering and political experimentation.
It's time to work again.
The goals ahead
1. To give security to the functioning of the state by stabilizing the institutions and restoring the direction of our European development.
2. To mobilize our efforts and the potential of the public and private sectors, the civic energy to identify the right solutions to reform the state.
3. To outline a clear development perspective in a longer horizon until 2030 to put the foundations of development in perspective.
This will give citizens and businesses the opportunity to plan their lives and activities for the long term.
4. To make Bulgaria a good place to live, a stable and strong country.
The state and political system should be improved and reformed so that we stop facing periodic attempts to replace or abolish democracy.
5. Modernize governance and the state to keep pace with developments in modern global processes and technologies.
To form and educate the young Bulgarians, the new generations who will implement the modernization.
6. To make the best use of the European solidarity funds, distributing them fairly and transparently.
To strengthen the impact of EU funds invested in projects that improve the public,
business
and investment environment and
preserve Bulgaria's nature.
7. To create the conditions and achieve meaningful and rapid growth and development of the country so that we can
increase incomes based on progress in the economy.
Any self-serving or political decision outside the objective possibilities of the revenue budget poses the risk of instability and uncertainty.
8. Ensurethe country's energy and national independence
and minimise potential risks of destabilisation from the foreign policy environment and energy supply.
9. Guarantee the social rights of citizens and the levels of social payments achieved by addressing every opportunity to increase them.
To pursue a social policy that helps vulnerable groups and the unemployed not to lose chances to participate in the labour market, to be
educated and qualified on an ongoing basis in order to find a good job
10. Respect the rule of law as a basis for restoring a sense of justice
and as a sine qua non for a good business and public environment.
Horizon 2030
The new government of the country has to deal with all known challenges, such as stabilising the country,
reforms in key sectors,
achieving economic growth.
In order to be truly successful, every action taken, every decision taken, must also take into account the long-term development challenges that follow from the course of global processes in the world:
Improving the demographic picture in the country and
coping in the objective processes of urbanization
Modernising education systems to align them with the development needs of individuals and businesses
Development of democracy and democratic governance mechanisms to involve citizens and experts in important governance decisions
Ensuring the country's long-term energy and international security
Creating the new Bulgarian digital economy based on knowledge and innovation
Reformulating all policies to tackle climate change.
Adequate and full participation in the changing EU, participation in the processes that improve and develop it
In order to solve the current problems of the country and the citizens, to
lay the foundation for the stability of the country, to
respond to global challenges in the long term, we need to take
Bold decisions in a quick and decisive way.
They should start immediately to bear fruit in a few years.
Any delay today could prove fatal in the years to come.
A number of sectors do not meet the needs and requirements of citizens - their structure, organisation and control are irretrievably outdated.
Taxpayers' money is spent inefficiently and therefore even increasing funding for them does not lead to better services.
Health
In order to improve healthcare, it is not enough to pour in more money.
A new system for the organisation of the sector is needed to ensure that funds go to truly necessary inpatient and outpatient procedures; that
investments are made not in the maintenance of inefficient structures, but in new technologies and the qualification of medical staff, as well as in prevention.
We will follow the recommendations of the European Commission and the World Bank, we will take the best from the European experience.
Education
The education system should be in sync with modern educational models and new technologies, with current scientific achievements, with the needs of business and the state.
Children should be taught to think independently, be critical, enterprising and be able to work in teams.
If we do not change education in this way, we will deprive children and young Bulgarians of the chance to develop and cope with life, of the opportunity for a personal professional career and good prospects in Bulgaria.
More money is needed for education and science.
They should be concentrated in measures and areas that respond to labour market and business needs.
Bulgarian science should support business and the state.
It must form a social environment and atmosphere in which to develop talented Bulgarians and create scientific discoveries, inventions and their practical developments that will change the lives of citizens.
Social assistance and labour market
Social policy is an important responsibility of any government.
It should not be limited to the provision of social benefits and pensions through budgetary redistribution.
It is time to look at and implement social policy in a new way - as a set of policies that promote, activate, make social inclusion and personal fulfilment of people easier and more meaningful.
We understand social policy as a policy of partnership between citizens, business and the state.
The complex of social measures and policies, which are the responsibility of the state, should create opportunities for everyone who wants to find not only a job, but also their fulfilment.
Unemployed people to return quickly to the labour market and develop their professional skills;
disadvantaged people to feel empathetic and useful according to their abilities;
those facing professional changes to cope faster and more successfully.
We cannot solve the current problems of the country, to achieve economic growth, without the activity of the citizens.
They need to be prepared to join the labour market; to be
flexible and motivated to seek better jobs and sustainable careers.
It is imperative to quickly restore and continue pension reform,
deinstitutionalisation,
new policies to support motherhood and the
creation of more and more adequate social services.
The Economy
The key to our country's growth and success is a modern and efficient economy.
It should have an export profile without neglecting the traditional and specific Bulgarian production of products and services.
Small and medium-sized Bulgarian enterprises are the main factor for economic development.
They need a good and administratively unburdened business environment;
low taxes and assistance from the state when entering foreign and especially new markets.
The funding and credit that the state can provide through special programmes and EU funds should boost the introduction and development of innovation,
reduced energy intensity
and increased competitiveness of national production.
This policy will lead to an expansion of the share of Bulgarian goods and services on the Bulgarian market.
The consumption of Bulgarian goods and services is a secondary stimulus for the development of the economy and the creation of new jobs.
The resources of our national nature and industry must be used to the best advantage.
Foreign investment will also give a strong boost to economic growth and the policy to attract it should be a priority.
It needs to become proactive and ensure good business conditions and administrative support for investors.
In order to unlock the full potential of opportunities for cooperation between the state and business, it is necessary to change the legislation on public procurement and public-private partnerships.
This will ensure that all opportunities for important projects and good public-private partnerships are available.
Energy
Energy is a key factor for the development of the Bulgarian economy.
It needs to be organised and managed in a way that stops its daily drain and introduces European energy rules and standards.
Ensuring a greater degree of energy independence requires diversification of sources, including the search for, development and exploitation of indigenous energy sources.
An important condition is to work on the diversification of supply routes, including interconnections with neighbouring countries.
Raising or lowering the price of electricity cannot be the only way out of the sector's plight.
There is a need for a truly liberal energy market, an
uncompromising system to protect the interest of consumers, and a
policy for the inclusion of new energy capacities that is tailored to real needs.
The provision of energy benefits needs to change towards more accurately identifying those in need and taking account of their needs.
Expanding the number of households that will receive energy assistance will introduce greater equity in dealing with the burdens of energy reforms.
Public Finance
The public finances of the state must be managed responsibly, transparently and in the public interest, with strict discipline and accountability.
Financial stability is not an ideology for its own sake, but a prerequisite for economic growth and a
responsibility towards future generations.
Allocation of budget resources must be planned and implemented competently and transparently.
All conditions must be created so that Bulgarian municipalities are guaranteed equal and fair access to public funding.
Our strategic objective is to reduce the cost of maintaining state structures
and to invest the freed-up funds in policies that ensure accelerated development of the country.
A key instrument in this reform should be maximum publicity, openness and accountability in the allocation and use of public funds.
These rules will not only act as a regulator, but will also facilitate both the administration of budgetary policy and the satisfaction of the public interest in it.
Public sector and public administration reforms
Alongside sectoral reforms, policies are needed to ensure good governance in the public and state sectors, policies that change and democratise the social and public environment.
Electronic control
The introduction of e-government is key to the success of sector reforms.
They cannot be carried out without being linked to the processes of electronification of their core functions.
E-government will improve the functionality of the public administration,
increase the quality of administrative services,
create internal logistics and order in management processes that will increase their efficiency,
speed of processes,
internal control and anti-corruption prevention.
In the main areas of reform - health, education, social policy - electronisation will also solve many of the main problems
and stop the leakage of funds.
E-government is also a key tool for the modernisation of the state, so its implementation will be a priority.
State management
State Administration
Changes in the structure, functions and composition of public administrations should be carried out continuously, not only to optimise costs, but
also for more efficient service delivery to citizens and businesses.
Reducing administrative levels and procedures will reduce corruption pressure on citizens and other levels of government.
Reforms in the administration should be implemented after a clear functional and structural analysis of the administrative structures.
The electronicisation of their processes and services, the selection of staff according to clear and highly professional criteria, appraisal procedures and internal control are essential mechanisms for good administrative governance.
Evaluations of effectiveness and efficiency should become mandatory for its management.
Citizen participation
The public tensions and protests over the past year have shown that the state of the political system generates strong dissatisfaction among citizens.
They have realised and are demanding to realise their right to participate in important national issues and to be able to influence governance decisions.
To meet these public demands we will ensure citizen participation in the discussion of important topics for debate.
Representatives of expert, professional, civil, employer and sectoral organisations that have proven their representativeness and expertise will be included in the public councils on each policy implemented by the state.
For better organisation and publicity of the NGO sector, the registration of non-profit organisations in the commercial register will be introduced
The positions expressed by civil and professional organisations on governance topics and issues will be part of the impact assessment process of political and legislative decisions.
Introducing impact assessment as a mandatory stage in the legislative and management process will increase the impact of decisions and reduce the scope for errors and unintended consequences.
In order to implement it, methodological guidelines need to be developed and the necessary capacity needs to be built at all levels of government.
Open management
Open government is one of the first political commitments GERB made to the Bulgarian voters.
Since the beginning of our political participation, first in local government, then in state governance, transparency and openness have been the main features of GERB's governance.
This policy will be continued and developed in the future.
The active provision of publicly relevant information will become a broad and ongoing process.
It will provide citizens and their organisations with the most complete and accurate information possible on the governance and activities of public bodies.
The public has the right to be informed.
This is the basis of our understanding of the policy of openness and transparency.
All the possibilities of new technologies and e-government will be applied and used.
The open government policy will change the public environment,
will activate the processes of self-regulation and control in it,
will educate citizens to use publicly available information in their direct and public interest.
All this will activate civic self-esteem and civic participation.
It will also have a strong impact on the prevention of massive corrupt practices and patterns of backroom deals.
Decentralisation
Stronger local government means more democracy and better decisions in the interests of the people.
In contrast to the years-long increase in the responsibilities of local authorities without reciprocal financial resources, we propose an opportunity to pursue a genuine local economic and financial policy, as well as to secure additional funds in municipal budgets.
Some of the proposed reforms will be uncomfortable for leaders accustomed to the status quo, and they are likely to resist the process out of self-interest.
Constitutional and political reforms
The time since the adoption of the current Constitution has shown some of its imperfections and limitations of the possibilities to solve current problems.
We know them and have an opinion on a number of them.
But we are aware that convening a new Grand National Assembly would be a difficult process and would delay the country's development by several years.
That is why we will rely on political reason and responsibility - of both our close political partners and our opponents - to achieve a constitutional majority.
In this way, changes to the Constitution, permissible by an ordinary National Assembly, can be made, and we can start a debate to draft a new Constitution.
Positive effects on citizens' trust in the political system would be the increase of control over the spending of party subsidies; the
change in the registration regime of political parties; the
change in the Law on Direct Participation of Citizens in State Power and Local Self-Government; the
expansion of the possibilities for expressing the vote, such as electronic and machine voting;
compulsory voting, if requested by citizens.
Stable Governance for a Stable Bulgaria
Recognizing the primacy of the citizen vote, we want to attract meaningful public support for the program.
It plans substantial reforms, some of them difficult to implement and painful to bear, but reforms without alternative.
Without these changes Bulgaria has neither a bright nor a clear future.
To build a stable Bulgaria, we need stable governance.
This means forming a reformist majority in the next parliament.
Our goal is to get a majority vote.
And we hope to get it.
We know in what direction we will lead Bulgaria and we know how to do it.
Citizens can trust us.
To ensure the stable governance the country needs, we will seek broad public support, and with the necessary majority.
Major reforms are successful when they have broad support, a clear vision and the will to achieve them.
Apart from the parties from the right political space, our main partner and faithful corrective for the difficult tasks are above all the citizens and civil society organisations.
We lend a hand to them in the name of Stable Bulgaria.
It's time!
ECONOMICS
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC POLICY
Economic growth is the only sustainable source of increasing people's incomes and well-being.
The lack of a modern structure of the Bulgarian economy, which would ensure a growth rate commensurate with that of the European Union, is the main challenge facing the government.
The need to maintain a sound fiscal framework that minimises risks to the economy and finances remains relevant.
For this we set the following priorities: //I. Tax policy -incentivising economic growth.
Maintaining the current direct tax rates
Applying the minimum excise duty rates for the European Union
Merging the National Revenue Agency and the Customs Agency with the aim of improving the coordination of the revenue authorities and curbing the grey economy
II. Budget policy - restoring the stability of public finances.
Preserving a low redistributive role of the state through the budget
Strengthening the efficiency of public spending through programme and results-based budgeting
Phasing down the budget deficit in line with the economic cycle
Regulation of the possibility for municipalities at their discretion to determine a supplement to the personal income tax for the benefit of local budgets
III. Strengthening confidence in the financial system
Joining the Single Banking Union
IV. An economic policy for harmonious growth, sound public finances and stable prices, high levels of employment and an increase in citizens' living standards.
Continuing reforms in public administration and strengthening the professionalism and independence of administrative structures and regulatory bodies
Continuing efforts to improve the business environment and administrative services for the efficient functioning of the economic system
Improving labour productivity with targeted policies in rural areas and for SMEs
Investments from EU funds in the development of Bulgarian business
Facilitating access to financial resources and comprehensive business services for small, medium and start-up enterprises
Assistance from targeted guarantee funds as an additional option
V. Creating an attractive investment climate and business environment for growth and employment
Support for the construction and creation of economic development zones (business hubs, incubators, logistics centres).
Utilise the full potential of existing industrial areas and support recreation.
Support the establishment of local development agencies to launch PPPs, business clusters
Apply financial support and engineering instruments (e.g. Jessica and Jeremy);
Develop regional smart specialisation strategies and support identified sectors.
EU FUNDS
In the period 2010-2013, EU funds have become the main investment resource of the state, as well as the main instrument for reforms in a number of key areas.
For the 2014-2020 programming period, Bulgaria has at its disposal nearly 32 billion leva, which, if well managed, can become one of the engines of growth, the key resource for the modernization of the country.
EU Funds - a tool and incentive for reforms, growth and development of Bulgaria
Restoring the confidence of the European institutions
Restoring the payments under the suspended operational programmes and preventing the suspension of others
Immediate start of the measures under the programmes of the new programming period 2014-2020 with concentration of resources in investments with the highest added value
Efficient, timely and correct implementation of programmes and projects
Establishing in law the place and role of the bodies in charge of the management and control of EU funds in the overall system of control of public finances in the country in order to guarantee the rights of beneficiaries and introduce appeal procedures.
Creating conditions for the implementation of integrated projects and regional plans funded by more than one operational programme.
Simplifying processes and rules
Streamlining and simplification of core processes, fully electronic document management for EU funds and projects;
Elimination of duplicative controls and introduction of personal responsibility of experts and managers in case of delays.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND COMMUNICATIONS
Information technology is a strategic area for Bulgaria.
The sector generates around 5% of the country's GDP and has a high potential for innovation and export-led economic growth.
Our policy in the area of electronic communications aims to ensure easy access for the public and businesses to modern, efficient, quality and secure electronic communications services.
This is a necessary condition for Bulgaria's growth in technical and technological terms and for creating long-term conditions for growth.
E-government is a horizontal necessity, whereby by changing the legislation the processes for providing administrative services in municipalities should be unified, the
business processes and the required documents for them should be standardized, and
the introduction of an ID card with an embedded electronic identifier (e-ID) and an electronic signature should be the means of access to e-services.
Municipalities must provide the same services under the same requirements
e-Priorities
Establishment of a Single Registry Centre (SRC) bringing together all existing registers, e.g. Commercial, Property, GRAO, BULSTAT and the Motor Vehicle Register
Central Registry System for document exchange
Issuance of electronic identification (e-ID) for all citizens, state stimulated
Internet to all municipalities.
All permitting and licensing regimes at central administration level (ministries and agencies) 100% electronic
Building the cloud (data centers and services) of central and local government
Centralization of municipal services in the municipal government cloud in close cooperation with local governments.
Main priorities - e-health, e-education and e-justice
ENERGETICS
Energy must become a stable sector following a clear and long-term policy.
The road to stability requires the introduction of market mechanisms.
The liberalisation of the electricity and gas markets will ensure competitive prices for energy resources, easier access for businesses and citizens, as well as end dependence on monopolies.
Institutional changes in the sector aim to ensure more adequate governance and the creation of a truly independent regulator.
The first priority is the diversification of gas supplies, as well as ensuring energy independence through own production of conventional gas.
Reform of the Ministry of Economy, Energy
Establishment of a separate Ministry of Energy.
Energy independence and low gas price
Continued exploration of the deep Black Sea through the concession of the remaining two blocks - Silistar and Teres.
Support for advanced drilling in the Khan Asparuh block, guaranteeing the country's own production and energy independence; a
35% reduction in the gas price and significant revenues for the national budget from concession fees.
Fighting energy poverty
Tripling the budget for energy assistance to ensure that over 500 000 households are assisted (doubling the number of households assisted so far).
Energy efficiency
Establishment of an energy efficiency fund for multi-family residential buildings with a resource for the first phase of BGN 2 billion, sufficient for the renovation of over 50% of these buildings in Bulgaria.
The Fund will provide a 100% grant to beneficiaries for the first two years.
After this period, the intensity of assistance will decrease to 75% and single-family homes will be included in the program.
Energy efficiency in electricity generation and transmission.
Investments in increasing the efficiency of Kozloduy NPP units 5 and 6, Chaira Power Plant, etc.
A competent and independent regulator and market liberalisation
Separation of the energy regulator from the water regulator
Election by the National Assembly of a competent and independent State Energy Regulatory Commission.
Introduction of legal texts for personal liability of the members of the regulator for their decisions.
Achieve full market liberalisation where the regulator will only determine the network services of the companies.
The liberalisation of the market will ensure equal and easy access of household subscribers to the free electricity and gas market and will end the dependence of subscribers on electricity and gas distribution companies.
More transparency in energy
Legislative changes to ensure that state regulators and oversight bodies have permanent control over all public interest energy companies in terms of the effectiveness and efficiency of their spending.
Phased introduction of smart grids
Investments in smart grids and networks will allow real-time control of consumption by the user, increase energy efficiency and security of the grids.
Nuclear power
Life extension of Kozloduy NPP units 5 and 6.
Analysis of the signed shareholder agreement with Westinghouse with regard to the financial commitments and risk for the Bulgarian side. Waiver of guarantees (both state and corporate) or other securities.
Long-term contracts
Specialized audit of the financial models of long-term power purchase agreements by the State Energy Regulatory Commission and the State Fund for Financial Markets.
Renegotiation of long-term contracts in terms of price and availability commitment.
Additional revenues for the energy sector from green energy
Launch of the sale of the guarantees of origin for green energy in order to generate additional financial resources in the energy sector in the amount of about 150 million BGN per year.
South Stream
Resumption of dialogue with the European Commission on the implementation of European legislation in the construction and operation of South Stream.
Industrial energy consumers
Introduce a cap on the "cost to society" surcharge for large industrial consumers to preserve jobs in Bulgaria
Strategic companies
Restoring the financial stability and viability of Maritsa East strategic companies for the Bulgarian energy sector - Maritsa East Mines and Maritsa East Power Plant 2.
Implementation of urgent measures (legislative and managerial) to save the National Electricity Company (NEK) and the Electricity System Operator (ESO).
Interconnectors and gas trunklines in the country
Commissioning of the Bulgaria - Romania interconnector;
Construction of the Bulgaria - Greece and Bulgaria - Serbia interconnectors
Incentives for domestic gasification
Easing administrative requirements for domestic gasification projects
Financial incentives for households
ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
National Programme for Renovation of Bulgarian Housing
Launch of a major energy efficiency programme in multi-family residential buildings across the country, featuring:
Maximum simplification of the application process and implementation of energy efficiency measures.
100% grant funding for the first 2 years of the programme.
After this period, the intensity of the assistance will be reduced to 75% and single-family residential buildings will be included for financing.
Priority for approval will be given to panel blocks due to the urgent need for their refurbishment.
Facilitating owners' associations.
Their only commitment remains to provide consent to the municipality to implement energy efficiency measures in their buildings.
Good management of activities.
The municipal administrations will carry out procedures for the selection of contractors and monitor the implementation of the measures.
Fair distribution of funding.
Owners' associations, like municipalities in Bulgaria, will be funded on a first-in-time, first-in-right basis.
Societal impact and household benefits:
Reduce household heating costs by at least 50%.
Increase household disposable income by reducing household heating costs
Change in the appearance of cities, improved housing infrastructure
Ecological environment - saved greenhouse gas emissions (CO2, etc.)
Extended lifetime and increased market value of renovated residential buildings
Indoor temperature comfort
Economic stimulation for the small and medium-sized enterprises that will be involved - designers, builders, energy audit companies, material manufacturers, etc.
Creation of tens of thousands of jobs
Establishment of new practices in the management of multi-family residential buildings;
Widespread awareness of ways to increase energy efficiency
TOURISM
Tourism in Bulgaria has been a sector on the rise in recent years.
It accounts for 15% of GDP, providing approximately 450 000 jobs during the active tourist season.
Bulgaria has a significant volume and quality of tourism resources, which are not yet fully exploited.
Their utilization would help our country to become a year-round tourist destination, with developed cultural, spa and wellness tourism, rural, ecological, tourism on the river. Danube, etc.
In 2014, there was a slowdown in the rate of growth of tourists and tourism revenues.
Coping with this adverse trend will be the first challenge.
Structural changes to manage tourism and make it a priority sector
Decisive support from the state
Establishment of the Ministry of Tourism
Development of the legal environment for more successful development of Bulgarian tourism in the future
Strategy for Sustainable Tourism Development in the Republic of Bulgaria. Bulgaria 2014-2020, created jointly with representatives of the tourism industry, academia and local government
Establishment of a "Tourist Attractions Development Fund" to be financially secured with part of the revenues from concession fees from the concessions for underground resources, mineral waters, sea beaches, ports, airports and protected areas.
Creation of a Register of Tourist Attractions.
Create a stronger and more aggressive international advertising campaign to promote Bulgaria.
Improving tourism services
Assisting investors in tourism through a specialised unit that will provide assistance for all administrative procedures
Settling the status of management and management of national resorts and their adjacent infrastructure.
A unified approach to national tourism advertising and increased funding to build a positive image of Bulgaria as a tourist destination
REGIONAL POLICY.
TRANSPORT AND WATER INFRASTRUCTURE
Regional policy is the main instrument for positively influencing economic development at both national and regional level.
The implementation of major infrastructure projects contributes to job creation, competitiveness, economic growth, improved quality of life and sustainable development.
І. Modernisation of transport infrastructure
Integrated and sustainable development of transport with emphasis on safety, security, environmental impact and human health;
Modernisation of the railway sector and reaching a European level of service;
Priority railway projects: reconstruction of the railway lines: Sofia - Septemvri, Plovdiv - Burgas Phase II, Dragoman - Sofia, Vidin - Sofia, together with the reconstruction of the stations on all made;
purchase of new rolling stock
"Green", safe and affordable road transport with emphasis on the quality of service.
Regulation and control of the car service activity - a prerequisite for the safety of transport
Development of the network for intermodal (combined) transport;
Development and implementation of the public-private partnership as an alternative and an important instrument for additional investments in transport
Implementation of Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) as a key factor for efficient use of transport systems management;
II. We continue to build a modern and safe transport infrastructure as an integral part of the European
Expansion of the country's highway ring and modernization of the road network.
Priority - Accelerated completion of Hemus Motorway, Maritza Motorway, Struma Motorway
Construction of the Shipka Tunnel
Northern expressway of the Sofia Ring Road,
Kalotina - Sofia Motorway,
Sofia - Vidin Expressway
Development of safe, environmentally friendly and sustainable national transport
and expansion of integrated urban transport systems
III. Water sector reform
Regulating the prices of water services and the activities of water infrastructure operators under clear and transparent criteria, protecting the interests of consumers
Repairing water infrastructure to save losses.
Over 105 million cubic meters of water will be saved over four years, which will provide drinking water for half a million people.
Start of procedures for the construction of three new dams - "Luda Yana", "Plovdivtsi" and "Neykovtsi", and for the rehabilitation of the "Studena" dam.
Enhancing the role of the state and municipalities in the ownership, management and control of all water infrastructure that provides services of public interest
Creating a single national water infrastructure register and a national water management information system
Supporting municipalities to exploit mineral deposits that provide opportunities for developing the potential of the local economy
IV.Preservation of nature and in particular the coastal beach through:
Preventing indiscriminate construction and overdevelopment of the Black Sea coast
and resuming the zero tolerance policy towards illegal construction along the Black Sea coast, in the "bowls" of the dams, in the mountains, and throughout the country;
V. Cadastre at the service of citizens and business
Unification of the Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre with the Property Register in the Registry Agency and with the Register of the Maps for Restored Property
POLICIES FOR OVERCOMING ECONOMIC UNDERDEVELOPMENT IN NORTH-WESTERN BULGARIA AND PERIPHERAL REGIONS
Inter-regional disparities are among the toughest challenges facing the country.
The gap of almost six times in GDP per capita between the different regions of the country,
depopulation,
economic collapse, the
state of public infrastructure
are problems requiring targeted policies in all sectors - from targeted investments in infrastructure,
to investment promotion measures,
to investments in human capital.
We aim for a targeted investment programme supporting the development of lagging regions such as Northwest Bulgaria, Strandzha, the Rhodopes and others through:
І.  Stimulated development of backward, peripheral and mountainous regions through the application of the "community-led" local development approach
An integrated approach to the development of the Strandzha and Sakar regions, the Rilo-Rhodope area and other border mountain and semi-mountainous underdeveloped areas,
Guaranteed protection and preservation of the unique natural features through targeted support for creating opportunities for
✓ development of organic farming,
✓ alternative forms of tourism,
✓ social activities
✓ exploiting the potential of cultural heritage.
Targeted policy to overcome the chronic economic underdevelopment of North-West Bulgaria with resources of at least BGN 1 billion annual investment
II. Construction of new and rehabilitation of existing transport and communication infrastructure network
Construction of the Sofia - Vidin expressway
Support for the repair of the 2nd and 3rd class road network connecting local regional and European transport corridors.
AGRICULTURE, FISHERIES AND FORESTRY
The development of the agricultural sector is determined by the Common Agricultural Policy and local policies, depending on the national structure and specificities of agricultural holdings.
Bulgaria has undertaken a number of reforms that regulate market relations in the agricultural sector in a new way.
These reforms have led to a steady growth in the main economic indicators for the agricultural sector (agriculture, forestry and fisheries), with the gross value added of the sector increasing annually from BGN 2.26 billion in 2007 to over BGN 3.77 billion at the end of 2013.
These results are the reason to continue our policy of supporting the development of balanced, modern agriculture
and market-oriented, competitive farms, along with the guaranteed food security of the population;
prioritizing intensive sectors in agriculture - livestock, vegetable and permanent crops, and organic production.
The main features to support the development of the sector we propose are:
The agricultural sector in the next four years
Ensuring food security of the population,
protection of natural resources,
increasing farmers' incomes;
Fair support for individual industries throughBalanced state support for the development of all industries in the agricultural sector;
New Law on the protection of agricultural property;
Electronic service for farmers;
Competitive and sustainable agriculture
Optimising land relations through a new Land Code guaranteeing owners' rights, security and sustainability in public land relations.
Promotion of voluntary land consolidation for agricultural production purposes;
Support for small and medium-sized farms in the agricultural sector and in mountain areas
Development of human resources in agriculture through support for the recruitment of seasonal workers in crop and livestock production who are temporarily or permanently unemployed;
Organic farming and conservation of natural resources
Development of hydro-remediation
Introduction of new technologies, innovations and management systems
Guaranteeing food quality and safety through opti-
Sustainable development of fisheries and aquaculture
Market-oriented and competitive fisheries and fish farms; An
ecosystem approach to marine and inland waters management;
Care for the protection of small-scale coastal fishing communities
Sustainable multifunctional forest management
Efficient use and conservation of forest resources
ENVIRONMENT
We are aware of our responsibility to future generations to take care of Bulgaria's nature.
It is a national value and its preservation is the main concern of citizens, businesses and institutions.
Climate change presents us with new challenges.
They require realigning important sectors of the economy and solving each of today's problems in line with global climate change processes.
The economic value of natural resources provides opportunities for the production of clean energy, environmental products and services with greater added value in sustainable use and without waste of resources.
We are convinced that the horizontal implementation of policies to protect the environment and combat climate change is the key to ensuring a better quality of life and creating new perspectives through green production and the creation of green jobs.
І. Protecting nature, mitigating climate change and sustainable economic growth through energy and resource efficiency
Development and adoption of management plans for the protection areas and implementation of measures.
Wise management of energy, mineral, biological, water, soil and other natural resources
Gradual transition to a "circular" economy through effective waste management
Large-scale programme to increase energy efficiency and help households reduce energy consumption by financing energy sources for own use and changing the fuel base in homes.
Support for business to implement green growth priorities
Use of revenues from greenhouse gas emission allowance trading for energy subsidies and green projects
Strict control, monitoring, transparency in decision-making and an active policy to raise environmental awareness
II. Building environmental infrastructure
Construction and upgrading of water disposal and treatment facilities for settlements with priority to those above 10,000 equivalent inhabitants and along the Black Sea coast.
Implementation of the principles of integrated water management for sustainable management and infrastructure development in the sectors of water supply, hydro-remediation, hydropower and protection from harmful water impacts
Completion of regional waste management systems, closure and reclamation of old municipal landfills.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION AGAINST DISASTERS AND ACCIDENTS
Climate change and natural disasters present us with increasingly serious challenges and risks of possible negative impacts on the lives and health of the population, critical service infrastructure, the economy and the environment.
Alternating periods of drought with periods of heavy rainfall with flood risk is becoming a constant trend.
Forest fires are also on the rise, destroying vegetation, soils and valuable natural sites.
Earthquakes on Bulgarian territory and in neighbouring countries also pose a risk of serious damage.
In such a situation of existing serious risks, the state must have a leading role and responsibility in preventing, containing and overcoming the adverse consequences of disasters and accidents.
І. Strengthening the role of the State in the prevention and control of disaster risks
Establishment of a single national water infrastructure register and a national water management information system
Any water infrastructure facility with a clear owner and operator
Preparation of flood risk management plans and implementation of specific programmes of measures
Technical control of dams by designating a responsible authority
Expansion of the pilot video surveillance system in national parks for timely response to forest fires
Monitoring and control to prevent industrial pollution and accidents
II. Care for the life and health of citizens and protection of critical infrastructure
Establishment of a fund to support victims of disasters and catastrophes (i.e. a catastrophe pool)
Resourcing of rescue and disaster management activities with fully upgraded equipment and safety equipment
Completion of the early warning system and coverage of the entire country
Construction of a fire training ground to enhance the professional training of rescue teams
Establishment of the volunteer principle as the foundation of rescue activities.
By the end of 2015, all municipalities will have volunteer formations - trained according to the Ministry of Interior's programmes, provided with appropriate clothing and protective equipment, and on standby for emergency response.
Engaging scientific potential through scientific expert groups in the field of disaster protection
III. Ensuring quality and sustainability of construction through control and effective implementation of regulations
Clear definition and delineation of the responsibilities of institutions as well as owners of critical infrastructure elements, businesses and residential structures
Effective implementation of regulations for the design, implementation and maintenance of safe, energy-efficient, earthquake-resistant and accessible buildings and construction facilities
Provision of funding for strengthening and construction of protective infrastructure to prevent flooding and landslides
IV.Protection of the population in disasters and accidents - the main mission of the armed forces
Protection of the population in disasters and emergencies remains one of the three main missions of the armed forces.
We continue our policy of maintaining the readiness of military units capable of immediate response to disasters and emergencies
, as well as the planned modernisation of their equipment.
Bulgarian Army forces and equipment shall be maintained in constant readiness to assist other state structures and to help where they do not have special equipment or specialized formations.
An important task of international importance and prestige is the certification of the NATO Centre at the Ministry of Defence with expertise in crisis management and disaster relief to enhance the readiness of the armed forces.
V.Fire safety and protection from disasters and accidents
Technical provision of rescue activities through complete renewal of machinery and safety equipment.
EDUCATION, SPIRITUALITY AND SOCIAL POLICY
EDUCATION AND SCIENCE
We identify education and
research as key factors for Bulgaria's economic growth.
We are developing an education system that prepares young people for successful careers and ensures good prospects for personal development.
We create opportunities for a permanent and working link between schools, universities, science and business to make the economy competitive and create new jobs.
І. More investment in modern education
Increase funds for education in the state budget.
Higher pay for teachers along with upgrading their qualifications.
Updating curricula to equip students with more practical knowledge and skills.
Promote innovative curricula and methods.
Introduce electronic textbooks that are comprehensible and interesting for students.
Use of information and communication technologies in the overall learning process.
Introduction of civic and health education.
External evaluation of investment performance and education quality.
A special program to rebuild low-performing schools.
A programme to improve the individual teacher-student relationship and involve parents in school life.
Investing in school sport for health and aggression-free living.
II.Relationship between secondary education and the labour market
Improve the quality of vocational education by actively introducing the dual system - learning by doing
Curricula developed together with business and entrepreneurship training for all children and students.
III. Investing in new kindergartens and schools
Opening new kindergartens and introducing innovative forms of organization for early education of preschool children.
Increase the number of psychologists, guidance counsellors, resource teachers and teaching assistants who support each child in his/her development.
Prevention and early detection of learning difficulties.
Funding free after-school clubs and activities.
IV.Increasing the efficiency of higher education
Programme accreditation of higher education institutions by European accreditation institutions, members of ENQA and EQAR.
Balance between fundamental knowledge and practical skills in curricula and programmes.
Updating programmes according to business needs.
Tying at least 50% of the tuition subsidy to the quality of education
Redirecting the funds from the state subsidy within each higher education institution to its competing majors.
Promoting joint programmes between Bulgarian and leading foreign universities.
V. SCIENCE
Strong scientific organisations with competitive research
Increase funding for science.
Introduce regular and independent evaluation of research and target resources to organisations and institutes that perform best on European indicators and attract external funding from private sources.
Funding research in line with national development priorities, including by attracting Bulgarian scientists who are well established abroad.
Reform of the Research Fund to ensure transparency of competitions and mandatory monitoring of results throughout the lifetime of projects.
Introduce minimum mandatory criteria for academic progress and a system to monitor their implementation.
Building high-tech parks and centres of excellence for research, innovation and technology transfer to Bulgarian industry.
Encouraging collaborative research between scientific organisations, universities and enterprises;
developing and implementing programmes for active cooperation between scientific institutions and schools at all levels.
CULTURE
Bulgarian culture has a world-renowned history and achievements.
It is the face of the Bulgarian identity and state and should be preserved and made accessible to the modern generations.
Contemporary culture must preserve and strengthen Bulgarian spirituality and develop in the context of European and world processes.
It should form the new type of citizens, personalities and artists.
Bulgarian culture as a national priority
Adoption of the National Strategy for the Development of Arts, Cultural and Creative Industries, Cultural Heritage and Cultural Tourism 2014-2023.
Funding from European Union funds will be implemented with the active participation of cultural industries and creative unions
Support for the Cultural Pact proposed by the Observatory on Cultural Economy and the civil sector.
Complex development of archaeological research.
The conservation, restoration and exhibition of the archaeological sites will be implemented in parallel with the construction of infrastructure for them.
Digitization of Bulgaria's movable and immovable cultural heritage.
Responsible decisions in culture continue
Improving performing arts reform and providing funds to raise the standards of cultural institutions.
Museum reform and the creation of a new type of museum exhibition culture.
The basis of the changes will be the Concept for the leading metropolitan museums, developed in the previous term of GERB.
Introduction of modern standards for Bulgarian libraries. Continuation of the Global Libraries project.
Transforming Bulgarian cultural institutes abroad into modern centres of spiritual development and places for active presentation of cultural tourism.
Ensuring equal access of the population to culture and art
Ensuring equal access of the population to culture and art
Balanced development of individual regions in terms of cultural policy
Modern development of the Chitalishta network in the country through additional sources of funding
SOCIAL POLICY
Bulgaria needs a rethink of social policy.
It should focus not on the intensity of assistance, but on maintaining the quality of human capital,
tackling poverty,
overcoming negative demographic processes.
Rising incomes and employment are a direct result of a working economy.
The state and business must cooperate to increase the competitiveness of the economy and improve labour productivity.
Measures are needed to support both the unemployed and the employed through training, qualification and retraining programmes.
These should be in line with the needs of businesses and investors
Develop different social inclusion programmes to support municipalities and vulnerable groups in society
Continue reforms in the social security system to increase its security and sustainability and ensure higher retirement incomes for people.
Equity and quality in the provision of social services, and decentralisation of the system.
Effective dialogue with social partners and support to them in resolving collective labour disputes through the National Institute for Conciliation and Arbitration.
Continuing the social reforms launched in the period 2009 to 2013.
Continuing pension reform.
Enabling people whose employers provide them with occupational pension funds to choose where to be insured and where to receive their pensions (from the National Social Insurance Institution or from an occupational pension fund);
Continuing the deinstitutionalization and development of social services for children with disabilities and for children deprived of parental care
Deinstitutionalization and development of social services for elderly people with disabilities
Continuing the reform for social inclusion of children from 0 to 3 and 3 to 7 years (minority children and children with disabilities) and giving all children a chance for first grade.
Responsible labour market solutions balancing security and flexibility
Developing individual social assessments of socially vulnerable Bulgarian citizens and seeking opportunities for their social inclusion and employment.
Negotiation and launch of the programmes under the Human Resources Operational Programme 2014-2020.
Supporting businesses with employment programmes, improved working conditions and other measures aimed at better competitiveness and labour productivity in order to employ more people and raise incomes;
Supporting municipalities with employment programmes, linking these programmes to concrete results and strict state control over their implementation;
training, qualification and retraining programmes for the unemployed and employed;
encouraging the unemployed to start their own businesses;
Temporary employment programmes for livestock farmers
Programmes for social inclusion of vulnerable groups in society through personal assistants for people with disabilities, etc.
Improving the capacity of institutions providing services to business and people;
Increasing youth employment.
Implementation of the Youth Employment Guarantee through social dialogue between institutions and
use of funds under the Operational Programme "Human Resources" for youth employment;
Promotion of the development of internship programmes for young people, both in the public sector and in private business;
Provision of integrated social and health services on site in homes for the elderly
A measure for citizens aged 65 and over (single people and people with disabilities) who cannot look after themselves.
Implementation of the system of integrated social and health services throughout the country by expanding the base of the pilot project operating in 4 municipalities.
State decisions in the family support system.
Help families by prioritizing the three-child model, promoting responsible parenthood.
End the abuse of disability pensions.
Reorganization of the system for granting disability pensions and strengthening the role of the NSSI
Full review by the state of the disability pensions granted so far
Ending the practice of periodic appearances before a commission of persons with irreversible diseases
Strengthening the capacity of the NSSI to carry out effective control before granting a disability pension;
Adjustments in the medical expertise of the working capacity (better consideration of the residual working capacity of applicants for disability pensions);
Optimising the structure and composition of the MLSP for better efficiency in services to business and people.
Completion of the information system of the MLSP, its agencies and their territorial subdivisions;
Measures for decentralization of social services by delegating the functions of the Social Assistance Agency to local and regional structures.
HEALTH
The nation's health issues are the issues of the future and the fate of the country.
Ensuring better performance and modernisation of the health system are an important and urgent priority of the government.
Human capital, in the form of a healthy, well-educated working population, is an important prerequisite for economic growth.
Improving health services is a strategic task that should determine the logic of future reforms in combination with the organizational, human, financial and moral stabilization of the health system.
Establishing and expanding prevention as a key health concern
Comprehensive efforts within the framework of different sectoral policies, ensuring the early introduction to the principles of a healthy lifestyle, rational nutrition and sufficient physical activity;
Expanding the scope of preventive examinations with additional screening tests;
supplementing vaccination programmes with new components in line with European best practice.
 Active measures to overcome the demographic crisis and increase resources for strengthening reproductive health
Overcoming health inequalities among Roma communities by expanding the network of health mediators.
Implementation of the de-institutionalisation strategy
Better control of the spread of chronic NCDs will be achieved through the finalisation of the national programme to combat chronic NCDs and additional multisectoral measures to combat risk factors;
The introduction of a new model of social health care to enable patients to control their diseases through access to health services and appropriate treatment in outpatient care.
Stabilized financial-health system
Stabilization and development of the health insurance model through administrative and legislative measures to increase the collection of contributions;
Preparation for the start of the implementation of payments for treatment activity by diagnostic-related groups (DRGs).
Introduction of uniform standards for the management of public medical institutions.
Information and communication technologies - the key to a more efficient and controlled healthcare system
Creation of an integrated information system linking in real time the information systems of the Ministry of Health, NHIF, NSSI, NRA, healthcare providers (hospitals, outpatient practices, pharmacies).
Introduction of an electronic health card to access the system and control in real time the consumption of a given type of medical service.
Overcoming regional imbalances and dysfunctional interaction between levels of care
Regulating the concept of a mandatory health card to ensure access, optimal resource planning and investment.
Measures for the staffing and resourcing of the Emergency Aid
Normative regulation of paramedics' participation in emergency teams;
to achieve maximum uniform coverage of the country;
Improving common conduct protocols;
Improving the training and qualification conditions for professionals;
Resource and structural provision of Primary Care;
a change in the funding ratio, with a predominance of payment for activity over capital;
overcoming the problem of "vacant" practices by optimising the incentives for working in them provided by the NHIF in cooperation with state and local authorities;
development of the emergency room system.
Change from administrative regulation to facilitated but medically appropriate access to specialised care;
incentivising mobility of specialised medical teams;
introducing day hospitals;
expanding day surgery.
Medical facilities - more effective and more affordable
Reforming hospital medical care by contracting only medical institutions offering the best quality, equity and patient safety;
Functional cooperation of medical institutions on a regional basis for a more efficient combination of the activities offered;
control of strict compliance with the indications for hospitalization;
linking payments to the results of treatment.
In Dental Care we will focus on dental health promotion and disease prevention through targeted state funding of programs improving dental health in children and school children and
resourcing of the National Program for Dental Disease Prevention in Children 0-18 in the Republic of Bulgaria;
expanding access to dental prosthetics for adult patients.
Achieving better access to optimal drug therapy through wider use of generic products based on uniform standards for rational use;
Pharmacoeconomic analysis for the implementation in practice of innovative medicines;
improvement of the regulatory framework allowing flexible mechanisms for negotiating discounts for efficient use of public resources;
creation of a national register of medical devices paid for with public funds for efficiency and control.
Solving the staffing problem
The only way to reduce the outflow of personnel from the country is adequate financial support and opportunities for career development.
For this, we will develop a system of incentives and concessions in the enrolment and conduct of specialization to fill the needs of deficit specialties; together with medical universities
Decentralization and liberalization of the process of specialization;
Regulation of continuing education as a mandatory, not a recommended element in the health care system.
RULE OF LAW, SECURITY AND PUBLIC ORDER
A JUSTICE SYSTEM THAT IS FAIR, TRANSPARENT AND ACCESSIBLE TO CITIZENS AND BUSINESSES
Bulgarian citizens expect the judiciary to be fair, fast, transparent and accessible.
The first and most essential step to complete the legislative framework of the judiciary is the introduction of e-justice in civil, administrative and criminal cases.
The experience of European countries proves that trust in the judiciary increases in countries with e-justice, because it sharply increases the quality of the services provided.
A leading objective is to enable citizens to influence and control the course of the criminal process through reform of the institution of the jury.
A new concept of forensic expertise ensures the quality and impartiality of the process.
Electronic Justice
Introduction of electronic access and management first for civil, commercial and administrative cases, and then for criminal cases;
End of slow procedures: shortening the time limits for service and circulation of documents and notifications in court proceedings through the electronification of the exercise of procedural rights and the exchange of documents between authorities electronically
Building on the standards for fee waivers provided for in traditional justice by preserving the social guarantees in the regulation of Article 83 of the CCP.
Limiting the postponement of trials through electronic summons;
Introducing mechanisms for holding accountable trial participants who deliberately delay the trial, with the aim of prevention and discipline
Creating an electronic archive as a solution to the problem of theft and substitution of evidence and documents from the case.
Impartial proceedings through ubiquitous videoconferencing for the examination of parties, witnesses and experts
Development of a new system for random allocation of cases.
A uniform standard for reporting not only the number but also the severity of cases; Real-time
information on the workload of each magistrate and the possibility for an adequate evaluation of his performance.
New concept of forensic expertise
Overcoming the problem of delays and postponements of cases and doubts about the impartiality of judgments through a new concept of forensic expertise.
Public register of experts
Introduction of the principle of random selection of forensic experts, translators and interpreters in real time in the presence of the parties to the proceedings.
New Penal Code
Adoption of a new Penal Code that combines continuity and modernisation of criminal law to ensure a fair and effective penal policy for the state.
Alignment of the system of penalties and the regimes for their execution in line with European standards, in which the protection of human rights is a guiding principle.
Decriminalisation of acts that have lost their criminal character and criminalisation of new forms of criminal behaviour: insurance fraud, computer crime, money laundering, influence peddling, sexual exploitation of children, organised crime, etc.
Emphasis on the protection of the rights of victims of crime, as well as updating and bringing in line with current international instruments the norms governing cases in which a minor is the subject or object of crime;
Ensuring citizen participation in the judiciary
The institute of jurors will be completely renewed with clear criteria for selection.
Introduce transparency requirements for elected officials, competition and public scrutiny.
SECURITY AND HOME AFFAIRS
The changes in the security sector in the last year are a triumph of backroom interests.
Citizens feel betrayed because of the "Bisserov-Yovchev" reform, security officers are stunned by the cadre, national security is under threat.
The reform in the Ministry of Interior and in the entire security sector must return to the path of normality: strong and responsible security services, motivated employees, guaranteed peace of mind for Bulgarian citizens, a determined fight against crime.
Because - the state is stronger than the criminal world.
І. Repeal of the Bisserov-Yovchev reform of 2013/2014 and restoration of the fight against serious organized crime
Re-establishing the police unit for combating organised crime and "high" corruption in the Ministry of Interior.
Establishment of an independent state agency with a counter-intelligence profile, without police and investigative capabilities under the Criminal Procedure Code.
Re-establishing cooperation with European and Euro-Atlantic partners to fight cross-border crime.
Restore the right of the President to appoint the top professional position in the Ministry of Interior, as well as the heads of the other security services.
Restore competitive entry for career growth in the Ministry of Interior and phase it in to the other security services.
II. Effective counteraction to domestic crime
Expanding the scope of video surveillance from larger to smaller settlements.
Building Municipal Police Units in smaller municipalities through cooperation with local government.
More uniformed police officers in small towns by restructuring staffing and advertising competitions for security personnel.
III.Continuation of the interrupted reform of the intelligence services
Adoption (by early 2015) of the four draft security laws developed in 2012.
Establishment and adaptation to the new legal framework of modern state agencies in the field of civilian foreign intelligence, military foreign intelligence and state protection of senior government officials.
Structure effective extra-ministerial oversight of intelligence services (parliamentary, etc.).
IV.Unconditional cooperation with the Records Committee
Unwavering and unconditional compliance with the amendments to the Law on Records from the beginning of 2013; ensuring the implementation of the functions under this law by all state structures.
Introduce compulsory background checks for affiliation with the totalitarian services for all persons applying to join the Ministry of the Interior and other security services, and for career progression.
V. Road safety and road casualty reduction
Prevention measures: campaigns throughout the year - "Light", "Tyres", "Abiturents", "Holiday", "Children go to school", etc., including coordination between the different ministries and agencies involved in traffic safety issues.
Improving the regulatory framework, including ensuring road surveillance by increasing the number of mobile and fixed cameras, as well as by taking measures to secure the most critical points on the road network with a concentration of road accidents.
FOREIGN POLICY AND DEFENCE
The Euro-Atlantic orientation of the Republic of Bulgaria is an irreversible process in which our country has to establish itself as a reliable member of NATO and an active participant in the foreign and security policy of the European Union.
The Republic of Bulgaria should maintain a clear and consistent participation in the elaboration and implementation of the Common European Foreign Policy, actively
participate in the development and finalisation of NATO contingency plans in the South East Europe region, as well as
expand its participation in projects under NATO's Smart Defence Initiative and the European Union's Pooling and Sharing Capabilities Initiative.
Bulgaria's Euro-Atlantic orientation - an irreversible process
Active and consistent participation in the European foreign policy and preparation for the rotating presidency of the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2018.
Deepening transatlantic cooperation as a guarantor of Bulgaria's security and development
Protecting the rights and interests of Bulgarian citizens abroad on the basis of a new Consular Protection Act, electronic consular services and a system for responding to disasters and emergencies
Protecting the interests of traditional and new Bulgarian communities abroad
Opening new markets for Bulgarian businesses and expanding their presence in existing ones
Supporting the European perspective of the Western Balkan countries, active
The Bulgarian Army - a reliable guarantor of the country's security
Continuity and sustainability of the development of the armed forces
Conducting a realistic defence policy in line with the threats, our NATO and EU commitments and available financial resources
Adhering to the basic principles of defence policy set out in the 2010 White Paper on Defence and the Armed Forces and maintaining the size of the armed forces
Maintaining existing and gradually developing new defence capabilities.
People in Defence
Maintaining the compensations related to the burdens of military service, including those upon release from military service, and gradually increasing the social status of servicemen
Continuing to improve the working and recreational conditions and health care of servicemen and civilian staff, including those in the reserves and the reserves
Enhancing participation in crises and disasters
Expanding the participation of the Armed Forces in the Integrated Crisis Response System for more effective protection of the population in disasters
Introducing a new section in the Reserve Act concerning the establishment of a territorial reserve by region, under the authority of regional governors and mayors, to be used by them to prevent, rescue and/or eliminate the consequences of natural disasters, major accidents and catastrophes.
LEGISLATIVE AGENDA
Long-term and sustainable policies can only be implemented through an adequate legislative agenda.
It involves both amending and supplementing existing laws and developing and adopting new laws.
Legislative initiatives and changes
In the economic sphere:Investment Promotion Act
Energy Act
Innovation Act
Public Procurement Act
Competition Protection Act
EU Funds Act
Spatial Planning Act
Water Law
Act for the Regulation of Water Supply Services
State Property Law
Municipal Property Law
Law on Local Self-Government and Local Administration
the Law on the Administrative Territorial Structure of the Republic of Bulgaria
Creation of the necessary sub-legislation to the law on public private partnership
Agricultural Property Preservation Act
New legislation on land relations - synchronised for the new CAP and the development of hydro-remediation as a priority;
Law on Irrigation Associations
Agricultural Academy Act
Law on the common organisation of the markets
In education, spirituality and social policy
Law on pre-school and school education
Higher Education Act
Research Promotion Act
Social Security Code
Labour Code
Collective Labour Dispute Settlement Act
Law on family benefits for children
Social Assistance Act
Employment Promotion Act
Health Act
Law on medical institutions
Health Insurance Act
Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine
Rule of law, security and public order
Law on the Management and Functioning of the National Security Protection System
Law on the State Intelligence Agency
Military Intelligence Act
National Security Service Act
Law on the Ministry of the Interior
Law on SANS
SSA Act
White Paper on Defence 2015-2020 and updated Armed Forces Development Plan, approved by the Council of Ministers
Armed Forces Reserve Act
Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria Act
New Penal Code
Amendment to the Judiciary Act
Law on Experts and Technical Assistants
With our efforts and the support of citizens, we will implement the main priorities of this programme over the next four years.
We believe that its objectives should be pursued not only in one management mandate, but also in the long term.
Because they were asked by you, the Bulgarian citizens, in our meetings over the past years.
You have set us all these tasks with proposals, in talks and in letters.
The technology for achieving them has been formulated by the GERD experts, consulted by leading Bulgarian and international specialists, specified by the professional communities.
That is why today we have self-confidence that only GERB has the determination and the skills to lead the country forward and upward. It is a difficult path that requires activity from all.
The GERB government will be a generator of energy for everyone who is ready to work honestly and with integrity.
That is why today we turn to you, the Bulgarian citizens, to say clearly and openly what we want to work for and how we will achieve it.
The result depends on all of us.
