 ELECTION PROGRAMME OF THE PEOPLE'S UNION /PU/ THE BULGARIAN AGRARIAN PEOPLE'S UNION /BAPU/ AND THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY /DP/ as they took into consideration that : - the economy of the country is almost completely ruined; - the state of the agricultural sector is dire while the population is dependent on it for its food provision; - large social strata are undernourished and for many people /such as the pensioners, the handicapped and the unemployed/ survival is a problem; - the structures of the state are in a process of a breakdown; - the army is losing its fighting capacities; - the country is rife with crime on a massive scale that goes unpunished and the predominant part of the people live uncertain of the preservation of their life, honour and property; - the young generation is in a state of confusion and is an easy prey to drug addiction, pseudo-religious sects and all kinds of other vices or emigrates on a massive scale; - the divisions and fights among the non-communist democratic organizations create a suitable situation for the unleashing of recommunization and for the turning of Bulgaria into a banana republic ruled by the created by the communists economic groups; - the freedom of expression is being suffocated by means of economic and administrative measures while the opportunity of certain political forces to express their opinions is being taken away, UNITE IN OUR DESIRE TO ACT IN CONCERT FOR THE SALVATION OF OUR FATHERLAND. For this purpose we adopt the following PROGRAMME FOR THE SALVATION OF BULGARIA I. ECONOMY Our political organizations are in favour of the development of a SOCIALLY ORIENTED MARKET ECONOMY with limited state regulation. We aim to achieve this central purpose by means of : AGRICULTURE 1. Speeding-up and completion within the immediate future of the restitution of agricultural lands while taking severe measures upon those who slow or hinder the process. 2. Provision of land from the available minucipality land for all landless agricultural proprietors. 3. Provision of low-interest credits for private agricultural proprietors by means of a specialized bank with the participation of the state and the international financial institutions. 4. Protection of the Bulgarian agricultural producers from unfair foreign competition. Efforts to stimulate exports. 5. Curtailing of the distance of agricultural produce from the producer to the consumer through the elimination of the monopoly and profiteering of the intermediate buying-to-sell organizations. The creation of an effective system for the buying of agricultural produce that will be supported and controled by the state. 6. Restitution of the forests and the provision of adequate control of their utilization in accordance with ecological requirements. INDUSTRY. TRADE. SERVICES. BANKING. 1. Restructuring of production in accordance with domestic needs, the foreign market and with the integration of the country in European and world economic structures. 2. Freedom of enterpreneurial initiative of state companies coupled with property liability of the members of the ruling bodies depending upon the results of their management. 3. Economic and legislative measures to stimulate domestic production. 4. National and regional programmes for attracting foreign investment. 5. Completion of the processes of restitution. 6. Reform of the banking system by means of restructuring and gradual privatization. Measures to attract finance capital from renowned foreign banks. Provision of guarantees for bank deposits and opportunities for small and middle business to draw low-interest credits through specialized state funds. 7. Tight financial control of all foreign-registered Bulgarian and joint industrial and trade companies. POWER ENGINEERING 1. Placement of limits upon the current monopoly in energetics and strict financial and technological control in this sphere. 2. State measures to assist socially weak strata in the payment of consumed thermal and electrical energy. 3. Measures to encourage the saving of energy and the exploitation of new sources of energy. TRANSPORT 1. Restructuring of transport in accordance with the general market principles of development of the country, while bearing in mind the need for regional development, preservation of the environment, national defense, safety and the preservation of established ties with foreign partners. Measures to maintain control and ensure continued state ownership of strategic transport networks and to provide subsidies for passenger transport in the railway system, in the city transport systems and for transport to far-out regions, towns and villages. 2. Priority construction of the transport networks North - South and East - West in order to facilitate our trading ties with neighbouring countries and with the European Union. PRIVATIZATION 1. Gradual privatization of the economic units by means of: - sale of state property to Bulgarian ans foreign individuals who have lawfully acquired their capitals; - priority unrestricted middle-scale sale to wide strata of the population of shares and stocks of the state with the purpose of creating a numerous group of small-scale and middle-scale owners; - handing-out of privatization coupons with a fixed value to all Bulgarian citizens of full legal age in accordance with their length of service during their work years and with other priorities, thus providing compensation for the national capital that they have accumulated over the years of the communist dictatorship; - compensation by means of privatization coupons for all forcefully confiscated or destroyed by the communist regime production or non-production property which cannot be restituted in their initial shape and form; - creation of a market for privatized property coupled with tax control of the origin of capital. 2. Privatization by means of a system of laws which should include a requirement for the preservation of jobs at complete openness and maximum information made available to the public. 3. Preservation of state ownership of economic structures which are of strategic importance to the country. II. TACKLING CRIME 1. Widening of preventive measures to tackle the conditions that provide breeding-ground for criminals. Creation of an information system that registers and tracks involved-in-crimes youths and actively attempts to prevent such future behaviour with the help of their families, school and the state. 2. Reform of the legal system / police, inquest, prosecution and court / by means of decisive measures against those officers who are involved with crime formations, assist or show unjustifiable leniance toward criminals. Creation of a structure within the system to deal with these very problems. Limitation of the opportunities for bias when deciding upon bial. 3. Improvement of the material and technical standard of equipment of the organs of the legal system. 4. Introduction of penalties for new anti-social acts and increase of sanctions for : - crimes committed and assisted by officers from the system of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and from the legal system; - crimes committed by state employees; - crimes relating to the unlawful transformatiom of state into private property; - racketeering, sale and distribution of narcotic substances, physical aggression against the elderly and against children, spreading of pseudoreligious ideas which endanger the psychic and physical health and life of the citizens; - acts of aggression against the police, inquest, prosecution and the courts and disobedience of their orders. 5. Provision of private protection only on the basis of labour contracts entered upon by the respective owners or their associations. 6. Introduction of a strict measures relating to the ownership of weapons by citizens. Upon violation, responsibility will be sought not only from the owners of such weapons but also from their suppliers. III. SOCIAL POLICY 1. Provision of stable sources of income for the Pension Fund in view of the purpose of its gradual independence from the state budget. 2. Measures to tie the average pension payment to the average salary in the state / budget / sector. Measures to ensure the just compensation of pensions and salaries in the budget sector. Priority increase of pensions which do not provide the minimum conditions for existence. 3. Preferences for private capital upon the creation of new jobs. 4. Training and re-training of the unemployed with the active assistance of the state. 5. State protection of single mothers, parentless children and the handicapped. Measures to stimulate the birth-rate. 6. Uncompromising drive against speculation practices by means of tight control of the profit margin in the trade of commodities that are related to the minimum conditions of existence. 7. Thorough reorganization of the leisure sector in accordance with the new economic conditions and the available former leisure centers of the totalitarian organizations. IV. HEALTH 1. Creation of health-providing funds for the finance of medical aid. During the period until the establishment of these funds the finance of medical aid will be provided by the budget, allocated to municipalities and regions according to the size of the population, its medical needs and the exchange of medical services. 2. Structural changes in the system of health-provision which will ensure : - medical and dental care for every citizen and family provided by home / family / doctors; - a network of institutions for consultation; - different types and specialized hospitals; - insitutions and centers for rehabilitation and sanatoria; - increase of the level of medical aid for the population living in villages. 3. Measures to ensure the right of every Bulgarian citizen to choose practicing doctor / dentist / and health institution as the cost of medival services is covered by the providing funds or by the budget of the state and the municipalities. 4. Measures to ensure greater administrative and financial independence of all health institutions. 5. A programme for health prophylaxis and prevention of socially threatening diseases. 6. Measures to ensure equal legal status of state, municipal, private, co-operative and other forms of medical activity. 7. The material reward of medical specialists must be based on the amount and quality of their work by means of attributing value to all medical services. 8. Active participation of professional organizations of medical specialists in the formation of the national health policy and in the promotion of medical ethics. V. STATE INSTITUTIONS AND BUDGET 1. Rationalization of the bureaucratized state administration, legacy of the communist period, and bringing its functioning into line with a market economy. 2. Purging state administration of corrupt, ill-meaning, imcompetent and reckless officers regardless of their party affiliation. 3. Reductions in the budgets of the higher state institutions / Parliament, Cabinet, Presidency, ministries, committees, agencies /. 4. Measures to ensure prestigious material and social status of the higher commanding staff and rank and file of the police. 5. Creation of an effective tax system coupled with strong sanctions for all who break the law. Reduction of the value-added tax for agricultural products and printing publications. 6. Measures to ensure prestigious material and social status of the young, newly-appointed officers in the army. VI. LOCAL SELF-GOVERNMENT 1. Measures to establish real local self-government through the introduction of financial independence of the municipalities. 2. Provision by law of the required municipal revenues. 3. Creation of municipal police upon need. 4. New territorial and administrative division of the country which ensures greater independence for small towns and villages. VII. EDUCATION AND CULTURE 1. State acreditation of all types of schools in view of their rights and opportunities to issue state diploms. 2. State assistance for the publication and distribution of textbooks for the primary and secondary levels of instruction in view of the income of the parents. 3. Increase of the money spent on each pupil in view of the development of material funfs of the schools and an increase of teachers' salaries. 4. Restructuring of state professional schools according to the real needs of society and the new economic conditions. 5. New system of budget financing for the state higher education schools which provides incentives for those which have real opportunities for integration in the university system of the European Union. 6. New system of budget financing for scientific studies in the state organizations and the universities. Creation of a legislative basis that provides incentives for private investment in science. 7. Concentration of state assistance in the field of culture only for projects and activities related to significant aesthetic achievements. Restoration and development of the national cultural values. Control over the distribution of pseudocultural products which encourage criminal activities and other negative acts. VIII. MASSMEDIA 1. Protection of the press from monopoly practices and provision of equal conditions for its distribution. 2. Setting-up of a special societal-state institution for the management of the National Television and the Bulgarian Radio which is in a position to provide their political impartiality. 3. Fiscal measures to limit the production and distribution of pornographic printed publications. IX. FOREIGN POLICY 1. Continuance of the balanced policy toward our neighbouring countries. Further deepening of our economic and cultural ties with them. 2. Educational and cultural activities aimed at the preservation of the national identity of Bulgarians abroad. 3. Integration of the country in the European Union and NATO. Joining the Vishegrad Four as an intermediate step toward that goal. 4. Placement of visa restrictions against countries which are a source of criminal contingents. X. LEGISLATION 1. Changes in the Law of Property and of Use of Agricultural Lands and in the whole legislative normative basis in order to speed up the process of restitution of land. 2. Law of Compensations and other laws related to the completion of the process of restitution. 3. Law of the Forests. 4. Laws of the health and pension insurance of the Bulgarian citizens. 5. Law of the Ends and Means Chamber. 6. Changes in the Law of Transformation and Privatization of State and Municipal Companies. 7. Changes in the banking legislation including a Law of the Bulgarian Agricultural Bank. 8. Law of Power Engineerinf. 9. Law of Protection and Stimulation of Home Production. 10. Changes and additions to the Law of Co-operatives. 11. Law of Gambling. 12. Law of Foreign Trade Activities. 13. A new Law of Tackling Speculation Practices. 14. Changes in the Criminal Code and in the respective procedural laws. 15. A new Law of Territorial Division. 16. A new Law of Territorial and Settlement Organization and of Construction. 17. Law of Education. 18. Law of Protection of Motherhood and the Child. 19. Law of the Massmedia. 20. Law of seeking responsibility from those who have contributed to the accumulation of the huge foreign debt of Bulgaria during the 1980s. 21. Law of Tax Concessions in cases of sponsorship in the fields of education, culture and sports. SOFIA, 1994. 
