Foreign policy
1. European Union
GERB expects the reforms in the EU to be based on the principles and values of European solidarity and equality with mutual respect for the interests and trust between the Member States (MS).
The prospects for EU fragmentation after the referendum in the UK seem more and more real.
The existence of different levels of integration of member states in the EU is a source of instability.
GERB is in favour of preserving the unity of the EU in the future deepening of integration between Member States.
1.1 Bulgaria's accession to Schengen
Using the full toolbox of Schengen legislation, Bulgaria could significantly contribute to the prevention of EU border violations.
With the unprecedented migratory pressure, Bulgaria proves on a daily basis its ability to protect the EU borders, but our country still cannot give its best in this regard, as we are not part of the Schengen family.
We do not have full access to the Schengen Information System (SIS) in order to control the issuance of Schengen visas and to prevent citizens with a ban in the Schengen Information System (SIS) from entering the Schengen area.
GERB does not share the view that the terrorist attacks are the reason for the postponement of our full membership in Schengen.
On the contrary, right now it is important to take decisions that demonstrate that European integration has no alternative in the security sphere.
1.2 Bulgaria's accession to the euro area
To this end, a Coordination Council was established to prepare Bulgaria for euro area membership.
Its main task is to develop a National Plan for the introduction of the euro in the country.
In the short term, the goal is for Bulgaria to join the Monetary Mechanism II (in 2018).
GERB supports the measures that contribute to achieving greater convergence of our country and to meeting all the criteria for euro area membership.
We expect the European Central Bank (ECB) and the other euro area countries to make recommendations to our country with a view to Bulgaria's admission to the Monetary Mechanism II.
2. NATO and Regional Security
The importance of Euro-Atlantic integration is growing against the backdrop of the increased influence of third countries in the Black Sea region and the Balkans.
The crisis in Ukraine and Russia's actions violating international law, the events in the Middle East and North Africa, including in terms of hybrid warfare, require new approaches in NATO policy.
Cooperation between NATO and the EU must be deepened.
GERB supports the "open door" policy of the Alliance, believing that through Euro-Atlantic integration lasting stability is achieved in the candidate countries.
NATO is actively cooperating with Ukraine, which is of strategic importance for the security of the Black Sea region.
3. The Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the EU in 2018.
A successful EU Presidency will contribute to strengthening Bulgaria's position in the community.
On the agenda in 2017 is coordination with Estonia and Austria on the agenda and priorities under the Trio Presidency for the period July 2017 - December 2018.
Bulgaria's contribution is expected to be in the following areas:Entrepreneurship and job creation - support for SMEs and start-ups,
including by providing access to alternative forms of finance;
Energy security;
Multiannual financial framework and the future of cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy;
A Union that empowers all its citizens - proposals in the field of health,
social policy,
disability rights;
Union of Freedom,
security and
Justice:
secure EU external borders;
exchange of information between law enforcement authorities, security services and European agencies;
tools to fight terrorism and organised crime;
building a stable and fair European asylum system;
- an effective return policy for illegal residents;
development and promotion of e-justice.
The main topic during the Bulgarian presidency of the Council of the EU will be the negotiation process for the UK's exit from the EU.
The most important question is how Europe will react to Brexit.
Against the backdrop of the rising tide against politicians and institutions after Brexit, we believe that Europe should make efforts to come out of the process more cohesive and more successful.
The challenges are clear - migration,
security,
economic issues.
During the negotiations on these issues, we will work in favour of the Bulgarians living in the UK and we will protect their interests by seeking support and cooperation from MS who have similar interests.
However, in GERB we are of the opinion that the debate on the future of Europe after Brexit should be conducted with the broadest possible participation of the Member States and should remain among the 27 Member States and not be fragmented.
4. Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and Council of Europe (CoE)
In 2016, Bulgaria successfully implemented the Presidency of the CoE Committee of Ministers. //|The main documents that are being worked on are:
Sofia Strategy for the Protection of Children's Rights;
The Sofia declaration on European unity and cooperation - a topic that has become central in the European Union after the referendum in the UK.
It is necessary to fulfil the criteria for the completion of the post-monitoring dialogue on the monitoring of the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism (CVM) with the PACE, in the areas of judicial reform, electoral legislation and media freedom.
The OSCE is actively involved in monitoring the implementation of the Minsk agreements.
The implementation of these agreements is a step towards a peaceful resolution of the crisis in Ukraine.
We support the international missions of the UN and the OSCE to implement the Minsk agreements, as well as the OSCE observer missions in Ukraine.
We link the implementation of the Minsk agreements to the review of sanctions against Russia.
5. EU Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP)
Cooperation with transatlantic partners on a wide range of issues remains a key part of the EU's external action: trade, cybersecurity, data protection, human rights, conflict prevention, crisis management.
The EU must be a stable partner in our neighbourhood. According to GERB, the review of the European Neighbourhood Policy is particularly important.
This issue is also significant because of the EU's new global strategy adopted in 2016 and the rather delicate internal situation in many of the neighbouring countries.
6. Migration
A sustainable solution to the migration problem can only be found through the joint efforts of all countries affected or at risk.
The EU's priority should be to stop the flow of migrants at the Turkish borders - land and sea.
The EU should not focus only on the migration route from Turkey to the Greek islands.
Turkey's land borders with Bulgaria and Greece, as well as all maritime borders between Turkey and the EU, should be an integral part of the arrangements with Turkey.
Turkey should honour its return and readmission commitments.
It is also important to tighten Turkey's visa regime with Middle Eastern and African countries and to dismantle human trafficking networks.
We will insist that the EU-Afghanistan readmission agreement, in which Bulgaria played a leading role in signing it, will work.
7. Dublin Regulation
Bulgaria attaches great importance to the reform of the Common European Asylum System (CEAS).
In view of this, the EU must have a stable and effective system based on the principles of solidarity, equity and fair distribution of responsibilities between Member States.
We share the need for a more radical reform of the Dublin Regulation, so that the burden of processing applications for international protection is not borne by the frontline countries alone.
8. USA
Transatlantic cooperation continues to underpin international efforts to ensure peace and security.
GERB supports the will shared by both sides to deepen the strategic partnership through the establishment of five Bulgarian-American working groups in areas of mutual interest: security and defence;
energy security;
rule of law;
education and relations between the peoples of Bulgaria and the United States;
counter-terrorism.
The temporary deployment of US military equipment on Bulgarian territory is a significant US contribution to NATO's collective security and a guarantee for Bulgaria's national security.
Relations between Bulgarian and American law enforcement and law enforcement structures are also developing.
We are cooperating effectively in the fight against cross-border organised crime;
in the fight against terrorism; in
strengthening border control
and on cyber security.
Abolishing the visa regime for Bulgarian citizens is a priority issue for us in bilateral relations with the US.
Bulgaria's remaining outside the Visa Waiver Program (VWP) is perceived as unjustified unequal treatment, inconsistent with the level of our bilateral relations, which are described by both sides as strategic, allied and friendly.
An ongoing dialogue is maintained on the implementation of the requirements for Bulgaria's accession to the VWP.
Bulgaria actively participates, together with Cyprus, Poland, Romania and Croatia, in the visa reciprocity mechanism established by the EU, within the framework of EU solidarity towards the countries awaiting VWP membership.
9. Canada
The conclusion of the Strategic Partnership Agreement (SPA) and the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between the EU and Canada at the end of 2016 sets the stage for cooperation between Canada and EU Member States.
Security links are a priority.
The cooperation between the law enforcement agencies of Bulgaria and Canada is important for the deepening of bilateral relations.
The signing of a mutual legal assistance agreement is appropriate.
9.1 Visa reciprocity
We are working towards visa waiver for Bulgarian citizens residing in Canada on a short-term basis, both bilaterally and within the EU under the amended Council Regulation (EC) No 539/2001.
GERB welcomes the announcement of the Business Express Program by the Canadian government in 2014 and the decision to include Bulgaria in the Electronic Travel Authorization (eTA) program after March 2016.
These actions are of an interim and transitional nature and in our view do not achieve full visa reciprocity.
The GERB welcomes the introduction of full visa reciprocity by the Canadian side with a start date of 1 January 2018, given the importance of the common objective of visa-free travel for all EU and Canadian citizens, as set out in Article 23(2) of the Strategic Partnership Agreement (SPA).
The Bulgarian government linked the signing and subsequent ratification of CETA to the abolition of the visa regime.
10. Russia
Our relations with Russia are developing in compliance with our national interest, as well as the principles of our unified policy with the EU and NATO member states.
Bilateral security contacts are limited in line with the decision to suspend practical civilian and military cooperation with Russia taken at the NATO Foreign Ministers' meeting on 1 April 2015. In the medium term, Bulgarian-Russian cooperation depends on overcoming tensions between the EU, NATO and Russia due to the crisis in Ukraine.
On issues on the international agenda, such as the fight against terrorism and extremism, Syria, ISIS, etc., we believe that Russia can play a constructive role in finding comprehensive and mutually acceptable solutions.
We consider it necessary to maintain contacts with Russia on economic priorities (trade, energy, tourism, transport), as well as in the fields of education, science and culture, labour and social policy.
Contacts with Russia in the field of culture, science and education retain their role as one of the main factors for the development of Bulgarian-Russian relations.
We look forward to the future participation of the Russian Federation in PACE in order to intensify the dialogue at parliamentary level.
11. Turkey
GERB supports the development of relations between Bulgaria and Turkey as good neighbours, partners and NATO allies.
Bulgaria is interested in intensive economic cooperation with Turkey.
We believe that there is unrealised potential between the two countries in the following sectors: energy and energy infrastructure,
investment,
transport,
increased trade,
tourism.
Issues facing cooperation are addressed by the Joint Committee on Outstanding Issues established in 2009.
We reaffirm the need for practical implementation of the agreed cooperation in the field of energy (28 March 2014), including the possibilities for the implementation of the gas interconnector project.
11.1 Relations in the context of the migration wave
GERB highly appreciates Turkey's efforts to take in a huge number of Syrian refugees, as well as to secure our common border and curb the migration pressure on Bulgarian territory.
For Bulgaria, it is crucial to strengthen the exchange of information between the two countries and to take decisive measures in the area of security, including joint action against criminal networks for human trafficking.
We will continue to promote the functioning Police and Customs Cooperation Centre at the Captain Andreevo BCP, which is a joint initiative between Bulgaria, Turkey and Greece (since 2016).
12. Western Balkans
12.1 EU enlargement policy in the region
GERB supports our country's strategy to actively and consistently support the EU enlargement process.
The progress in the European integration of the Western Balkan countries and Turkey is in line with Bulgaria's interest in building a region of stability while guaranteeing EU values and standards.
12.2 Serbia and Kosovo
GERB supports Serbia's EU membership.
We welcome the opening of accession negotiating chapters.
The commitment to good neighbourly relations is an element of Serbia's negotiating framework with the EU.
We look forward to the signing of the Good Neighbourly Relations Treaty proposed by the Bulgarian side in February 2013.
Maintaining the identity and economic prosperity of the Bulgarian National Minority (BNM) in Serbia, which continues to face serious political, cultural and socio-economic obstacles, is important to us.
Of particular importance are the issues of access to education, media and religion in the mother tongue, as well as the participation of the BNM in local administrations and political life.
Another priority area is the development of regional transport and energy infrastructure to promote trade,
investment,
tourism
and cultural exchanges between the countries.
The construction of the Bulgaria-Serbia gas interconnector (the Nis-Dimitrovgrad-Sofia interconnector) has significance beyond bilateral interests.
GERB supports Kosovo's European and Euro-Atlantic integration.
We welcome the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement of the Republic of Kosovo with the EU.
12.3 The Belgrade-Pristina Dialogue
GERB is for the continuation of negotiations on outstanding issues within the framework of the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, which is key for the further normalisation of relations between Serbia and Kosovo.
12.4 Macedonia
The signing of a good-neighbourhood and cooperation treaty between Bulgaria and Macedonia would be essential to obtain Bulgarian support for Macedonia's EU membership negotiations.
In parallel, intensive cooperation is needed in areas of mutual interest such as: economy,
infrastructure,
cross-border cooperation, tourism, etc.
GERB's principled position is to support Macedonia's candidacy for EU and NATO membership in the framework of the European perspective of the Western Balkans.
13.Southeast Europe (SEE) and Black Sea region
Bulgaria participates in various regional initiatives and cooperation formats in the field of strengthening security in SEE and the Black Sea region.
The organisational framework of this policy includes our country's participation in the following initiatives: the SEE Defence Ministers' Meeting Process (SEDM), the South East Europe Brigade (SEEBRIG), the Confidence Building and Security Measures Document (CBSMD) and the Black Sea Maritime Cooperation Task Force (BLACKSEAFOR).
The proposal to create a so-called flotilla of NATO member states, such as Romania, Bulgaria and Turkey, was not accepted by the Bulgarian side.
Potentially aggressive actions against Russia are not part of our policy in the region.
14. EU Strategy for the Danube Region
The Danube Strategy focuses on the initiatives of which Bulgaria is a co-coordinator ("Promotion of culture and tourism and people-to-people contacts" with Romania;
"Working together to tackle security challenges and organised crime" with Germany).
Within the framework of the "wider links" approach, we support the expansion of cooperation by linking the Danube region to the Black Sea region.
The Danube Strategy should also seek synergies with the other macro-regional strategies: the EU Strategy for the Baltic Sea Region, the EU Strategy for the Adriatic-Ionian Region and the EU Strategy for the Alpine Region.
15. Policies for Bulgarians abroad
GERB is in favour of expanding the partnership with the active organisations of the Bulgarian communities abroad (BOC). It is necessary to prepare a political document for work with the Bulgarian communities that takes into account the specificities of these communities.
Priority should be given to cultural and educational policies for mother tongue teaching (provision of textbooks) as well as upholding rights and freedoms.
GERB will initiate measures (including through the Cross-Border Cooperation Programme) for economic assistance to the municipalities in the border regions where there is a concentration of Bulgarian population for more Bulgarian investments there.
It is important to have Bulgarian cultural information centres in places with large Bulgarian communities in the SEE countries on the basis of signed bilateral agreements.
Regional policy
1. Safe and modern road infrastructure
1.1 To have a fairer model of payment for crossing the national road network - by introducing a mixed system: an electronic vignette for cars and a toll for heavy goods vehicles.
The introduction of the system will increase the collection of funds for the roads to almost 1 billion BGN and this money will be reinvested in the road infrastructure and to improve road safety.
Currently the state collects and reinvests only BGN 300 million.
1.2 We continue to build modern and safe road infrastructure as part of the trans-European transport network.
We plan to complete the country's highway ring and road network modernization by:  Completion of Struma Motorway in the section Blagoevgrad - Sandanski, including Zheleznitsa Tunnel and through the Kresna Gorge;
Accelerated completion of Hemus Motorway;
Construction of Ka Lotina - Sofia Motorway;
Construction of a tunnel under Shipka Peak;
Изграждане на скоростен път Русе – Велико Търново;
Изграждане на скоростен път по направлението Видин – София;
Доизграждане на Южната дъга на софийския околовръстен път;
Доизграждане на пътното направление Бургас –Слънчев бряг;
Изграждане на обход на гр. Plovdiv;
Targeted investments to improve the condition of the sections of the third-class road network that are in the worst condition;
Targeted investments to ensure road safety of the road network facilities - tunnels, viaducts, bridges and safety fences, etc.
2. Water sector
2.1 We plan to complete the reform of the water and sewerage sector in order to improve the service to citizens and businesses;
2.2 We plan to invest in water and wastewater infrastructure by:
EU funds: completion of the process of elaboration of regional pre-investment studies (RIPS) for the territories of consolidated water supply operators and preparation of application forms for funding projects under the 2014-2020 CFSP;
Implementation of a national funding programme for water and sanitation infrastructure for agglomerations between 2000-10 000 inhabitants and for all those who do not have access to EU funding.
2.3 We plan to complete the construction of the Luda Yana and Plovdivtsi dams, the rehabilitation of the Studena dam, and the drinking water treatment plants attached to them.
3. Regional development. Strong public policy for underdeveloped regions
We aim to combine financial and economic instruments, prioritising the specificities of each region. //| This can be achieved through:
3.1 Targeted Investment Programme (TIP) to support the development of Northwest Bulgaria, the Rhodope Mountains, Strandzha - Sakar, border, mountainous and semi-mountainous underdeveloped regions.
3.2 Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" - aims to ensure the economic development of Bulgarian regions and municipalities.
3.3 Programmes for cross-border and transnational development of the country's regions, together with the implementation of macro-regional policies.
4. Housing Policy
We secured BGN 2 billion for the National Programme for Energy Efficiency of Multi-family Residential Buildings.
The programme proved its social and economic importance with an initial investment of BGN 1 billion. Nearly 400 thousand Bulgarians and over 580 small and medium-sized companies participated in the programme.
Households save over 50% on heating costs in winter.
4.1 Further implementation of the National Programme for Energy Efficiency of Multi-family Residential Buildings and increase of the financial resources under this programme; 4
.2 Extension of the programme to brick multi-family and single-family residential buildings.
5. Cadastre - a faster and more accessible service
We have created a single body - the Cadastre Agency - to provide services to citizens and businesses, now electronically from anywhere in the country.
By combining the data from the land restitution map and the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency, approximately 90% of the country's territory can be covered by an up-to-date cadastral map.
5.1 Conversion of the restored property map into a cadastral map in a short time - covering the territory of the country with a cadastral map and cadastral registers;
5.2 Modernization of the cadastre in 3D and 4D format.
6. Spatial planning - an accelerated and transparent investment process
The main problems that investors face are the unsatisfactory level of administrative services and transparency, as well as the numerous administrative procedures for starting a business.
Our efforts will be focused on initiating changes in the Law on Spatial Planning and in the by-laws in order to facilitate the investment process for citizens and businesses by:6.1 Introducing simplified procedures and removing the administrative burden;
6.2 Introducing deadlines for the implementation of procedures where they are not provided for in the current regulations.
Social policy
Social policy needs to be seen as a set of policies that promote and enable social inclusion and personal fulfilment.
We understand social policy as a policy of partnership between citizens, business, non-profit organizations, social partners and the state.
Increasing incomes through employment and greater labour productivity is among our top priorities because it ensures the sustainable improvement of living standards.
If the GERB programme is implemented, we guarantee a minimum wage of 650 BGN and an average wage of 1500 BGN within the mandate.
We in GERB know that business pays wages and the government helps by creating an environment. We are working for a GDP of more than 110 billion levs within the mandate, with about 86 billion levs in 2015.
Working people will benefit from more flexible employment opportunities and further training.
By facilitating the active and enterprising with measures for better reconciliation of career and family life, we will support both the growth of the economy and the
fight against the demographic problems of the country
. Measures to ensure equal opportunities for men and women and to improve working conditions are important steps in the right direction.
We should also work for the return of some of the Bulgarians who now live and work abroad.
Jobs are created by the economy, not by the state.
Rising incomes and employment are a direct result of a functioning economy.
Government and business must cooperate to achieve a competitive economy and to improve labour productivity.
There are statistical forecasts that by 2030 there will be no jobs for people with basic education.
This exacerbates the need for training to avoid marginalising these groups.
If labour demand is expected to grow in the next few years in manufacturing, education and social activities at the expense of other over-supplied sectors, this means that policies and structural changes in line with expected trends need to be put in place.
We foresee measures such as: labour mobility, "blue card", additional stimulation of the labour market and expansion of the functions of day centres for children and adults with special needs.
We will pay special attention to youth unemployment, as well as the development of a work programme for the employment of citizens aged 50-55.
Although unemployment has reached record lows for the last eight years, we will continue to encourage the remaining unemployed Bulgarians to actively seek work.
The long-term unemployed should also be included in sustainable employment.
It is imperative to help young people in their transition from education to employment and to find a first job so that they can achieve their desired fulfilment and be financially independent.
Reducing youth unemployment and inactivity is an essential measure against social exclusion.
4. Childcare should cover all children, not just those at risk.
The process of deinstitutionalization, which should provide a family or close-to-family environment for every Bulgarian child, should be accompanied by measures to promote the three-child model in the family.
Investing in early childhood development is a key prevention against social exclusion and drop-out from pre-primary and primary education.
There needs to be enough nurseries where there are more vulnerable children.
Attendance not only at school but also at kindergarten should be linked to the payment of social benefits.
An integral part of the overall policy for children and families is the development of comprehensive services combining social, health and educational elements.
Through changes to the Family Code, we will extend support to prospective adoptive parents, adoptive parents and children - before, during and after adoption.
We have updated the deinstitutionalisation plan to ensure that children live in an environment as close to a family as possible.
We are introducing welfare payments only to families whose children attend schools and kindergartens.
This is prevention against early childhood exclusion and against welfare abuse.
The introduction of the three-child model becomes a strategic national priority.
We have created a favourable urban environment, new kindergartens and renovated schools.
The focus is therefore on intensive financial support up to the third child and a reduction of support for the next.
We need more opportunities to balance personal life and career.
We support mothers who want to return to work earlier by enabling the construction of departmental kindergartens.
We offer one-time financial assistance for a young family when finding a job and moving to another location;
childcare vouchers.
Eliminate the system of fake TELCs.
Transfer of the TELK system to the NSSI.
Ensuring adequate resources for the specific needs of each person with a disability.
The improvement of the medical expertise model will enable people with disabilities to fully realise their rights without depriving or violating them.
We need to ensure that an individual approach is taken to assessing health and performance.
Business must be socially responsible and engaged.
We foresee incentives for social entrepreneurship, as well as relieving small and medium-sized enterprises from administrative burdens.
7. Streamlining the structures of the administration that serve the social assistance system and the labour market by introducing comprehensive services for citizens.
8. Successful management of the OHRR will ensure the inclusion in training and employment of 35 000 people.
Nearly 27,000 workers will be able to upgrade their skills and 400 enterprises will improve their working conditions.
Employment and social assistance centres will provide services to at least 300 000 people.
Public order and security
1. Migration policy - GERB's priority has always been strict border control:
1.1 Implementation of a return policy for illegal aliens through:
Priority organisation of joint flights with the European Border and Coast Guard Service (Frontex) for the forced return of illegally staying nationals to their countries of origin;
Voluntary return of persons not granted international protection or asylum.
1.2 Enhance border security capacity by:
Implementation of the €160 million grant allocated under the Emergency Assistance Mechanism for the Internal Security Fund and the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund.
The deadline for the implementation of the first package of measures amounting to EUR 101 million is 30 September 2017 and the second package - 31 December 2017.
The main activities for the absorption of these funds include the expansion of the Integrated Surveillance Systems at the Bulgarian-Turkish state border, the Bulgarian-Serbian border and the maritime state border.
Provision of special equipment and sets of specialised clothing for police and border police officers participating in the specialised police operation on border protection, as well as for patrol vehicles and buses for the needs of the DGGP-MIA and for all-terrain vehicles for the OMWP participating in the specialised police operation on border protection;
Increase in the number of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria for border protection. Provision of the necessary resources for this purpose.
1.3 Ensuring capacity for initial admission of foreigners by:
Conversion of the SAR ROC-Pastrogor from an open to a closed asylum centre;
Conversion of part of the building stock in the SAR ROC-Harmanli (Building I) from open to closed with a capacity of 500 places;
Other construction and renovation works in the reception and registration centres for third-country nationals in order to remove third-country nationals who are in procedures for international protection or asylum from large cities such as Sofia (where there are registration and reception centres) to small settlements near the border;
Provision of prefabricated facilities for accommodation of third-country nationals in the transit centres of the Ministry of Interior in case of increased migration pressure and for the purpose of identity verification.
Checking that individuals do not pose a threat to national security;
Undertaking legislative changes to codify the right of residence and the right of asylum for both third-country nationals and EU citizens.
2. Conventional crime
Police presence in every settlement.
Territorial redistribution of personnel resources to increase the uniformed police force in small and medium-sized settlements by recruiting at least 1,000 uniformed police and gendarmerie officers;
Provide earmarked funding for the phased replacement of the uniformed police vehicle fleet, as well as for the replacement of security police and gendarmerie equipment;
Achieving full coverage of the entire country (by municipality) of video surveillance of the main arteries with criminogenic potential - according to the minimum technical parameters set by the Ministry of Interior;
a guaranteed connection with the RUC, a specific timetable for all municipalities in Bulgaria, access to the established video surveillance of security companies and specific commitments of these companies in the prevention and counteraction of conventional crime;
Development and implementation of software for the interactive crime map, which will be able to visualize all crime-related events and actions taken by the Ministry of Interior, which will allow to determine the number of police officers needed for small settlements;
Upgrading of the material and technical base of the scientific and technical laboratories for the preparation of expert reports in criminal proceedings in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the NICC;
Introduction of voluntary drug and substance abuse testing for adolescents in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health, after prior consent of the parent, guardian or custodian;
Enhanced cooperation with the NSORB and local public order and security committees.
3. Countering terrorism, organised crime and corruption
Developing effective territorial and issue-based programmes for the prevention of radicalisation and extremism.
Establishment of a system for monitoring, coordination and exchange of information between central and local authorities and NGOs on the problems of radicalisation and terrorism.
Developing a system for the analysis of trends, specific manifestations or signs of radicalisation, and preparation for terrorist activity among persons at risk.
Identification of national critical infrastructure, European critical infrastructure and NATO critical infrastructure sites and vulnerability assessment of the country's critical infrastructure sites.
Development and implementation of specialised counter-terrorism software in the integrated national video surveillance system.
Establishment of a national crisis centre and registers in the regional directorates of the Ministry of Interior for the established video surveillance systems in commercial and other facilities with mass residence of people, as well as development of a platform for rapid and qualitative exchange of information, methodology for identification, monitoring and assessment of manifestations and risks of terrorist activity and radicalisation.
Effective PNR data exchange between the National Unit for the Receipt and Processing of PNR Data of Air Passengers in the Republic of Bulgaria and similar partner entities.
Implementing an effective approach to fighting organised crime and effectively neutralising organised crime groups by improving operational cooperation and expanding international police cooperation and information exchange with Europol, Interpol, the competent structures of Euro-Atlantic partners, as well as with third countries.
Effective countering of criminal structures specialising in drug and precursor trafficking by specifically identifying new threats and risks related to the spread of trafficking.
Effectively countering criminal structures specialising in telephone fraud by introducing a comprehensive approach to identifying all perpetrators of such fraud.
Taking concrete action to confiscate the illegally acquired assets of those involved in such criminal schemes, focusing on repeat offenders.
Introduction of an integrated approach in complex counter-trafficking measures through the formation of joint teams with foreign partner structures to carry out investigations into identified cases of trafficking in human beings.
Implement effective mechanisms for early identification of victims of trafficking.
Strengthening the interaction between the National Commission for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings and the National Commission for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings, as well as with the local commissions and reputable NGOs with specialization in this field in the respective municipalities and localities.
Countering cybercrime by monitoring the internet to identify the emergence of new threats and risks.
Conducting events with a focus on the prevention of child pornography and radical ideologies disseminated via the Internet.
Upgrading the capacity of the established National Centre for Countering Excise Smuggling by identifying smuggling schemes of OCGs and analysing information on tax crimes and smuggling, production and distribution of excise goods.
Strengthening measures against illegal seizures of motor vehicles by using a comprehensive approach to improve coordination and interaction of police structures.
Due to the fact that most of the criminal acts are completed on the territory of another police structure, other than the one on the territory of which the illegal confiscation was carried out, it is necessary to carry out joint inspections in the motor yards carried out by the authorities of the police, the NRA and the Ministry of Environment and Water.
Improve coordination and interaction between the competent institutions working on anti-corruption.
Establishing an organisation to effectively investigate any identified case of corruption.
4. Road safety
Reform of the Road Transport Control (RTC);
"Restarting" the Road Safety Fund and restoring its self-financing, using the funds only for road safety and abolishing the current flawed procedure for receiving money in the central budget.
Preparation of proposals by the Ministry of Interior to the Minister of Finance for the provision of financial resources for technical equipment and control of conflict points on the road map, as well as for the control of speed and other violations of the Road Traffic Act;
Increase in the number of fixed and mobile cameras for road control;
Construction of a single center for processing violations, through which to create a single information platform for automated exchange, processing and archiving of incoming information from the speed control systems.
This will facilitate the competent structures in ensuring road safety and will strengthen the control activities for compliance with the Road Traffic Act;
Integration of MHA systems with other vehicle control systems;
Legislative action to repeal the current 1999 Road Traffic Law and adopt two new laws, clearly distinguishing the functions and powers of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Transport and Communications.
One law should regulate traffic control rules, the other the registration of road vehicles and the training of their drivers.
Repeal of the current regulation and adoption of a new regulation on the procedure for establishing the use of alcohol, drugs and other intoxicating substances by drivers of road vehicles.
5. Crime Investigation
Filling up of the 2,000-strong Investigating Constables cadre;
Providing 6,000 more police officers to carry out investigative actions (urgent procedural-investigative actions) according to the specific crime situation - after careful selection and training;
Final completion and operation, including by the Ministry of the Interior, of the Unified Crime Prevention Information System for the purpose of automated tracking of the specific crime signal: a complaint filed with the police or prosecutor's office;
background check;
pre-trial proceedings have been initiated;
bringing an accused;
completion of the investigation;
indictment;
hearings;
a final judicial act (verdict, decision).
6. Training and education
Doubling of the annual capacity of the Academy of the Ministry of Interior in undergraduate training programmes for police officers (currently the capacity amounts to about 100 people per year);
Ensuring a unified form of selection and duration of training of new police officers;
Construction of training grounds for practical training at the AMIA (in police activities, firefighting and population protection activities);
Complete renovation of the Centre for Initial Professional Training at the AMIA in Pazardzhik.
Directing the training of the newly recruited police officers in the centres in Kazanlak and Varna in the field of border control, as well as the training of foreign citizens for police activities.
7. Fire safety and protection of the population from disasters
Completion of the technical re-equipment of the fire and rescue teams with European funds;
Targeted stimulation of the building of the volunteer formations with a specific schedule for their formation in all municipalities, with clearly defined deadlines Ensuring training of the leaders of the volunteer squads from all municipalities at the training centre of the DGFRS in Montana;
Provision of earmarked funding for the complete replacement of equipment providing personal protection to firefighters and rescuers;
Adoption of a law on volunteering, which should regulate the relations between volunteers and central and local authorities in overcoming the consequences of disasters and accidents, as well as their rights and obligations when participating in such operations.
8. Administrative services
Establishment of police offices for citizens' services in the Police Department and in all police stations with uniform branding.
Fast service to citizens, provision of electronic services and issuance of all official documents to save citizens' time, as well as improvement of the Ministry of Interior's information systems for this purpose.
9. Security Council to the Council of Ministers
Strengthening the capacity of the Council.
Developing and adopting the sub-legislative framework for the implementation of the adopted package of laws on the security sector services and the framework law on the management and functioning of the national security protection system;
Developing and adopting annual plans for the implementation of important strategic documents such as the Strategy for Countering Radicalisation and Terrorism and the Cyber Security Strategy Cyber Resilient Bulgaria - 2020;
The organisation of training, research and applied activities in the field of national security by using the capacity of civil society structures working in the interest of national security.
Finance
1. Financial Policy
A stable financial system is a key prerequisite for sustainable economic development and maintaining an attractive investment environment.
1.1 The banking and non-banking financial sector must meet the highest standards adopted in the European Union to safeguard the interests of businesses and citizens who benefit from financial infrastructure.
The regulators have gone through trials and are now at a much better level.
The financial system took a test, which it passed.
The asset quality assessment and subsequent stress tests of financial institutions showed that the system is well capitalised and resilient.
1.2 Bulgaria's further integration into the European financial infrastructure remains a key objective.
The single banking union and the euro area are the natural path for Bulgaria, but this can only happen when we meet all the criteria for membership and, most of all, when we preserve and increase trust in the country and its institutions.
Until then, the Currency Board is inviolable and inviolable.
1.3 Low taxes are not enough of an advantage to attract investment when we have not fully resolved problems related to the quality of administrative services, the
speed and quality of dispute resolution and corruption.
However, the tax system in the area of direct taxation remains one of the main advantages of the Bulgarian economy and changing it is not on our agenda.
The flat tax for individuals and companies is the fairest in terms of incentives for economic activity and we will not allow it to be revised.
Low taxes come at a price.
The state cannot redistribute as much as politicians want and make decisions for the people.
The active and educated person has more sh ances than the uneducated and marginalized.
However, our task is to take care of those members of our society who, due to physical disability, are unable to meet their basic living needs.
1.4 We should aim to spend as much as we earn through the budget
Deficits increase debt and reduce our sovereignty in the long term.
1.5 The grey economy is natural in countries with weak institutions.
The united action of all law enforcement agencies and revenue administrations will win what is rightfully due for the state and its citizens.
2. People's well-being is a natural priority
Our society, let down by bad governance, especially at the beginning of the transition in the 1990s,
lags far behind the other EU member states in terms of income.
Sustainable income growth is a top priority of our government and it can come at the expense of economic growth.
2.1 Over the last few years of our leadership, the economic environment has enabled us to increase the minimum wage from £360 to £460 and average earnings have risen from £833 as at November 2014 to £954 at the end of September 2016, an increase of 14.5 per cent in less than two years.
If we govern the country again, we can expect an increase in the average wage for the country, which at the end of the mandate will reach BGN 1,500, and
the minimum wage, without creating tensions on the labour market, will also increase and will reach BGN 650.
2.2 Over the past few years, economic growth in Bulgaria has accelerated to over 3% and reached one of the highest levels in the EU.
The gross domestic product increased from 83.6 billion levs in 2014 to 91.7 billion levs in 2016.
Under our next government, by the end of the mandate, GDP could exceed BGN 100 billion and our forecasts are for BGN 120 billion. GDP at the end of the next term.
Management of European Union funds
EU funds account for more than two-thirds of public investment at the republican level, financing almost all sectors: roads, railways, water, municipal infrastructure, innovation, small and medium-sized enterprises, education and science, social, administrative modernisation and judicial reform.
From the old programming period (2007-2013) we managed to absorb 99% of the funds allocated to us.
For two years we have been working in the new programming period (2014-2020) and we have 17.7 billion leva from the operational programmes and 5.7 billion leva from the Rural Development Programme.
Separately, there are funds for direct payments.
We set even higher targets for investment policy with EU funds:1.
After the adoption of the EU Funds Act, which will regulate the distribution of funds,
after the full electronicisation of the processes of the operational programmes, through the ISUN system,
similar changes should occur in relation to the Rural Development Programme.
Thus, every procedure should be carried out electronically and subject to the same rules;
2. Documentation simplification processes will continue to make project application and reporting more accessible and less costly;
3. Nearly 10% of the entire financial framework of the operational programmes goes to the so-called financial instruments.
Bulgaria chose to manage this money by creating an internal capacity in the so-called Fund of Funds.
Building experience of the state, banks and business in planning and implementation of financial engineering will remain one of the main priorities in the future;
4. EU funds are the main instrument for overcoming inter-regional disparities, so
a special priority in the coming years will be the search for an optimal regional balance between investments, as well as
the exploitation of all opportunities for the economic revitalisation of lagging regions through investments from operational programmes and the RDP;
5. One of the new challenges will be to effectively combine and complement public investments with funds from the EC and the state budget;
6. Public investment will only be directed to areas where there is no private interest and where an economically realistic scenario for establishing a public-private partnership is secured.
Public investment should create the conditions and preconditions for private investment, not crowd it out;
7. A key priority is the creation of so-called "leverage", where any investment must be designed not only to meet needs and solve problems, but also to create the precondition for "waking up" private finance and attracting new investment in the real sector;
8. Preparation for adequate participation in the negotiations on the future of cohesion policy and the EU budget after 2020, including the use of the EU presidency in 2018.
Defence
1. The Bulgarian Army is a reliable guarantor of the country's security
1.1 Bulgaria is an active and reliable member of NATO and the EU.
The Euro-Atlantic orientation of the Republic of Bulgaria is an irreversible process, a historical achievement and has no alternative.
1.2 Guaranteeing national sovereignty and independence, as well as protecting the territorial integrity of the country in the terms of Article 5 of the Washington Treaty.
1.3 Active and consistent participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the preparation and implementation of the new EU policy on European defence.
1.4 Increase defence spending and reach the level of 2% of GDP at the end of the forthcoming government term.
1.5 Maintain the size of the armed forces.
1.6 Increase the role of military expertise in building and managing the Armed Forces.
2. The most valuable capital in defence is people
2.1 Increase in the remuneration of military personnel.
2.2 Aligning the basis for the formation of the minimum remuneration of servicemen with the national minimum wage.
2.3 Guaranteeing the benefits of servicemen, including those upon release from military service.
2.4 Replenishing the personnel backlog by planning the expenditure on the staff of the Armed Forces.
2.5 Introduce differentiated pay for servicemen in order to increase motivation for service in the army.
2.6 Improve working and recreational conditions and health care for servicemen and civilian staff, including those in the reserves and reserves.
2.7 Active cooperation with military-patriotic unions and other non-governmental organisations.
2.8 Improvement of the career development system for servicemen by introducing clear and irrevocable rules.
2.9 Acquisition of new housing by the Ministry of Defence through ceded building rights and renovation of the existing housing stock.
3. A strong army through accelerated development of the armed forces
3.1 Adherence to the basic defence policy principles defined in the "Programme for the Development of the Defence Capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020".
3.2 Maintenance of the existing defence capabilities and gradual development of new defence capabilities through the implementation of the adopted and future investment projects for the modernisation and rearmament of the Armed Forces.
3.3 In 2017, the National Assembly adopted an investment project "Acquisition of a new type of armoured fighting vehicle for the Land Forces".
3.4 Involvement of the Bulgarian defence industry and research institutions in the implementation of investment projects for modernisation and rearmament, including using funds from the European Defence Plan.
4. Active anti-corruption policy
Decisive action to remove the preconditions for corruption in the defence system and its resource management.
5. Meeting threats against our country where they originate
Continued participation in operations to strengthen international peace and security.
6. The Bulgarian Army helps where others cannot
6.1 Expand the participation of the Armed Forces for more effective protection of the population in disasters and emergencies, as well as
in border protection
and counter-terrorism in accordance with the changes in the Law on the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and the new Law on Counter-Terrorism.
6.2 Update plans and prepare state institutions for crisis response in peacetime and wartime situations.
6.3 Ninth and tenth grade students in secondary schools are taught for 5 periods of instruction, gaining knowledge of national defense, survival, and military crisis response, as well as learning about the missions and tasks of the armed forces.
6.4 All Bulgarian citizens who do not have military training may undergo, at their own request, training organised and financed by the Ministry of Defence to give them initial and/or special military training.
During the training, citizens will be able to use weapons and ammunition.
Justice
There can be no just state and a wealthy nation without an efficient, prompt and fair administration and judiciary.
Bulgarian citizens want the courts and prosecutors to apply the law accurately and equally to everyone.
To this end, continued judicial reform is necessary.
1. New Constitution and abolition of immunity of MPs
We will initiate amendments to the Constitution to abolish the immunity of MPs, which will guarantee equality before the law for all Bulgarian citizens.
We declare for political agreement to draft a new Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and to convene a Grand National Assembly.
The current Constitution, although it has fulfilled its role in the transition of the state from a totalitarian type to a democratic society, has long been inadequate for the needs of modern governance.
A number of reforms could not be implemented due to the need to convene a Grand National Assembly for more substantial amendments to the Constitution.
2. Continuing the fight against corruption at all levels by:
Adoption of a new Anti-Corruption Code that will unify the fragmented legislation and the multitude of authorities.
The single body to fight corruption in high levels of power will be established on the basis of the Commission for the Confiscation of Illegally Acquired Assets.
Property of people in power acquired with funds of unproven origin will be forfeited to the state without criminal proceedings being initiated.
Transfer of bureaucracy from people and business to administration.
Abolish unnecessary permits for doing business and introduce tacit consent as a measure against corruption at the lower levels of government.
Expanding integrity checks in the administration, along the lines of those introduced in the Ministry of the Interior, customs, prisons, etc.
3. Adoption of the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code which will lead to:
An end to formalism in the criminal process - the guilty to be convicted when there is evidence of a crime, not acquitted on purely formal premises;
An end to the endless return of cases to the pre-trial phase in order to avoid criminal liability of the guilty by introducing a single dispositional hearing;
Detention of the convicted persons immediately in the courtroom after the final judgment of the court;
A new procedure for the prosecution of high-level corruption - transfer of these cases to the specialised court and prosecutor's office;
Appeals against the refusal to initiate pre-trial proceedings before the court after exhaustion of the internal departmental control in the prosecutor's office;
Faster criminal trial through remote examination of experts.
4.New criminal policy
The Penal Code, adopted in 1968, has been amended 102 times.
We will decriminalise acts that have lost their criminal character and strengthen penalties for crimes related to corruption, terrorism, computer crimes, money laundering, influence peddling, etc.
We are committed to continuing the work started by the Ministry of Justice on a new criminal policy with the participation of independent experts, including international ones, and to present it to the public by mid-2018.
We will build on what has been achieved over the last two years through programmes to re-socialise prisoners to prevent them from committing further offences.
5. E-Justice
E-justice is one of the strongest anti-corruption measures related to the judiciary.
With the amendments to the Judiciary Act, we introduced the legislative framework of e-justice.
Citizens will be able to see the whole case electronically, receive summons by email (not being able to find the address of the parties will not be a reason for delaying the proceedings), save time and money, but most of all they will get quick and quality justice//|.
And judges and prosecutors who delay cases and their reasons unjustifiably will be seen by all and will be held accountable.
The "Borisov 2" government provided BGN 35 million for e-justice under the Operational Programme "Good Governance".
We are committed to completing work on the introduction of e-Justice by the end of 2018.
6.Judicial Map for Quality Justice
In the Netherlands there are 11 district courts with a population of 19 million, while in Bulgaria with a population of 7 million we have 113 district courts.
We will assist and participate in the introduction of the new judicial map of Bulgaria, which will redistribute the structure of the courts and prosecution fairly and adequately based on the workload, population, demographic and economic prospects of the region.
In this way, citizens and businesses will receive fast and quality justice, and judges and prosecutors will receive an even distribution of cases and the opportunity to specialise in a particular matter.
7. Introduction of quarterly reports by the Prosecutor General and the Presidents of the SCC and SCC to the National Assembly, including on policies to combat corruption, organised and domestic crime and other issues of high public interest.
8. Depoliticised and transparent election of a new Supreme Judicial Council
We undertake that PP GERB will consult with the professional communities its proposals for members of the SJC and will give the opportunity for a public hearing with the participation of all interested parties.
We are committed to announcing the candidates well in advance, to organising a public hearing and to presenting their programmes.
9.Reform in legal education
There is no fair justice without quality lawyers.
We will introduce a single state exam for all law schools.
10.Child Justice
Adopt the drafted juvenile justice reform so that children in conflict with the law are re-educated, rather than turning them from child victims into criminals.
11. Amendments to the Civil Procedure Code and the Administrative Procedure Code
We will continue to work on amendments to procedural laws to achieve adequate and efficient court proceedings, to
better manage the workload of the courts,
including improving and simplifying procedures and addressing inconsistencies in them.
We are ready to propose balanced changes for the parties (participants) in enforcement and order proceedings.
12. We commit to implement the 17 recommendations of the 10-year report under the Cooperation and Evaluation Mechanism by the end of 2018.
13.Legislative initiatives and changes
Amendments to the Constitution;
Amendments to the Electoral Code;
Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code;
New Criminal Policy;
Drafting of a package of bills to reduce the administrative burden;
New law on forensic expertise (for expert witnesses);
Adoption of a draft law on juvenile justice;
Amendments to property laws - adoption of measures to address property fraud.
Education and science
1. Education
Education is a national priority and a firm commitment of GERB.
Investments in education are investments in Bulgaria's successful future - in prepared young people and in economic growth for a prosperous nation.
Jobs, high incomes and a growing economy are only achieved with quality education.
1.1 We continue to invest in education and ensure annual growth in the state education budget
Our goal is for Bulgarian children and young people to be highly educated and competitive with their peers around the world, and this is the most important condition for the development of a high added value economy.
It is our political will that Bulgarian education meets the highest modern quality requirements.
This is the change we have started and want to continue with your trust, as: with a change in the system of delegated budgets from 2018, funding will not only depend on the number of children.
That's how we stop kindergartens and schools closing because of a flawed formula.
Introduce a programme to support low-performing schools and kindergartens.
Review and revise state education standards with the participation of teachers, social partners and the NGO sector.
Our goal is to eliminate bureaucracy and have guarantees for teachers' freedom of action;
every 2 years we review the implementation of the principles and objectives set out in the Pre-School and School Education Act and take concrete action to address non-compliance;
develop policies and mechanisms to bring discipline back to schools and increase confidence in the system.
1.2 Our guiding task is to have motivated, prepared and supported teachers by investing in their development and qualifications. That is why we are guaranteeing a doubling of teachers' pay by the end of term.
We are working for: a national programme to support young teachers and make teaching one of the most preferred professions;
modernising training in higher education institutions for the professional qualification of teacher;
a system of targeted support and training for teachers;
support for teachers working with children with special educational needs, vulnerable children and talented children
- a programme to improve the individual teacher-student relationship and involve parents in school life;
a high level of autonomy, responsibility, trust and care for teachers during and after their active career.
1.1 Overcoming the illiteracy, practicality and applicability of knowledge and skills - for a better life and sustainable economic growth
Our main goal is to overcome illiteracy through quality education and support for children.
We are committing all the resources of the state to ensure that children - especially those from vulnerable groups - attend school and compulsory pre-school groups in kindergartens.
Families whose children do not attend school or compulsory pre-school groups and are not educated will not receive any kind of social assistance from the state.
Local social services, as well as structures of the Ministry of the Interior, will be directly involved in the process.
We continue to invest in pre-school education and early childhood care;
creating the conditions for young children to develop their talents and gifts.
We channel resources to develop 21st century skills that ensure successful personal and professional fulfilment: problem solving in teams, critical and innovative thinking, creativity, analysis and decision making, use of the internet and new technologies.
We continue to work on the introduction of electronic textbooks that are comprehensible and interesting for students.
We are committed to ensuring active teacher participation in the textbook development and approval process.
1.4 Ensure equal access, individual approach to children and pupils and support for their successful realisation
We are increasing the number of psychologists, guidance counsellors, resource teachers and teaching assistants to support each child in their development.
We ensure prevention and early detection of learning difficulties.
We fund free after-school and after-school activities.
We build successful models to support kindergartens and schools in small towns and work to improve the quality of education in merged classes.
We have an effective mechanism in place to identify children not enrolled in kindergartens and schools and those at risk of dropping out.
We are putting in place a real working national system for collecting data and tracking enrolment, transfer and dropout of children and students.
We improve institutional interaction in cases of children at risk.
1.5 Develop vocational education in active partnership with business
We provide quality vocational education by actively introducing the dual system - learning by doing.
We implement a system for continuous and accurate research and forecasting of vocational training needs.
We introduce curricula developed in collaboration with business.
We develop students' career guidance through strong partnerships with parents, higher education institutions and businesses.
1.6 Enhance skills in entrepreneurship, information technology and active citizenship
We are introducing entrepreneurship education for all children, pupils and students.
We are working on a national funding programme for student and student-led learning companies.
Ensure the use of information and communication technologies in the overall learning process.
We provide an interactive whiteboard for each classroom.
We create programs for effective retraining to software specialties, accredited and controlled by industry organizations.
We are actively working to enforce and introduce citizenship and health education.
1.7 More sport at school for healthier and aggression-free lives
We are improving the conditions for sport in every school. We are creating a programme to increase the motivation of children and pupils to take part in sport.
1.8 We are working on a new law on higher education
Over the next 4 years, we are committed to a comprehensive change in the higher education system in Bulgaria, which means:
linking university admissions to labour market needs;
Ensure equal participation of sectoral organisations in the planning process of government procurement to higher education institutions.
Balance between fundamental knowledge and practical skills in curricula and programmes; updating with business involvement;
promoting joint programmes between Bulgarian and leading foreign universities, as well as foreign language study programmes with a current market orientation;
regulating the possibility for eminent professionals from practice to participate in the learning process;
Improving the credibility and rigour of the assessment carried out by the National Assessment and Accreditation Agency through increased involvement of employers , employers' organisations and recognised international experts.
In order to attract and retain more students in the Bulgarian higher education system, we are working towards:
improving the conditions for mobility of students, postgraduate students and doctoral students within the country;
Additional support for academically excellent and low-income students in selected priority areas and programmes;
offering flexible learning pathways that allow learning to be successfully combined with work or family commitments.
2. Ensure annual growth in science funding to strengthen and modernize the country's scientific organizations for competitive research
We will achieve competitiveness, prosperity and sustainable growth by promoting research,
technological development
and the ability to translate research results into economic and social benefits.
2.1 We support researchers and scientists by:
Providing a support programme for PhD students during the period of obtaining the doctoral degree.
Continuation of the Young Scientist Grant Programme.
Attracting Bulgarian scientists established abroad to participate in international and national projects.
Introduction of a "post-doctoral" programme to attract outstanding young scientists to work on significant social problems and tasks.
2.2 Research efficiency in publicly funded research organisations is achieved by:
We introduce regular and independent evaluation of research activities and fund research organisations and institutes on the basis of results.
We fund research in line with national priorities.
We are reforming the Research Fund to ensure transparency and accountability, capacity
building for research funding competitions
and mandatory monitoring throughout the lifetime of projects, and
as well as an assessment of the effectiveness of the funding.
We are building high-tech parks and centres for the accelerated deployment in the economy of research results, inventions and patents.
We promote collaborative research between research organisations, universities and enterprises; we develop and implement programmes for active cooperation between research institutions and schools.
Prepare amendments to the Academic Staff Development Act in the Republic of Bulgaria. Bulgaria, guaranteeing transparent opportunities for sustainable career development,
as well as national criteria for academic positions and quality and performance monitoring of those already in place.
Health
Improving the health of the nation is a strategic goal that dominates the overall logic of reforms in the sector, combined with the organizational, human, financial and moral stabilization of the health system.
1. Prevention is an opportunity for better health and quality of life.
We will ensure the good health status of the young generation of Bulgarians by:Introducing complex measures to ensure early education in the principles of healthy living, rational nutrition and physical activity.
Expanding the scope of preventive examinations with additional screening tests, supplementing vaccination programmes with new components in line with good European practices, and introducing recommended vaccinations for at-risk populations.
Achieve better control of the spread of chronic non-communicable diseases by finalising the national programme to combat them and developing additional measures focusing on risk factors.
Introduce an integrated approach to reduce the demand for drugs and to tackle the increasing percentage of drug dependent adolescents.
Indicative substance use prevention programmes for under-18s,
psychosocial intervention and treatment programmes, the
phased introduction of substance use testing in schools (following a decision by their management and consultation with specialists where necessary), and
training and up-skilling of teachers, medical professionals and all those involved in reducing the demand for and supply of psychoactive substances should be introduced.
Introduce a new model of social health care to enable patients to control their illness through access to health services and appropriate therapy in the outpatient care system.
Overcoming health inequalities among Roma communities by expanding the network of health mediators.
Implementation of the deinstitutionalisation strategy.
2. They will strive for financial stability and security of the health system through:
Stabilising the health insurance model through administrative and legislative measures to increase the collection of health contributions.
Refining the so-called "basic package of medical care"
and at the same time creating conditions for building on the solidarity model financed by the NHIF,
with clear incentives to replace cash payments with additional health insurance/insurance, which will enable patient protection and control of financial resources.
Start of a phased demonopolisation of the National Health Insurance Fund.
Preparation of the system for the introduction of diagnostic-related groups (DRGs) as a method of payment for medical care.
Establishing an actuarial and analytical structure in the NHIF, with the participation of external consultants, with a focus on hospital care and pharmaceuticals, and developing the structure into a national case-mix office in preparation for the transition to financing the system through diagnostic-related groups.
3. We look at information and communication technologies as a tool for an efficient and controlled health system.
To this end, we will work for:Introduction of uniform standards for the management of public medical institutions and statutory mechanisms for control of their implementation.
Establishment of an integrated information system linking in real time the information systems of the Ministry of Health, NHIF, NSSI, NRA, providers of medical and health services (hospitals, outpatient care practices, pharmacies) and transfer of the entire document flow in electronic form.
Introduction of an electronic health card to access the system and control in real time the consumption of a given type of medical service.
Introduction of electronic prescription and electronic referral.
Creation and implementation of an electronic medical record based on the electronic card and the NHIS information system with ongoing maintenance.
Completion and maintenance of electronic registers and integration of existing ones.
4. We will work to overcome regional imbalances and ensure functional interaction between the different levels of medical care.
We will seek to:Normatively improve the concept of a mandatory health card to ensure improved access and optimal resource and investment planning.
Creating clear opportunities for investment through the development of public-private partnerships in hospital care, rather than opening new facilities in areas of sufficient saturation.
Personnel and resource provision in the Emergency Medical Services by regulating the participation of paramedics in the teams, achieving maximum uniform coverage of the territory of the country, improving the general protocols for conduct and triage, improving the conditions for the training and qualification of specialists, as well as the pay, working conditions, security and technical support of personnel.
Resource and structural provision of primary care through a change in the ratio of funding with the prevalence of payment for activity over capital, tackling the problem of "vacant practices" by optimizing incentives for work in them, provided by the NHIF together with state and local government, development of the system of emergency rooms.
Improve access and quality of Specialist Medical Care by moving away from existing administrative regulation to easier but medically appropriate access to specialist care, encouraging mobility of specialist medical teams, introducing day and home inpatient care, expanding day surgery, transferring outpatient procedures and more highly specialised medical activities to specialist outpatient care.
Price differentiation of examinations in specialised outpatient care based on cost, time per examination and value of equipment and devices.
Reform of the hospital medical care sector by moving towards selective contracting of medical institutions offering the best quality, equity and patient safety, functional cooperation of medical institutions on a regional basis for a more efficient combination of the activities offered, effective control of the strict compliance with the indications for hospitalization and dehospitalization and the treatment algorithms, as well as linking payments to the results of treatment.
In the area of dental care, we will focus on dental health promotion and prevention of oral diseases through targeted state funding of programs
to improve dental health in children and schoolchildren and resource support for the National Program for Prevention of Oral Diseases in Children 0-18 years in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as
expanding access to dental prosthetics for adult patients.
5. We will work to improve access to modern and quality drug therapy and medical devices.
We will strive to:Achieve better access to optimal drug therapy through greater use of generic products based on uniform standards of rational use.
Improvement of health technology assessment mechanisms for the implementation of innovative medicines in practice, introduction
of an obligation for post-marketing surveillance
and new assessment of reimbursed innovative medicinal products.
Improvement of the regulatory framework allowing flexible mechanisms for negotiating discounts for efficient use of public resources, negotiating higher discounts based on the concept of long-term contracts with NHIF.
Improvement of criteria and algorithms for the treatment of diseases with expensive drugs and oncological diseases, which should contain clear treatment algorithms and evaluation criteria, including on the basis of genetic tests.
Establish effective mechanisms, including legislation, to curb parallel exports of medicines by limiting the possibility of so-called "suitcase trade".
Establish a national register of medical devices paid for with public funds for greater efficiency and control.
Introduction of health technology assessment for reimbursement of medical devices and, in a second stage, for new expensive diagnostic and treatment methods.
6. We will seek to solve the problem of staffing the system by:
Establishment of a specialized unit in the NHIF to develop a mechanism for realistic costing of direct and indirect costs based on data from medical institutions, as well as a system for costing the labour elements of medical and non-medical staff.
In this hypothesis, the negotiation with the professional organizations should be only for the second component, and the price of the other costs should be determined at the expert level;
Adequate financial support and opportunities for career development - we will develop a system of incentives and incentives for enrolment and specialization to fill the needs of deficit specialties.
Together with the medical universities, we will seek to decentralise and liberalise the process of specialisation and regulate continuing education as a compulsory rather than a recommended element in the healthcare system.
Culture
1. Adoption of a national strategy for the development of arts, cultural and creative industries, cultural heritage and cultural tourism
Financially secure the strategic priorities and objectives, including by attracting alternative sources of funding for the cultural sector;
Together with the Ministry of Tourism, we will develop a comprehensive strategy for the development of cultural tourism and develop cultural itineraries.
2. Priority funding of cultural heritage conservation activities - archaeological research, socialisation and presentation of the movable and immovable archaeological heritage
Identification of priority sites - immovable cultural property for targeted funding of regular field archaeological research, conservation, restoration and socialization;
Adoption of plans for the protection and management of archaeological reserves;
Provision of mechanisms for the protection of cultural industries as a resource.
3. Cultural heritage
Digitization of movable and immovable cultural heritage and provision of access to electronic registers and public database on it.
4.Improvement of conditions and measures aimed at providing additional public and alternative means aimed at modernizing the network of cultural institutes, community centres and libraries in the country.
5. Library and Literary Heritage
Support for the implementation of projects to replenish the library collections of public libraries in the country - in classical and modern media;
Support for creative projects in the field of book publishing - partial funding for book publishing;
Support for projects in the field of translation of Bulgarian literature into foreign languages;
Support of projects in the field of promotion of Bulgarian literature - participation in international fairs - Frankfurt, Leipzig, Bologna, Moscow, etc.;
Implementation of activities in the field of preservation of the country's documentary heritage.
6. Achieving maximum state funding for Bulgarian cinema under the Film Industry Act
7. Actual implementation of the 10% contribution to the National Culture Fund provided for in the Gambling Act
8. Modernization of the material base in the sphere of culture - schools, theatres, operas, museums, etc.
Besides the already renovated schools, theatres, museums, etc., the schools in V arna and Kotel are to be renovated (this year and next year).
Priority should be given to the renovation of the opera house in Plovdiv, the National Gallery of Art, etc.
9. Building on the achievements of the performing arts reform - raising standards and securing more revenue
10. Expanding the presence of Bulgarian culture in Europe and worldwide and the active role of Bulgarian culture in relation to the Presidency of the Council of the EU
Increasing the number of events and supported projects in Bulgarian cultural institutes abroad;
Creating conditions and support for the participation of Bulgarian artists in the arts and culture market in Europe;
Supporting book publishing and presenting the country at international book fairs and exhibitions.
Environment
Nature.
Green Economy.
Control.
These are the three pillars on which our governance agenda in the environment sector is built, with the following priorities:1. Modernisation and renewal for a healthy environment
Implementation of subsequent improvements in the condition of technical facilities of the basic environmental infrastructure with the introduction of modern engineering technologies in the field of water supply, sewerage, wastewater treatment, flood and landslide prevention, waste management,
which will build on measures already implemented on the ground and place a special emphasis on climate change, adaptation and disaster resilience;
Preparation of new, highly efficient and cost-effective investment programmes in the water and waste sectors,
with job creation opportunities,
Competitiveness,
economic growth
and overall improved quality of life: design, construction, rehabilitation and reconstruction of water and wastewater networks,
wastewater treatment plants
and supporting infrastructure;
design and construction of re-use centres,
pre-treatment plants for municipal waste,
anaerobic and/or composting plants for separately collected biodegradable and/or green waste,
municipal waste recovery plants,
providing the necessary equipment, facilities and machinery for separate collection;
Expanding the set of measures for the protection of air purity to ensure healthy air in settlements polluted by domestic heating - replacement of combustion devices, installation of filters on combustion installations, measures for alternative heating and pollution from public transport, including reduction of the use of conventional fuels and replacement of exhaust devices;
monitoring the actions of municipalities in implementing municipal programmes to reduce concentrations of fine particulate matter;
developing a national programme for ambient air quality and reducing total annual emissions.
Implementation of infrastructure measures for flood risk management, including ecosystem-based solutions - floodplain restoration, improved water retention, biological bank strengthening, design and construction of protective infrastructure and hydraulic engineering facilities;
National Water Programme aimed at providing clean drinking water and wastewater treatment facilities in smaller settlements;
Implementation of a new package of energy efficiency measures in public buildings, with funding from the National Ecological Trust Fund through greenhouse gas emissions trading.
2. Conservation and utilization of natural resources for development and growth
Implementation of comprehensive conservation and sustainable resource use measures in the Water, Waste, Nature and Biodiversity sectors, balancing conservation functions with green economic growth catalyst functions - measures to conserve and restore ecosystems and the services they provide for the benefit of local economic development;
Implementation of the National Pilot Programme to support municipalities in the efficient use of mineral water resources -
Replacement, construction or extension of infrastructure for the transmission or supply of mineral water to users, reservoirs, heat exchangers, operating and abstraction equipment,
to protect the resource,
stimulating the local economy,
attracting investors
and the development of profitable economic activities;
Implementation of demonstration/pilot projects to collect, synthesize, disseminate and implement new, non-traditional measures, good practices and management approaches in the field of waste management, as well as the introduction of new technologies;
Defining and implementing a national approach to the management of Natura 2000 protected areas.
Establish structures directly involved in the management of protected areas on the ground and put in place an effective management mechanism through planning documents;
Updating and ensuring the implementation of the measures of the National Priority Action Framework for Natura 2000 to achieve the objectives of the European nature conservation directives;
Building on measures to decentralise the administrative approach to protected area management by developing procedural rules to broaden the participation of all stakeholders in policy making;
making science-based decisions;
debate for social consensus in decision-making;
Creating an effective platform for interaction between the state and the scientific community for the implementation of state conservation policies.
3. Focus on prevention and control
Comprehensive preventive measures to avoid damage to ecosystems and human health by assessing the risks of all factors affecting the environment;
Prevention and management of flood risk in settlements according to the developed "Flood Risk Management Plans".
Continue the practice of regular inspections for unregulated dumps that could create the conditions for pollution and flooding;
raising public awareness and the level of preparedness of the population;
Phased establishment of a national real-time water management system - monitoring and forecasting rainfall and river runoff, for rational management of water resources and improved flood and drought risk forecasting;
Establishment of 6 centres to enhance population preparedness and adequate response to floods;
Introduction of measures to optimize preventive action, in the direction of simplification of the procedures of the investment process - balancing the activities subject to EIA, elimination of redundant procedures and reconciliation of requirements where applicable;
improving the integration of emergency safety into heavy industry management;
Supplementing the functions and powers of the officials carrying out the protection and control in the protected areas of the following categories: reserve, maintained reserve and national park, aimed at improving the effectiveness of the work,
ensuring that the conservation objectives of their natural components are met; and
synchronisation of the powers of the park rangers with the authorities guarding the forest areas;
Apply systematic, transparent and effective controls and impose adequate and dissuasive sanctions;
A fivefold increase in penalties for hydropower plants in the Water Act as an effective measure with a disciplinary effect;
Comprehensive checks involving all competent control bodies.
4. Awareness.
Transparency.
Education
Raising awareness of environmental policies, environmental education and active citizenship, with a focus on caring for people, their expectations and specific needs;
Development of the national environmental monitoring system;
Providing real-time information to citizens (with an air quality focus);
Introducing new, additional tools and mechanisms for the implementation of environmental policies - public participation beyond the strictly regulated forms of public consultation, in order to involve them in important environmental debates, and also using the expertise of the scientific, academic and civil society communities;
Effective cooperation between the administration, the civil sector and the business sector to develop favourable conditions for reconciling innovation, technological, financial, managerial and expert skills from the private sector with a stable regulatory framework and security from the state;
Systematic upgrading of the information portal of the Ministry of Environment and Water, in order to maintain and develop its functionality and dynamism, as well as to establish it as a highly effective information channel at the service of citizens, businesses and interested institutions;
Continuing and building on the Ministry's traditional campaigns that have proven to be effective, including the "It's Cool to be Eco" educational and information campaign, with a focus on environmental education of adolescents on key green issues;
Organisation of information campaigns aimed at stimulating recycling and reducing the amount of landfilled waste, in line with European and national policy objectives in the sector;
Improving the awareness of the population about the Natura 2000 network and its benefits, increasing the capacity of national and local authorities.
Agriculture, food, fisheries, forests
We will continue to develop balanced agriculture and market-oriented, competitive farms.
Priority will remain given to intensive sectors - livestock farming, vegetable growing, fruit growing and organic production.
We will again focus on supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, which have a significant share in the development of the country's traditional production areas.
We propose policies to support Bulgarian production by improving market access, marketing conditions for agricultural produce and shortening the producer-consumer chain.
1. Sustainable agriculture
1.1 Land reform for sustainability, commensuration and treatment of agricultural land as a natural resource for national food security.
1.2 Hydraulic reclamation - development of effective irrigated agriculture led by irrigation associations;
effective risk prevention by the state.
Implementation of the Strategy for the Management and Development of Hydraulic Reclamation and Protection from the Harmful Effects of Water, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 17 August 2016.
1.3 Implement an integrated approach to prevention and management of risks and crises.
Completion of the construction, implementation and real operation of a new hail control system covering the whole country.
1.4 Science and innovation in agriculture.
The main task of agricultural science is to be a working tool for generating innovative policies in the agricultural sector and at the same time to be useful, accessible and leading for business.
2.Competitive and market-oriented agriculture
Flexible management of financial support instruments with a focus on SMEs.
Establish conditions for support, stimulating and profitable agricultural production and market equity.
2.1 Financial support:
2.1.1 National support measures:
Continuation of the existing state aid schemes, including in the form of a discount on the value of excise duty on gas oil used in primary agricultural production and tax breaks for investments in agricultural holdings;
Introduction of new state support schemes - for the establishment of farmers' markets and other investments to improve farmers' market access and facilitate their development;
Provision of financial resources for the implementation of transitional national aid schemes in crop and livestock production.
2.1.2 European support measures:
Successful Bulgarian EU Presidency to achieve:Defending a strong and adequate CAP by:
Securing the budget;
Real simplification;
Introducing risk management tools.
Pillar 1 - Direct area payments
Maintain support;
Increase flexible coupled support;
Simplified "green measures" with real impact on farms.
Pillar IIFocus on investments to improve the competitiveness of Bulgarian agriculture;
Instrument for interest-free financial engineering;
Sustainable investments in rural development.
Third pillarIntroduction of risk management measures in agricultural activity:
natural and epizootic risks
price volatility
development of new markets
2.2 Human Resources
A higher level of education of farmers would improve the adaptability of the sector to the increasing volatility of agricultural markets and increase the capacity to seek new business opportunities and apply innovative production techniques within agriculture.
Implementation of training and professional development programmes for Bulgarian farmers.
2.3 Institutional support through electronic administration:
2.3.1 Facilitate administrative procedures and ensure transparent, accessible, objective and efficient management of administrative processes by:
Establishment of a single electronic register of agricultural land, agricultural areas used and farmers;
Introduction of a unified electronic platform for the management of municipal and state land - lease and sale by the Ministry of Agriculture and municipalities;
Establishment of a unified geo-information web portal of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food with the possibility to publish and access electronic administrative services, including those related to spatial data.
2.3.2 Electronic identification and electronic animal health control.
2.3.3 Development of a single integrated information system in the agricultural sector in accordance with the strategic objectives defined in the "Strategy for the Development of e-Government in the Republic of Bulgaria 2014-2020".
3. Continue policies of balanced and diversified agriculture
Livestock and fruit and vegetable production, as well as organic farming, remain our top priority and we will use all opportunities to promote their development, namely the
application of coupled support.
Small and medium-sized farms in crop and livestock production will receive additional support through the redistributive payment mechanisms, while support for large farms will be limited to a set amount.
The granting of coupled support will be based on criteria of higher quality, productivity and competitiveness of livestock production.
Implementation of State aid schemes.
Providing land use advantages.
Providing competitive advantages in project financing under the 2014-2020 RDP and/or other instruments.
Strengthening controls to ensure compliance with organic production requirements, in order to increase consumer confidence.
Promoting the benefits of organically produced food and products for human health.
4. Animal health and prevention
Introduction of new requirements for the means of identification of animals and bee colonies - use of electronic identifier and individual identification plate for bee colonies.
Ensure an adequate system for collection and disposal of animal by-products in Bulgaria by expanding the current system to include four new animal waste management sites.
Announcement of a concession for the construction of a new plant for the processing of animal by-products not intended for human consumption and its management and operation, on the land of the town of Bishkek. Угърчин, област Ловеч.
5. Food
We propose policies to strengthen the role of producers in the food supply chain.
They will contribute to increasing consumer confidence in Bulgarian products and more consumer choice.
Specifically, we envisage:5.1 Adoption and implementation of a new food law;
5.2 Implement policies to protect Bulgarian food producers;
5.3 Increasing the share of domestically produced food available commercially,
promoting good and curbing unfair trading practices in the food supply chain;
Promote the use of domestically produced raw materials;
Improving the opportunities for presentation and marketing of Bulgarian food produced according to BDS (established or industry standards), as well as food and wine with a protected geographical indication or protected designation of origin;
Measures to support the marketing of Bulgarian seasonal fruit and vegetables by creating more flexible access and supply options in retail chains;
Establishing mechanisms to protect and compensate producers in the event of a chain failure;
Enhancing the role of the state in supporting the country's agricultural exports through expert administrative and technical assistance.
6. Fisheries and aquaculture
A key priority for fisheries management is to ensure the sustainable use of natural resources and protect ecosystems from overexploitation, while taking into account the high social function of fisheries in coastal areas.
Of particular importance in this context are the sustainable development of small-scale fisheries, and the opportunities for diversification of the sector through the integration of additional activities related to primary processing and the self-marketing of catches.
In the face of increasing global demand for fish and fishery products, aquaculture farms have a key role to play in providing the necessary food supplies.
7. Burn
A key objective of the programme is to place forests at the heart of achieving a green economy and to value the benefits that forests provide in a sustainable way while ensuring their conservation.
7.1 Reduce the use of wood from mature forests at the expense of growing young forests to meet the needs of the national market;
7.2 Sustainably maintain, conserve and enhance the country's forest resources, regardless of ownership:
Improve prevention and control for the protection of green wealth by upgrading electronic and remote monitoring and public control methods by 2018;
Improve fire safety in forests by completing a unified fire surveillance system in forest areas by the end of 2018;
Increase investment and forestry care to restore vulnerable and damaged forest area and by increasing reforestation in public forests annually and reaching 30 thousand acres in 2020.
7.3 Introduce the concept of ecosystem services from forests for their socially equitable and sustainable management, including through RDP measures:
Mapping and completing the network of old-growth forests, forests of high conservation value, recreational and protective forests (primarily protective afforestation) to support biodiversity policies and
disaster prevention by 2020;
Further diversification of revenues in the forestry system based on the development of organic production,
development of mountain sports and
different types of tourism, with the relative share to increase by 100% by 2020.
7.4 Development and improvement of relations with the civil sector and transparency of the forest management system for multifunctional forest management;
7.5 Increase the efficiency of public forest management for the development of a national green economy and modern forest industry
Completion of the certification process for state forest areas;
Investment in modern environmental machinery throughout the period;
Increase by 100% the investment for the purchase and consolidation of small inefficient forest plots;
7.6 Supporting the national forest harvesting and processing industry
and furniture manufacturing and local companies
through the continuation of measures for preferential allocation of wood raw material to Bulgarian and local processors and long-term contracting at the expense of trade in raw materials to third countries until the end of 2018.
7.7 Building the capacity and competencies of forest structures and staff for adaptive management under climate challenges
7.8 Restoring the authority and glory of Bulgarian hunting in the context of European policies.
Transport
1.Effective maintenance, modernisation and development of transport infrastructure
1.1 Rail infrastructure - modern, environmentally friendly, accessible
Purchase of new trains;
Construction of the railway line Sofia - Septemvri;
Construction of the railway section Sofia - Voluyak, part of the railway junction Sofia;
Modernization of the railway line Plovdiv - Burgas, Phase 2;
Modernization of the railway line Dragoman - Sofia;
Modernization of the railway junction Plovdiv;
Restoration of the design parameters of the railway line Ruse - Varna.
1.2 Road infrastructure - safe and modern road infrastructure
1.2.1 Introduce a fairer model for road pricing by introducing a mixed system: an electronic vignette for cars and a toll for heavy goods vehicles.
1.2.2 Completion of the country's Ring Road and upgrading of the road network:
Accelerated completion of Hemus Motorway;
Completion of Struma Motorway (Blagoevgrad - Sandanski);
Construction of the Ka Lotina-Sofia Motorway;
Tunnel under Mt. Shipka;
Ruse - V. Tarnovo,
Vidin - Sofia expressway; completion of the Southern arc of the Sofia ring road;
Burgas - Sunny Beach, Plovdiv bypass.
1.3 Metro/intermodal terminals
Sofia Metro Extension
Construction of the third metro line in Sofia, Stage I, in the section "Sofia Blvd. Vladimir Vazov" - central part of the city - ul. "
Preparations for the construction (design) of an intermodal terminal in the city of Plovdiv. Varna and the town of Varna. Vidin.
2. Attracting investment and professional management of transport infrastructure and facilities
Concession of the civil airport for public use Sofia;
Concession of the object "Intermodal terminal in South Central planning region of Bulgaria - Plovdiv";
Concession of the civil airport for public use Plovdiv;
Concession of the port terminal Zimovnik, Plovdiv, Bulgaria; Concession of the port terminal Zimovnik, Plovdiv, Bulgaria.
Granting of concession of port terminal Ruse-West;
Granting of concession of port terminal Ruse-East-1 and port terminal Ruse-East-2
Granting of concession of airport Balchik.
3. Increasing the security and safety of the transport sector, introducing intelligent transport systems
Implementation of ERTMS on the routes of the main Trans-European Transport Network on Bulgarian territory;
Extension of the functionality of the RIS and VTMIS systems;
Introduction of a system of electronic charges for the use of roads by heavy goods vehicles (electronic vignette for cars and toll for heavy goods vehicles);
Introduction of the concept of free flight planning in the functional block of the Danube airspace in accordance with the requirements of European legislation;
Feasibility studies for Port Communit
4. Implementation of the principles of liberalisation of the transport market
Ensuring transparent and non-discriminatory conditions for access to the market and to transport infrastructure;
Ensuring conditions for fair competition between and within the different modes of transport;
Exploring and creating opportunities for the provision of public passenger rail services at regional level;
Enhancing the control of the performance of passenger carriers in order to increase the quality of the service offered.
5. Improving service quality in the rail sector
Improving the financial situation of commercial companies and state-owned enterprises in the sector;
Modernising and renewing rolling stock;
Introducing new information systems for passenger services;
Conducting a more effective marketing policy;
Improving the interaction between modes of transport;
Maintaining a high level of professional competence of employees in the sector.
6. Limiting the negative impact of transport on the environment and human health
Encouraging the development of rail, water, intermodal and metro transport as more environmentally friendly modes of transport;
Reducing harmful emissions from transport and noise pollution;
Developing transport schemes and technologies that meet modern environmental and climate requirements;
Strictly respecting the "polluter pays" principle in transport development;
Upgrading transport rolling stock and incorporating more high-tech and innovation.
Economics
There are two main problems facing the economy, the solution of which would lead to sustainable economic growth - the administrative burden on business
and the lack of a developed capital market.
1. Removing administrative burdens for business
According to the existing legislation, in order to receive a certain service from the state, the business has to prove a number of circumstances (lack of debts to the NRA/NRA, financial statements, current status, status of the enterprise, etc.).
This regime is particularly burdensome for micro and small enterprises that cannot dedicate staff to deal with this.
At present, the administration's only duty is to review the documents to ensure that there are no deficiencies and to issue the necessary certificate.
Under the current legislation, businesses bear the entire administrative burden.
We need to shift the burden from business to administration.
The business will certify compliance with the statutory requirements and consent to the circumstances being verified by completing a declaration.
In order to perform the service, the administration will procure the necessary documents itself from the relevant state or municipal organisation.
Taking over the administrative burden from the administration will indirectly stimulate the administration itself to introduce faster e-services and online registers in order to save internal administrative efforts for correspondence.
The measure includes the adoption of a special law on the elimination of administrative burdens.
It remains crucial to preserve the timelines for each service.
Removing administrative burdens on business will accelerate economic growth by allowing every enterprise to concentrate on its core business.
In addition, it will facilitate and stimulate business initiative and increase competition in public procurement.
2. Support for the development of economic zones
The Thrace Economic Zone project has proved to be a good investment for Bulgaria and for the people of the Plovdiv region.
More than €1 billion has been invested in 140 companies employing more than 15 000 people.
Unemployment in Plovdiv and the region is at a record low.
Based on this experience, support for the development of such economic zones is envisaged, through the construction of supporting infrastructure, partial investment reimbursement for projects certified as Class A, exemption of insurance contributions (through reimbursement), employment support through qualification and retraining, etc.
These opportunities are set out in the Investment Promotion Act - the measure will be achieved by substantially increasing the budget of the Ministry of Economy (the Investment Agency) in order to implement more such projects.
Many of the district centres and their neighbouring municipalities lack suitable sites for such projects.
The possibility of transferring military land with obsolete necessity to the ownership of municipalities free of charge is envisaged.
Based on a socio-economic analysis, the Investment Agency will identify potential areas and their concentration.
The Minister of Economy and AI will implement a major programme to promote economic zones abroad.
3. Support for capital market development
At the end of 2016, a Capital Market Development Board was established with the participation of all stakeholders in the sector.
A strategy with 14 concrete steps was developed in a very short timeframe.
It states that one of the main reasons for the underdeveloped capital market is the lack of state policy.
The measure provides support to the executive and the legislature for the implementation of all measures of the Capital Market Development Strategy.
This will allow the generation of investment in the development of the economy.
For example, pension funds in Bulgaria already manage nearly BGN 11 billion, of which only 9% are invested directly or indirectly on the BSE - that is, in the Bulgarian economy.
Energy
The development of the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria until 2030 with a horizon until 2050 should be in line with the Paris Agreement, as well as with the EU guidelines and priorities in the energy sector.
1. Energy security through own extraction
Continuing exploration in the deep Black Sea by conducting a prospecting and exploration procedure also on the Teres Block.
Support for advanced exploration in the Khan Asparuh Block and the Silistar Block to ensure competitive energy prices,
energy security
and significant revenues from concession royalties.
2. Energy security through the construction of interconnectors between Bulgaria and our neighbouring countries
We continue to work for Bulgaria's energy security through the construction and commercial operation of interconnectors with Greece, Serbia and Turkey.
3. Full liberalisation of the electricity and gas markets
Preparation of legislative changes related to the introduction of full liberalisation of the electricity and gas markets, in line with the World Bank report.
The liberalisation of the market will ensure equal and easy access of household subscribers to the free electricity and gas market and will end the dependence of subscribers on electricity and gas distribution companies.
In a fully liberalised market, the EWRC will only determine the network services of the companies.
4. Tackling energy poverty.
Protecting vulnerable users
The EU's Third Energy Package foresees that Member States identify vulnerable customers (under the Electricity Directive 2009/72) and put in place measures to alleviate their situation and have an impact on overcoming fuel poverty.
The definition of vulnerable customers, the definition of criteria and the corresponding support measures will enable the creation of an additional mechanism for the protection of vulnerable customers in the process of full liberalisation of the electricity market.
5. Nuclear power
Continuation of the life extension activities of Kozloduy NPP Units 5 and 6|.
Implementation of the decision of the Council of Ministers of 15.12.2016 on NPP Belene.
6. Energy efficiency measures for end users of natural gas
Stimulating energy efficiency measures for natural gas end-users through the possibility of applying for the /DESIREE GAS/ project; The
project is worth €10 million and aims to promote domestic gasification by initially investing in connecting around 10 000 households to the existing gas distribution network.
The expected effect is related to the reduction of air pollution through the substitution of fuels with high levels of air pollutant emissions by natural gas.
7. Attracting additional investment
Increasing the capital of individual energy companies by up to 20% through the stock exchange.
Tourism
For the first time we created an independent Ministry of Tourism
and PP GERB is the only party that appreciated the potential of the tourism industry as an engine for economic growth.
2016 was a record year for Bulgarian tourism with over 8 million and 200 thousand foreign tourists and a growth of 16.2%. And it has over 6.2 billion BGN in revenues and a growth of 15.4%.
Our goal is to establish Bulgaria as a year-round tourist destination with a quality tourist product, developing all types of tourism and entering the top 5 of Southeast Europe.
1. Cultural-historical tourism and tourist attractions
Our country's main competitive advantage is the potential that Bulgaria's cultural and historical heritage brings.
Through its promotion, we are rebranding the country as a preferred, competitive and popular destination among higher-end tourists.
Cultural and historical attractions lead to direct economic benefits for any locality or region that can offer such a tourism product.
Tourist attractions that are public state property will be prioritised for funding.
We will continue to work for accelerated economic growth of the individual regions by exploiting their tourism potential, which will contribute to raising the living standards of people on the ground.
We will also use the instruments of European solidarity, through the already established concept of tourist regionalisation.
2. Summer sea tourism and ZUCHK
We have a duty to the industry and local communities to continue the policy of creating optimal conditions to offer the highest quality and competitive product.
This will be a continuation of the measures that we launched in mid-2016 through the procedures we conducted for the concession of beaches with expired concession contracts.
We continue the policy of reducing the prices of beach accessories, and to this end we are committed to specific changes in the FACA regarding the grouping of beaches according to their individual characteristics.
3. Winter tourism and ski infrastructure development
We will create a normative basis for the development of mountain and ski tourism in winter resorts by regulating the procedure for creating new or expanding existing ski areas.
The construction of lift networks will ensure optimal access to the mountain ranges and stimulate the year-round development of specialised types of tourism products.
4. Balneo and SPA tourism
We propose that the municipalities acquire the right to manage the mineral springs in their territories, which will guarantee the development of the tourism industry and new jobs for local communities.
A public-private partnership regarding the management and optimal exploitation of mineral waters would accelerate the development of this type of tourism.
5. Golf tourism, eco, adventure, wine, gourmet and other types of tourism
We propose that the municipalities acquire the right to manage the mineral springs in their territories, which will guarantee the development of the tourism industry and new jobs for local communities.
6. Establishment of a Tourism Infrastructure Fund
We are making specific commitments to finance tourism infrastructure, through a dedicated financing mechanism and facilitated project funding for applicant sites.
The Tourism Infrastructure Fund will ensure targeted funding and sustainable development of already established national resorts, but also targeted funding of tourist attractions with insufficient socialisation.
7. Priority work on transport infrastructure leading to tourist destinations of national importance
We are committed to prioritising work on transport infrastructure leading to tourist destinations of national importance.
For example, the roads from Burgas Airport to Sunny Beach resort;
from Varna Airport to Sunny Beach resort. Albena;
the exit from Struma motorway to Bansko; the road from Sofia airport to the resort. Borovets;
the extension of the road Plovdiv - Asenovgrad as part of the direction Plovdiv airport - resort. Pamporovo.
8. Prioritisation of national resorts
We will engage in effective work to build the legal framework governing the status of our national resorts.
There is a need for a modern legal basis unifying the construction, maintenance and improvement of tourist infrastructure on the territory of national resorts.
There is a need for a common decision on the issues related to garbage collection and garbage disposal on the territory of the national resorts, as well as on the maintenance and improvement of green areas; the
organization of traffic and parking; the
placement of movable objects and facilities; the
provision of medical services; the
organization of working hours and the sound system in open areas.
9. Continuing the fight against the grey economy and improving the quality of the tourism product
Through the adopted amendments to the Tourism Act and the introduction of the Unified Tourist Information System, which will connect in real time the registers of hotels with the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Interior, the National Revenue Agency, the National Statistical Institute and municipalities, we will achieve a brightening of the sector,
ensuring the safety of tourists
and a more competitive product.
10. Regulation of apartment complexes
It is necessary to develop specific rules for the operation of apartment complexes so that their development is placed on a fair competitive basis with other players in the tourism industry.
11. Protection of the rights of consumers of tourist services
In order to guarantee the rights of citizens using tourist services, we envisage the creation of an effective institutional model in the form of a guarantee fund.
It will oblige tour operators to provide prompt and real compensation to their customers in the event of non-fulfilment of a planned tourist trip.
12.Tourist Inspectorate
Dedicated tourism control is a long-standing desire of those in the tourism industry.
It is mainly driven by the desire to fight unfair competition. We envisage a specialised control unit.
It is about the transfer of functions from the Commission for Consumer Protection to the newly formed body, without increasing the administration.
13.Tourist police
Today's security challenges require a comprehensive approach and sustained efforts.
In order to ensure Bulgaria's image as a safe tourist destination, we will implement targeted actions to structure a separate "Tourist Police" unit to operate on the territory of the national resorts and in the widely visited tourist spots.
14.Human Resources in Tourism
We propose the establishment of a vocational training centre at the Ministry of Tourism.
We propose to coordinate the curricula and programs in the Vocational Schools of Tourism with the Ministry of Tourism.
More internship programmes are needed to meet the specific needs of businesses, and young people's work habits need to be encouraged.
15. Marketing and advertising in tourism
So far we have relied on direct contact and work with leading international tour operators TUI, Der Touristik, Thomas Cook.
We need to make the most of the momentum gained from the opportunity to attract more than 8 million foreign tourists in 2016 alone, and to that end we need to dramatically increase national advertising funds.
All effective solutions to implement successful market models and practices require a reciprocal amount of resources in order to maintain our position given the active politics of our direct competitors in the sector.
16. Charter programmes
Deepening the strategic partnership with the leading tour operators in order to achieve sustainability of the growth in the tourist flow can be successfully combined with the creation of a financial mechanism that will guarantee a long-term increase in flights of low-cost airlines to the destination Bulgaria.
We will work to create a state charter program to be implemented in the "wings" of the summer and winter tourist seasons.
There is a need for a scheme to provide aid to airlines for the opening of new routes from Bulgarian airports with less than 3 million passengers per year under the European Commission's Guidelines on State aid to airports and airlines (2014/C 99/03).
17. Reducing the administrative burden on business
Introduction of a model of investment incentives and upgrading of the physical base, in line with the principles of sustainable development.
The institutionalization of this mechanism will be finalized through the steps to turn the Ministry of Tourism into a one-stop-shop for strategic investors in tourism.
It is important to have a single channel of communication for the implementation of administrative procedures in case of interest from strategic investors.
We will strive to ease the procedures for certification of spa, wellness and thalassotherapy centres, as well as those related to the categorisation and recategorisation of accommodation and catering facilities, etc., by burdening the administration and requesting the data ex officio.
Youth and Sport
1. Priority in this programme are legislative changes necessary for a comprehensive reform of Bulgarian sport.
First of all is the Draft Law on Physical Education and Sport, which was approved by Decision of the Council of Ministers No. 690 of 19 August 2016.
It will be discussed and adopted in the next National Assembly.
Regulations will also be developed based on the new law.
An impact analysis of the proposed regulatory changes will be prepared and strict monitoring of sports organisations will be introduced.
2. Sport policy for students and leisure sports
The actual change in this policy is feasible through a specific program for reconstruction, modernization and complete construction of sports facilities in Bulgarian schools.
The programme also includes concrete ideas for funding.
The current picture is as follows: 61% of the schools in the country have sports facilities (in many cases the gyms are undersized and not up to the standards and needs of the students, including unified and adapted sports facilities).
Thirty-nine per cent of educational establishments do not have sports facilities, however, half of them stated that they have the necessary space to build a sports field.
We have an accurate assessment of the state of the existing sports school facilities and the place of sport among the adolescents and young people of Bulgaria.
Negative phenomena have been registered, such as the fictitious holding of physical education classes due to the lack of conditions for this, as well as the outflow of students who wish to engage in sports activities and a sharp deterioration in the physical health of young people.
Another important goal is to optimize the management and development of grassroots sport in municipalities.
We put emphasis on improving the interaction, coordination and cooperation of municipalities with the Ministry of Youth and Sports in order to support their activities for the development of grassroots sport.
Work will be carried out to build and improve the quality of sports infrastructure by building, upgrading and equipping outdoor multi-purpose sports grounds and facilities in cooperation with municipalities.
3. Sport policy for excellence
Reforms in elite sport with efficient management of resources and their market-based targeting of areas with tradition, international success and sports with strong social impact.
Focus on organising and hosting top level competitions of sports meeting the same criterion.
Excellent conditions and opportunities will be created for successful performance at European and World Championships and at Olympic Games.
We will refine the way, methodology, criteria and indicators for funding sports clubs in line with the Sports Club Development Programme.
We will direct the saved financial resources to grassroots sport and grassroots structures, as well as to national youth and junior teams.
Conditions will be created for the development of children with outstanding sports talent and building a reserve for the elite sport of Bulgaria.
Reform in sports schools.
Improving the conditions for sport and learning in them and turning them into effective learning institutions.
We will strive to reach more students in the Olympic units of sports schools, as well as to support projects to improve the efficiency of the teaching and training process.
4. A policy for the maintenance of the sports facilities in a condition that meets modern international standards.
Modernization of sports facilities.
Construction and reconstruction of sports halls in district centres with a capacity of up to 1,500 seats, of pitches and training sports facilities for the practice of elite and grassroots sport and provision of access for people with disabilities in them.
Using the opportunities of European programmes and projects to bring sports facilities at regional level up to international standards.
Improving energy efficiency and applying modern construction technologies in the implementation of renovation works.
Improving conditions for investment in sport with transparency and public scrutiny.
5. We will strive to expand the role of science in sport
We are creating a state-of-the-art scientific centre for innovation that will provide guidance in the development of athletes and coaches in Bulgaria.
We aim to move closer to the leading nations in sports science and to maximise the role of new technologies.
We will learn and apply international best practices in sport.
We will be committed to the prevention and control of doping in sport at all levels.
6. Policy towards young people
We will insist on the updating of legal, regulatory and strategic documents in the field of youth policy in order to ensure that the legislation is in line with the needs of young people in the country.
We will promote young people's civic engagement and social inclusion through participation in new funding programmes for youth activities.
We will strengthen and expand the network of youth information and counselling centres in the country.
We will introduce mobile centres with experts, representatives of line ministries, to offer services to young people in our country.
We will strive to raise the level of awareness of young people in the country and stimulate their participation in the process of implementation and monitoring of youth policy in the country.
We will work in synergy with the Municipality of Varna for an optimal presentation within the Youth European Capital 2017 initiative.
