POLITICAL MESSAGE
PP GERB is a center-right party that shares and imposes through its policies the values of freedom, democracy and the rule of law.
We will work for the realisation of a social market economy and for a society empowering the enterprising, ambitious and willing to succeed citizens.
WHERE IS BULGARIA NOW
The rule of the parties from the triple coalition - BSP, NDSV and DPS - managed from 2005 to 2009 to create more problems for the country than to solve:
- The level of political corruption and dependence on oligarchic interests is high.
Factors and dependencies outside the parties legitimately elected by Bulgarian voters determine decisions of public and national importance.
Corruption has become an element of the functioning of politics.
The sharp decline in the efficiency of state and public governance hampers business development.
Untransparent business, political and criminal schemes have become a parallel source of income, mindset and behaviour of the government.
- Necessary structural reforms have not been successfully implemented and in some sectors have not even been initiated.
The global financial crisis has been denied by the Government for a long time, delaying the possibility of a timely and adequate anti-crisis programme and strategy. - The
severe demographic situation continued to worsen, manifested in a declining and ageing population; an
increase in the number of people with little or no education, emigration of a high number of able-bodied Bulgarians, leading to a limitation of the reproduction of the labour and intellectual potential of the nation.
- The productivity of those employed in Bulgarian production remained low.
- The state of basic infrastructure is poor and without improvement.
- The absorption of EU funds is weak and inefficient.
Due to mismanagement some of the EU funds for Bulgaria were stopped in a period of financial and economic crisis.
As a result of these weaknesses, the economic policy of the Stanishev cabinet led to an unbalanced and false growth of the Bulgarian economy.
It has translated into high indebtedness, inflation, a shortage of skilled labour and low competitiveness.
The accumulated imbalances in the economy, the inability to respond to the crisis through real measures and the lack of will to solve the problems have exhausted the trust of the Bulgarian citizens in the main state institutions.
These problems have also damaged our country's international credibility and leave it in an unfavourable and risky position at a time when the world is facing one of the biggest financial crises in its history.
THE FUTURE WE ASPIRE TO
PP GERB shares the conviction that the development of the country should follow a model based on the leading role of the free citizen and the
provision by the state of opportunities for the development of economic initiative at all levels.
This will not happen unless it is combined with accelerated real income growth
and better financing of key social sectors and the development of universally accessible public services.
This is the only way to achieve what the Bulgarian citizens want - a significant improvement in the quality of life of the people and bringing the Bulgarian standards of living closer to the European ones.
It is urgent to implement a clear and categorical change at all levels of the governance of the state, the style of politics, morality and norms by which Bulgarian society functions.
OUR GOAL IS TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE
The main goal of GERB's governance policy is change, which should be expressed in the modernisation of the social, political and economic life in the country in line with European norms and standards.
To achieve it, we make it the core of our long-term political and governance strategy.
We declare our political will to bring about change through maximum support for economic enterprise at all levels
and in accordance with the fundamental values of freedom and justice.
This is the only way to revive and revitalise the Bulgarian economy by developing its traditional sectors and using the currently available resources and opportunities of the state.
We will become attractive to investors and the application of European norms of political life and economic behaviour will restore the country's credibility as a reliable partner and member of the EU.
In the lives of the citizens, the change will lead to the achievement of income levels ensuring a decent standard of living,
affordable and quality healthcare and good health status of the population,
good education and career development in the country.
We believe that the success of every Bulgarian citizen is the basis for achieving the public success of our country and deserved national self-esteem.
We will achieve these goals by being guided by the following core values:ECONOMIC FREEDOM
We are convinced that only free people, with equal access to all economic opportunities, can not only become materially rich, but also feel satisfied with their lives, and achieve their full dignity in a society they like.
That is why PP GERB defends the principle of freedom for the individual and business,
promoting competition and free initiative.
COMPETITION WITH CLEAR RESPONSIBILITIES AND RULES
Enrichment and economic progress are only possible in a competition between equals.
We believe that Bulgarians are capable, hard-working and honest people who can successfully cope with the challenges of life and will do it even more successfully when they have the opportunity to play an active, not a passive role, the rules are clear and apply to everyone equally.
A LIMITED BUT TARGETED ROLE FOR THE STATE
We share the conviction that the state should participate in economic life in a way that does not harm people's economic freedom while preserving moderate social functions.
In order to achieve our policy objectives, we will be guided by the following BASIC PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNANCE:1. THE RULE OF LAW AND THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE JUDICIARY
Without a functioning and independent judiciary, the efforts for economic and administrative reforms, the fight against corruption, organised crime and ensuring the security of citizens, the effective absorption of EU funds would be impossible.
For PP GERB it is a priority to accelerate the processes related to the implementation of the measures and indicators recommended by the EU for reforming the judiciary through the development of mechanisms guaranteeing the speed of procedures, quality and independence of the judiciary.
2. QUALITY LEGISLATION
Introduction and use of a procedure for evaluation, publication, discussion and economic analysis of legislative proposals.
Adopting only those of them that unequivocally guarantee the stable development of the country and increase the welfare of society.
3. INCREASING THE ADMINISTRATIVE CAPACITY OF THE PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
Streamlining the civil service and making it more efficient is a major task of our government.
It is part of the process of modernising the country and the functions of governance that will allow us to govern better and meet European requirements.
This can be realised by abolishing the practice of constant swarming of new ministries and expansion of bureaucracy.
Introduce quality assessment systems for each ministry and incentives for quality service in order to increase the efficiency of the civil service.
4. OPENNESS, TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY
Management decisions and public spending are subject to mandatory rules on publication of information, transparent decision-making, setting clear objectives, regular reporting on the level of achievement of the objectives and ex-ante and ex-post evaluation of the effectiveness of spending.
5. COOPERATION WITH CIVIL SOCIETY
Only constant consideration of the public interest and the views of different social, demographic, professional and business groups can make management decisions useful to society.
Maintaining a constant dialogue with civil society organisations and taking into account their positions and expertise is a guarantee for a correct, effective and fair policy.
KEY MANAGEMENT PRIORITIES
GERB's political and managerial efforts reflect our understanding of the nature of the existing problems and our vision for overcoming them:
RESTORING AND ENSURING JUSTICE IN BULGARIAN SOCIETY
ACHIEVING PROSPERITY AND WELL-BEING FOR BULGARIAN CITIZENS
IMPROVING SOCIAL SECURITY. CREATING A FAVOURABLE AND
A HEALTHY LIVING ENVIRONMENT TO ENSURE THE PERSONAL AND PUBLIC HEALTH OF
PEOPLE
DEVELOPMENT OF THE NATION'S HUMAN CAPITAL FOR HIGHER NATIONAL
SELF-CONFIDENCE AND SUCCESS OF EVERY CITIZEN
MAKING BULGARIA A MAJOR FACTOR OF STABILITY IN THE REGION AND THE WORLD, A RESPECTED MEMBER OF THE EUROPEAN UNION
1. RESTORING AND ENSURING JUSTICE IN BULGARIAN SOCIETY
Bulgarian society suffers from a lack of justice.
It is expressed in the refusal to respect basic norms and laws in the country, in
impunity for criminal acts and ineffective administration of justice, in
corruption
and the growth of organised crime.
This state of affairs does not allow for the expected equitable governance of the country to take place, to give citizens a chance to realize their opportunities and strategies for personal development and advancement.
The lack of justice makes the citizens of Bulgaria unconvinced about the quality of the state institutions, the political system and democracy.
Restoring equity in a way that ensures its sustainability is a fundamental condition for the new governance policy to be implemented.
This priority will be achieved by implementing policies along the following lines:
1.1. PREVENTING AND COUNTERING CORRUPTION AND ORGANIZED CRIME
1.2. MAINTAINING INTERNAL ORDER AND SECURITY
1.3. REFORMING THE JUDICIARY
1.4. NEW STYLE OF ADMINISTRATION AND ELECTRONIC MANAGEMENT
1.1. PREVENTING AND COUNTERING CORRUPTION AND ORGANIZED CRIME
Corruption is the most significant problem facing Bulgaria's long-term development.
Strong and sustained action is needed for better governance to restore people's confidence in democratic and market institutions and to restore the country's international image.
Preventing and countering organised crime and corruption, especially at the highest levels of government, cannot be a campaign, but must be woven into the institutional fabric of state governance.
GERB has the political will, the strength and the experience at the local level to uncompromisingly punish the manifestations of corruption and to reclaim the state institutions from organized crime.
Our policy in this area will follow the following MAIN PRIORITIES:PRIORITY I - Preventing and Countering High Level Corruption
Actions to be implemented:Effective implementation of the legal provisions on conflicts of interest and transparency of the financial and property situation of senior public officials;
Ensure clear political will and institutional mechanism at the highest level to cooperate with the judiciary to achieve effective punishment for corrupt acts at the highest levels of government;
Improve transparency and predictability in the design and implementation of key government policies and their implementation in the state budget;
Regulation of lobbying activities through the adoption of a qualitative Law on Lobbying;
Working with the EU to identify and tackle high-level corruption;
Ensure continuity of our anti-corruption policies at local level and the continuation of best practice at national level;
Regular monitoring and control of the main risk channels for corruption influence at the high levels of the state: electoral legislative changes, concessions, public procurement, licenses, privatization, financial supervision and control agencies (Customs, NRA, ADFI, AP, FSC, etc.);
Publicity and transparency in the activities of state-owned enterprises, especially in risky sectors such as energy.
PRIORITY II - Reduce and prevent corrupt practices in central and local administration
Actions for implementation:
Continuous improvement of the administrative capacity of the country's control system through the introduction of risk assessment systems, random distribution of controls, linking remuneration and career development to performance;
Regulation of clear and effective rules for interaction between citizens and administrative staff;
Transparency and active consultation with civil society and business in policy formulation and management decision-making;
Effective implementation and monitoring of the measures set out in the Code of Ethics for Senior Officials in the Executive Branch;
Using OLAF's administrative capacity and practices for the prevention and control of abuse.
Introduce more detailed rules for the personal conduct of employees, as well as for the detection and sanctioning of violations of the Code of Conduct for Civil Servants;
Mobility and rotation of staff in areas particularly sensitive to corruption pressure (Customs Agency, National Road Infrastructure Agency);
Monitoring compliance with the distinction between appointments to political offices and appointments of other staff;
Streamlining evaluation and career development procedures and internal selection competitions, and making appraisal mechanisms a viable tool;
Increasing the accountability of the administration to the public, including through the mechanisms and procedures for providing access to public information, an electronic register of complaints and signals and an electronic feedback system;
Improving the legal framework of the civil service and strengthening the effectiveness of the control over the work of the administrative structures in its implementation.
Priority II - Citizen Scrutiny and Enhanced Cooperation with Civil Society
Actions for implementation:
Partnering with NGOs in the process of developing anti-corruption policies and instruments, as well as in monitoring and evaluating their effectiveness;
Introducing training programs on good governance issues within the country's existing education system, as well as in the context of educational courses organized by civil society organizations.
Active international cooperation to introduce modern standards of transparency and control over business and the financial sphere.
RESULTS
Limiting corruption to the lowest levels in twenty years.
Improving the efficiency of public services and public spending.
Restoring Bulgarian citizens' trust in institutions.
Restoring the confidence of our European partners and international investors - abolishing the verification mechanism of the European Commission.
Overall improvement of the business environment and hence the productivity of the economy.
1.2. MAINTAINING INTERNAL ORDER AND SECURITY
Security is a key factor for the development of society and the prosperity of the nation.
The personal security of citizens activates their creative possibilities.
The security of the state and its authorities is an important prerequisite for the quantity and quality of investment in the national economy.
The lack of vision on the part of the current rulers for the development of the security and public order system, the chaotic and mutually exclusive reforms, the lack of a legislative basis for the activities of the main units in the system have led to an increase in organised crime
and corruption and a loss of credibility both domestically and internationally.
PP GERB will implement an integrated approach to reforming the security and public order system based on changes in the conceptual framework, legal acts and organizational reforms.
MAIN PRIORITIES
PRIORITY I - Enhancing the individual security of Bulgarian citizens and restoring their trust in the law enforcement system
Actions for implementation:
Implementation of a model for police work close to the society, which would transform it from an element of a force structure into an institution called to provide the service of "security" to the citizens;
Amendments to the Local Self-Government and Local Administration Act and the Ministry of Interior Act to decentralise the powers of the Ministry of Interior to local authorities.
Creating a municipal police force and bringing the rank and file to the ordinary citizen;
Reestablishment of the National Police Service and the General Directorate for Combating Organised Crime within the Ministry of the Interior;
Development and adoption of a National Security Strategy to identify the main risks, the country's priorities in this area and the overall organisational framework;
Preparation of a programme to optimise the regulatory framework in the security and public order sector;
Structuring the Security Council under the Council of Ministers and making it the main coordination centre of the security and public order system;
Introduction of an integrated information system for countering crime in order to improve coordination and coherence between all law enforcement and law enforcement agencies and institutions;
Reducing crashes and limiting the number of casualties from serious road accidents by:
Improved road and transport infrastructure
Increase the number of nodal points and high risk areas monitored by cameras
Optimisation of markings and signs on the main thoroughfares
Improving drivers' qualifications and monitoring the quality of their training.
PRIORITY II - Effective crime prevention with a focus on organised crime and corruption. Conduct prevention policies targeting the family, schools, income levels and the effectiveness of institutions dealing with offenders
Actions for implementation:
Adoption of a new Penal Code after a broad expert and public discussion;
Mobilization of the efforts of the competent expert community (magistrates, NGO sector, scientific potential, etc.) to form strategic and operational solutions;
Differentiation of offences into misdemeanors and felonies;
Revision of the system of punishments (e.g.
Formation of a Crime Prevention Council under the Council of Ministers to coordinate and implement state policy aimed at overcoming the conditions generating crime.
PRIORITY III - Building an integrated national security system to protect fundamental constitutional principles; real protection of citizens' rights and freedoms
Actions for implementation:
Clarification of the functional profile of the intelligence, counter-intelligence and MIA units and elimination of duplication of structures and functions;
Adoption of a sound legislative basis for the activities of all units of the Sector and establishment of real control over their activities, including parliamentary and judicial control;
Optimisation of the functions and structure of the MIA.
Building a new model of effective investigative policing through structural and organisational reorganisation of police agencies;
Reforming operational and investigative policing to increase the effectiveness of intelligence gathering on crime.
Unification of the structures for prevention, control and overcoming of the consequences of disasters and accidents and fire safety in the structure of the Ministry of Interior.
RESULTS
Increasing citizen security.
Reducing crime and serious car accidents.
Curbing corrupt practices at all levels, resolutely countering political corruption and opportunities for the state and its bodies to merge with organised crime.
An effective security and public order system.
Alignment of working conditions and social status of staff in different units.
Restoring civil society's trust in human rights institutions.
Establishing the Republic of Bulgaria as a reliable ally and partner in the security sector within NATO and the EU.
1.3. REFORMING THE JUDICIARY
The judiciary is one of the most criticised parts of the government both by Bulgarian citizens and European institutions.
Slowness, corruption, political influence, links with the criminal contingent are some of the serious criticisms of the system.
At the same time, the Bulgarian court, prosecution and investigation are subject to a number of legal exercises by different administrations during the transition.
The reform of the judiciary is the basis for the success of the policy of economic and administrative reforms, the
effective absorption of EU funds, the
fight against organised crime
and the guarantee of the citizens' security.
The goal of PP GERB is to reform the judiciary as quickly as possible so that it meets the European requirements and the expectations of the Bulgarian citizens for a fast, efficient and fair Bulgarian court, a
functioning prosecution
and efficient and effective pre-trial proceedings.
MAIN PRIORITIES
PRIORITY I - Changes in legislation to comply with the EC recommendations on the judiciary
Actions for implementation:
MAIN PRIORITIES
PRIORITY I - Changes in legislation to comply with the EC recommendations on the judiciary
Actions for implementation:
Developing a strategy for legislative changes based on practical law enforcement issues and European and international cooperation obligations;
More clearly defining the roles of the different actors in the pre-trial phase in gathering information, securing evidence, conducting the investigation and handing over materials for the trial phase of criminal cases.
Improving the interaction of the different actors in the pre-trial phase.
Reducing delays by improving the capacity of investigating police officers and streamlining their work.
Improving interaction between the prosecution and investigating police officers;
Streamlining the Criminal Procedure Code to improve efficiency in the pre-trial and trial phases, reduce delays and provide for guarantees related to delays;
Distinguishing between minor and serious crimes and updating definitions relating to new forms of crime
Enabling OLAF investigations to have direct evidentiary value for the Bulgarian criminal process;
Criminalizing computer crimes related to e-signature and e-document and developing an effective system to combat abuses in the practice of e-signature and e-document.
PRIORITY II - Ensuring speed, quality and transparency in the administration of justice
Actions for implementation:
Evaluating and amending the current procedural and substantive laws to define the reasons that hinder the speedy, accessible and fair administration of justice;
Improving the effectiveness of the High Judicial Council in terms of holding magistrates accountable for violations
and limiting the immunity of magistrates to strengthen the fight against corruption in the judiciary;
Improving the functions of the investigative police;
Reducing the time limits for bankruptcy and ensuring a quality assessment procedure through external
Clear definition and transparency for the proposed members of the Syndicate;
Creation of conditions for the effective functioning of the Unified Crime Fighting System;
Streamlining of property penalties for crimes related to organised crime, arms and human trafficking;
Decriminalisation of the most minor criminal acts and imposition of sanctions outside the Penal Code (e.g. work for the benefit of society);
Introduction of a unified information and registration system for the Ministry of the Interior and the Prosecutor's Office, as well as a unified registration system for notaries by creating a single entry number;
Implementation of changes in the Criminal Procedure Code aimed at:
preventing and limiting the practice of postponing cases due to the failure of an accused, defence counsel or expert witness to appear;
introducing disciplinary time limits for the trial phase in criminal cases;
analysis and subsequent change in the introduced institutes of agreement, summary trial and administrative punishment, which allow the imposition of low penalties, drastically contradicting justice and undermining public confidence in justice;
streamlining the regime for summons and service of documents;
Promoting restorative justice by enabling mediation for certain types of crime.
PRIORITY III - Establish internal control mechanisms against abuse of power and corruption in the judiciary
Actions for implementation:
Increase transparency and ensure public scrutiny of the administration and how it spends money;
Limiting conflicts of interest and undue influence in order to regain the trust of European institutions and restore European funding;
Clear allocation of the role of the Ministry of the Interior and SANS in gathering intelligence and evidence for the prosecution and pre-trial proceedings;
Development of uniform criteria for reporting on the performance of the different units in the judiciary (court, investigation, prosecution) in line with EC policies;
Strengthening the role of the anti-corruption commission in the Supreme Judicial Council, dealing with the investigation of corruption cases in the judiciary.
Ensuring the independence of the members of the Commission;
Reducing the quota of Parliament in the composition of the SJC.
PRIORITY IV - Introduction of a new unified electronic system for random and equal distribution of cases
Actions for implementation:
Development and introduction of a new unified electronic system for random and even distribution of cases and even workload of magistrates.
The Inspectorate of the SJC will monitor the work of the system; the
system will take into account possible conflicts of interest and provide up-to-date information on the distribution of cases, workload and results achieved.
PRIORITY V - Improving the recruitment of staff and establishing a system for improving the professional qualifications of those working in the judiciary
Actions for implementation:
1. Establishment of uniform criteria for selection and appointment of magistrates,
validation of the competitive beginning,
mandatory training of new magistrates and
mandatory subsequent qualification of magistrates;
2. Development and adoption of legal measures defining more clearly the role and functions of prosecutors in order to strengthen their independence as magistrates, guarantee the financial independence of the prosecution service as an institution.
RESULTS
Accelerating the processes related to the implementation of the measures and indicators recommended by the EU to reform the judiciary.
Improve and establish control mechanisms to ensure the speed of procedures, quality, transparency and independence of the judiciary.
Ensuring the legal protection of citizens and preventing changes motivated by political interests.
Strengthening the administrative capacity of law enforcement and judicial authorities to manage EU funds well and to fight corruption and organised crime.
1.4. STATE ADMINISTRATION
PP GERB will build a state administration that complies with the provisions of the laws and their implementation in the performance of its assigned functions.
We consider equally important the availability of sufficient resources and capacity in the specific sector and the management of horizontal policies for interaction between the different sectors of the public administration.
Our civil service policy will ensure and guarantee the non-alternative application of the law and laws, through equal interaction and administrative procedures by all sectors in the administration.
Our goal is to guarantee citizens' right to impartial, fair, transparent and informed governance by creating an effective, accountable and responsible administration.
MAIN PRIORITIES
PRIORITY I - Streamlining public administration, avoiding duplication of policies, powers and functions
Actions for implementation:
Improving the management and performance evaluation of the administration by introducing a system of key performance indicators;
Strengthening the professional civil service to eliminate unwarranted political interference in the work of administrations;
Introducing programme and results-based budgeting.
PRIORITY II - Building an effective system of functioning of the public administration with interaction between its different sectors
Actions for implementation:
Extending the scope of the civil servant status - managerial and all expert positions (including specialists);
Elimination of deviations from the general rules on the structuring of the administration and the status of employees (State Agriculture Fund, Court of Auditors, National Social Security Institute, municipal administrations, etc.);
Introduction of a human resources planning system adequate to programme budgeting, including in terms of staff workload;
Improving selection procedures while maintaining the mandatory nature of competitions for civil servants;
Improving the remuneration management system in developing opportunities to link remuneration to performance appraisals and results, including justified bonus schemes;
Improve the staff training system by improving procedures for planning and evaluating the effectiveness of training, strengthening the Institute of Public Administration and encouraging administrations to set up specialised training centres (similar to the School of Public Finance);
Introduction of a career and succession planning system.
RESULTS
Increasing the administrative capacity of the public administration.
Streamlining, including on costs and staffing levels - avoiding duplication of policies, powers and functions.
Improve strategic planning and reporting on the achievement of objectives.
Improving the efficiency of the public administration and citizens' satisfaction with the interaction with the administration.
2. ACHIEVING PROSPERITY AND WELL-BEING FOR BULGARIAN CITIZENS
At a time when the whole world is facing the challenge of the financial and economic crisis, Bulgaria should have its own answer, in the context of the general European and global efforts, how to move through this difficult path as quickly and painlessly as possible.
It is particularly important that we participate more actively in the debate and in the formulation of the European position on this issue, because we are aware that today's big problems can only find their right solution through common efforts.
It is important to restore people's confidence, to clearly highlight the new responsibilities in the global financial order and to stress that the real value is work, not the pursuit of quick speculation and reckless risks.
This important priority will be achieved by implementing policies along the following lines :
A RAPID EXIT FROM THE FINANCIAL CRISIS AND ECONOMIC RECOVERY.
LONG-TERM ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL POLICY
A NEW APPROACH TO MANAGING EU FUNDS
EFFICIENT AND ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY ENERGY
AGRICULTURE - THE BASIS FOR A NEW DEVELOPMENT OF THE COUNTRY
BULGARIAN TOURISM - ADVANTAGES GUARANTEE QUALITY
A MODERN AND INTEGRATED TRANSPORT AND INFRASTRUCTURE POLICY
2.1. A RAPID EXIT FROM THE FINANCIAL CRISIS AND ECONOMIC RECOVERY
Our country has entered a crisis of the real economy, a consequence of the global financial crisis and because of the economic policies pursued by the current government.
The alarming trends of deterioration of the macroeconomic indicators and the implementation of the 2009 budget outline the extremely risky situation of the Bulgarian economy and define the main priority of our short-term policy to counter the crisis.
MAIN PRIORITIES
PRIORITY I - Regular public dialogue on the crisis
Actions for implementation:
To create guarantees to increase EU confidence and unfreeze the suspended EU funds by opening up for cooperation with our EU partners;
Review of all violations of the individual EU programs so far and their immediate submission to the prosecution;
Increase the capacity of the audit and control units for the absorption of EU funds;
Speed up the processing and payment of projects that have not yet been processed
to speed up the processing for projects for the rehabilitation of municipal roads and thus will be and
Creation of a virtual information and consultation centre where free consultations can be made for all persons (consultants, beneficiaries, etc.) involved in the process of applying for funding under European programmes.
A special section will be set aside for municipalities, potential beneficiaries;
PRIORITY III - Agriculture - reviving traditions, creating new jobs
Actions for implementation:
Establishment of a Guarantee Fund for support of farmers under the Rural Development Programme, jointly financed by Bulgaria and a minority participation of a European or international financial institution, which will ensure greater transparency and control in the distribution of guarantees to banks;
Urgent accreditation of the identification system for livestock and notification to the EC of the possibility of paying subsidies per animal;
Timely notification to the EC of additional aid for farmers.
PRIORITY IV - Tax incentives - leaving the money with people and businesses
Actions for implementation:
1.Strengthening the control of public revenue collection and combating tax evasion fraud.
Develop, implement and enforce a financial and tax crime prevention programme.
Immediately hold accountable and prosecute all proven offenders;
Reduce the insurance burden by up to 5 percentage points to leave more disposable income for businesses and workers.
The effect of this measure is immediate and stimulates job retention and creation;
Relaxation of the accelerated VAT refund regime.
Transactions involving investments of at least BGN 10 million and 50 jobs created are now eligible for an accelerated return within 30 days.
This threshold should be lowered for investments up to BGN 5 million and 25 jobs created, so that smaller companies can also benefit from the accelerated recovery regime.
PRIORITY V - Improving the business environment
Actions for implementation:
Strict review of the existing regimes in terms of their legality and appropriateness;
Reduction of the number of regimes to facilitate business and limit opportunities for corruption;
Review and establish the actual levels of fees for permit licensing and other administrative regimes.
PRIORITY VI - Investment promotion
Actions for implementation:
Shortening the timeframe for processing requests to support investors by building industrial zones.
These reviews to take place every two months;
Allowing municipalities to assist investors in their territory by building infrastructure after public discussion and a decision of the City Council;
Increasing the number of existing classes of investors in order to have some of them assisted and administered by the state and the rest by municipalities.
PRIORITY VII - Improving the quality of education, skills and social measures
Actions for implementation:
Improve and effectively launch the existing state-guaranteed student loan scheme to promote the student lending segment;
Increase state support for home-based social patronage (social kitchens), especially in mountainous, small and remote locations from district centres.
PRIORITY VIII - Making full use of our membership in the European and international financial institutions (EIB, EBRD, WB, IFC, IMF)
Actions for implementation:
1. To express a clear position and commitment in the overall efforts to fight the crisis both at European and global level.
RESULTS
Efficient use of public spending
Easing the difficulties of businesses in times of funding constraints
Preserving and creating 200,000 new jobs
Creating the conditions for a rapid exit from the crisis and economic growth
2.2. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL POLICY
The main objective of economic and financial policy is to raise living standards and per capita incomes in the context of further European integration.
Aiming to bring Bulgaria's level of economic development closer to that of developed EU countries.
To achieve the above goal, PP GERB will follow the following priorities:
PRIORITY I - Maintaining macroeconomic stability
Actions for implementation:
A controlled shift to a policy of balanced budgets.
Fiscal policy should be geared towards containing the effects of the crisis, in line with the EU's Stability and Growth Pact;
Adoption of a new legal framework for planning and managing public finances and consolidation of the role of programme and results-based budgeting as the main method for managing public spending;
Optimise government spending by improving its efficiency through structural reforms;
Aim for a conservative policy in terms of taking on new government debt, but maintain the readiness to react quickly in case of risks to the country's financial stability;
A periodic review of the effectiveness and appropriateness of government programs - what they bring to society, whether the private sector can't do it, whether there is a balance between cost and quality in the services government provides to society.
PRIORITY II - Maintaining a tax and social security policy favourable to the development of Bulgarian business
Actions for implementation:
Reducing VAT theft and evasion.
Develop, implement and enforce a financial and tax crime prevention programme.
Immediately seek accountability and provide prosecution of all proven offenders;
Creation and implementation of a working unified information system, including state control structures such as NRA, customs, police, court, prosecution, as well as information from municipal administrations.
This system will ensure effective and quality control of business activity in real time;
Building an adequate material and information base to make optimal use of the capacity of the administration through a transparent and fair selection procedure for contractors;
Upskilling staff and linking pay to performance;
Simplifying the tax system to make it more transparent and understandable for taxpayers;
Aiming for the lowest taxes for businesses within the EU;
Reducing the insurance burden by up to 5 percentage points to leave more money in the hands of employers and workers and to incentivise employers to keep more workers in work.
The reduction in social security contributions will come at the expense of reducing inefficient government spending and the redistributive role of the state.
PRIORITY III - Preserving the stability of the currency board
Actions for implementation:
The Bulgarian central bank should be functionally, institutionally, personally and financially independent;
Bulgaria should develop a new national strategy for joining the euro area, in line with the new international environment and with a view to minimizing the negative effects of the global financial and economic crisis;
Activate the activities for obtaining a probationary period for Bulgaria's accession to EMU - 2;
Introduction of the euro in Bulgaria after the Maastricht criteria are met and the European Central Bank agrees to it.
PRIORITY IV - New privatisation strategy
In the last ten years, privatisation deals were carried out, some of which were implemented at low prices and the new owners remained monopolists.
On the other hand, the privatisation of important objects, such as Bulgartabac, hospitals, universities, etc., which lost part of their value in the economic and financial crisis, was delayed.
That is why PP GERB will propose the development of a new privatisation strategy.
Actions for implementation:
Revision of privatization deals where corruption schemes were used;
Holding accountable those involved in privatization deals with proven corrupt practices;
Privatization of objects only after the appearance of favorable conditions for the state.
PRIORITY V - Improving the concessioning process
Actions for implementation:
Revision of concession contracts concluded by previous governments and holding them accountable for damages caused to the state;
Accelerated concession of parts of Plovdiv and Gorna Oryahovitsa airports;
Concession of Danube ports;
Concession of railway stations, railway lines, sports facilities;
Effective control over the activities of concessionaires to ensure compliance with the conditions stipulated in the concession contracts.
PRIORITY VI - Support for small and medium-sized enterprises
Actions for implementation:
Reducing the minimum required capital for the registration of LLCs to one euro;
Improve access to information for SMEs by decentralising the SME Agency;
Reducing registration fees and implementing a universal reduction of administrative costs for businesses;
Develop measures that, within the framework of the Act on the Limitation of Administrative Regulation and Administrative Control over Business Activities (LOARAXD), ensure that the costs of its implementation (compliance, administration and control) are lower than the benefits derived from its introduction and administration.
The implementation of effective administrative controls together with the costs associated with its implementation;
Preparation of a full evaluation of the SOARAXD to identify changes that should improve the functioning and impact of the law.
Changes in the SOARAXD and its implementing rules to overcome the possibility of abusive practices by local and central authorities.
Re-examining all regulatory regimes with the participation of nationally represented employers' organisations with a view to limiting them;
RESULTS
Increasing the incomes and living standards of Bulgarian citizens and bringing them closer to average European standards.
Development of small and medium-sized businesses as a basis for the country's economic progress.
Achieving sustainable and organic economic growth based on higher productivity and economic competitiveness.
2.3 A QUALITATIVE APPROACH TO THE MANAGEMENT OF EU FUNDS
The EU funds earmarked for Bulgaria represent the practical expression of the Union's solidarity with Bulgarian citizens.
Providing these funds to Bulgaria aims to help the individual regions in Bulgaria in their process of regional, social and territorial cohesion with other EU regions, so that our country reaches the average European convergence criteria.
Experience in recent years has shown that the funds provided to our country through the European funds are not managed and absorbed in a way that meets the EU requirements.
So far, an extremely small part of them has been used - less than 1%, and the funds are distributed in a way that directs them to business circles close to the parties of the ruling coalition.
This naturally led to a loss of confidence in Bulgaria as a reliable European partner and to the freezing and final suspension of funds for major programmes.
The policy of PP GERB is aimed at fair, transparent and efficient management of EU funds in order to use them as a major resource for the recovery and revival of the Bulgarian economy to achieve a higher standard of Bulgarian citizens.
Priority I - Effective management of European funds
Actions for implementation:
Improving vertical and horizontal coordination between administrative units and publicity of results;
Establishing rules ensuring the necessary level of inter-ministerial coordination to avoid double funding of the same activities not only from different EU funds but also from national funds.
Ensuring complementarity between national investments and EU-funded operational programmes;
Timely publication of guidelines and instructions for project implementation, disclosure and compliance with the deadlines announced in the indicative programmes;
Enhancing administrative capacity by introducing a transparent performance-related system for motivating staff;
Ensuring the sustainability and stability of the system by ending the practice of political interference and political appointments to expert posts;
Reducing bureaucracy in terms of supporting documents in the application package, including minimising the documents required when applying.
Simplify the process and documents for reporting on the physical and financial implementation of projects;
Strengthen the system for the implementation and control of public procurement.
Strengthening ex-ante and ex-post control and audit of systems and project implementation.
Increasing the number of on-the-spot checks, while reducing the bureaucratic burden of documentation for beneficiaries;
Capacity building for planning, programming and implementation of projects at regional level;
Greater degree of decentralisation, including by introducing the principle of partnership at the planning stage of the EU funds management policy.
Decentralisation of the process of evaluation and control of small projects;
Establishment by law of mechanisms for real and effective involvement of local authorities and regional structures in the process of planning, programming and management of EU funds.
Updating state and municipal property legislation and sectoral legislation to facilitate the implementation of infrastructure projects.
Priority III - Ensuring transparency in the management of European funds
Actions for implementation:
Ensuring that all stakeholders have access to information on the rules and criteria at each stage of the EU funds management process;
Transparency of the evaluation process through the use of external evaluators in the evaluation committees, selected randomly by electronic means;
Disclosure of the results of the evaluation process and justification of the reasons for the rejection of projects;
Introduce the practice of ongoing evaluation and involve as wide a range of actors as possible in the process of evaluating the ongoing implementation of the programmes as well as in the evaluation of the final results for the programming period (2007-2013).
Priority IV - Fight against corruption in the management of European funds
Actions for implementation:
1. Establishing rules for active cooperation and coordination between all anti-fraud and anti-corruption units (including prosecutor's office, State Receivables Agency, etc.);
2. Establishing rules of action in case of misuse or suspected misuse of EU funds, including immediate notification to the relevant prosecution authorities, tax services, judiciary, etc.;
3. Review and revision of legislation in the area of avoiding conflicts of interest, which will lead to the elimination of existing or potential networks of conflicts of interest in the overall management of funds.
Priority V - Active communication and cooperation with European partners
Actions for implementation:
Establishment of a mechanism to ensure effective and professional communication with the relevant EU institutions for the timely resolution of emerging issues in the field;
Participation in the process of formulating the European cohesion policy, including in the dialogue initiated between the EC and the Member States to simplify the system for the management of funds.
RESULTS
Restoring the confidence of our European partners - the European Commission, the European Parliament and the EU Member States, as well as of the Bulgarian citizens, in Bulgaria's ability to manage EU funds in a conscientious, appropriate and efficient manner.
Increase the absorption rate in the medium and long term.
Ensuring transparency and control in the spending of funds provided by the European Union and monitoring and evaluating the impact of the funds invested.
Launching an effective procedure for the preparation of the country's new programming documents for the next EU programming period in line with the principles of the European Cohesion Policy and the Common Agricultural Policy and a broad partnership with local authorities and social partners as well as the general public.
2.4 EFFICIENT AND ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY ENERGY
The dynamic and anticipatory development of the Bulgarian economy is linked to technology and the supply of energy carriers from Russia.
Currently there are no supply alternatives, the technological security is outdated, the efficiency of the energy sector and of our entire economy is weak.
Today the Bulgarian energy sector is far from market principles, state ownership generates corruption, and the privatisation of parts of the Bulgarian energy sector show that it was carried out in the interest of the new owner and against the interests of the state and the population.
The health and stability of the energy sector is key to the development and success of any economy and is an essential part of a country's strategic options for sustainable economic growth.
In the complex and difficult situation for the Bulgarian energy sector, aggravated by the global financial and economic crisis and the lack of investment, PP GERB proposes quick and effective actions to solve the challenges in the energy sector as a priority.
MAIN PRIORITIES:
PRIORITY I - Increasing the efficiency of the Bulgarian energy sector and economy
Actions for implementation:
Providing incentive bonuses to companies and households for implementing energy saving measures and using energy efficient technologies and appliances;
Providing consultancy support and staff training programmes for the introduction of energy management in municipalities and small and medium-sized enterprises;
Incentivising the development and implementation of projects to reduce energy consumption in state and municipal buildings;
Reducing the statutory energy losses of energy producers and distributors.
PRIORITY II - Priority development of energy production from renewable energy sources - wind, water, sun, biofuels
Actions for implementation:
Ensuring a state policy to support private investment in renewable energy production;
Building a comprehensive national strategy to harness the country's hydro potential for electricity generation, launch new projects and develop a system of mini hydro power plants;
State support for infrastructure provision for wind and solar farms;
Changing regulatory and administrative procedures to facilitate the integration of renewable energy in the country's energy system.
PRIORITY III - Preserving the role of nuclear power
Actions for implementation:
1. Maintaining high safety standards and improving the energy efficiency of Kozloduy NPP;
2. Supporting the Belene NPP project as a private project;
3. Construction of a national radioactive waste repository and dry storage facility for spent nuclear fuel in accordance with the best international standards.
PRIORITY IV - Improvement of heat supply
Actions for implementation:
Modernization of district heating installations and networks through the application of modern high-efficiency technologies, combined heat and power generation, to reduce losses in the production and transmission of heat;
Improvement of methods for distribution, accounting and payment of energy consumed;
Introduction of approaches to diversify primary energy resources, such as the production of heat and electricity from waste treatment and renewable energy sources.
PRIORITY V - Preserving the role of indigenous coal in energy while meeting environmental and climate standards
Actions for implementation:
Completion of the rehabilitation projects and treatment facilities of the Maritsa-East power plants and the new plant on site;
Fulfillment of the country's obligations to bring all coal-fired power generation facilities into compliance with the environmental requirements of the EU directives;
Construction of new or replacement domestic coal-fired power generation facilities with mandatory use of modern high-efficiency and low-emission technologies with CO2 capture and storage;
Development of a state program to address greenhouse gas emissions (CO2 capture and storage) using emissions trading funds to secure the future operation of prospective operating power plants.
PRIORITY VI - Ensuring a balanced increase in domestic consumption of natural gas with guaranteed security of supply
Implementation actions:
Urgent construction of new interconnectors with neighbouring countries and ensuring reversibility of gas supply through the existing interconnectors;
Improvement of the efficiency of the existing gas storage capacity in Chiren and commencement of activities to secure a second national gas storage facility;
Exploration and development of new gas fields in the country;
Active support for the EU priority projects for diversification of gas supply and transit routes through the country;
Actively support and participate in the construction of a liquefied natural gas regasification terminal in cooperation with other countries in the region to share investments and make more efficient use of the terminal.
PRIORITY VII - Establishment of an efficient energy market, transparency of state energy companies, combined with enhanced protection of consumer rights
Actions for implementation:
Liberalisation of the internal energy market, to develop it towards a regional and single European energy market in line with EU legislation and practices;
Strengthening of the professional capacity and independence of the regulator;
Transparency and accountability of the state-owned companies in the energy sector;
Enhanced protection of consumer rights, including measures to ensure better quality energy supply at affordable and predictable prices for all, consistency between energy consumed, metered and paid for, and the introduction of administrative and civil mechanisms to speed up dispute resolution between consumers and their suppliers.
RESULTS
Development of an energy sector that ensures high competitiveness of the national economy,
limiting the harmful impact on the environment and climate
and real protection of the rights of every consumer.
Reducing the country's energy dependence through higher energy efficiency, use of domestic energy resources and diversification of energy carriers and their sources.
Full integration of the Bulgarian energy sector into the energy sector of the European Union in economic, technological, legislative and regulatory terms.
2.5. AGRICULTURE - THE BASIS FOR NEW DEVELOPMENT OF THE COUNTRY
Land, forests and biodiversity are the greatest and most precious wealth of our country.
The diversity of the natural, historical and social features of Bulgaria, as well as the current catastrophic state of the sector, determine the priority importance of the agricultural sector in the program of PP GERB.
Over the past 20 years, Bulgarian agriculture and forestry have undergone significant changes that have led to the current situation.
During this period, instead of market reforms to stabilise the manufacturing sector, inadequate policy decisions were taken that broke its commodity base.
It reduced the total volume of agricultural production and allowed traditional Bulgarian industries to be minimized or to disappear.
In recent years, the government has criminally missed the chance to use EU agricultural funds to support and develop fledgling new farmers and private producers.
Rural areas, for the most part, continue to lag behind in their development and to accumulate negative impacts from accelerated migration, an ageing population and underdeveloped and severely outdated infrastructure.
Depreciated equipment and obsolete technologies lead to low labour productivity, and the associated severe social consequences.
To overcome this, PP GERB will work for the revival of Bulgarian agriculture, the
restoration of the Bulgarian forest
and ensuring a decent life for Bulgarian farmers.
MAIN PRIORITIES
PRIORITY I - Implementing the economic mechanisms of the EU Common Agricultural Policy for the development of sustainable agricultural holdings
Actions for implementation:
Extending the application of the market mechanisms of the EU Common Market Organisation for agricultural products to create competitive and economically sustainable farms;
Securing EU and national funding to revive Bulgarian agriculture and stop rural depopulation;
Efficient and transparent management of EU funds, based on good control and evaluation systems for EU funding projects;
Develop and implement a system for using state aid to address problematic and priority areas in agricultural policy in line with European subsidy requirements;
Increasing accountability and improving partnership between government and non-government structures in the agricultural sector by clearly and openly regulating their relationships;
Establish an effective and affordable insurance and mutual assistance system to cover agricultural losses in the event of adverse natural conditions.
Encouraging the process of grouping farmers in producer organisations in order to improve the conditions for the marketing of production and the sustainable development of agricultural holdings.
Ensuring that the state optimises the marketing of agricultural produce and curbs speculative units in the retail chains that harm both producers and consumers.
PRIORITY II - New management methods in the agricultural sector and increasing administrative capacity in line with European standards
Actions for implementation:
Implementation of a unified information environment for the management of the agricultural sector, for transparency of administrative actions and ensuring permanent access to information for producers and processors of agricultural production;
Revision of legislation in the agricultural sector and adoption of a package of regulations in the context of the reform of the Common Agricultural Policy by the European Union;
Legislative and administrative actions to protect agricultural produce and property from encroachment;
Building a modern system of scientific and applied activities to develop the agricultural sector and optimize its activities in line with current and future needs and challenges;
Creating conditions for continuous upgrading of administrative capacity;
PRIORITY III - Restoration and development of the traditional agrarian production in the country
Actions for implementation:
Optimising the use of the country's agricultural land, forests and water resources;
Create legislative conditions for land and forest consolidation in line with the principles of the market economy;
Developing and implementing targeted programmes for the development of agriculture in specific and disadvantaged regions of the country;
Preparation of projects for restoration of existing and construction of new irrigation systems;
Promote the development of young farmers and accelerate vocational training for all farmers;
Updating of the state policy and strategy for the development of fisheries and aquaculture according to the needs and opportunities of the sub-sector;
Optimisation of educational and scientific institutions in agriculture and forestry and introduction of an effective extension system;
Regulation and protection of traditional Bulgarian agricultural production;
Ensure the implementation of government policy for certification, regulation and support for the production of eco-products.
PRIORITY IV - Establishment of a single state structure for coordination and control of food safety and quality
Actions for implementation:
Delivering on the European Union's key priority of ensuring that every citizen and consumer can live a healthy life;
Implementing uniform food safety and quality control from farm to fork.
Maintaining an effective control system based on uniform principles in compliance with European legislation and strengthening consumer confidence.
Eliminate the possibility of overlapping functions and duplication of activities and sites to be controlled, with full coverage of the entire food chain;
Bringing together and coordinating existing individual risk assessment systems, based on best established models and practices in the European Union, and informing the public of all measures taken and their results;
Establishment and maintenance of a single public register of establishments for the production, processing and marketing of food and feed;
Optimise and effectively maintain the information systems for the traceability of trade in animals, raw materials and foodstuffs, the animal identification system and the rapid alert system for food and feed hazards operating within the European Union;
Optimisation of existing control structures and the number of accredited laboratories;
Full implementation of EU marketing quality standards for agricultural products of plant and animal origin.
Priority V - Reforming the forest sector and ensuring the conservation and development of the Bulgarian forest
Actions for implementation:
Optimization of the organizational structure for the management of state forests and implementation of certification as a leading instrument of public control and a guarantee for their multifunctional management;
Decentralisation of forest resource management through gradual steps towards voluntary, economically, socially and environmentally sound transfer of rights, obligations and responsibilities from the state to municipalities, based on long-term contracting;
Creating objective opportunities for full absorption of EU funds for forests,
stimulating the development of the local economy and business
and increase public interest in sustainable and environmentally friendly forest management;
Establishment of a State Forest Inspectorate to exercise strict state control over the protection of public interests in relation to the products, functions and services offered by Bulgaria's forests, based on good national traditions and leading EU practices;
Conserve and increase the area of forests and expand the share of waste biomass from the agricultural sector for energy use and improve the country's carbon balance to prevent climate change and its impacts;
Prohibition for a period of 20 years to change the use of forests from completed swaps, forests suitable for forests and lands from the Forest Fund, except for important public purposes.
PRIORITY VI - The development of a vibrant agricultural sector - a key factor in rural stabilisation and development
Actions for implementation:
Optimising the Rural Development Programme in view of the changes in the country and the reform of the EU Common Agricultural Policy;
A targeted policy for the development of rural areas and the revival of their traditions, taking into account the specific characteristics of the different types of rural communities, local potential, local initiatives, their population and businesses;
Exposing the cultural and natural potential of the Bulgarian countryside, improving the quality of life and creating conditions for employment, developing infrastructure and basic services for business and the population;
Strict control of the implementation of the measures foreseen in the National Strategic Plan and the Rural Development Programme for the period 2007-2013, as well as in the National Strategic Plan and the Operational Programme for the Fisheries Sector.
RESULTS
Creating the right environment for the revival of Bulgarian agriculture and forestry
and stopping the depopulation of rural areas.
Ensuring clear and open conditions for competitive production
and introducing fair, market-based principles for the marketing of quality and safe produce.
Decentralisation, promotion and support of regional initiatives, strategies, programmes and projects for the development of sustainable agriculture and forestry.
Preservation of national natural resources, cultural traditions and lifestyle.
2.6. BULGARIAN TOURISM - ADVANTAGES GUARANTEE QUALITY
Tourism is traditionally the country's leading economic sector and a factor for economic growth, employment and socio-economic cohesion.
Prioritizing its sustainable development through integration in all sectoral policies will lead to overcoming seasonal and territorial disparities and optimal and responsible use of tourism potential and human resource development, the
growth of employment and income of the local population
and institutional structuring and partnership building.
MAIN PRIORITIES
PRIORITY I - Establishing an institutional and legislative framework for tourism management consistent with its importance to the national economy
Actions for implementation:
1. Updating the Tourism Development Strategy;
2. Development and adoption of a new Law on Tourism;
3. Establishment of a specialised control body in the field of tourism within the Consumer Protection Commission;
4. Formation of the tourist regions of Bulgaria and priority partnership with them;
5. Formation of a tourism advertising budget adequate to the contribution of tourism to the national economy.
PRIORITY II - Development of new products to improve the competitiveness of Bulgarian tourism
Actions for implementation:
Priority construction of public infrastructure related to improving transport accessibility, environmental protection and improving the quality of the tourism offer;
Development and implementation of targeted programmes for the development of traditional and specialised types of tourism, especially cultural tourism, spa and wellness tourism, Danube tourism, eco and rural tourism;
Development of regional tourism development strategies; marketing strategies and action plans.
PRIORITY III - Maximising transparency and efficiency of tourism through the involvement of the non-governmental sector in governance processes
Actions for implementation:
Legislation to regulate public-private partnerships in the field of tourism advertising, the construction of tourist attractions and the use of tourist resources;
Legislation to regulate and introduce appropriate forms of participation of the tourism industry in the processes of tourism and general economic planning and management at all levels;
Regulation of the participation of the tourism industry in the processes of categorization and registration, quality control of the tourism product, and training in tourism.
PRIORITY IV - Establishing the domestic market as a priority for the tourism industry
Actions for implementation:
Implementation of programs to stimulate children and youth tourism, the disadvantaged and the third age;
Conducting campaigns to build a positive attitude of Bulgarian citizens towards Bulgaria as a tourist destination, including as a commitment to the "hospitality industry" and making tourism an attractive sector for professional realization;
Adaptation of the system of vocational training in tourism to the real needs of the industry, including through the inclusion of the industry in the process of training and realization of the personnel in tourism.
RESULTS
Establish tourism as a key sector for the country's economy.
Sustainable year-round tourism development through a real commitment to developing the tourism product, enhancing its quality and competitiveness.
Diversification of the national tourism product.
Activating the development of specialised types of tourism, especially cultural tourism, spa and wellness tourism, tourism on the Danube.
2.7. TRANSPORT AND INFRASTRUCTURE POLICY
The aim of the transport and infrastructure policy of PP GERB is the maximum satisfaction of the transport needs of the population and the economy through quality, safe and accessible transport.
This policy is a key factor for Bulgaria's integration into the European economic processes.
The transport policy will coordinate and develop the different modes of transport - road, rail, air and water transport - in a complex way for higher competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy and social integration.
MAIN PRIORITIES:
PRIORITY I - Ensuring easily accessible and safe transport in all areas of the country
Actions for implementation:
Increasing the level of safety and quality of transport services;
Optimising transport schemes, coordinating all modes of transport.
Development of intermodal connections in passenger and freight transport.
Improving mass public transport;
Preferences for the use of more environmentally friendly means of transport;
Modernising airports, airport and air navigation services, reducing delays and downtime.
PRIORITY II - Maintenance, modernisation and construction of transport infrastructure
Actions for implementation:
Acceleration of the implementation of projects related to the European transport axes and corridors passing through the territory of the country;
Completion of Trakia Motorway and Lyulin Motorway in the shortest possible time;
Accelerated continuation of the construction of Struma Motorway and the start of Maritsa Motorway;
Rehabilitation of the railway network and secondary road network as a condition for balanced development of all regions in the country;
Facilitating and speeding up border crossings;
Promoting the development of sea and river ports as well as planning and management of coastal areas.
PRIORITY III - Creating conditions for effective counteraction of unfair competition in the transport sector
Actions for implementation:
Implementation of a unified transport plan;
Effective counteraction of unregulated transport and limitation of unfair competition;
Optimisation of licensing regimes to create a sustainable and transparent competitive environment on the market.
PRIORITY IV - Improving project management and implementation, including EU funds
Actions for implementation:
Ensuring transparency in all phases of tendering procedures;
Avoiding conflict of interest in the procedures;
Improving administrative capacity in the preparation, management and absorption of project funds.
RESULTS
Secure, fast and efficient transport by improving and developing the country's transport infrastructure in line with the European transport network.
Modern and developed transport infrastructure along the European axes and corridors passing through Bulgaria, combined with modern technologies for freight and passenger transport.
Increase international traffic and integration of Bulgaria into the European transport system by taking advantage of Bulgaria's geostrategic position as a transport crossroads.
3. IMPROVING SOCIAL SECURITY. CREATING AN ENABLING AND HEALTHY LIVING ENVIRONMENT TO ENSURE PEOPLE'S PERSONAL AND PUBLIC HEALTH
Guided by the understanding that Bulgaria should build a social market economy, in which the principles of freedom, justice and solidarity are the guiding principles, PP GERB will develop an active social policy.
It will be aimed at changing conditions and quality of life, not only at solving individual problems provoked by these conditions.
Our policy will focus around the social role of the family, supporting the maintenance of family integrity and addressing the risk factors for disadvantaged family members.
A key approach to the social integration of disadvantaged people (including those members of society who do not have or have lost their family) will be to create a family-like environment.
3.1. ACTIVE SOCIAL POLICY
3.2. MODERN HEALTHCARE
3.3. DEVELOPMENT OF SPORT AND YOUTH POLICY
3.4. REGIONAL POLICY
3.5. ENVIRONMENT
3.6. INTEGRATED WATER SECTOR MANAGEMENT
3.1 ACTIVE SOCIAL POLICY
PP GERB will develop an active social policy without relying solely on tax revenues and public transfers.
Governance measures will encourage investment in people and their active participation in addressing existing risks.
Social policy will aim to limit people's dependence on welfare and seek to limit the risk of poverty being transmitted from one generation to the next.
The implementation of the main objective of our social policy is also linked to the understanding of the importance of the family as a centre of emotional, economic and social solidarity, which allows people to better respond to the risks and crises in economic and social life.
MAIN PRIORITIES
PRIORITY I - Promoting demographic development through child and family policies
Actions for implementation:
Promoting fertility by creating a favourable environment to enable Bulgarian families to raise and educate the desired number of children;
Creating opportunities for combining parenthood with the professional realization of young people;
Creating a network of social services to overcome the social risks to the health and educational development of children and to reduce child poverty in Bulgaria;
Expanding the system for providing care and raising children in nurseries and kindergartens.
Organization of summer camps, green schools, sports and other schools in the free time of children and students;
Creation of a working network of family support services for expectant parents (counselling for pregnant women, schools for parents, services for already identified at-risk pregnancies, etc.), for parents of children with disabilities;
Increasing the level of benefits for children with disabilities and providing them with state-of-the-art technical aids;
Covering families' costs for fertility treatment and in-vitro conception.
PRIORITY II - Ensuring a better standard of living, better working conditions and reconciliation of work and family life
Actions for implementation:
Leading the education-employment-living standards trinity in policy;
Investing in human capital to make social policy a factor of productivity;
Offering work in line with the needs of the economy;
Social and economic integration of vulnerable groups in society through inclusion in forms of employment and training to acquire new knowledge and skills;
Protecting the health, working capacity and lives of workers.
PRIORITY III - Building a supportive social environment and conditions for social inclusion
Actions for implementation:
Consistent anti-poverty policy;
Stimulating social entrepreneurship;
Conducting a consistent anti-discrimination policy;
Optimising the timing of social assistance to the unemployed of working age and targeting the savings to the groups in real need (elderly single people and persons with disabilities);
Improving the system of provision of technical aids to persons with disabilities
and curbing corrupt practices in this regard.
PRIORITY IV - Creating conditions for a more secure and dignified life for the elderly
Implementing this priority requires urgent measures to financially strengthen the pension system.
The deficit of the public pension system amounts to nearly 2% of GDP.
Currently, this shortfall is covered by a subsidy from the state budget, but there is a pressing need to find other solutions.
GERB's policy includes further development of the current three-pillar model of the pension system.
In parallel with the development of the pension system, a broad and effective network for long-term care for the elderly will be built.
Actions for implementation:
Update pensions annually by a factor closer to the increase in insurable income;
Encourage staying in work after pension entitlement through bonuses leading to a higher pension for each year of additional employment;
Increase the pension supplement for single pensioners from 20 to 40 per cent of the pension of the deceased spouse for about 600,000 pensioners;
Introduce a monthly supplement to the personal pension or the sum of pensions of people over 75 years of age of not less than BGN 50;
Strengthen the role of private initiative and individual choice in pension provision, including by introducing multi-funds with different degrees of risk in separate investment portfolios.
PRIORITY V - Development and modernisation of social security relations
Actions for implementation:
Extending the coverage of insured persons, especially farmers;
Revising the insurance regime for seasonal workers for the risk of unemployment;
Improving controls and measures against violation and circumvention of insurance legislation.
PRIORITY VI - Active human resources development policy
Actions for implementation:
Increase labour demand by encouraging the creation of more and better jobs;
Promote the social and economic integration of vulnerable groups in society by including employment and training to acquire new knowledge and skills;
Enhancing the employability of disadvantaged groups in the workforce and ensuring conditions for their sustainable integration into the labour market,
paying particular attention to people with disabilities, and the discouraged;
Building a unified national information system for labour supply and demand, vocational training and retraining
and its integration with the information systems of the social security and labour market control institutions;
Increase investment in human capital and inclusion of the economically active population in training and measures to ensure lifelong learning by creating an effective career guidance system that meets the needs of the individual and is linked as far as possible to the requirements of the labour market.
PRIORITY VI - Maintaining sustainable industrial relations between workers and employers and active social dialogue
Actions for implementation:
Improving the capacity and transparency of the Working Conditions Fund in financing and co-financing projects and programmes to improve working conditions;
Strengthening the role of occupational health services and monitoring their activities.
Maintain active relations with trade unions and employers and improve dialogue between them and the government.
RESULTS
To build an enabling environment that will allow Bulgarian families to raise and educate the number of children they want by providing them with good material, educational and emotional living conditions.
Reducing social exclusion and ensuring the living standards of the socially disadvantaged.
Strengthening the pension system and making pension income an adequate substitute for labour income.
Improving working conditions, employment and the quality of human resources.
Reducing the number of young people emigrating.
3.2 MODERN HEALTHCARE
Bulgarian healthcare needs consistent and comprehensive improvement in all its sectors - outpatient, inpatient, emergency, medicines, dental health and patients' rights.
A health policy based on the principles of solidarity and equity will be implemented with clear political will and managerial coherence.
MAIN PRIORITIES
PRIORITY I - Health prevention
Actions for implementation:
Adequate funding from the national budget for state structures and programmes for health prevention with increased control over the optimal use of funds.
Adequate financing and regulation of the prevention of socially important diseases, the treatment of which is provided by health insurance funds.
Synchronising the work of line ministries in the field of health protection.
PRIORITY II - Accessible and quality medical care
Actions for implementation:
Introduction of a health map of Bulgaria as a key instrument of the state authority to ensure affordable and quality medical care.
Introduction of new rules for payment of medical activity contractors, taking into account not only the quantity of the service provided (examination, clinical pathway, etc.), but also the corresponding quality and results achieved.
Introduction of an independent accreditation system for medical institutions, based not only on their material and human resources, but mainly on the quality and results of the medical activities performed in them.
A system of rewards and sanctions for medical institutions depending on their accreditation score.
A new approach to the creation and implementation of medical standards and rules of good medical practice, with an emphasis on mechanisms to monitor compliance.
Changing the status of medical institutions as "commercial companies" to a status adequate to the medical activity carried out in them.
Improving administrative (state authorities, local authorities), professional (medical staff associations) and public (patient and other civil society organisations) control over access to and quality of medical care.
PRIORITY III - Financial revenue and expenditure in the health system
Actions for implementation:
Ensuring adequate revenues in the health care system and optimising spending within the limits of social and medical appropriateness (in the context of the economic crisis).
Improving the health insurance model based on the solidarity principle.
Implementation of restructuring of public health and medical institutions as a method of securing revenue and optimizing costs in the health care system, based on the provisions of the health map of medical services in the country.
Implementation of a new approach to market-regulated relations between private health insurance funds and NHIF with demonopolisation of NHIF activities to ensure real competition in the medical market (competition between packages of medical services offered by public and private health insurance funds).
PRIORITY IV - Outpatient and inpatient care
Actions for implementation:
Linking the payment of the entities providing medical services in outpatient and inpatient care not only to the quantity of medical activity performed (examinations, clinical pathways, etc.), but also to the quality and results achieved.
Establishment of outpatient care functioning mainly through the institution of "group medical practice" (personal physicians, doctors of specialized outpatient care, health care specialists, etc.).
Improvement of the coordination and control functions of local authorities over the activities of personal physicians, group medical practices and municipal medical institutions in terms of access and quality of medical activities.
Improvement of coordination between outpatient (personal physicians, group medical practices) and inpatient (health and medical facilities) care structures.
Development and implementation of a map of Bulgaria for investment in high-tech, high-cost medical equipment from public financial sources.
PRIORITY V - Emergency medical care
Actions for implementation:
Reduce and end inappropriate emergency care activity by improving outpatient care performance and capacity.
Increase the funds from the national budget for the material and technical base and for the salaries of the staff in emergency medical care.
Establishment of a system for professional qualification of personnel with higher education (doctors and nurses) and secondary education (paramedics) in emergency medical care.
PRIORITY VI - Education and qualification of medical personnel
Actions for implementation:
A new approach to the education and qualification of medical staff - a system of incentives for young people choosing the medical profession and mainly the profession of nurse, a
system for career development of medical staff and mainly nurses, a
system of accreditation of medical institutions, their individual structures, as well as of
distinguished specialists for practical (pre- and post-diploma) training of medical staff.
2. Implementation of a new state policy facilitating and stimulating the postgraduate training of medical personnel (doctors, dentists, pharmacists, health care specialists): increase in state spending on postgraduate training of medical personnel;
closer linking of the level of education and qualification obtained with labour income;
constant monitoring of "deficient" medical specialists and adequate measures to prevent a decrease in the quality of medical activity due to the lack of sufficient medical specialists.
PRIORITY VII - Medicines Policy
Actions for implementation:
Introduction of clear rules regulating the establishment of a reimbursement and positive list of medicines, ensuring full transparency.
Analysis of public funds spent on medicines.
Introduction of a transparent system of pricing and payment of medicines with public funds, guaranteeing access to drug therapy for Bulgarian citizens.
Establish clear priorities and concrete measures to improve access to drug therapy for socially important diseases.
PRIORITY VII - Information Assurance of the Health Care System
Actions for implementation:
An analysis of the state of play of the information services of the health care system in order to establish the extent to which the information systems in its structures have been developed, the results of their functioning and the effectiveness of the public funds spent.
Development of an integrated information system for health care information, integrating existing information systems.
Development of eHealth.
PRIORITY IX - Protection of patients' rights
Actions for implementation:
Patient Protection Act - to ensure and protect the rights to information, representation, participation in the management of the system and participation in the negotiation of how public funds are used in patient healthcare;
Protection of patients' rights through legislative changes and transparency of policies.
Ensuring patient participation in the management of the system, as well as participation in the negotiation of the use of public funds in health care;
Introduction of individual health cards and individual health accounts to limit the possibility of abuse by medical providers.
RESULTS
Ending the flawed practice of "reforming" the health care system in a piecemeal fashion.
The implementation of the management programme will implement policies to consistently and decisively build the health care system that people need.
Ensuring an adequate regulatory framework and mechanisms to control access and quality of medical care, including adequate assessment and sanctions for "medical error".
Expanded access of the population to modern and effective medical care and prevention.
Improving key indicators of the health status of the population and reducing morbidity in the population.
Reduced morbidity through effective prevention and prevention of socially important diseases, intensification and modernization of emergency care and approaching the European standard for these activities.
3.3 DEVELOPMENT OF SPORT AND YOUTH POLICY
Over the past two decades, the country's main sports facilities have been destroyed.
Mass, children's and school sports are practically non-existent, the high sportsmanship and international success of Bulgarian athletes are now occasional phenomena and bright memories.
The national sports facilities of the past are in ruins and there are no new facilities.
At the same time, illiteracy among young people is on the rise, and the age of childhood alcohol, cigarette and drug use and criminal acts are falling.
These problems have deep social causes, but they are also due to the ineffective and absent youth policy of the state.
PP GERB defines the care for the young generation as the most important national cause.
The state must draw the main line for the development and education of young people and provide and guide young people to an organized and solidary social life.
The policy of PP GERB is to restore physical education and sport as one of the main social spheres of society.
PRIORITY I - Providing conditions and creating opportunities for sport and social tourism for the population.
Actions for implementation:
Increase the amount of state funding for activities in this area, and achieve a reasonable balance between these funds and funds for sport for excellence - by redirecting and properly allocating the available financial resources.
Introduction of control in their utilization;
Approval and financing by the municipalities of programs for the development of local sports activities in accordance with the national program for the development of sport;
Regulation of the conditions and procedures for the use of sports facilities - municipal property;
ensuring conditions and accessibility for their use by people with disabilities.
Supporting activities related to the construction, upgrading and equipping of sports and playgrounds
and increasing control over their intended use.
PRIORITY II - Development of school and student sports to support the physical development of children and young people.
Actions for implementation:
Increasing the minimum differentiated amounts of the financial means for physical education and sport of pupils and students, which are provided by the state budget and the budgets of the municipalities;
Updating the curricula of the subject "Physical education and sport" and controlling the implementation of the educational activities.
Expanding opportunities for more choices of sports, according to the available facilities and the interest of the students, in compliance with state educational requirements.
Profiling of teachers by type of sport;
Conducting an organized, systematic and scientifically - based process by higher education institutions, carrying out specialized training of teachers and coaches to acquire the necessary qualifications.
PRIORITY III - Construction of new sports facilities and modernisation of existing ones in order to bring them in line with international standards and EU requirements.
Actions for implementation:
Establishing minimum differentiated amounts of money to be provided from the state budget and the budget of municipalities for the operation and maintenance of indoor and outdoor sports facilities;
Rehabilitating, upgrading and constructing school sports facilities in accordance with the required standards
and establishing a public registry of these facilities;
Building a multi-purpose sports hall for 10,000-15,000 seats;
Encouraging public-private partnership for investment in the construction, reconstruction and modernization of sports facilities and social tourism facilities, using modern technologies to ensure high functionality and maximum safety in their operation.
PRIORITY IV - Development of sport for excellence, as a means of raising the prestige of the nation.
Actions for implementation:
Updating the legal framework in order to implement an adequate policy for moral and material support for the development of sport, taking into account its social and prestigious functions for the whole society;
Changing the regulations on the requirements for membership of sports clubs in sports federations, in accordance with the membership criteria adopted by the federations, with a view to excluding or not accepting as members sports clubs that do not develop activities or imitate such;
Regulation of the qualification of "coach in a sport" to be obtained only by persons with higher education completed at the National Sports Academy "Vasil Levski" or at schools providing specialized training in the field of physical education and sport;
Elevating the status of sports schools;
Introduction of a selective approach to sports in sports schools, with priority to Olympic sports, taking into account the traditions of sport in the region, the available material facilities and the sports-teaching staff;
Establish an "Olympic Training System" for our elite athletes that skillfully combines centralized and decentralized training;
Combining the efforts of DAMS, MoH, NSA "V. Levski" for proper diagnostics and assessment of the functional state and mental qualities of highly qualified athletes in order to control and improve the effectiveness of their training process;
Accelerated equipment of national sports facilities with training, audiovisual, radio-telemetric and electronic computing equipment for dosage and control of the sports-training process;
Reconstruction, modernization and equipment of the laboratories for doping control and functional diagnostics of athletes and provision of specialists to work in them, familiar with modern requirements and new methods for processing the information obtained.
Equipping the doping control laboratory in accordance with the requirements of the World Anti-Doping Agency and accelerating its accreditation;
Building and equipping a modern information center to accelerate the receipt of information from world-leading practices, with a view to its timely provision to our elite coaches.
PRIORITY V - Increase funding and sources of funding for sport. Establish mechanisms to promote public-private partnerships in the financing of sport.
Actions for implementation:
Restructuring of the policies and programmes related to the development of sport and, accordingly, the expenditure, in order to create conditions and preconditions for the maximum absorption of funds under the operational programmes co-financed by the European Union;
Updating the legal framework to promote public-private partnerships in the financing of sport;
Introduction of clear and objective criteria, precise and measurable indicators in the allocation of state and municipal funds for the public benefit activities of sports organizations, in compliance with the principle of concentrated use of available resources in order to have an effective impact;
Effective control over the use of funds for their intended purposes.
PRIORITY VI - Fostering young people's involvement in the development and implementation of sectoral policies
Actions for implementation:
Developing and implementing a unified, coherent and sustainable youth policy in Bulgaria, based on a state strategy.
The wide range of issues affecting young people calls for a multi-sectoral integrated approach.
In this respect, youth policy should be seen as part of the following sectoral policies: education,
demographic policy,
labour market policy,
Entrepreneurship,
Health,
migration policy,
youth crime prevention,
Sport,
social integration,
a policy for disadvantaged young people.
Multisectoral cooperation should be developed respectively at local and regional level.
Mobilising and investing in the potential of youth.
In this regard, the State Youth Strategy will be fully aligned with the European Youth Pact adopted within the framework of the Lisbon Strategy for Jobs and Growth, the White Paper on European Youth of 2001, the European Charter for the Participation of Young People in the Life of Communities and Regions, as well as subsequent European documents taking into account the realities and relevant to youth.
Planned and targeted capacity building in youth organisations and administration for the absorption of EU funding through the Youth in Action 2007-2013 programme and the Structural Funds.
Establish transparent funding procedures, with clear assessment criteria for eligibility, monitoring and accountability of project implementation.
4. Creation of a National Youth Council (supreme body of youth representation), which should include a number of non-governmental youth organisations represented at national level and youth organisations of parties represented in the National and/or European Parliament.
In this way, an active dialogue and close interaction between the state institutions and the nationally represented youth NGOs and political organizations, respectively between the local authorities and the locally represented youth organizations meeting certain criteria will be realized.
RESULTS
Improve the health physical development and physical fitness of the nation by expanding the sports activity of the population.
Modernization and construction of sports infrastructure.
Achievement of high sports results and raising the national prestige of Bulgarian sport on the international sports field;
status of the coaching profession.
Effective integration of young people in the development and implementation of sectoral policies and increased youth participation in public and political life.
3.4. REGIONAL POLICY
PP GERB defines regional policy and local self-government as the basis for mobilizing and developing regional and local development potentials in the interest of territorial communities and the whole society.
MAIN PRIORITIES
PRIORITY I - Targeted policy to support the development of regions, tailored to their specific needs and the particularities of territorial growth factors
Actions for implementation:
Implement mechanisms for the broad and effective participation of local and regional authorities and other partners at all stages of project and policy development;
Financing, implementation and control of regional development planning documents and policies;
Analysis of European experience and application of working models for local and regional development;
Development and modernisation of infrastructure creating conditions for growth, employment
and improving the quality of life in the regions,
including transport and technical infrastructure,
education infrastructure,
healthcare, social services,
labour market;
Applying the principle of concentration of resources to achieve a significant socio-economic impact in the short term in a crisis;
Coordination of European with state budget expenditure to avoid duplication of activities and disparities;
The use of competitive and transparent procedures in the allocation of additional earmarked funds for infrastructure to municipalities;
Adequate use of EU funds for investment in public infrastructure and priority activities;
Improving public infrastructure through the use of public-private partnership mechanisms (concessions);
Supporting local development initiatives involving a wide range of actions that realise the advantages of the territory and/or address 'gaps' and/or missing links in the local economy system.
PRIORITY II - Regional development through the alignment of transport, industrial, agricultural, social, and environmental policies with regional characteristics and priorities
Actions for implementation:
Improving coordination in the preparation and implementation of planning and strategic documents at national, regional and local level;
Coordination between regional development and spatial planning policies in order to achieve balanced territorial development;
Increasing regional competitiveness for the development of the knowledge economy by facilitating innovation and the use of information and communication technologies.
Building technology parks and regional structures supporting the transfer of innovation in regions with potential in the field of technology business;
Promoting investment in education and supporting specific vocational education related to the development of important sectors for the municipality and the region.
RESULTS
Creation of conditions for sustainable and balanced development of the regions of the country by supporting the development of their internal potential, conditions and factors for regional growth, leading to a real reduction of inter-regional and intra-regional disparities.
High quality of life in all parts of the country.
Implementing investments for socio-economic change, supporting the dynamic development of regions and bringing them closer to EU standards.
3.5. ENVIRONMENT
The basis of the environmental policy of PP GERB is the care for a healthy living environment and sustainable development through continuity of the strategic objectives in the national policy, following the global priorities and meeting the deadlines and commitments in relation to Bulgaria's membership in the European Union.
The achievement of the environmental protection objectives is based on the integration of the principles of environmental protection in the policies of all sectors of the economy as a guarantee for sustainable development at national and regional scale,
rational use of natural resources,
effective implementation of the EU-wide requirements for limiting pollution,
preserving the unique natural wealth and biodiversity of our country and
reducing harmful impacts on human health.
MAIN PRIORITIES
PRIORITY I - Reducing the effects of climate change, limiting greenhouse gas emissions and promoting the use of renewable energy sources, energy and resource saving technologies
Actions for implementation:
1. Limiting harmful and hazardous emissions from industrial activities, transport and households and strengthening control over the main sources,
building effective systems for waste gas treatment,
applying environmentally friendly technologies and best practices in the utilization of fossil fuels, etc.;
2. Integration of renewable energy sources and increasing their share in the country's energy balance through comprehensive measures in all directions - market, investors, producers, consumers, research, training of personnel, job creation;
3. Improvement of legislation to ease the permitting regimes for the introduction of carbon-free energy capacities; 4
. Stop uncontrolled logging of Bulgarian forests and deforestation;
PRIORITY II - Improvement of water status, protection of water resources, and effective control of water use activities
Actions for implementation:
1. Integrated approach to management and conservation of aquatic ecosystems;
2. Discussion, adoption and implementation of river basin management plans by the end of 2009;
3. Revision of the current legislation and regulation of the ownership of water supply and sanitation systems and facilities and systems for protection against harmful water impacts;
4. Accelerated design, completion and/or reconstruction of wastewater disposal and treatment infrastructure in settlements and reduction of the amount of untreated wastewater entering water bodies;
5. Improving the quality of drinking water for the population, exploring alternative water sources,
providing the necessary quantities of drinking water for the population;
6. Increase control and ensure environmentally sound use of water bodies for aggregate extraction.
PRIORITY III - Developing adequate regional systems for the management of waste generated on the territory of Bulgaria
Actions for implementation:
1. Introduction of systems for organised collection and transport of municipal waste in all settlements and closure of unregulated landfills;
2. Design, construction and operation of regional facilities for the treatment and/or disposal of municipal waste in accordance with the National Waste Management Programme;
3. Establishment of regional associations between municipalities to carry out waste management activities;
4. Introduce measures and mechanisms to stimulate the substitution of the use of natural resources by appropriate recycled materials;
5. Development and promotion of separate collection of packaging waste for its subsequent reuse, recycling or recovery;
6. Building an adequate system of hazardous waste treatment facilities.
PRIORITY IV - Effective development of the NATURA 2000 network, conservation of natural heritage and biodiversity
Actions for implementation:
1. Effective management and development of the NATURA 2000 network through public consultation and
adoption of the orders for the designation of protected areas under Directive 92/43
2. Adoption of management plans for all protected areas over 3000 ha
3. Development of the system of protected areas by increasing its area to the EU average (12% in the EU vs. 5% in Bulgaria)
4. Development of 100 management plans for priority protected areas;
5. Carrying out restoration and maintenance activities in protected areas in order to protect habitats and species of local importance, improving the control and conservation system of protected areas and zones;
6. Preservation, restoration and development of green areas in settlements,
ecological methods to maintain riverbanks, preserve and integrate natural ecosystems into the urban environment;
7. Reclamation of land disturbed by various economic activities,
developing programmes, plans and taking action to remediate soils contaminated with heavy metals from large industrial sites and comprehensively improving the environmental situation in such areas;
8. Reduce noise pollution in settlements and accelerate the process of developing and implementing strategic noise maps and action plans.
PRIORITY V - Strengthening the capacity of institutions responsible for environmental management and control
Actions for implementation:
Strengthening the administrative capacity of the national, regional and local administrations responsible for the management and control of environmental protection activities through training, material and technical provision of staff, etc.;
Synchronising the work between the institutions and reconciling the procedures for the approval of investment projects in order to shorten the administrative deadlines.
PRIORITY VI - Ensuring public participation in decision-making
Actions for implementation:
Improving the legislative framework to ensure the independence of expertise in environmental impact assessment of investment projects;
Establish public advisory councils and ensure their right to effective participation in environmental decision-making procedures;
Involvement of business, NGOs and scientific organisations in the development of sectoral and regional environmental policies and regulations
Ensure free access, including via the Internet, to all draft regulatory documents, registers of permits and licences issued and the results of inspections and controls carried out by the authorities;
Providing citizens with reliable and up-to-date information on the state of the environment
Launch educational programmes to educate children and students to create a responsible attitude and care for the environment
RESULTS
Improving the environment and ensuring healthy living conditions for Bulgarian citizens.
Completion of the system of 55 regional landfills meeting European requirements for waste disposal.
Conservation of Bulgaria's natural heritage and the country's rich biodiversity, increasing the area of the protected areas system to the EU average of 12%.
Involving the public and businesses in an active attitude to environmental protection and building an environmental culture.
3.6 INTEGRATED WATER SECTOR MANAGEMENT
Water is a heritage to be enjoyed, protected, preserved and treated as such.
Preserving the quantity and quality of water needed for the needs of present and future generations is of paramount importance.
The main guidelines for the development of the water sector express the clear commitment of PP GERB to pursue a responsible national policy regarding the management of water management systems in the use and protection of water resources in the Republic of Bulgaria.
PP GERB will manage the water sector in the long term, in accordance with the requirements for sustainable development of the Republic of Bulgaria and integrated with the water policy of the European Union.
As a result of this stewardship, we will meet the challenge of adapting to climate change,
improving the quality of aging water and sanitation infrastructure,
returning wastewater to resource
, and improving water and energy efficiency throughout the water cycle.
PRIORITY I - Integrated water management
Actions for implementation:
Integrated management of all water resources in a river basin and integration of ecological, water quality and water quantity objectives, while ensuring good ecological status for all other waters;
Integrated use and protection of water at national and river basin level, as a strategic, national and indivisible natural resource;
Integrating scientific disciplines, analyses and expertise by bringing together different engineering, applied sciences and economics to assess the impact on water resources and identify the measures needed to achieve the objectives of European water legislation in the most cost-effective and efficient way;
Meeting the requirements and deadlines set out in European water legislation - actions in line with River Basin Management Plans and Flood Risk Management Plans;
Develop legislative measures and initiatives to implement an integrated approach to water management and address water sector issues.
PRIORITY II - Investments in water infrastructure to address water crises
Actions for implementation:
Creation of a unified water cadastre, regulating the ownership of water bodies, systems and facilities;
Completion of the started dams for drinking water supply Luda Yana, Plovdivtsi and Neykovtsi, and upgrade of the dam. Studena;
address the problems arising from the poor state of small dams;
Accelerated design, construction or reconstruction of infrastructure for wastewater disposal and treatment in settlements and reduction of the amount of untreated wastewater discharged into water bodies;
Rehabilitation of drinking water supply systems and construction of drinking water treatment facilities;
Re-evaluation of the water supply network and drainage systems, and construction of 500 thousand acres of efficient irrigated agriculture systems;
Conduct a system of measures to ensure reliable protection for the population and businesses from the harmful effects of water;
Support effective action to increase the share of small hydropower plants in order to increase the share of renewable energy production;
Establish qualitative and quantitative water monitoring and control systems, providing reliable data for effective water resources management.
PRIORITY III - Increasing public participation in water management and use decisions
Actions for implementation:
Supporting local administrations to increase their water management capacity;
Improving the efficiency of water systems and facilities, whether municipally or privately owned.
RESULTS
Effective use, conservation and restoration of water resources in the context of integrated management at national and river basin level.
Socially affordable cost of service and provision of access to water and sanitation facilities for all citizens and localities.
Improve water services in terms of quantity and quality.
Dealing with water crises of various kinds affecting the management and use of water resources.
Integrate all segments of the population in the management and conservation of water resources.
4. DEVELOPMENT OF THE NATION'S HUMAN RESOURCES FOR NATIONAL SELF-CONFIDENCE AND CONDITIONS FOR SUCCESS OF EVERY CITIZEN
The policy of PP GERB will focus on integrating all stages of education - from kindergarten to universities
and continuing education.
Our vision is focused on developing the capable person who welcomes creative initiative with understanding.
4.1 EUROPEANISED BULGARIAN EDUCATION
4.2 PRIORITY DEVELOPMENT OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
4.3 DEVELOPMENT OF BULGARIAN CULTURE
4.4 DEVELOPMENT OF INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGIES
4.1 EDUCATION
The political party GERB builds its concept for the development of education in the Republic of Bulgaria, guided by the understanding that education is an investment in the development of human resources and the foundation on which a successful economy is built.
The policy of PP GERB is aimed at setting and implementing goals common to the entire educational sphere, starting from kindergarten, secondary education and reaching universities and continuing education.
MAIN PRIORITIES:
PRIORITY I - Implementation of an integrated education policy between all sectors and institutions related to the education and development of children and young people in Bulgaria
Actions for implementation:
1. Improvement of the normative framework of education by eliminating internal contradictions between the individual normative acts and harmonizing it with European educational practices;
2. Adoption of a new Law on pre-school and school education, in line with the age specificities and personal development of children and adolescents in school, and in which the rights and responsibilities of all levels and entities in the system are clearly formulated;
3. Creation of an effective model for the management of the school network, corresponding to the number of students and in line with the requirements of the labour market, socio-economic and demographic characteristics of the regions.
PRIORITY II - Improving quality and ensuring equal access to pre-school and school education
Actions for implementation:
Gradually reduce the compulsory school age for children, starting at age 5.
Keeping children in school by increasing the number of day care centres.
Updating curricula and teaching content to be practical and to develop skills and competences.
Establish a reliable system for external evaluation of educational institutions and the educational process;
Improve the literacy level of students.
Gradual provision of compulsory English and a second foreign language of choice.
Active involvement of IT in the overall learning process.
Development of inclusive education for children with special educational needs and support for gifted children;
Optimization of the network of vocational schools in view of the needs of national and regional policy;
Interaction with business in the development of educational policy in the field of vocational education;
Effective involvement of parents in the management of educational institutions strengthening the role of school boards;
Establishment of a permanent Advisory Council to the Minister of Education with the participation of trade unions, employers, parents, business and NGO representatives.
PRIORITY II - Qualification and career development of pre-school and school education staff
Actions for implementation:
1. Introduction of a career development system for teachers;
2. Conducting mandatory continuing education;
3. Support for teachers working with children with special educational needs and gifted children;
4. Improving the working environment.
PRIORITY IV - Education and personal development of children and young people
Actions for implementation:
1. Increase the number of pedagogical advisors in the school;
2. Child personality development through civic, health education and entrepreneurial skills programs;
3. Analyzing and enhancing the effectiveness of national programs for the development of secondary education with priority to sports and arts;
4. Introduction of a system of psychosocial services for education to prevent aggression, addictions and other negative behaviors of children and students.
PRIORITY V - Development of competitive higher education
Actions for implementation:
Effective launch of the student loan system;
Improvement of the accreditation and evaluation system of higher education institutions and review of the role of the National Agency for Evaluation and Accreditation;
Development and implementation of a system of objective criteria for evaluating and comparing the quality of education of individual universities;
Cooperation with business in the development of educational policy;
discussion of curricula and programmes, provision of internships.
RESULTS
Contemporary Bulgarian education based on traditions and meeting the requirements of the dynamically changing environment.
Raising the prestige of the Bulgarian teacher and lecturer.
Effective management of education.
Improving access to and quality of education in all its forms and levels.
Strengthening the link between labour market needs and the education process.
Training competent, enterprising and active young people.
4.2. PRIORITY DEVELOPMENT OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
The GERB PP sees research, technological development and the ability to translate research results into economic and social benefits as key factors for achieving competitiveness, prosperity and sustainable growth.
PRIORITY I - Aiming to achieve the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy in the field of science
Actions for implementation:
1. Strengthening the role of R&D in the development of the national economy as a knowledge economy;
2. Improving the applied orientation of scientific research and its relationship with the needs of business and government;
3. Modernisation of the existing scientific infrastructure;
4. Additional focus on energy, renewables and energy efficiency;
5. Stimulating the study of matter, materials science and new materials;
6. Development of new technologies - information, communication, nanotechnology, biotechnology, life sciences and medicine (quality of life);
7. New approaches in agricultural and earth sciences;
8. Modernization of research in cultural heritage, social development and national identity.
PRIORITY II - Modernising the scientific process and introducing effective European models and practices
Actions for implementation:
Implementation of effective funding mechanisms to promote knowledge transfer activities; Assessment of
the quality of science in Bulgaria and targeting of public funds to where internationally recognized scientific output is produced;
Strengthening the role of competition/project-based at the expense of institutional funding of research and development;
Adoption of a new Law on Scientific Degrees and Scientific Titles, based on the principles of de-ideologization and decentralization;
Improvement of the interaction between the
RESULTS
Strengthening the role of R&D in the development of the national economy as a knowledge economy.
Improving the applied orientation of basic scientific research and its relation to the needs of business and government.
Modernization of the existing scientific infrastructure and elevation of the status of the scientist.
4.3. DEVELOPMENT OF BULGARIAN CULTURE
Contemporary Bulgarian culture is the Living Culture, it is the soul of the nation, it gives our Bulgarian face and is a spiritual stimulus for our development as individuals and as a society.
We believe that the natural path for the development of Bulgarian culture is its preservation and modern development in the spirit of European practices.
This means guarantees for more opportunities for expression and the unfolding of the personal initiative of artists.
Today Bulgaria needs a new cultural policy that supports the talented and the capable, a policy that values freedom of expression and protects intellectual property.
PP GERB sees cultural policy as a guarantor for the development of capable people, not as a bureaucratic machine that meets creative initiative with misunderstanding, outdated norms and inefficient procedures.
That is why we are making a clear commitment to cultural politics, not to making politics out of culture.
PRIORITY I - Putting culture back on society's agenda and focusing cultural policy on the individual
Actions for implementation:
Supporting young talents in the field of arts, creation and deployment of programs for debuts;
Creation of a museum of modern art, which will also be an incentive for young artists;
Increasing the role of creative organizations and the involvement of civil society in the management of culture through real dialogue with institutions, decentralization and deconcentration of cultural administration.
Delegation of powers to creative and professional unions;
Ensuring civil society participation in cultural governance through the establishment of permanent and empowered public councils at national and regional level.
PRIORITY II - Aligning cultural heritage with tourism, education and science policies
Actions for implementation:
Establish and implement a model for the socialization of archaeological and architectural cultural properties through public-private partnerships in strict compliance with the law and effective monitoring;
Priority stimulation of cultural heritage tourism through the creation of the necessary environment, training of personnel, preservation of folklore and other traditions;
Digitization of cultural heritage and creation of public registers;
Reforming the museum system and transforming Bulgarian museums into modern and efficient institutions for the whole society, developing museum management in the style of European practices;
Deepening the links between the fields of cultural heritage and education and enhancing the role of museums in the educational process.
PRIORITY III - Introduction of European models for management, management and development of culture
Actions for implementation:
Decentralisation of cultural activities and stimulation of cultural life in the regions of the country;
Increasing the administrative capacity of public cultural organisations;
Financial decentralisation of cultural institutes, increasing remuneration by guaranteeing a percentage of revenues for additional incentives for artists and creators;
Adoption of a new law on patronage;
Correction of errors in the Cultural Heritage Law.
PRIORITY IV - Strengthening Bulgarian national and cultural identity as part of the European cultural space
Actions for implementation:
Development and implementation of a programme for active representation of Bulgaria in the international festival and fair cultural calendar;
Conducting a campaign to promote Bulgaria as a destination for international cultural projects;
Attracting funds from the European programmes to support culture, creating the necessary administrative capacity;
The preparation of a register of cities of cultural importance and the sites in these cities to be included in the cultural development strategy;
Improving the work of Bulgarian cultural centres and representative offices abroad by organising more activities related to Bulgaria's cultural heritage.
RESULTS
Revitalizing living culture and stimulating artists and their organizations.
Making cultural heritage an important resource and integrating it with tourism, education and science.
Strengthening Bulgarian cultural identity in Europe and the world.
4.4. INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGIES
Information and communication technologies (ICT) are the main driver of innovation, economic development and competitiveness in all sectors of the economy.
They are an important tool for improving social services and the quality of life of citizens.
Despite the results achieved in recent years in terms of GDP growth and the share of ICT in it, Bulgaria lags behind all European countries in terms of the main indicators for the development of the information society and the competitiveness of the economy.
PP GERB defines the following MAIN PRIORITIES for the development of the sector:
PRIORITY I - Attracting investment and developing infrastructure for the knowledge economy (education, science, innovation and ICT)
Actions for implementation:
1. Creating an environment to stimulate research, innovation and entrepreneurship in the ICT sector;
2. Stimulating investment, development, production and deployment of innovative ICT products and services by the ICT sector for the needs of other sectors.
Creation of a favorable and predictable business environment in order to stimulate the development of high-tech industries and attract high-tech companies to the country;
3. Building a national network of broadband and high-speed Internet access (including in rural and mountainous areas), science and technology parks and incubators, high-tech laboratories, scientific and educational centers, etc.;
4. Introduction of public-private partnership models in ICT.
PRIORITY II - Development of ICT education
Actions for implementation:
1. Attracting Bulgarian ICT specialists and scientists working abroad by creating conditions for their full involvement in national and international projects and activities;
2. Modernization and reform of the education system (ICT-based) and accelerated development of human capital in the field of ICT.
Knowledge and skills in ICT and other high technologies to become a priority of national importance and to become a tool to attract investment and to raise the financial and moral level of the country's population;
3. Joining the Safer Internet Initiative to protect minors and combat illegal content;
4. Implementation of the e-inclusion initiative - development of e-accessibility legislation, implementation of the Assisted Living initiative in response to the ageing population, review and improvement of digital literacy policies.
PRIORITY III - Expanding public areas that apply ICT to optimize their activities and achieve greater efficiency for the whole Bulgarian government
Actions for implementation:
1. Launch of a coordinated process for the development of e-government in Bulgaria at all levels and full participation in the implementation of cross-border and pan-European projects in this area;
2. Development of e-government in Bulgaria and the transition from paper to electronic document management. Introduction of pan-European public services based on European and national funding;
3. Creating an ICT base for new anti-corruption practices in Bulgaria through transparency tools and procedures at the governmental, regional and local levels of activity;
4. The introduction of a single registration of legal entities.
The introduction of a Unified Electronic Register, in which all legal entities and the circumstances related to them will be entered in the model of the Commercial Register, will lead to transparency in the activities of all legal entities and will increase the security of turnover, the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of citizens, companies and the state.
RESULTS
Developing broadband access to the internet, including through mobile and satellite communications, and ensuring a high degree of resilience of critical communication networks and information infrastructures (e.g. the internet) and ensuring continuity of services.
Creation of a national network of science and high-tech parks, business incubators, technology zones, high-tech laboratories, scientific and educational centres.
ICT applications are accessible to citizens and have been widely adopted in government, in all sectors of the economy, in education, in science and in social and public life.
Virtual social networks have been developed, maintained on the Internet, with the active participation of the business and Bulgarian citizens at home and abroad.
5. BULGARIA'S FOREIGN POLICY - A FACTOR OF STABILITY IN THE REGION AND THE WORLD.
BULGARIA - RESPECTED MEMBER OF THE EUROPEAN UNION
PP GERB shares the understanding that the success of European integration represents a unique historical opportunity and perceives our membership in the European Union as a balance of rights and obligations.
Two years after Bulgaria's accession to the EU, this membership is still only formal and Bulgarian citizens are deprived of the opportunity to benefit from full integration and European solidarity.
Our mission is to change this situation, to implement full membership for the benefit of the citizens and to restore Bulgaria's dignity in the EU and the world.
The NATO-EU partnership is the most reliable guarantor of peace and global security.
For PP GERB it is of paramount importance to deepen the strategic cooperation between these two organizations, based on common values and principles.
5.1. FOREIGN POLICY
5.2. DEFENCE
5.1. FOREIGN POLICY
The foreign policy goals of PP GERB are the restoration and strengthening of the positive image of Bulgaria in the European Union and the world,
guaranteeing the security of the state
and protecting the freedom, interests and rights of Bulgarian citizens and our compatriots abroad.
These goals will be achieved by pursuing a modern and responsible foreign policy based on Bulgarian national interests and shared European values and responsibilities.
The realisation of Bulgarian national interests requires our country not to be in the periphery but in the core of European integration.
Bulgaria has an interest in a strong European Union based on common values and sharing a common vision for peace in the world.
An essential factor for the implementation of an effective foreign policy is the implementation of key measures to ensure a professional, competent and non-partisan diplomatic service.
PP GERB defines the following priority areas of Bulgarian foreign policy:
Priority I - Bulgaria - at the heart of European policy
Actions for implementation:
1. Enhanced participation in the development of new European policies of common interest, including in the areas of judicial cooperation, the fight against organised crime and corruption;
2. Restoring Bulgaria's access to all financial instruments and funds, as well as their effective and transparent use in the interest of Bulgarian citizens and the accelerated development of our country;
3. Active participation in coordinated EU and international responses to global challenges, including the financial crisis and climate change;
4. Accelerated preparation and accession to the Schengen Agreement and removal of restrictions for Bulgarians working in EU countries;
5. Active and leading role in the formulation of European policy towards the Western Balkans and the Black Sea - regions of key importance for Bulgaria's security and prosperity;
6. Advocating the European perspective of our Balkan neighbours and their integration into the EU in line with their individual goals and achievements, as well as the EU's capabilities.
The progress of democratic reforms in the candidate countries, the maintenance of friendly and good neighbourly relations, the deepening of regional cooperation are of key importance for the stability and the future of the whole region; 7
. Thedevelopment of a relationship of equal partnership with Russia, taking into account Euro-Atlantic realities, which will contribute to the stability of the region;
8. As a geographic hub of oil and gas transit, our country has the potential to play a key role in guaranteeing Europe's common energy security and independence.
An issue of paramount importance is the development of a common EU energy policy, part of which are the European cross-border energy infrastructure projects, the interconnection of energy networks, energy.
Priority II - Developing a Euro-Atlantic partnership as a guarantee for peace and global security
Actions for implementation:
1. Expand and deepen the strategic partnership with the United States and Bulgaria's European partners on a wide range of issues of mutual interest;
2. Developing a national strategy and adequate capabilities for Bulgaria's participation in international missions, including NATO and EU;
3. Active participation in EU and NATO initiatives aimed at deepening the transatlantic partnership in political and economic terms;
4. Actively engaging the EU and NATO in missions that contribute to preventing or overcoming threats to peace and international security and to the security of member states;
5. The further enlargement of NATO with countries whose accession to the Alliance would contribute to strengthening security and good neighbourliness in the whole Euro-Atlantic area.
Priority III - Bulgaria - a factor for democratic stability and the development of the Balkans and the Black Sea region
Actions to achieve the objective:
1. Bulgaria to be an active participant in the implementation of the EU's political vision for the Balkans, as well as of the Eastern Partnership policy with a focus on the Black Sea region;
2. Undertaking initiatives to outline and develop EU policy in support of the European perspective of the Western Balkans;
3. Bulgaria will contribute to the acceleration of the European integration processes in the Western Balkans, while defending its national interests to the maximum, including with regard to the rights and status of our compatriots in the region;
4. Bulgaria will seek, in the framework of the accession process of the Western Balkan countries, guarantees for the irreversibility of their democratic gains, as well as lasting solutions for the rights and status of our compatriots in the region;
5. Finalisation of the energy and transport corridors and further expansion of Bulgaria's participation in the infrastructure development of the region, in compliance with European environmental standards;
6. Maintaining active cultural, scientific and educational exchanges.
Improving cooperation in addressing trans-border challenges, including the fight against organised crime, environmental protection, etc.
Priority IV - Strengthening Bulgaria's role in the global economy
Actions for implementation:
1. Attraction of foreign investments and capital in Bulgaria, especially in the field of engineering, new technologies, transport, communication infrastructure;
2. Helping Bulgarian producers to access markets outside the EU and dynamising our economic relations with countries such as the USA and Russia, as well as countries from the Middle and Far East;
3. Effective participation of Bulgaria in international infrastructure projects;
4. Improving the conditions for our country's participation in international trade and economic cooperation by facilitating access to resources, energy sources and markets;
5. Defending our national interests in international economic and financial organizations.
Priority V - Supporting the development and integration of Bulgarian communities abroad
Actions for implementation:
1. Strengthening the functions, resources and capacities of the Agency for Bulgarians Abroad in order to shape, coordinate and implement policy towards Bulgarian communities abroad;
2. Effective implementation of the project for the introduction of a "green card" for citizens of Bulgarian origin abroad;
3. Development of a nationwide strategy for the preservation and dissemination of Bulgarian culture, identity and language, for the guarantee of the rights of Bulgarians and Bulgarian linguistic communities worldwide;
4. Taking economic and administrative measures to encourage the reintegration of our compatriots returning to Bulgaria.
RESULTS
Making full use of the opportunities arising from Bulgaria's membership in the European Union and transatlantic cooperation.
Establishment and development of stable good neighbourly relations in the Balkan and Black Sea regions, based on mutual respect of national interests on the basis of historical realities and European values.
Stimulating the Bulgarian economy by attracting foreign capital, providing access to resources, energy sources and markets.
Protection of the rights of Bulgarian citizens and legal entities abroad.
Supporting Bulgarian communities abroad through a concrete policy to affirm their status and rights.
5.2. DEFENCE
The membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in NATO and in the European Union is a guarantee for the sustainable development of the Bulgarian nation, for the reliable protection of the freedom and interests of the Bulgarian citizens, for peace and security in the Balkans and in the Black Sea region.
NATO and the European Union are not alternatives for solving security and defence problems, but complementary structures.
The GERB political party will actively support the initiatives of the European People's Party for the establishment of a European Security and Defence Pact and a common defence force of the European Union.
PRIORITY I - Achieving a new quality of defence
Actions for implementation:
1. Conduct a strategic defence review, updating and agreeing with NATO HQ realistic force development targets and timelines for their implementation in a recessionary environment.
2. Making the necessary changes to the defence and armed forces legislation adopted immediately before the elections.
3. Improvement of defence programming and budgeting on the basis of the required defence capabilities and periodic reporting of the results of the implementation of programmes to the National Assembly and the Bulgarian public.
4. Restoring the possibility of judicial review of administrative acts and
extending parliamentary scrutiny in the defence sphere.
PRIORITY II - Reorganisation of the Defence Management System
Actions for implementation:
1. Exempting the administration of the Ministry of Defence from commercial, brokerage, security, production and other non-specific activities and from the management of commercial companies.
2. Expanding public-private partnerships in the procurement of goods and services for the armed forces.
3. Phasing down the administration of the Ministry of Defence to 2% of the armed forces personnel.
4. Restoration of the withdrawn functions of the Defence Headquarters, integrated into the Ministry, as the strategic management body for defence and the armed forces.
PRIORITY III - Increasing the operational capabilities of the Bulgarian Army
Actions for implementation:
1. Reallocation of funds and human resources from the Ministry's administration and senior command units to the active forces of the army.
2. Maintaining on permanent standby for participation in missions abroad an expeditionary force of full-time units of the armed forces.
3. New organization of the reserve of the armed forces and creation of a territorial reserve under mayors of municipalities.
4. Maintaining a sustainable system of priorities for achieving the required operational capabilities in terms of resources and timeframes.
PRIORITY IV - Introduction of new methods in the personnel policy and improvement of the social status of servicemen
Actions for implementation:
1. Restoration and improvement of the contractual system for service in the armed forces in peacetime.
2. Adoption of a single job classification and a single minimum base for the lowest job in the integrated national security sector.
3. Introduction of a collective means of discussing personnel decisions.
4. Expanding the range of ranks for enlisted personnel, introducing an intermediate category - officer candidate and clear procedures for promotion to a higher category.
5. Introduction of new means of adequately reflecting the nature, responsibilities, conditions and results of service in the performance evaluation of military and civilian personnel.
6. Expansion of the revolving fund by building family equipped housing in or near the military areas using new technologies and renting living space at the expense of the defence budget.
7. Provide better access to retired military personnel, war casualties, war disabled and veterans for treatment and rehabilitation in military medical facilities.
PRIORITY V - Introduction of new structures and mechanisms to ensure transparency, accountability and efficiency of the armed forces modernisation expenditure
Actions for implementation:
1. Acceptance of modernisation projects requiring resources above a statutory threshold by decisions of the National Assembly and permanent control of their implementation by the Defence Committee.
2. Increasing the expertise of the Court of Auditors to effectively monitor the appropriateness of defence spending.
3. Form an independent commission for special procurement and establish a public register of such procurement to ensure transparency of procedures and a level playing field for bidders.
4. Reviewing large-scale deals concluded for the procurement of arms, equipment and assets and implementing measures to curb corruption.
5. Enhanced partnership with the Bulgarian defence industry and integration of military research with that of NATO and EU countries.
PRIORITY VI - Implementation of new forms of training of Bulgarian citizens for the defence of the country in a fully professional army
Actions for implementation:
1. Create a legal possibility for citizens to voluntarily enrol in courses at civilian and military universities and colleges at the expense of the defence budget, where they can receive general and special military training.
2. Introduce a system of voluntary training of students at state and municipal secondary schools in survival and emergency courses at the expense of the state budget.
RESULTS
Strengthening the authority of the Bulgarian Armed Forces among the citizens of the country and our NATO and EU allies.
Ensuring the effective functioning of the defence management system and transparency and economy in the use of defence resources.
Timely fulfilment of the objectives agreed with NATO for the development of the armed forces and their operational capabilities and the permanent readiness of the expeditionary forces for participation in UN, NATO and EU missions for the maintenance of international peace and security and in the fight against terrorism.
New professional standards of qualification and performance, a culture of thinking and a mentality of behaviour adequate to the mission of the armed forces.
High social status of servicemen and guaranteed career development as functions of qualification and efficiency in the service.
Prepared Bulgarian citizens for the defence of the country and for action in emergency situations.
Enhanced civilian and parliamentary oversight of the armed forces.
CONCLUSION
The key to the success of our governance is the increase of economic growth and the convergence of the incomes of Bulgarian citizens with the EU average through:
Rapidly addressing the impact of the crisis while maintaining macroeconomic and financial stability;
Increasing the productivity and competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy;
Increasing employment rates and the quality of human capital;
Improving the business environment and creating the most favourable conditions for attracting Bulgarian and foreign investments;
Improving the capacity to absorb EU funds;
Achieving high economic adaptability to absorb shocks associated with economic and financial integration;
Reforming the judiciary, creating order and security in the country and safeguarding the interests of entrepreneurs;
Establish a functioning and independent justice system;
A small and flexible administration to deliver quality public services;
A governance policy that defines the interest of Bulgarian society and defends it both within the EU and at the global level.
The present "Programme of PP GERB for European Development of Bulgaria" is a complement and further development of the Programme "New Right Contract for Bulgaria" from 2007. It is an open framework for improvements, proposals and guidelines from all stakeholders and would be possible to implement while maintaining the main factors of macroeconomic and political stability in Bulgaria. In case of uncontrolled continuation of the negative economic and social trends and deepening of the crisis, the programme is subject to a subsequent update to reflect the new realities.
