Option for public consultation
ELECTION COMMITMENTS OF THE ABV
(parliamentary elections 2014)
Dear compatriots, After a quarter of a century of transition, Bulgaria needs not just a change of government, but a real and radical change in politics.
Bulgarian politics in recent years has lost its public goals, lost direction and criteria for success and failure.
The Bulgarian citizens have no security and self-confidence that their lives are changing in a positive direction.
Bulgarian society increasingly feels an acute lack of justice.
ABV is fighting for a change of policy that will lead to self-confidence and mobilisation in Bulgarian society.
To the setting of clear goals and solidarity in efforts to achieve them.
To preserve national identity and interest in the framework of deepening integration in Europe.
To trust and support for Bulgarian institutions.
To more statehood and a real increase in the quality of life for every Bulgarian citizen.
І. Main objectives and priorities
The ABV Coalition proposes three main goals for Bulgarian politics to start working on immediately after the elections. Restoration of Bulgarian statehood - deep reform of the state structure, institutions and the judiciary
Second. A radical change of the political model - a change of the electoral system and the role of parties.
Third. Prevention of demographic collapse and revival of the nation - economic, social, educational, cultural and spiritual revival.
II. Strengthening the statehood. Establishment of a presidential republic
ABV stands for a deep constitutional change of the structure of the Bulgarian state.
Our current democratic institutions operate formally and inefficiently.
They are increasingly moving away from the sovereign and do not meet the expectations of the Bulgarian citizens.
Instead of an institution for debate and shaping national priorities, the National Assembly has been turned into a body that only validates decisions taken by the prime minister or by unknown behind-the-scenes players behind closed doors.
Behind its institutional independence, the judiciary hides unaccountability, external influences, inefficiency and behind-the-scenes, even criminal arrangements.
Local government is disempowered, overwhelmed by bureaucracy and often unable to address the basic needs of citizens.
The administration is cumbersome and inefficient, subject to partisan influences and highly susceptible to corrupt pressures.
II.2. Judicial Reform
Reaffirming the rule of law and the equality of all Bulgarian citizens before it;
Abolishing political appointments to the SJC through the parliamentary quota;
Electability and tenure of judges;
Reducing the term of the Prosecutor General from 7 to 5 years and his election by the Parliament.
II.3.Reform in local self-government
Establishment of a second level of local government - at the level of the 6 planning regions;
Decentralization and increase of local government powers;
Closure of decentralized parallel state structures in the regions.
II.4. Fight against corruption and tax evasion
Establishment of an Agency for the Fight against High Level Corruption, equidistant from the institutions;
Transfer of all public procurement to one state agency and their full public conduct.
Unification of the basic requirements for candidates in the different districts;
Establishment of a specialized parliamentary committee to monitor and give an opinion on the spending of public funds;
Banning of cash payments over BGN 1,000, limiting the fees for cashless payments;
Decisive actions to limit offshore companies - no access to public funds, ownership of media and financial institutions, increased control by the tax administration;
Establishment of a public register of all beneficiaries of public funds.
II.5. Building and strengthening the national security system
Implementation of the Alliance's commitments to NATO and the EU collective defence system.
Determined strengthening of own military potential;
Urgent modernization of troops and forces for special operations, air and maritime sovereignty.
Increasing the number of combat-ready BA formations;
Social protection of those serving in the security system and elevation of their authority in society;
Strengthening and improvement of military training of students.
Creating opportunities for post-secondary military-technical training combined with qualifications in various civilian professions;
Establishment of a Military-Industrial Complex Agency to take over the management of state property, special stocks, trade and production of special property, and coordination of the strengthening and development of the defense industry and wartime stocks;
Prioritise the fight against domestic crime;
Optimisation of the Ministry of Interior staff, improvement of material provision;
Reviewing the place and organisation of the services for the fight against organised crime and terrorism;
An active role of the Ministry of Interior forces in protecting the state border and effectively combating illegal immigration;
Reduce cross-border trafficking and smuggling, including by engaging foreign partners;
Introduction of strict requirements for professionalism for the management of the Ministry of Interior, detachment from the partisan influences of the government, uncompromising punishments for leaks and misuse of information.
II.6. Reducing red tape
Reducing and simplifying bureaucratic permitting, registration and licensing regimes;
Fully implementing e-government by 2020;
Streamlining administration and removing duplicative structures, especially in the regions.
II.7. National consent, citizen control
The conclusion of a national consensus agreement between the parliamentary forces after the elections, which will define the framework and parameters of the long-term reforms;
Start of the elaboration of a national doctrine and its adoption by the National Assembly;
Annual presentation by the government of a state of the nation report to the National Assembly, reporting on progress made on agreed long-term goals and reforms;
of trade unions and employers, representatives of science and civil society in the elaboration of strategic national documents;
the standard period for public consultation on new or amending legislation from 15 days to 8 weeks;
A full and free presentation of the information available to the public administration on the internet, allowing effective citizen control.
Immediate adoption of legislation to implement the Directive on the re-use of public information.
III. Changing the political model - strengthening civic participation
III.1. Changing the electoral system
Introduction of a mixed electoral system, with 50% of MPs elected by majority vote;
Compulsory voting;
Effective penalties for vote-buying and elimination of possibilities to circumvent provisions prohibiting vote-buying.
III.2. Change in the party system
Tripling of party subsidies;
Stimulating inter-party dialogue on nationally significant issues;
Eliminating the practice of party appointments to the boards of state-owned enterprises;
Limiting party appointments in the administration and changes when the ruling majority changes.
IV. Preventing demographic collapse and reviving the nation
National policies need to move beyond the short-term and towards long-term goals.
This implies a high degree of agreement and continuity in the main policy objectives.
IV.1. Affordable healthcare
Embracing the principle of "Health in All Policies";
Accelerated introduction of the electronic health card to enable effective control of medical services;
Together with the medical and patient communities, adopt measures to stop the drain on the NHIF;
Transforming the NHIF into a public fund independent of the state budget, operating under the control of society and patients;
Optimise and increase spending on health, with the aim of reaching 8% of GDP;
Separation of two health packages - basic - taken by the NHIF and additional - taken by private health insurance funds;
Reducing regional imbalances - in each planning region - at least one high-tech hospital, in each regional centre - at least one multiprofile hospital, in the settlements - pre-hospital care centres;
Improving emergency care, improving technical equipment, considering new forms such as air ambulance, training and engaging paramedics, etc;
Free healthcare for children and their mothers and pregnant women;
Improving prevention - including through compulsory and free check-ups, with increasing penalties for non-attendance;
Linking state-paid tuition at higher medical schools to commitments to Bulgarian healthcare;
Improving access to specialty;
Conduct effective and transparent tenders for medicines by the NHIF, the mark-up for distributors and traders to be set as a maximum and not an absolute amount;
Discussing the possibility of reducing VAT rates for medicines purchased by the state.
IV.2. Quality education and scientific excellence
Creating the conditions for full coverage of children in the secondary education system - effective incentives and sanctions against fictitious school attendance;
Digitalization of textbooks and teaching materials as well as teaching methods in secondary education.
Wide application of information technologies in the educational process;
Improvement of the structure of vocational education - closer connection with the needs of the labour market, taking into account the specificity of the economic and social development of the different regions.
Introduction of the dual vocational education system;
Incorporation into the secondary education system of training in civil rights and civic participation, health and environmental knowledge, military-patriotic training, ethics and aesthetics;
Effective forms of lifelong learning and non-formal education;
Improving the status, qualifications and pay of Bulgarian teachers;
School education budget to reach 5% of GDP;
Linking specialist and research planning to long-term economic, societal and national development strategies;
Introduction of an integrated governance and funding model for higher education, science, technology and innovation;
Increase government funding of higher education to 1.1% of GDP and of science to 1.5% of GDP;
Increasing the pay of Bulgarian scientists and lecturers, based on attestation for individual contribution and quality of educational and scientific product;
Create legislative and financial instruments and incentives to attract private investment for technology development and innovation, innovative start-ups and venture capital;
Stimulating scientific organisations to create and profit from the development and deployment of innovative technological products;
Building a single digital research, education and innovation structure, adopting legislation to encourage the creation of technology parks and incubators;
Adoption of a new law on BAS to ensure the full development of BAS as a complex research centre;
Adopt a new law on higher education to boost the quality of university education and turn universities into integrated centres of learning, research, innovation and entrepreneurship;
Encouraging international mobility of students, teachers and researchers and inclusion in relevant European programmes.
This includes automatic recognition of degrees obtained in accredited institutions in EU countries.
IV.3. Social and pension policies
Prioritise the fight against poverty by creating sustainable jobs and reducing the working poor;
Reorientation of unemployment benefits towards the creation of sustainable employment, together with business;
Introduce a system of vouchers for social assistance and hourly employment;
Introduce a minimum hourly rate and a programme to bring it up to BGN 4 per hour in the first stage, based on objective criteria for determination and updating;
Adopt, after a thorough debate, a long-term strategy for the development of the pension system and for improving the pension model in order to improve the fairness, stability and credibility of the pension system;
Abolition of the ceilings on pensions for service accumulated after 1.1.1997 and on the maximum insurable income;
Improving the "Swiss rule" for annual pension updates.
Use of the so-called "small consumer basket" in determining annual inflation;
Recalculation in 2017 of all pensions with the current average social security income for 2016 and with the increased weight of each year of service from 1.1 to 1.2 from the beginning of 2017;
Creation of a solidarity occupational pension fund in the National Social Insurance Institute for workers in heavy work conditions with the use of virtual personal accounts for each insured.
IV.4. Developing the potential of young people
Establishment of a state body to develop and implement policy to support children, young people and families;
Stimulating young people's civic participation and self-organisation;
Together with the National Youth Council, develop a long-term strategy for youth development and define current policies;
Stimulating civic and non-formal learning, volunteering, social engagement, sports activities of young people;
Active involvement of young people in crime and drug prevention;
Developing and implementing national standards for youth work placements;
Stimulating young people engaged in science, innovation, youth entrepreneurship, arts and culture;
Tackling youth unemployment as a priority;
Encouraging young parents who work;
Flexible working hours and reduced housing loans for working young parents;
Preventing irresponsible parenting and the misuse of direct childcare benefits;
Introduce family income taxation to increase tax rebates and incentives at the expense of direct benefits ;
IV.5. Sound economic and fiscal policy
Preserving the currency board and a programme to prepare the Bulgarian economy for euro area participation;
Using the budget deficit exclusively for investment.
Separation of the investment part in the state budget;
A change in tax policy to increase fairness - introducing a tax on financial market transactions, moderate progressive income taxation (10, 15 and 20%) and restoring the tax-free minimum to one minimum wage, taxing large inheritances and introducing family income taxation;
Budgetary and economic planning, coinciding with the 7-year periods of the EU's financial framework;
Changing the profile of the Bulgarian economy by promoting technological development and innovation, the creation of maximum added value, the ability to export or import substitution of production;
Creating financial instruments and public-private partnerships to promote investment in changing the profile of the Bulgarian economy.
Transfer of national and European public support to small and medium-sized enterprises, development of innovations, increasing the competitiveness of Bulgarian producers;
Financially backed regional development plans and market-based investments from the National Investment Fund to support the development of priority industries;
A fairer, more sustainable and greener agricultural policy;
Preferential support for young farmers, small producers and producers who increase the depth of processing of agricultural produce and create jobs;
Continuation of VAT reverse charge to limit tax evasion;
Increase of checks by the NRA for the correspondence between the income declared by farmers and the areas and animals declared in the ISAC;
Ability to monitor all procurement procedures on the internet;
Development of a National Hydro-remediation Strategy and Infrastructure Investment Programme based on public-private partnerships;
Production of a national cadastre of agricultural land and its overlap with aerial and satellite images of arable areas;
Refinement of forest management plans and ban on export of raw timber.
Effective sanctions for illegal logging;
Promote the use of local agricultural products in the retail and food chains;
Introduce procedures to ensure the preservation of Bulgarian varieties and hybrids and breeds of animals;
Maximum support for vulnerable sectors and additional 2% coupled support for protein crops;
Maximum timeframe for beneficiaries to launch approved projects within 6 months;
Preventing GMOs from entering the market;
Renting out communal land to create employment for the unemployed;
Easing administrative requirements for farmers, including for the leasing of communal land to livestock farmers;
Tax deductions for municipalities to maintain municipal road infrastructure in better condition;
Compliance with basic energy policy principles - security of supply,
reducing energy poverty,
environmental protection,
strengthening Bulgaria's role as an energy player in the region and in Europe;
Preservation and development of nuclear energy in Bulgaria.
It is not realistic for the state to develop the construction of two new nuclear power plants at the same time.
Every effort should be made to extend the lifetime of reactors 5 and 6 at Kozloduy NPP and to resume construction of Belene NPP.
A possible expansion of Kozloduy NPP could take place in the future, based on a clear analysis and with all the necessary procedures in place.
The expansion of Kozloduy NPP is not an alternative to the construction of Belene NPP;
Continuation of South Stream procedures.
Bulgaria should regain the initiative and conduct the necessary negotiations with Russia and the European Commission.
All procedures should reflect European rules;
Accelerated construction of gas interconnections.
Together with the development of new conventional gas fields and the expansion of storage capacity, this will lead to effective participation in the regional market;
Expansion of domestic coal power generation capacity
and support for investment in technologies to meet environmental standards;
Promote energy research and low-carbon technology deployment as a sustainable transition, not as meeting an end in itself,
Investing in smart grids and developing national technologies and products for low-carbon industries and smart grids;
Priority work to improve the energy efficiency of the Bulgarian economy - through standards, investment, government support and effective controls;
Restructuring and putting on a professional basis the management of state-owned energy companies.
Stop the party appointments and the draining of the energy sector.
International management selection competitions.
IV.6. Revival of Bulgarian culture
Adoption of a strategy for the development of Bulgarian culture, cultural and historical heritage, and cultural tourism, which will not only promote Bulgarian culture as a cause for national self-confidence and self-awareness, but also
revive its contribution to the Bulgarian economy;
Increase of funds for Bulgarian culture and cultural and historical heritage to 1% of GDP.
Expanding access to culture to the widest circles of the population;
Implementation of special programs for the development of Bulgarian theater, cinema and music, the funds of Bulgarian culture and art - libraries, museums, community centers.
Development of legal bases to stimulate patronage;
Promotion of the quality of Bulgarian cultural production by strengthening the competitive principle based on clear and socially accepted criteria.
IV.7. Bulgaria in the region, Europe and the world
A balanced, coherent and active foreign policy.
Formulating and defending Bulgarian foreign policy initiatives to meet the challenges of the 21st century;
Stimulating and expanding the capabilities of Bulgarian diplomacy to achieve clearly defined goals for the strategic development of the Bulgarian state;
Protecting the rights of Bulgarians abroad, their associations, support for Bulgarian schools abroad and promoting the Bulgarian language and Bulgarian culture;
Improving the organisation and activation of Bulgarian participation in the EU decision-making process, gaining a worthy place for the country in the Union and preparing for participation at the next levels of integration.
Active preparation for the Bulgarian EU presidency in 2018;
Active involvement of the National Assembly in the preparation of the Bulgarian positions in the EU;
Intensification of Bulgarian foreign policy initiatives in the regions of South-Eastern Europe and the Black Sea basin.
Resolving open issues with the neighbours;
Developing energy diplomacy and exploiting Bulgaria's opportunities for the transmission and production of energy resources;
Intensifying Bulgaria's relations with countries that represent a potential market for the Bulgarian economy;
Strengthening the status and enforcing the professionalism and development of the diplomatic service.
Limiting political appointments.
