The road of Bulgaria
Bulgaria is one of the oldest countries in Europe.
It has withstood external threats, internal crises, foreign domination and its own misunderstandings; it
has passed through different historical and cultural epochs.
Even in the darkest periods and during the years of slavery, the consciousness of belonging to the Bulgarian community and state tradition has sustained us.
This tradition makes us today part of European nations and culture, part of the most creative project for Europe - the European Union.
In conditions of global transition, the Bulgarian nation must preserve its state and territory.
It must remain the political subject of its decisions in the region, the European Union and the global world.
Bulgaria's path in the European Union should be traced by the ideas of tolerance, sustainable and stable development that it will give and defend in the European Union.
A long-term policy is needed to preserve and capitalise on Bulgaria's strategic potentials.
The political model we are striving for is subordinated to the goal of achieving a better quality of life for Bulgarians by creating political conditions for economic prosperity and guaranteeing human rights.
The LEADER Party will work to change the tone and methods of political debate in society.
We are confident that with a tolerant, transparent and friendly tone, the public will focus its attention on the priorities and mobilize to fully realize the national potential.
Our lessons from the transition period
At the end of the twentieth century a transition to economic and political pluralism began in the country.
Bulgaria built the institutions of society and the state on the values of democracy.
Transition is not a singular period of history.
It will be remembered for democratisation, for insecurity, for the plundering of property and national wealth, and for integration into European and Euro-Atlantic structures.
The main conclusion that can be drawn is that the institutions of power have achieved the set goals in decisions on which they have managed to develop a political consensus;
in tasks whose solution politically engages the collective will of the national community and its representative - the state.
In the years of change, we carried out a genuine peaceful revolution aimed at realizing liberal democracy and a market economy.
We proclaimed the principles of freedom and responsibility of the individual.
They are an important and irreversible step in the right direction.
But they should be filled with content, become part of the thinking and behaviour of the Bulgarian citizen.
In the years of transition, ordinary Bulgarians showed resilience and will in their search for social prospects.
The political forces of the transition, however, failed to build a stable statehood, in line with the constitutional ideas.
In their vast majority they have proved powerless in the face of poverty and market anarchy.
Concurrent political and economic interests have imposed themselves over the effective realisation of the new values - initiative, responsibility, solidarity - that were put forward at the dawn of the changes.
Extremely valuable infrastructure and human capital was wasted.
Nearly 20 years after the beginning of the changes, this continues to hinder Bulgaria's full integration into the global and European market, giving us a place at the tail of the developed modern countries.
We are a full member of the European Union.
The values and goals of united Europe correspond to the values and goals of the Bulgarian nation.
Bulgaria is developing in line with European democratic values and the principles of conferred competence, defined by the treaties the countries conclude with the EU.
This is complemented by the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, according to which the EU acts where its solutions would be more effective than those at local and regional level.
European integration is a pragmatic policy of economic and political efficiency.
It is Bulgaria's duty to adhere to loyal cooperation within the EU by respecting the treaty positions.
This loyalty also means taking into account and negotiating Bulgarian interests in the system of European decisions.
The European Union respects the national identities, constitutional structures, local and regional self-government of its Member States.
It recognises the functions of nation states in the spheres of territorial integrity, national security and public order.
Each Member State is responsible for its national security.
The economy - the foundation of quality of life
For us, the development of an economic policy adequate to the challenges of the time is a strategic task.
Our policy links concrete economic results to the quality of life of Bulgarian citizens.
A good quality of life leads to higher economic performance and economic competitiveness and creates prospects for our nation as a whole.
The main goal of the LEADER party policy is to create the best conditions for the development of the Bulgarian economy in European and global conditions.
We are in favour of: - A comprehensive vision for the Bulgarian economy, for its industrial and technological development;
- A policy of economic patriotism by creating conditions for the development of Bulgarian business in a competitive market environment;
- An offensive and export-oriented Bulgarian economy;
- Compliance with European norms and standards in order to ensure the rapid penetration of Bulgarian goods on the European market and to create conditions for mobile integration in all economic areas; -
Creation of strategies for the national integration of the economy and the bala
We believe that the main challenges and tasks for the development of the country, for stimulating growth and employment are:
- Increasing production efficiency and stimulating innovation;
- Improving administrative capacity, with particular focus on the core regulatory functions of government and the judiciary;
- Implement a tight fiscal policy,
improving the quality of public spending and income policy,
linking wage growth to productivity growth;
- Improving the current business environment by reducing bureaucratic burdens and shortening administrative procedures;
- Increasing employment and the quality of the workforce through active labour market measures and education reforms;
- Create conditions for strong and transparent competition in the development of infrastructure projects of pan-European importance;
- Developing an integrated R&D policy linked to the specific key priorities of the country and business;
- Implementing a strategy for lifelong learning and upskilling of workers.
In order to achieve the objectives set out in this economic project, we of the LEADER Party will pursue the following policies.
We acknowledge as weaknesses the lack of clear priorities in the medium- and long-term perspective, the
unjustified spending of national resources
and the subsidization of unformed and unrestructured sectors and industries in the economy.
We believe that in a situation of a serious current account deficit and its widening trend there is a danger for the economic stability of the country.
Moreover, despite the drastic reduction in direct taxes, the redistributive share through the application of government regulations remains at an unbalanced high level.
That is why we are proposing to reduce the levels of redistribution of resources through the state budget.
In our view, government spending should be permanently limited to below 40% of GDP, with a tendency to reach 35% in the medium term.
We are in favour of the abolition of the policy of planning under-budgeted revenues and the formation of budget surpluses to be spent in a non-transparent way by executive decision.
In this regard, we are in favour of the formation and implementation of a balanced state budget that responds to the real political and economic situation, with clear priorities and objectives, without significant budget surpluses that take fresh resources from economic entities.
In case of surpluses, they should be distributed only by a decision of the National Assembly.
We from the LEADER party are for the implementation of a strict fiscal policy, a balanced redirection of resources from the public to the private sector, accompanied by immediate reforms in healthcare, social security and education.
In implementing our proposed macroeconomic policy, we are in favour of strict compliance with the Maastricht criteria.
Monetary policy
We are in favour of respecting the common European monetary mechanism, joining the European Monetary Union and adopting the euro as a means of payment in our country.
In the area of monetary policy, we are in favour of preserving the monetary council regime in preparation for our country's entry into the European Monetary Union;
preserving the independence of the Central Bank as a source of stability, helping to create non-inflationary growth through specific monetary measures and at the same time for a more active position of the Central Bank in protecting Bulgarian national capital and stimulating Bulgarian business.
In order to increase competitiveness and production capacity and the absorption of EU funds, we are in favour of the establishment of a Capital Investment Fund with the participation of Bulgarian banks, in partnership with international institutions.
In addition to this, and to issue additional guarantees on used debt instruments and commitments, we are in favour of creating a National Guarantee Fund with the active participation of Bulgarian banking and non-banking businesses and in partnership with international organisations.
Public finance
When developing a long-term policy for the stability of public finances, it is of utmost importance to take into account the negative demographic trends in the country and their impact on the state pension system.
In this regard, we are in favour of reducing the insurance burden and reforming the pension system by increasing the influence of the private sector.
The positive effects we expect are: a reduction in the role of the state, a reduction in the influence of the "grey economy" and hence an increase in the total revenue of the state budget.
From the perspective of the sustainability of public finances in the long term, it is of utmost importance to develop a strategy for achieving a reformed, financially sustainable and cost-effective health system, ensuring the provision of quality health services to the population with the active participation of private business.
We are in favour of optimising public spending by developing a strategy for immediate reform in education and health to end the practice of uncontrolled and inefficient spending.
We believe that without concrete measures and adequate sectoral policies and reforms, real budgetary reform is not possible to lead to accelerated economic growth.
Policy to improve the business environment and promote private sector development
We believe that Bulgarian private capital, as the engine of development, should be a corrective and active partner of the state in the elaboration of the country's economic development strategy.
There is a need to improve regulations and their enforcement procedures in order to improve regulatory regimes by:
- Minimizing administrative obstacles to business;
- Continuing privatization with a specified state strategy;
- Minimizing procedures related to licensing;
- Streamlining procedures for enforcement of contractual obligations.
We propose that a clear regulation for interaction between government and business be established.
Through the development of this regulation, private business will be transformed from an object of regulation into an active participant in the process of improving the business environment.
In view of this, we propose the use of alternative instruments to implement relevant policies such as: performance and outcome-based regulations;
process-based regulations;
codes of practice with active business involvement;
consumer education guides;
free initiatives and the promotion of entrepreneurship and skills development through participation in European education programmes.
For us, public-private partnership is one of the most modern and effective forms of interaction between the state and business in modern economies.
We support the development of a Public-Private Partnership Act to clearly regulate the opportunities for interaction between public and corporate finance to achieve economic growth at local and national levels.
Policy to promote medium and small businesses
Small and medium-sized enterprises are an essential element in promoting entrepreneurship, creating new jobs and contributing to economic growth.
We are in favour of improving access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises through European Union programmes.
For projects financed by the European Union, the own contribution should be recognised as an expense for the beneficiaries.
Small and medium-sized businesses should focus on joint projects with municipalities in the implementation of public-private partnerships.
Policy for absorption of funds under European programmes
The total amount of funds that Bulgaria has the possibility to absorb under the Operational Programmes of the European Union for the period 2007-2013 is about 7 billion euro.
The use of these funds is one of the most essential elements in assessing the effectiveness of public policy.
The effects of these funds for the country will be the infusion of fresh resources into the Bulgarian economy and the increase of competitiveness, living standards and incomes of the population.
However, the existing practice so far shows an inability to absorb the allocated funds, a lack of administrative capacity and the presence of corrupt practices.
As a result, Bulgaria turns from a recipient into a payer, which indirectly finances the economies of the other EU member states.
That is why we from the LEADER party believe that the administrative capacity should be optimized and concrete measures should be developed to accelerate the absorption of funds.
It is unacceptable to rely only on European control and supervision.
There is a need for a clear legal basis and transparency of the institutions in Bulgaria responsible for the management of EU funds.
Control of funds must be linked to the legislature and the judiciary.
Tax and social security policy
The LEADER Party is for the development of a clear and concrete tax policy.
We are against the spontaneous and unprincipled annual changes in tax legislation, which are an obstacle to the development of an adequate business strategy.
This uncertainty and irreversibility largely offset the effect of low tax levels in Bulgaria.
Priorities need to be identified and a national tax strategy developed for the long term.
We are in favour of simplifying tax legislation.
We are in favour of a clear and stable tax environment.
The current situation of uncertainty among investors and the rampant administrative arbitrariness are unacceptable.
The regulatory framework needs to be improved and simplified as much as possible.
A working and adequate relationship between business and control bodies should be ensured in order to correctly implement the legal requirements
We are in favour of reducing the insurance burden and simplifying the insurance legislation and reviewing the model of the current insurance system.
We believe that this reform will lead to the "clarification" of social security income and break the vicious practice of providing and working on minimum social security thresholds.
Simplification of administration will lead to a serious increase in collection and to the elimination of the chronic serious deficit of the social security system.
Reductions in rate levels will lead to a broadening of the base and instead of losses, lasting positive trends will be realised.
There is a need to develop legislative options for corporate tax exemptions for profit reinvestment under certain conditions and criteria in priority areas and projects.
We propose measures to abolish the current tax on dividends to domestic individuals and non-residents and to reduce the amount of Value Added Tax.
Good governance policy of the tax administration
The tax administration should assist taxpayers and encourage compliance with the law and voluntary payment of taxes.
There is a need to strengthen the administrative capacity and a complete change in the philosophy, mentality and way of working of the control bodies.
We are in favour of : - The development of clear rules and procedures for the work of the NRA;
- The optimisation of tax administration;
- A new approach for the implementation of ex-post tax control, based on a comprehensive effective analysis and research of the specific business and its specificities.
Policies to promote organisational and technological innovation We need an
economy based on knowledge and innovation.
We believe that the state's involvement in managing innovation processes should be oriented towards creating conditions and developing mechanisms for investing in research and development.
We propose the following innovation reforms: - Improving the share of competitive R&D funding;
- Encouraging public-private partnerships in R&D;
- Re-evaluating the role of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences;
- Developing a system for evaluating R&D policies;
- Increasing R&D funding in industry; -
Encouraging university research.
We are in favour of developing tax measures that would allow tax preferences for companies that have implemented quality management systems or invested in innovative projects.
Energy policy
We accept independence, sustainability and competitiveness as the core principles of energy policy.
The main function of the state energy policy is to create legal conditions for the equal and competitive development of all types of energy production.
We believe that conditions should be created for energy development based on local raw materials and sources, which will ensure the security of our energy system and reduce our energy dependence.
We are in favour of creating conditions for stability and independence in the work of state regulatory and control bodies in the field of energy, which will increase the confidence of European institutions in the management of energy in Bulgaria.
In our opinion, the problem for the start-up of units 3 and 4 at Kozloduy NPP is not technical, because everyone acknowledges their technical safety.
The problem is Europe's lack of confidence in their management, due to the change of leadership of the Nuclear Regulation Agency and the NPP with each change of executive.
We are in favour of creating conditions for equal and in certain cases preferential participation of Bulgarian companies in the privatisation and management of energy companies.
We believe that the state should create conditions for the unification of the capabilities of basic and applied science and business for the exploration, development and exploitation of new deposits of energy sources in Bulgaria.
In addition, we believe that there are prerequisites for pooling the resources and capabilities of science, universities and business to create a new generation of personnel needed for the management and development of the energy sector.
Energy saving is an integral part of energy policy.
Transport
Transport is a key factor in achieving sustainable economic and cultural development in our country.
The aim of the transport policy is to build a good infrastructure and integration of the country's territory, as well as transport communications on a global scale.
We from the LEADER party are in favour of the development of a long-term state policy for all modes of transport and development priorities,
transparent conditions for granting concessions,
privatisation of some transport-related activities
and the use of opportunities provided by public-private partnerships.
Our tourism development strategy aims to make Bulgarian tourism highly competitive in the global tourism business.
There is a need for a clear government entity to manage and coordinate the tourism industry with policies in ecology, health, transport, culture and other related industries.
The existence of an adequate state strategy for the development of tourism in the long term is of key importance for the preservation of Bulgaria as a preferred destination for tourists from Europe and the world.
Agrarian policy
Bulgarian agriculture is failing to realise its potential.
Our strategic objective is to develop a modern, competitive agriculture in line with the European Union's Common Agricultural Policy.
The trend of continuously rising global agricultural prices, as well as limited production opportunities and expected direct subsidies under the European Union programmes stimulate the production and export of agricultural products.
This trend needs to be supported by adequate policy.
We believe that the basis for the future development of agriculture is its modernisation and mechanisation.
The introduction of new machinery and modern technologies, the use of the opportunities of European programmes and funds for investment lending will stimulate the modernization of rural areas and improve the conditions for their use.
To improve the infrastructure serving agricultural estates, to increase foreign investment and to develop agriculture, we propose:
- Development of a long-term state policy for the development of agricultural areas;
- Decisive measures for effective absorption of EU programmes;
- Stimulating farmers and ensuring the marketing of their produce;
- Protecting Bulgarian interests in the European Union by achieving optimal quotas for Bulgarian agricultural production;
- Upskilling and additional incentives for employees in the sector;
- Active partnership of the state and private business in building the necessary infrastructure for farmers;
- Promoting sustainable development of agricultural areas and the development of alternative employment activities;
- Development of clear and precise rules for obtaining subsidies from EU funds in specific areas (crop production, vegetable production, livestock farming, poultry farming, maintenance and renovation of forestry, irrigation and reclamation)
- Streamlining procedures for applying for EU subsidy programmes;
- Delegation of greater rights to the branches
Ecology
The modern way of life requires the observance of optimal relations between man and nature.
Future generations are counting on us.
In the field of ecology, we stand for: - Sustainable development of territories
- Protection of unique natural conditions and resources
- Compliance with European norms and standards;
- Strict legislative measures for the regulation of protected areas.
On the social, cultural and spiritual environment of the market economy
Reaffirming our understanding of the freedom, happiness and well-being of the human person, of
the need for humane labour and social relations, taking
into account the relationship of the market economy to these relations and their role in its functioning,
declare that the LEADER Party will develop and participate in the implementation of the following policies.
New modern criteria are needed to assess the value of labour, linked to productivity and quality.
This is the responsibility of all employers and owners.
There is a need for a national information system on the state of the labour market and for linking education, especially higher and secondary vocational education, to jobs and their dynamics.
The labour market is not possible without the constant retraining of personnel.
The state fund for retraining should be directed to employers and they should be responsible for the effective use of the funds.
The labour market requires that job marketing measures be developed.
To the problems of the labour market we refer the problems of working hours and additional wages and hidden unemployment.
Hidden unemployment is one of the factors of low labour productivity.
We are in favour of creating new jobs linked to efficiency.
Relations with trade unions
The efficiency of the modern economy depends on the effective interaction of trade unions and employers' organisations, on the dialogue between workers and employers.
The management of private property requires consideration of the organized interest of labor.
The clandestine trade unions of the transition must give way to real trade unions that have emerged and developed on the basis of the interests of workers on the ground.
Trade unions should consistently develop tripartite cooperation.
Tripartite institutions defend the interests of workers and implement active dialogue with employers.
Unions must restore concern for working conditions, for workers' insurance on their real earnings and against unemployment, for workers' health care.
Immigration
The contemporary dynamics of life are linked to mobility in residence and work.
Highly qualified specialists who are realised abroad have not permanently left the country.
They should be offered permanent opportunities to return, to work in Bulgaria or with Bulgaria.
Our vocational schools and universities must strengthen relations with their graduates so that they invariably feel the support of the Fatherland and of Bulgarian educational institutions.
New jobs are being created in Bulgaria for which there are not enough well-trained staff.
At the same time, many still live with the belief that there are no suitable jobs for them, and this alienates them from the national community.
It is necessary to create a new state policy to work with Bulgarians living abroad, to involve them in Bulgarian causes.
Emigration is alarming not only from outside the country, there are too many "internal emigrants", people who do not see prospects for a good life in Bulgaria.
We believe that the problem of emigration can be solved by creating good living conditions, through the efficiency of the health and education system.
This is the state's duty to professionals.
Immigration
As a member of the EU, Bulgaria attracts the interest of more and more people as a place to live and work.
Immigration problems must be seen and addressed in the context of labour market problems.
Today the Bulgarian nation has a chance to attract to itself the Bulgarians from the wider diaspora.
Those who want and are able to make a career in Bulgaria should be provided with living conditions, education and qualifications.
There is a need for a state vision and strategy for the treatment of people who have chosen Bulgaria as a field for their professional and life realization.
The realisation of youth
Creating favourable working and career conditions for young people should become a legislative policy priority.
Working conditions and youth fulfilment are an element of young people's living conditions.
These are events related to job opportunities, family and parental fulfilment.
Legislation is the debtor of the policy for Bulgarian children.
They must be provided for by their parents or by the state by modern standards.
The young, ambitious, skilled, enterprising people of Bulgaria must make it in their homeland.
What can keep young people in Bulgaria is the availability of conditions for professional realisation, for career advancement, for professional qualification and adequate pay.
The institutions should pay particular attention to the development of youth culture, sport and civic initiatives.
Youth policy needs to be set at a high institutional level.
The pension case
Pension policy is based on the principles of solidarity and personal contribution.
There are three main pillars of the pension system: the state pension, the compulsory supplementary pension and the voluntary supplementary pension.
Pension provision needs to be improved by linking it to macroeconomic indicators.
Compulsory supplementary pension provision should be implemented on a funded basis.
The aim of this insurance is that the second life pension it provides will, in time, exceed the state pension in size.
We attach the utmost importance to supplementary voluntary pension insurance.
We believe that any employer can make this provision for its employees.
Health
The core principle of our health policy is "health in all policies".
Modern healthcare is not just a sectoral policy.
It is integrated into all policies because health is a fundamental human value.
Bulgarian healthcare should be an interconnected system of continuous health care for citizens throughout their lives without discrimination of social status and age.
It is time for the state, municipalities and private organisations to show how they can interact in the field of healthcare.
We are in favour of: developing a long-term strategy for modern healthcare;
Establishing a system for separate management of administrative, business and medical activities;
Establishing a system for improving the qualifications and competitiveness of professionals at all levels in the health system;
Building a new system for evaluating the work of professionals according to their qualifications, seniority and location, as well as the quality of health facilities and care, based on quality, cost and financial performance;
transparent financing and control of financial flows;
Improving the health insurance system and basing it on a competitive principle;
preserving the principle of solidarity in the system of compulsory health insurance with a guaranteed minimum package of services for the entire population.
The participation of the state in the financing of public health care institutions is a guarantee for affordable and quality health care;
an alternative system of voluntary supplementary insurance, which gives a choice of health facilities and high-quality services;
high-tech facilities;
Improving the interaction between emergency care and the rest of the health system;
accessibility and high efficiency of pre-hospital care;
improving the interaction between primary and specialised pre-hospital care and creating an integrated, unified information system on the course of treatment of each individual patient;
Reduce the number of hospitals through ownership change and effective public-private partnerships;
reviewing the codes of ethics and legally linking them to the decisions of the ethics committees.
The dental care system requires particular attention.
A key priority is to build an effective system for dealing with the health insurance system.
The return of preventive dental care in schools and kindergartens is necessary.
Traditions in the field of prevention, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of occupational diseases and occupational medicine must be restored.
Social medicine should be part of the health care system.
Special attention should be paid to child health care by introducing uniform standards for the operation of health clinics in kindergartens and schools.
Establish a national system for monitoring children's physical development and health education in primary schools.
We will focus on prevention and healthy lifestyle, improving and more efficient use of the rehabilitation, balneology and spa treatment system.
Empowerment of people with disabilities
Providing equal opportunities for people with disabilities must be a real political commitment.
Policies to address problems quantitatively should be continued and accelerated: accessible entrances to offices and public transport cars, traffic-friendly sidewalks and underpasses, non-discrimination requirements for job applications.
A conscious effort is also needed by all to bring about a qualitative change in the attitude towards these people, to build together an environment in which they can develop and apply their abilities.
The development of sport
In modern society, sport is an investment in people's health.
Sport is a universal means of increasing performance and for the physical and moral education of the individual.
Sport is also prevention in the fight against drug addiction and the diseases of the information society.
The main objectives of our policy for the development of sport are;
build an environment for the practice of everyday sports activities in urban conditions; to
give a serious place to sports education in the educational system from primary to higher education; to
create legal conditions for the commitment of Bulgarian business to sport, the construction and management of sports facilities; to
consolidate and strengthen the global authority of Bulgarian national sport.
Education and Science
The education system is an instrument for social change.
This was clearly understood and used in the Bulgarian Renaissance and before.
It is time today to determine our future and the future of our children by taking our responsibility.
Taking into account the European strategies and practices, we propose an education policy that is based on the following basic principles.
The principle of free education in public schools ensures equal access to education.
The real protection of equal access is guaranteed by free textbooks in compulsory education.
Freedom of Education
In Bulgaria, the state ensures equality between public and private education by establishing common criteria for different forms of education.
Private schools can be supported by the state under strict contractual conditions with state institutions.
Compulsory education
We uphold the principle of compulsory secondary education for children aged 7 to 16.
This principle should be legislated as a right and duty of parents.
Child protection and care legislation needs to be improved with clear commitments from the state and parents in the pre-school years.
Secular and ideologically neutral education
Compulsory public education is secular and ideologically neutral.
It is not influenced by the religious affiliation of the parents and implies neutral teaching towards religions and ideologies.
No religious teaching is allowed in Bulgarian schools and no religious elements are allowed.
Religious education is possible outside school and under state-regulated rules.
On the basis of these principles, the LEADER Party proposes an educational policy linked to the following mandatory elements: thorough knowledge and use of the Bulgarian language;
knowledge and use of a modern foreign language;
knowledge of the basic principles of mathematics and basic science and technology;
use of basic technologies for modern communication - computer literacy and the Internet;
knowledge of the civil and social principles of coexistence in society;
creating conditions for independence, initiative and the development of creative abilities.
These general conditions for the education system apply to all generations and are part of the conditions for lifelong learning.
They are an element of the adaptation of Bulgarian society to the dynamic conditions of globalisation.
The compulsory skills assessment system is developed by state education authorities and is valid for schools across the country.
The role of the state in education:
determines the policies, adopts the curricula and the content of educational subjects in the compulsory phase;
define and coordinate diplomas, degrees and titles with European standards;
implements personnel policy in compulsory education;
organise the necessary funds and distribute them according to the law;
organise the geographical distribution of staff for training institutions according to a long-term demographic and regional strategy;
organise violence prevention in schools and special childcare facilities;
supervise and evaluate educational programmes to ensure continuity between levels of education;
Promotes public-private partnerships and school boards.
The state establishes rules and distributes competences among central, regional and municipal institutions in the field of education.
The following activities fall within the remit of municipal councils and town halls: the construction and maintenance of the school stock; the
organisation of sports facilities, cultural activities and after-school activities; the
organisation of vocational and technological training for all ages; the
organisation of school transport and the regulation of traffic and infrastructure in the vicinity of schools; the
provision of school support staff for accessible school meals and activities during the day; the
ensuring a level playing field between schools, including homes for children deprived of parental care.
Particular attention should be paid to the creation of personnel for the education system.
Universities should offer a two-year teaching specialisation for the different subjects taught in school.
The status of the Bulgarian teacher should correspond to the high place and importance of the profession in society.
This status must be protected both materially and morally.
The concept of "teacher" should correspond to the role of one who imparts knowledge and educates children in the spirit of the best traditions and modern practices.
Basic, secondary and higher education in Bulgaria should correspond to the educational systems of developed countries, be convertible and adaptable.
The LEADER Party aims to involve parents in educational activities as an extremely important factor for the realization of the set goals.
We appeal to parents with the conviction that their commitment to children's issues and education is a guarantee for the future of the whole society.
Parents are responsible for ensuring normal living conditions for their children - eating, sleeping, playing sports, staying away from unhealthy games and activities and living drug-free.
They are the ones who have to educate independent and responsible citizens.
The education system must ensure continuous communication with parents, timely information and interaction with teachers through meetings, extracurricular activities and joint initiatives.
It is necessary to strengthen the role of school boards in the direction of associating parents to the educational activities of the school.
University education and science
Bulgarian universities must build and guarantee highly educated staff in all sectors of the economy and public life in Bulgaria and the EU.
Higher education convertibility criteria are at the core of our educational competitiveness.
University education is managed at the national level.
As educational centres, universities are autonomous, they are controlled through the state accreditation system and the standardisation of scientific specialisations, degrees and titles according to uniform criteria.
Public and private universities operate under standardised common requirements with different funding sources.
Higher education is state free, state paid and private.
Universities are places for innovation and scientific development.
They should use a combination of public, regional, European and private funding sources.
The separation of science from higher education reduces the efficiency of both education and science and cuts Bulgaria off from the leading scientific fields.
Universities should therefore develop research activities and research centres in institutes attached to higher education institutions.
There is a need to create an integral link between higher education and business.
We propose the creation of a National Research Coordination Agency to create a partnership between the public and private sectors in education - on the one hand, and industry and the applied science sector - on the other.
This agency will be different from the institutions that have to deal with the labour market requirements of the education system and will be specifically focused on the development of applied and basic sciences.
The link between business and higher education and science should also be implemented through the introduction of a higher education credit system provided by business.
Credit for scholarly activity and credit toward a profession is required.
Bulgarian legislation should stimulate the sponsorship of science and education through tax breaks and preferences.
Culture
Today Bulgarian culture is going through a dynamic metamorphosis.
The main positive effect of the transition for the cultural sphere in Bulgaria is the freedom of creative expression and the steadily increasing democratization of the production and consumption of cultural goods.
Along with this:Contemporary cultural policies are only effective if they function in full synergy with contemporary education, communication and media policies.
Modern cultural policies are only effective if they equate universal values with the values of national culture, regional cultures and human everyday life.
Modern cultural policies are only effective if they promote tolerance of cultural difference.
In this way, Bulgarian citizens can participate in social networks in a meaningful and satisfying way.
Cultural and individual differences are a resource for prosperity.
Contemporary cultural policies are only effective if they originate from the spiritual interests of local communities.
The LEADER Party will focus its efforts on:The consolidation of the Bulgarian and European cultural identity of all Bulgarian citizens; The
consolidation of the Bulgarian cultural tradition as a filter through which the nation fully absorbs the ideas, images and symbols of globalization and the world information network; The
formulation of new priorities in cultural management, marketing and advertising.
This requires an active dialogue between representatives of the economic sector and representatives of spiritual life, creative industries and the non-governmental sector.
Only quality legislation in the cultural sphere can guarantee the autonomy of cultural production in Bulgaria, including the so far unrealised opportunities of public-private partnership.
As a partner in the development of its current policies, the LEADER Party sees above all young people at local level who are engaged in contemporary art and spirituality in a national, European and global context.
In this way the LEADER party will seek to neutralise conservatism and populism in the field of culture.
The Church and religious associations
The Bulgarian people are tolerant of atheistic views as well as of the different religions in the country.
This tolerance is part of the spiritual freedom of the Bulgarian.
In our history, Christianity has played an important role in the development and preservation of our national community.
We treat with respect the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, which was not only a religious institution, but also an important social and political factor.
Culturally and historically, it has united the nation with its precepts of morality and virtue, its commitment to national causes.
The Church is separate from the State.
It must perform its functions outside secular institutions.
The Christian Church, as well as other faiths in the country, should work for the development of the spirit of tolerance and cohesion in Bulgarian society.
Sects, which are banned in developed European countries, should be finally outlawed in our country.
Foreign policy
At the beginning of the 21st century Bulgaria's foreign policy is part of the system of international relations in the global world.
The LEADER Party defines its foreign policy vision with the understanding that states are the basic structural units of international relations in the global world.
States are involved in supranational structures that develop and establish themselves as a condition for security and prosperity.
In the global world, domestic and foreign policy are a single field where the politics, economics and culture of human communities interact.
Peace, as the greatest value for people, expands its meaning.
Peace means no hostilities in any form.
Peace is the non-use and destruction of nuclear weapons, and the non-use of any new technology against human beings anywhere on our planet.
There is a growing need for the formation and implementation of a common policy of humanity for the preservation of the human species, against biological and chemical interference with the freedom of the individual and nature.
Today's environmental and demographic problems of humanity are our problems, refracted through the geographical and geopolitical realities of Europe and the Balkans.
Bulgaria is not and cannot be isolated from global trends.
The close link between politics and economics is today a dominant political fact.
It must be understood in dynamics so that people can integrate their labour into the global market at a decent price.
Today it is most important for us to realize the new economic and political challenges from the position of a developed nation, not from the provincial narrowness of a catching-up nation.
Isolation and the inability to participate in the stratagems and plans for future development are today the greatest scourge for a huge part of humanity.
We will strive to participate with our representation, ideas and solutions in global and European organisations that have a bearing on the future of the world.
The European Union is a political community of countries that builds common policies on shared universal values.
They are fundamental to the politics of each constitutional party and the institutions in the member states.
Bulgaria's own development depends to the greatest extent on the development of the EU.
We must develop our attitude of unity and empathy with the European peoples who are linked to Bulgaria's historical destiny in the 21st century.
The EU's prosperity is ours and ours is the prosperity of the EU countries.
This is a new way of thinking, which should define the spirit of political interactions within the EU and which is yet to be shaped by the real interdependence of the countries of the union.
The EU must be competitive and have a decisive voice in determining global development.
Bulgaria will develop its relations with the EU on the basis of its Constitution.
Bulgaria is a stabilising factor in the Balkans.
It seeks good neighbourly relations.
We are committed to the development of the entire Balkan region on the basis of European values.
We believe that all the Balkan countries have a European perspective and Bulgaria will contribute to its realisation.
Bulgaria's bilateral relations with the US and Russia are of utmost importance for Bulgaria.
The balance in these relations is a principle to be built and stabilised in Bulgaria's foreign policy, to be followed in both political and economic relations.
Bulgaria values good bilateral relations with all countries.
It shall respect and develop bilateral cooperation on the basis of contractual relations, mutual respect and mutual benefit.
It stands for non-interference in the internal politics of states, for strict respect of sovereignty and territorial integrity.
Double standards in foreign policy are unacceptable and harmful to us and our partners.
