A judiciary free from political pressure and corruption
Control, accountability and personal responsibility of courts and prosecutors
Elimination of party interference in appointments
Integrated and transparent e-government
Preparing to join the euro area - low levels of government debt, inflation and budget deficit
Reducing the administrative burden on business,
investment promotion,
curbing monopolies
Increase employment
Reducing energy intensity and increasing energy efficiency
Investments in transport projects important for the economy
Equal access to quality education for every child
Quality and affordable treatment and payment per outcome, not per service
For a more detailed overview of the Reformist Bloc's governance priorities in the 2014 campaign, use the navigation on the left.
Programme
JUSTICE AND SECURITY
Court and prosecution
Goal: Judicial reform to ensure an independent judiciary, free from political games and corruption.
By:
Elimination of political influence on the courts and prosecution;
Operation "clean hands" in the judiciary;
Election of the Prosecutor General by the National Assembly with the possibility of early termination of the mandate;
Ensuring direct election of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Supreme Prosecutorial Council from the quotas of judges and prosecutors;
Separation of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Supreme Prosecutorial Council;
Active role in the establishment of a European Prosecutor's Office and civil protection outside the Ministry of Interior;
Ensuring the principle of random distribution of cases;
Parliamentary oversight for accountability of the courts, the SJC and prosecutors;
A unified crime fighting information system with effective public scrutiny;
Introducing constitutional guarantees that any appointment in these areas will be personally accountable; A
strong specialised prosecutor's office investigating corruption and abuse in high places;
Constitutional change to achieve the above objectives.
MINISTRY OF INTERIOR
Goal: Reform the Ministry of Interior with the top priority of protecting our lives and property, collecting
valid evidence
and rooting out corruption in the Ministry of Interior.
By:
Reducing the administration in the police
and increasing the number of active police officers Operation "clean hands" in the Ministry of Interior;
Freeing the Ministry of Interior from non-specific functions - e.g. the Civil Protection Service to be outside the Ministry of Interior;
Public annual reports of the regional directorates of the Ministry of Interior;
Expanding the investigative functions of the Customs Agency and providing them to the NRA and the FSC
and strengthening the control in the implementation and effectiveness of penalties;
Introduction of real competition for promotion and filling of managerial positions;
Provision of police presence in small settlements - a police officer in each settlement;
Full legal regulation of the activities of special services and coordination between them.
Creation of a single intelligence service.
EXTERNAL WORKS
Goal: Long-term policy to protect the interests of Bulgaria, Bulgarian business and Bulgarian citizens.
An active participant in EU decision-making and decision-making.
Equal relations with Russia, free from dependencies.
By:
Establishment of a competent diplomatic service;
Mobilization of all diplomatic resources for immediate Schengen membership;
Establishment of an effective e-services system to serve and protect Bulgarian citizens abroad;
Active Balkan policy.
Protection and support of Bulgarian minorities.
Interaction to meet EU membership criteria.
FROM
Goal: Development of the Bulgarian Army's capabilities for professional allied participation in missions
and capabilities for effective protection against aggressive acts of a new type - terrorism.
By:
Upgrading the equipment and material base of the Bulgarian army;
Introduction of advisory (expert) councils in military equipment transactions to stop corrupt practices (elimination of intermediaries in the purchase of military equipment, except EU and NATO agencies);
Outsourcing new military developments to Bulgarian scientific organizations
and maximum involvement of Bulgarian business companies in the military supply and equipment of both the Bulgarian army and NATO allies;
Identify and strategize to meet national security threats with a 20-year horizon;
Introduction of "good governance" criteria in the evaluation of defence effectiveness and defence management actions;
A new force structure: an army designed to solve the most likely combat tasks associated with allied expeditionary operations.
Management and Administration
ADMINISTRATION
Goal: Eliminate party interference in the administration.
By:
Establishment of universal rules for entry into public service;
Establishment of ethical and professional standards to be met by holders of senior public offices and members of regulators;
Monitoring of compliance with legal requirements to ensure their professionalism and independence;
Establishment of an independent regulator of public offices (State Administrative Commission - SAC).
ELECTRONIC CONTROL
Goal: Integrated and transparent e-government in state and municipal administration to increase the quality of services offered to companies and citizens, reduce the
cost of these services, the
time for their provision
and reduce opportunities for corruption in government.
By:
Introduction of centralized planning and control of e-government activities in the administration and management;
Introduction of standards for planning, organizing, managing and controlling e-government activities;
Completion of off-site e-government offices.
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Goal: Real financial decentralisation - transferring powers from central to local government and regions, and
encouraging municipalities to work together to deliver services to citizens.
By:
A new law on local government;
Strengthening and expanding local referendums and initiatives;
Changing the criteria for incentives to hold local referendums and civic initiatives;
Linking regional planning to the budget procedure
and ensuring real resourced implementation of municipal development plans;
Real governing regional governors.
Delegation of powers and management tools.
WELFARE AND ECONOMY
Financial stability
Goal: Effective public finance management to prepare Bulgaria's entry into the euro area - low public debt, inflation and budget deficit.
By:
Low nominal public debt, including municipal debt;
Achieving balanced budgets;
Bringing public spending to 38% of GDP without EU funds;
Maintaining the currency board;
Joining the Eurozone; Bulgaria'
s membership in the European Common Banking Union;
Maintaining the current level of taxation.
BUSINESS CLIMATE AND INVESTMENT
Goal: Improve the business climate by reducing the administrative burden
and encouraging foreign investment in Bulgaria.
By:
Reform the conditions and criteria for starting a business by moving from a permit-based to a notification-based regime;
Implement the existing legal requirement that all new legislation and all changes to existing legislation include an assessment of the impact on affected citizens and businesses;
Personal Bankruptcy Act - bankruptcy procedures for defaulting debtors
Impossibility of bankruptcy with arbitrary retroactive date;
Simplifying tax policy: efficient and clear procedures;
Adopt economic incentives for exporters and firms creating innovative products;
Establish and implement a state investment strategy to motivate investors in priority areas and regions.
COMPETITIVENESS AND CONSUMER PROTECTION
Goal: Stimulate competition
and limit the harmful effects of monopolistic and quasi-monopolistic structures.
By:
Imposing legal restrictions on the inclusion of commercial confidentiality clauses in privatization, concession, public procurement and other contracts concluded by the state and municipalities; The
composition of all regulatory bodies to be elected by the National Assembly through a public debate of the candidates;
Introduce a relaxed class action regime for monopolists; The
CPC, not at its discretion, but under an obligation, to conduct periodic analyses of risks of abuse of dominant position
and make them public;
Introduce out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes to protect the interest of citizens.
PUBLIC PROCUREMENT
Goal: Move towards a fully electronic procurement process, ensuring transparency and equal access to public procurement.
By:
Unification of documentation and standardization of public procurement contracts;
Electronic submission of documentation and introduction of access control to information;
Breaking the direct link between contracting authority and contractor;
Qualification of the administration for timely preparation and quality documentation and for working with external experts.
Labour and social policy
Goal: A flexible and dynamic labour market
and increased employment as the best social policy.
By:
Detailed legal regulation of the possibilities for hourly employment, job sharing and jobs with different employers;
Correlation between contributions and pensions received;
Stopping political interference in the determination of pensions;
Integration of minorities through education;
Linking social assistance to a system of social responsibilities and obligations;
Alternative employment models to support mothers with young children;
Condition for full work and professional development of mothers while maintaining the current social security system.
ENERGETICS
Goal: Free energy market,
sustainable development of modern energy infrastructure,
reduced energy intensity and increased energy efficiency and competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy,
energy efficient households.
By:
Adopt a National Strategy for Energy Independence and Security
Strict public scrutiny of the costs of energy companies that set electricity prices;
Clean up the financial deficit in the electricity sector and end abusive preferential pricing.
Participation of state-owned energy companies only in projects with proven economic efficiency;
Establishment of a Bulgarian electricity and natural gas exchange;
Assistance to energy-poor citizens;
Full liberation of the electricity market and elimination of the role of NEK as the sole buyer;
Direct financial incentives for energy efficiency of Bulgarian households and businesses;
Exchange privatization of a minority stake - up to 33% of the shares of selected state-owned energy companies.
Suspension of the South Stream project until it complies with European legislation and achieves proven economic benefit for Bulgaria;
Extension of the life of Units 5 and 6 of Kozloduy NPP.
Strict public scrutiny of the costs of energy companies that set electricity prices.
Agriculture and forests
Goal: Efficient and competitive agriculture in line with the EU's Common Agricultural Policy 2014-2020.
By:
Reducing the administrative burden for farmers and programme beneficiaries through changes to the State Fund for Agriculture;
Efficient and transparent use of CAP 2014-2020 funds;
Ensuring equal access to EU funds for all farmers;
Construction of irrigation systems where needed;
The real functioning of the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized farmers;
Support for cooperating small and medium-sized producers and processors of agricultural products;
Promoting organic and eco-production in agriculture.
TOURISM
Goal: Development of cultural,
health,
sports,
eco
and rural tourism
and upgrading of infrastructure.
By:
Separation of tourism into a separate ministry;
Establishment of a register and management of tourist attractions and products - public property;
Improvement of statistics for informed decision making for the development of the sector;
Investment in road infrastructure around the main attractions in Bulgaria.
TRANSPORT
Goal: Investment in strategic transport projects with high added value for the economy
By:
Construction of motorways and high-speed roads through PPPs,
investments in the second-class network through EU funds;
Financial incentives for municipalities to invest in third- and fourth-class municipal roads;
Development of transport networks under the EU macro-regional strategy - Danube and Black Sea strategies, including the modernization of the ports of Ruse and Varna and their connecting infrastructure.
Resolving the BDZ case in the best way for taxpayers.
Development of Bulgarian railways by supporting the policies for a single European railway area;
Promoting green public transport, with measures to stimulate urban electric transport;
Active development of cycling;
QUALITY OF LIFE
EDUCATION AND SCIENCE
Pre-school education
Goal: Equity and competition in all forms of preschool education
By:
A system for financing
and controlling pre-school education;
Compulsory pre-school education from the age of 6
and incentives for earlier inclusion in the education system;
Strengthening the role of the family in the organisation and management of pre-school education.
School education
Goal: Equal access to quality education for every child
By:
Equality and competition in all forms of school education
and facilitation of validation of students' knowledge and skills;
A system for validation of teachers' competence to facilitate access to the profession;
Development of a normative act on the professional and social status of Bulgarian teachers;
Establishment of a new, independent inspection system that includes an assessment of the quality of school education;
Resourcing of the educational process in relation to mother tongue teaching.
Higher education
Aim: To increase the quality of higher education
and the competitiveness of higher education institutions within the European education area
and to improve the interaction between higher education institutions and business.
By:
Changing the funding model for universities based on their rating.
Establishment of new accreditation rules by involving a wide range of participants, including business representatives;
Transparent rules for the selection of committee members and the leadership of the National Agency for Evaluation and Accreditation;
Taking account of business requirements in curriculum design
and the determination of the state order for admission;
Introduction of uniform national criteria for scientific fields for the acquisition of scientific degrees.
Science
Goal: Achieve a high quality scientific product
By:
Strategic state funding of research on a project basis;
Support and promotion of interaction between business and research organisations;
Reform of the activity of research funding funds (Research Fund and National Innovation Fund).
HEALTH
Goal: To provide quality and affordable treatment to the insured Bulgarians.
Preserving the human potential of the health care system.
Achieving financial stability of the system.
A gradual shift from pay-for-service to pay-for-outcome.
By:
Abolish the referral system in its current flawed form by introducing an individual health insurance package for pre-hospital care.
Introduction of an individual electronic health record;.
Formation of regional health consortia
and adoption of a national health map with a mandatory character;
Adoption of a strategy for the effective management of hospital care through restructuring of medical institutions,
privatization,
public-private partnership
and optimization of the hospital network in accordance with the national health map;
The amount of the mandatory health contribution financing the 1st pillar of health insurance remains the same.
Changing the status of the NHIF in order to turn it into an instrument of the state to provide a basic package of medical services to citizens.
Introduction of a 2nd voluntary pillar of competing private funds, covering the current deficits of the NHIF;
Ensuring the payment of equal health contributions by the state and the real sector in the budget;
Formation of a new mechanism for valuing the work of health care workers;
Formation of a fund co-financing drug therapy for Bulgarian citizens at retirement age.
CULTURE
Goal: Balanced development of cultural policy for the regions of the country
and ensuring equal access to cultural activities for all members of society without discrimination.
By:
Establishment of cultural development as a top priority;
Regulation of the National Fund for Culture as a first-rank authorising body with a decentralised structure;
Identification of four main areas in the cultural sector: cultural and historical heritage,
artistic creativity and customs,
cultural and creative industries
and cultural identities and languages;
Implementation of an effective national system for the preservation of historical and cultural heritage;
Preservation and digitisation of cultural heritage - creation of a national digital system for the preservation and digitisation of cultural heritage.
Creation of the Bulgarian Cinema Fund - a second pillar for financing the film industry with market mechanisms.
Environment and water
Goal: Improved and effective monitoring, management and environmental protection mechanisms
By:
Development of a system for the state of the environment, mapping of the conservation status of natural habitats and species subject to conservation in Natura 2000 protected areas, including the Black Sea;
Priority adoption of management plans for protected areas and orders for Natura 2000 areas;
Planning of economic activities only on the basis of the adopted plans, taking into account the interest of local communities and landowners.
Reforms in environmental assessment procedures
and the introduction of the principle of cost-effectiveness;
Differentiation of the types of users of a natural resource: fish farming - only under the registration regime, no price per quantity used,
Eliminate the requirement of flow meters;
irrigation systems free of charge outside the case of electricity generation;
Improve waste management systems by introducing modern waste treatment methods and installations;
Building a unified national system for hazardous waste treatment;
Construction of water treatment facilities for the Danube, Iskar and Black Sea;
Introduce tax incentives for the production and use of electric cars, including through green and blue zone parking waivers.
MEDIA FREEDOM AND REGULATION
Goal: Create an environment where the media is free and independent,
media pluralism is real, and
citizens' right to information is guaranteed.
By:
Transparency and publicity of media ownership and control;
Creation of conditions for a strong and independent public media;
Citizens' scrutiny of the legislative process and media legislation;
ex-ante and ex-post impact assessment;
organisation of continuous monitoring for media freedom and media pluralism;
Ending the practice of pressure on the media;
Ending the practice of state influence on the sources of funding of commercial media through advertising and information campaigns.
ETHNIC ISSUES
Goal: Build an adequate institutional infrastructure with the participation of experts and representatives of minorities.
By:
An active policy for inclusion in all spheres of public life on the principle of equal opportunities and non-segregation;
Project support for the preservation and development of the culture and development of ethnic and linguistic minorities,
as well as the interaction and enrichment between different ethnic cultures;
Desegregation of so-called Roma schools and integration of Roma children in the education system;
A sharp intensification of educational policy among the Roma and Turkish populations in the framework of the general decisive improvement of Bulgarian education;
State accreditation and funding of the Higher Muslim Institute and secondary Muslim spiritual schools.
CITIZENSHIP AND VOLUNTEERING
Goal: High level of citizen participation in governance and effective citizen oversight.
By:
Mandatory public discussion of large-scale projects of national importance;
Effective citizen participation in state regulatory bodies;
Mechanism for national and European citizens' initiative - 10 000 Bulgarian citizens to be able to apply a draft law to the Council of Ministers or the National Assembly.
YOUTH ACTIVITIES AND SPORT
Sports
Aim: To have functioning and equipped sports halls in every Bulgarian school.
By:
Introduction of a new approach to sport and its financing with a focus on grassroots sport;
Development of PPP forms in the construction of sports facilities.
Promoting school and student sport.
Youth Activity
Aim: To promote youth employment and practical experience during education.
By:
Creation of a single national marketplace together with the country's higher education institutions to provide jobs and internships for students;
Creation of a quota-based standard for hiring young people in public administration, municipal and state enterprises and companies;
Creation of a low-interest lending program for young people engaged in social entrepreneurship;
Stimulating the creation of a network of business incubators to support young entrepreneurs.
