The Siderov Plan. A new path for Bulgaria. Summary of the program of the Ataka party
<The Siderov Plan. A new path for Bulgaria>
Summary of the program of the Ataka party
A new path for Bulgaria
Globalism has failed.
Monetarism has failed.
The liberal policy "less state, the market decides everything!" has failed.
The global financial crisis caused by the United States has shown this clearly.
Market fundamentalism, turned into a religion by the US financial and political establishment, has suffered a total collapse.
Europe is in economic shock.
The leaders of the major European countries are making helpless and erratic movements and giving mixed signals.
Leading world figures in economics and political science have acknowledged the collapse of the current global model.
They talk about the return of national identity in the economy.
Francis Fukuyama, an apologist for capitalist fundamentalism who wrote "The End of History", said there was a need to "strengthen nation states".
Milton Friedman, the guru of monetarists and neoliberalism, despairingly admitted his own failure as a theorist and said that the pressure on Eastern European countries to privatise totally and quickly was a mistake.
Even in the UN development agenda the revelation has crept in that the neoliberal doctrine and the rapid and total privatisation in the former socialist countries have led to mass poverty for over 100 million Eastern Europeans.
Carl Schwab, the founder of the iconic World Economic Forum in Davos, said a month ago, "Capitalism in its current form has no place in our world...
It urgently needs new thinking, not more business..."
New thinking!
Not new forms of global financial speculation,
not new supranational corporations destroying national economies,
not more Wall Street, but
more reason, balance and fairness.
This is the conclusion reached by those who pumped turbo-capitalism for decades.
This conclusion has been reached by the ordinary citizens of the world who have become impoverished by this pumping and are now making mass protests against the global financial dictatorship.
Only in Bulgaria the corrupt and nationally irresponsible ruling elite is again outside time and space.
Neither GERB nor any other party in the parliament, except ATAKA, raise the issue of a new economic philosophy of governance in Bulgaria.
Attack wants a radical change of the economic model - from neoliberal market fundamentalism to strong state regulation and social justice.
The EU has failed economically.
This truth also needs to be said out loud.
Eurozone countries are trying to solve the problem by pouring billions more into the pockets of those who caused the debt crisis - the banks and investment funds.
ATAKA asks the question:Should Bulgaria continue to be a member of the EU as it is today?
The EU in its current form is a threat to democracy and national sovereignty of the member states.
It has become a new Soviet Union, operating by force and unconstitutionally.
The fictional figure of "EU president" was also imposed, which contradicts national and international law.
This installed at the top of the euro pyramid "president of the other presidents" recently said that national parliaments are in the way of Brussels.
This is the end of the illusion of a common market and democracy in the EU.
If the EU rules are not changed, Bulgaria is threatened with depersonalisation and extinction.
Unfortunately, today's Bulgarian representatives in the European structures do nothing to publicise this danger.
Real nationalists should be sent there to fight for the reconstruction of the EU, not to become pawns of global politics.
The Europact, in which the GERB government included us uncritically and without a referendum, is a hollow and false construction.
It does not solve the issues of growing poverty, unemployment and social stratification in Europe.
The Euro-act only strengthens the power of the supranational banking and corporate oligarchy.
Every move of our government - from the budget to the energy policy - should be presented to the EU bureaucrats in Brussels for approval.
The Europact that Borissov signed makes the existence of a parliament and a government, the holding of elections and democracy in general meaningless.
Bulgaria loses its sovereignty according to this pact
To this we must add its current position as a colonised state.
Today's neoliberal government has confirmed the policy of concessions and foreign monopolies that rob the Bulgarians.
Our gold has been given for decades to a foreign company that exports it unchecked and makes billions from it.
Bulgaria has gold deposits worth over 100 billion euros!
In terms of gold deposits, we rank fourth in Europe.
Today, however, the profits from gold mining are flowing out.
Despite the insistent calls of the ATAKA party to cancel the concession contracts, the GERB government continues to give billions to a foreign dubious company.
Out flow the profits from the electricity, from the supermarkets and the malls, from our mineral waters and the mobile operators.
In 2010 alone, the impoverished Bulgarian citizens left over 10 billion leva in foreign supermarket chains.
This money is exported abroad and does not work for the Bulgarian economy.
Ataka wants the return of all these resources to Bulgarian hands.
We calculated that such a return would raise the standard of Bulgarians several times.
Bulgarians are subjected to economic and price discrimination.
The prices of many necessities in our country: milk, cheese, flour, sugar are more expensive than in Germany.
Drug prices are also more expensive in our country.
In our country, however, the minimum wage is 290 leva /148 euro/ per month, and in Germany - 3116 leva /1558 euro/ per month.
In Bulgaria the minimum pension is 145 leva /74 euro/, in Germany - 1800 leva /900 euro/.
The difference between the Bulgarian labour cost and the rest of the EU is on average 8.7 times lower than in the EU.
What kind of EU members are we then?
Are we Bulgarians nine times inferior to other Europeans?
The economic model of our country is wrong.
It only works for supranational corporations.
For their pawns in the face of the ruling party and the political elites who have ruled so far.
As well as for the main part of the media and the sociologists who serve them.
That is why today - 22 years after the turn from a state-led, centrally planned economy to market and monetary fundamentalism, the result is lamentable for our nation.
Attack wants a radical change of the economic model.
From a country of stratification, of massive poverty and corruption and 2% oligarchy, we should become a country of social stability, middle class and predominantly Bulgarian big and medium business.
How can this happen?
With the energy of those who have proven that they work for the Bulgarian cause.
In spirit.
By faith.
With an action plan.
What the Syredov Plan states:
1 .A sharp and immediate jump up in incomes:
minimum wage in Bulgaria - BGN 1000
Minimum pension - BGN 500
Now!
Not after 25 years!
2. Immediate cancellation of the gold mining concessions and return of the 3 billion euro annual profit into Bulgarian hands for the benefit of the whole nation.
3. Immediate cancellation of the contracts with CEZ, EON and EVN and return of the profit of 1 billion euros per year into Bulgarian hands for the benefit of the whole nation.
4. New regulation and composition of customs, return of 2 billion euros a year from smuggling into Bulgarian hands for the benefit of the whole nation.
5. Construction of two new units at Kozloduy NPP, plus a new NPP
6. Astate bank just for quick and cheap loans to small and medium businesses
7. Establishment of a cooperative bank with seed funding from the state, specifically for agriculture
8. Eliminate unemployment in 6 months with a special government employment program, through government projects and contracts
9 . Establishment with state funding of a high-tech park and a state center for the realization of Bulgarian inventions and patents, which will bring billions in profits.
10. A general reorientation of the Bulgarian economy towards China, India, Brazil, Japan and Russia, which gives strategic support to the whole plan.
These changes are possible!
They are vital for Bulgaria.
We can make them!
We know how.
Only one thing is needed: power must be in the right hands!
