A decent life in a fair country. It is possible!
"BSP LEFT BULGARIA: A dignified life in a just state is possible!
Dear compatriots, We are addressing you - the working people of all professions; the
creators of jobs and decent pay;
all generations and especially the young who demand and work for the kind of country they want to live in;
people of different ethnicities and religions;
to those who live in the country and beyond;
to all those who reject one-man rule; to
the victims of the transition, who are today the vast majority of the Bulgarian people; to
those who are dissatisfied with injustice and those who seek change in society; to
those who are concerned about Bulgaria's national destiny.
Today this is more than 90% of Bulgarian citizens.
However, only a few percent of the population have the most power.
These are those who have profited from plundering the people's labor;
those who have cashed in on their participation in state and local government by serving corporate and foreign state interests;
those who have flouted the law and gone unpunished because of a lack of political will and an independent judiciary.
The coalition led by the BSP includes many left and patriotic parties.
We are the representatives of left Bulgaria in these elections.
We propose unity in the name of the vast majority of the Bulgarian people.
We stand for a Bulgaria of social justice and solidarity,
for a Bulgaria of progress and respect for the dignity and work of every person, for
a Bulgaria with a working economy for all, not for a few.
We have fulfilled a number of our electoral commitments, but we have failed to deliver the radical change we announced.
The need for such change remains!
We want your support to restore trust in politics and move towards sustainable catch-up development.
To stand against poverty,
inequality
and corruption.
To defend national interests.
The upcoming elections could resolve the political crisis.
But the parties and the party system are in crisis because they allow politics to be displaced by commercial factors and motives.
This crisis is deepened by the unsuccessful Bulgarian transition, by the long dominance of neoliberalism, by a number of wrong management decisions in recent years.
The BSP acknowledges its share and its responsibility for many of the disappointments during this period.
Democracy itself is already on trial.
More and more acute questions are being asked: how and with what means are elections made, who is the initiator of important decisions, whose will do politicians express and whom does the state serve?!
This requires removing corporate power over state and municipal institutions.
To create a state governed by the rule of law and the rule of social justice, as the Constitution dictates.
We are setting ourselves the difficult but important task of restoring trust in politics.
This implies opposing the self-serving use of power and the wealth that buys power.
We defend the rule of law, we want open, not backroom politics.
On these issues we are ready to seek agreement with all political and civil society actors who share the same understanding.
What distinguishes our policy?
Accountable and open government
The task of returning the state to the people remains relevant.
We have come to understand that those it undeservedly favours will not voluntarily cede the power and positions they hold.
This can only happen if we, the majority of citizens, stand up resolutely for our common interests.
"BSP Left Bulgaria is your representative and defender in this struggle.
The state cannot achieve everything, but without it we cannot improve the state of the country and people's lives.
This requires us to strengthen the state, to make the state effective and accountable to the citizens.
We are for the "nationalisation" of politics.
This means that decisions should be in line with the interests of the majority of citizens and be adopted with their participation.
The BSP remains a bulwark of republicanism, parliamentary governance and social justice.
We will hold a public discussion on important and topical constitutional issues: on property and monopolies, on
stronger regulation of the banking sector, on
the balance of powers and on the organisation of the judiciary.
We are in favour of creating an administration that will ensure high competence, openness and efficiency of governance.
For stability of civil servants, but with a clearer distinction between political and administrative positions
and a widening of the scope for direct political responsibilities.
For decisive action by the revenue agencies, the SANS and the Ministry of Interior in the interest of the citizens to sharply reduce corruption and abuse of power.
We urge the revenue authorities to counter the massive practice of employers concealing the real amount of wages.
This will limit the massive detriment to the fiscus and employees by hundreds of millions a year.
We propose to create public registers at ministries, departments and municipalities that would provide information on the allocation of state funds and their users.
It is high time, after the significant expenditure incurred in setting up e-government, to see tangible results from its implementation in health, education, the judiciary and in a range of administrative services.
Economic progress and social well-being
We are for an economically active country.
For a country that, in addition to being a regulator, is also an owner and investor.
This requires the state to participate in key sectors of the economy, to correct and limit the negative social consequences of market mechanisms.
The state must set economic development priorities.
For us these are: energy,
agriculture
and related manufacturing,
tourism,
individual sectors of engineering,
chemistry and information technology,
cultural and creative industries.
For a country that has a leading role to play in infrastructure development and in reducing inequalities between regions.
Our answer to the most acute problems - unemployment,
Poverty
and access to healthcare,
is the progressive policy - to stimulate employment and production,
on taxation,
on the distribution of agricultural subsidies
and social protection measures.
We are in favour of progressive income taxation.
We are preparing legal regulation of the activities of dominant and monopolistic companies.
We continue to support Bulgarian producers because a large part of their income is taken by various traders.
We intend to continue and improve the Growth and Development of Regions public investment programme.
It is a step towards the adoption of a national investment programme provided by a national investment fund formed with European and state funds, as well as money from commercial banks.
To facilitate lending to the real economy, to small and medium businesses through the Bulgarian Development Bank and through the mechanism of export insurance.
We are in favour of legal changes regarding commercial banks and banking supervision in order to increase the responsibility of major shareholders and reduce the risk for depositors.
To abolish fees for citizens when making payments to the budget and to give them equal rights with banks before the judiciary.
We demand a comprehensive review of the BNB's activities.
It should fully and responsibly play its role in maintaining the stability of the banking system.
The government and parliament need to increase the requirements for the provision and management of public funds to commercial banks.
The Financial Supervision Commission should be given the power to supervise the application of the rules on the receipt and use of public funds by commercial banks.
With the implementation and development of such an economic policy, Bulgaria is able to reduce the current unemployment rate twice in two full terms of government.
The role of the BSP is to protect labour, to
provide conditions for economic growth
and to improve social policy.
For us, financial and social stability are equally important.
We have achieved a social thaw and will continue efforts to raise incomes.
It should be clear, however, that compensatory and partial social measures alone will not bring about tangible improvements in people's lives.
An active social policy is needed to promote education, skills acquisition and social integration.
We advocate a gradual increase in the minimum wage, pension and social payments in line with the increase in labour productivity and the real cost of living.
Addressing the underlying economic, social and health problems is a condition for gradually overcoming the demographic collapse.
Many of the most acute social problems are concentrated in some of the ethnic communities, especially the Roma.
The widely promoted integration policy towards Roma has neither solved the task of their inclusion, nor is it approved by the majority of representatives of this community.
We express our concern for these people - for their education, for
their social rights, but also
for the obligations of every able-bodied Bulgarian citizen to make an effort to provide for their lives and to contribute to the progress of society.
We pay special attention to the eradication of illiteracy, to
vocational training and qualification, to
the adjustment of education to the economic needs of the country and the regions, to
the enhancement of the social and educational role of the Bulgarian school.
The knowledge society requires us to achieve a high level of secondary and higher education, to
develop science,
technology and innovation, to
rely on BAS and research universities.
To achieve good interaction between education, science, government and business.
We stand for the preservation and development of Bulgarian culture and cultural diversity as a way to bring people together, as an indispensable element of national identity and as part of national self-esteem.
The BSP respects the freedom of religious choice and the principle of separation of church and state.
We are, however, opposed to the legalisation and toleration of extreme ideas and practices contrary to law, humanity and our traditions in religious form.
We defend national positions
We know that in order to solve economic and social problems, we must resolutely defend our national interests.
To use our participation in the EU and NATO to state and defend national positions.
Bulgaria's lagging behind the developed and dynamically advancing countries increases the risks for our future.
This makes it necessary, in addition to our participation in European integration, to use the opportunities of regional economic cooperation.
We advocate an active European policy for Bulgaria.
Our voice in the European Union and in the Party of European Socialists will be strong in defending the political, economic and cultural interests of Bulgaria and its citizens.
We advocate the development of cohesion policies for the countries and regions of the European Union.
For an active role of the nation state, combined with that of the EU institutions.
The BSP is against attempts to create division and confrontation between the European Union and Russia.
BSP is for political regulation of the conflict in Ukraine.
We oppose the extension of economic sanctions to resolve the conflict in Ukraine.
What are the "red lines" from which we will not retreat?
We are ready to look for an appropriate form to implement our announced commitments.
We can cooperate with other parties, but only by keeping the essence of what we are seeking your support for.
The implementation of the commitments, which are a prerequisite for our participation in government, are:Moving to progressive personal income taxation and family income taxation;
Directing the financial resources of the state for the maintenance of education in state and municipal schools;
A health system that strengthens the public character of the system through a stronger involvement of the state, equalizes access in different regions, introduces clear standards for medical activities and equitable financial conditions for different medical institutions;
A pension reform that links decisions on retirement age to life expectancy, introduces flexible retirement conditions and guarantees a pension on reaching a certain age and having a realistic length of service;
Re-industrialisation of the country, creating conditions for new, mainly modern industries and restoring parts of the enterprises that are structurally decisive for the country's economy, subject to economic feasibility;
Continuation of the South Stream project;
Development of the nuclear energy sector by: taking active steps for the construction of the Belene NPP;
Extension of the lifetime of Kozloduy NPP Units V and VI;
Continuing the process of building new capacities at Kozloduy NPP while defending national interests.
Alongside this:We will not accept that labour is disadvantaged relative to capital in taxation and contribution to the social security system;
application of shale gas exploration and extraction technologies, nor those for coal gasification.
We oppose the removal of restrictions on the placing of genetically modified products on the market and in the environment; we will
not support a retreat from the social and environmental standards achieved in the European Union when discussing the transatlantic trade and investment agreement.
We propose to the parliamentary parties to draw up a common national position on the draft agreement;
We oppose the adoption of laws that exploit historical events for conjunctural political purposes and affect the national interests and dignity of the BSP; We
are against the extension of sanctions against Russia.
Dear compatriots, We rely on your support to be "dependent" only on your interests.
This support is needed to stand up and deliver on our stated commitments.
We will work with all progressive, patriotic and nationally responsible parties.
We will not allow a discrepancy between stated and actual policy.
We can participate in a governing coalition only after specific and publicly disclosed conditions have been reached. Our positions and commitments remain valid - in power or in opposition.
We are on your side - the side of the vast majority of the people.
Your trust is most important!
Give us strength to achieve a life of dignity in a just country!
It is possible!
Annexes to the election platform
Employment, income, demography, pensions
Increase of sustainable employment in the real economy through: More funds for active labour market policies;
Putting young people in the focus of employment policy;
Accelerated launch of employment programmes through the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" 2014-2020;
Priority targeting of funds for staff training to employers and linking the programmes to real, sustainable and quality employment;
Development of the social economy as an important source of jobs for vulnerable groups;
Expanding opportunities for the creation of new jobs for vulnerable groups.
Strengthen incentives for employers.
Improve income policy by:Increasing the minimum wage consistently, including by introducing a mechanism to link the increase in the minimum wage to the average wage;
Increase the guaranteed minimum income, which directly affects the amount of social payments, and introduce objective criteria for its determination;
Continuation of the update of social payments: monthly child allowances//|,
the single pregnancy allowance,
the single birth grant,
the one-off allowance for a disabled child,
one-off aid for first-graders,
the supplement for disabled children,
the minimum amount of unemployment benefit,
linking the childcare allowance for children aged 1-2 to the minimum wage.
Priority actions to solve the demographic problem through:Rational use of public resources aimed at supporting families with children;
Responsible parenthood through the implementation of state incentives for raising up to three children;
Introduction of "family income" taxation;
Necessary changes in the social assistance system in order to make more efficient use of the funds from the truly needy;
Increasing the share of benefits that are provided in kind and services, rather than in cash, in order to raise the educational attainment of adolescents.
Adoption, after public consultation, of a comprehensive programme for the long-term development of the pension system:
Alignment of pensions with actual labour contribution and real cost of living;
Analysis of early retirement conditions and coverage;
Linking pension age growth to life expectancy;
Introduction of flexible retirement arrangements;
Gradually establish a permanent 1/10 ratio between minimum and maximum social security income;
Recalculation of old pensions;
Continuation of the annual update of pensions;
Targeted support with Christmas and Easter supplements for low-income pensioners.
Curbing monopolies and solving energy problems
We are against a sharp and significant increase in the price of electricity.
This requires measures to financially stabilise the energy sector and renegotiate unfavourable terms for electricity production and purchase;
Introduce clear criteria to widen the circle for the energy poor in need of support;
"Break up" artificial monopolies and prevent cartels - in fuels (through easier access to excise warehouses), in medicines (by limiting horizontal and vertical concentration of pharmacies), in communications, in the financial sector and in trade;
Protect public interests.
Including a requirement for a certain share of processing of extracted raw materials;
Strengthening the capacity of regulators and competition authorities by introducing public scrutiny of their activities.
Development of Bulgarian agriculture
Apply subsidies to farmers according to the size of their holdings, so as to give increased support to small and medium-sized producers and cooperatives;
Support for weak and vulnerable sectors in the livestock, vegetable and fruit sectors;
Bringing order to land relations by establishing a Land Agency;
Stimulating the cultivation of agricultural land and achieving a balance between the interests of landowners and tenants through amendments to the Tenancy Act and the Agricultural Land Ownership and Use Act;
Creating a mechanism for prevention and coverage of risks that lead to losses of farmers by introducing a system of insurance with the participation of the state, the use of European funds and the participation of the producers themselves;
Increase control in the forestry sector to prevent illegal logging. Restricting the export of raw timber.
Regional development and transport
Continuation of the public investment programme "Growth and Sustainable Development of Regions";
Increased requirements and controls for the management of dams and other water bodies;
Accelerated implementation of the water strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria;
Completion of the Luda Yana, Plovdivtsi and Neykovtsi dams, rehabilitation of the Studena dam and construction of a water treatment plant;
Effective investment in the water supply of settlements to significantly reduce those with water supply problems and reduce drinking water losses;
Pursuing a national policy with funds from the national budget and project funding for each Tier 2 region, with priority for lagging regions;
Establishing a targeted support mechanism for the Northwest, as the poorest region in the country and in the European Union;
Accelerating the maintenance and rehabilitation of republican and municipal road infrastructure;
Continuing to build highways and expressways: Botevgrad - Vratsa, Ruse - Byala, Burgas - Sunny Beach;
Preservation of state ownership in structurally decisive transport and communication enterprises and in transport infrastructure - BDZ, Bulgarian Posts, Sofia Airport, sea and river ports;
Balanced development of all modes of transport along the corridors of the main trans-European network as well as between transport infrastructure in Northern and Southern Bulgaria;
Protection of Bulgarian transport business from unfair competition.
Health
Reorientation of the health system towards prevention and prophylaxis of socially significant diseases - cardiovascular, oncological and others, through the dispensary form of monitoring;
Special attention to maternal and child health;
Creating a modern emergency medical care system;
Development of the information system in the health sector for effective planning and spending of financial resources in conditions of transparency and control;
Leveraging advances in outpatient care by incentivizing group medical practices;
Maintain targeted subsidies for municipal hospitals in remote and hard-to-reach areas, and increase incentives for medical professionals to work in such areas;
Retain the reduced doctor visit fee for seniors;
Establish a fund to finance health care for socially disadvantaged citizens;
Increase the part of the price of medicines for children and chronically ill paid by the Health Insurance Fund;
Improving the planning and the conditions for the realization of medical specialists in Bulgaria.
Education and culture
Reducing the number of early school leavers by strengthening the social and educational functions of Bulgarian schools.
Increase programs to provide meals, school clothing and scholarships for students, especially those in difficult family and financial situations.
Development of extracurricular forms of education and the use of leisure time;
Adaptation of vocational education to the economic and social needs of the country and the regions.
Expanding opportunities for early school leavers aged 16 and over to receive vocational training and qualifications;
Ensuring free internet access in all schools and universities;
Continuing vocational training and qualifications for teachers.
Inclusion of the teaching profession in the list of state-regulated professions,
introduction of a state standard for teachers' work
and increasing teachers' salaries in line with the social role of this work;
The state order for higher education institutions to be determined not only by their capacity, but mainly by societal needs and the quality of education;
In the fields where there is the greatest need for training of specialists, the maintenance of students should be almost entirely borne by the state in exchange for commitments to work in the country for a certain period;
Development of BAS and of "research universities".
Strengthening the relationship between universities, research organizations and business;
Establishing national criteria for academic positions;
Attracting Bulgarian scientists working abroad for the development of Bulgarian science and economy.
Stimulating the equal participation of Bulgarian scientists in the European research area;
Assisting in the completion of a programme for the development of arts, cultural and creative industries, cultural heritage and cultural tourism in the country for the 2014-2020 programming period;
Ensuring access to culture for every Bulgarian citizen, including in the most remote settlements.
Preservation and development of community centres as spiritual centres.
Improving the work of cultural institutes and libraries and their full inclusion in the information society networks;
Preserving and promoting the national cultural heritage in all its forms.
Providing a link between economy and culture.
State support for contemporary Bulgarian projects and authors, as well as support for cultural industries and copyright protection.
Finance and management of EU funds
Introduction of progressive income taxation;
Protection of consumers of banking services should continue through:Changes to mortgage loans;
Changes to the Private Bailiffs Act;
Changes to the Civil Procedure Code as it relates to foreclosures;
Adoption of the Non-Bank Financial Institutions (Quick Credit Companies) Act;
Introduction of a financial transaction tax.
Strengthening supervision and control of the banking system by joining the Single European Banking Supervision as part of the European Banking Union;
Launching the procedure for joining EMU-2 and joining the Eurozone;
Legislative changes to tackle inter-company indebtedness;
Further improving the VAT regime by:Strengthening fiscal control by expanding the list of goods to which the VAT reverse charge mechanism applies;
Further easing the burden on SMEs by simplifying the procedure for
Establishment of a mechanism for shared financial responsibility in the case of financial corrections due to systemic errors, with part of the financial penalty to be borne by the national budget or the budget of the ministry within which the managing authority is located;
Establishment of a Law on the management of EU funds aimed at strengthening coordination and speeding up the implementation of programmes;
creation of a predictable environment for the implementation of projects, with clearly regulated rights and responsibilities of the actors involved in the process, as well as
Foreign and European policy
Enhancing the role of the Bulgarian state and our representations abroad in the field of foreign economic relations and energy security;
Supporting cohesion policies in the European Union and actively seeking partners among the Member States to defend Bulgarian state interests in relation to common European policies affecting our country;
Expanding cooperation and partnership with countries with growing political and economic influence worldwide - BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa);
Taking advantage of the opportunities of the forthcoming Bulgarian presidencies of the SEECP (July 2015 - June 2016), of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe (November 2015 - May 2016) and of the Council of the EU in the second half of 2018 to raise issues within the competence of the respective organisations and to address issues of interest to Bulgaria;
Active participation in the formulation and implementation of the European Neighbourhood Policy, focusing on its Eastern dimension;
Political support and expert assistance for the European integration of the Western Balkan countries in meeting the criteria, including good neighbourly relations.
Signing of a good-neighbourhood and cooperation agreement with the Republic of Macedonia;
development of regional cooperation;
We advocate a political solution to the conflict in Ukraine and oppose the extension of economic sanctions.
